f.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 8683-MLI
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MALI
SECOND HEALTH, POPULATION AND RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
FEBRUARY 22, 1991
Population and Human Resources
Operations Division
Sahelian Department
Africa Region
This document has a resticted disbution aid may be used by recplents ondy la the perfonnaoe of
their officiai duties, Its contens may not otherwlse be disclosed wlout Wodd Batik autbo n



b
CIJPRENCv EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit             =           CFA Frarie (CFAF)
UStl            n            CFAF 2b3 (December 1990)
E!14G7TS ANO MEASURES
i.                              1.k  8   09 *d
1 km                            1 e.3 Msqfm
l2                               .Ssq mi
1 ha                            2.47 acres
ABeREVIATIONS AND ACRONYUS
AfD       -     Afrlcan Development Bank
AiPPF     -     Association Malienne pour la Protection et la Promotion de la Famille/Uallan
Association for Fami ly Protection and promotion
8UNACOP   -     Oureau National de Coordination des Programmes de Population/National Population
Program Coordination Oureau
8URECDP   -     8ureau Régional de Coordination dea Programmes de Population/Reglonal Population
"rogram Coordination Bureau
SWCECOP   -     Bureau de Coordination des Programmes de Population/DOlstrict Population Progrea
Coordination Sureau
C8D       -     Co munity-based Distribution
col       -     Commun;ty Development Technlcian
CEPRIS          Cellule d'Exécution du Programme de Renforcement des Infrastructures
Sanitaires/Health Facility Upgrading Program Implementation Unit
CERPtO    -     Centre d'Etudea et de Recherches sur la Population et la Dé0ogrophie/Population
end Demographic Studies ecn Research Center
CeaFiC    -     Commun7ty Heulth Center
CCONû     -     Colité de Coordination des Organisation. Non-gouvernementales/Non-governmental
Organization Coordinating Comittee
CPR       -     Contraceptive Prevalence Rate
OAF             Direction Administrative et Financière/Administrative and Flnancial Affaire
D i rectorate
DiC       -     Dlitriet Heslth Center/Centre de Santé de Cercle
DHMP      -     District 4eslth Developeent Plan/Plan de Développement Sanitaire de Cercle
DHT       -     District H elth Team/Equipe de Santé de Cercle
DNAS      -     Direction Nationale dos Affaires Sociales/National Social Affaira Directorate
DNHE      -     Direction Nationale de I 'Hydraulique et de I 'Energie/Nstional iater end Energy
Directorate
DNHPA     -     Direction Nationale de l'Hygiène Pubilque et de l'Amainioent/National Public
Hygiene and Sanitation Directorate
DNPFSS    -     Direction Nationale de la Planification et de la Formation Sanitlire et
Sociale/National Planning end Health Tra;n;ng Directorate
DNSP      -     Drc.ction Nationale de la Santé Publique/National Public Health Directorate
DRUC      -     Direction Régionale de l'Urbanisme et de la Construction/Rogional Urban Planning
and Construction Directorate
DSF       -     Division de la Santé Fainilisle/Family Health Divielon
EDF       -     European Developeent Fund
EDo       -     Essentil druga
EFDC      -     Ecole de Formation pour le Développement Coamunautaire/Community Development
Training School
EIPC      -     Ecole des Infirmiers du Premier Cycle/Nurse-aldes School
EMP       -     Ecole de Médecine et de Phamacie/School of Medicine and Pharsacy
EPI       -     Expanded Program of Immunizat on
ESS       -     Ecole de Santé Secondaire/School of Secondary Health
FAC       -     Fonds d'Aide et de Coopération/French Bilatera1 Aid Agency
PP        -     Family Planning
CECAPOP   -     Croupe d'Etudea et de Coordination des Activités en Matière de
Population/Population Activitios Coordination end Research Croup
HIV       -     Human Imuno-deficiency Virus
Ic8       -     International Competitive Sidding
IDE       -     Infirmier DiplBmê d'Etat/Registered Nurse
IEC       -     Information, Education, Communication
INPS      -     Institut Nazional de la Prévoyance Sociale/National Social Security Institute
INRS      -     Institut National de Recherche sur la Santé/National Health Research Inatitute
IPPF      -     International Planned Parenthood Federation
K8K       -     Kita-Safoulabe-Kenieba
LC8       -     Local Competitive Sidding
LûC       -     Local Developeent Comittee
LIS       -     Limited International 8idding
LHC       -     Local HeaIth ComD;ittee
ICH       -     MaternaI and Child Health
MIHE      -     Ministère de l'Induatrie, de l Hydraulique et de  W'Energie/Industry, Wster and
Energy Miniatry
ilSPAS    -     IMinistère de la Santé Publique et des Affaires Socialee/Ministry of Public Noe1th
and Social Affairs
NGO       -     Non-governentae Organi ztion
PCU       -     Project Coordinstion Unit
PHC       -     Primary Health Care
POPFUNlD   -    Population Fund
PPi       -     Pharmacie Populaire du  ali/alien People-a Pharmacy
RHT       -     Regional Health Tees
SAL             Structural Adjustment Lending
SEPAUMAT  -     Service d'Entretien du Parc Automobile et Matérlel/Vehicles and Equlpment
Maintenance Unit
TFR       -     Total Fortility Rate
UNFU      -     Union Nationale des Femes du Mali/National Women Association of Mil1
UNFPA     -     United Nations Fund for Population Activities
UNICEF    -     United Nations International Children's Emergency Fund
UiNJI     -     Union Nationale des Jeunes du MaIl/National Youth Association of Mali
UNIPAC    -     UNICEF Procurement and Assembly Center
UNTU      -     Union Nationale des Travailleurs Unliens/National Labor Association of Mali
UMPP      -     Usine Malienne de Produits Pharmceutlquos/Mlian Pharaceutical Production Unit
USAID     -     United States Agency for International Develop»ent
WHO       -     Worod Nealth Orgenization
WID       -     Romen in Development
COVERNUENT'S FISCAL YEAR
January I - Decoeber 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF MALI
SECOND HEALTH. POPULATION AND RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . i-ii
I. INTRODUCTION .  .   ......... .   1
I.  THE HEALTHi  POPULATION AND WATER SUPPLY SECTORS   .   .  . . . . . .            1
A.  Sectoral Overview  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    1
1.  Health Status of the Population   . . . . . . . . . . . .    1
2.  The Health Sector   ....  .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    2
3.  Population and Family Planning (FP) .    . . . . . . . . .    3
4.  Water Supply  ....  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    4
5.  Health Sector Financing .    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    5
B.  Main Issues and Constraints  ....  .           .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    6
1.  The Health Sector   ....  .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    6
a.  Limited Access to and Poor Quality of Health Care  .    6
b.  Inefficient Use of Sectoral Resources  . . . . . . .    7
2.  Population and Family Planning         . . . . . . . . . . . .    9
3. Rural Water Supply    ..10
C.  The Government's Sectoral Strategies    . . . . . . . . . . . .   10
D.  The Bank Group's Role  ......   .             ............                .    12
III. THE PROJECT  .............. ..                        ..........                15
A.  Project Objectives and Description   . . . . . . . . . . . . .   15
B.  The Health Component   ....  .          .  .  .  .  .    . .....  .  .  .    .   17
1.   Increasing the Coverage and Quality of Health Services              17
2.   Improving the Efficiency of Resource Use   . . . . . . .   22
C.  The Population Component   ....  .           .  .    ...  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   26
D.  The Rural Water Supply Component .               . . . . . . . . . . . . .   29
E.  Project Coordination Unit  ....  .           .    .....  .   .  .  .  .  .    .   31
F.  Project Costs and Financing Plan   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   31
G.  Impact of the Project  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   34
IV.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ....  .          .  .  .  .  .  .    .. .....  .  .  .    .   36
A.  Statua of Project Preparation and Readinesa  . . . . . . . . .   36
B.  Project Coordination, Monitoring and Evaluation  . . . . . . .   36
C.  Consultant Services and Training   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   39
D. Procurement   ..39
E. Disbursement    ..41
F.  Accounting, Auditing and Reporting           . . . . . . . . . . . .   42
V.  PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS  ....  .           .    . ......  .     .  .  .  .  .    .   43
A.  Benefits   ....  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   43
B.  Riska  ....  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   44
VI.  AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .  . . . . . . . . . .   44
Thie report la bsced on the findinge of a two-stage appraissi procens; the second stage vas
required to incorporate up-to-date elements of a national popuintion poltcy betng put In place.
Initial approisal, shich took place In April 1989, was led by Dr. Jean Louis Lamboroy, Sr. Publlc
Heslth Speciatiet, and Included Teresa Ho, Econoltct; Bernard Abolilé, Architect/Implementatlon
Specialiet; S.rtrand Ah-Sue, Sanitary Enginoer; Dioan Ri; n, Operetions Assistant; Marie-Odile
Wsty, Economist/Conaultent; Peter Bichrach, He1alth Plcnner/Conaultant; end Jean-Danlel Rainhorn,
Pharesceutical Speciaolit/Consultant. Th final approisel mission (June 1990) vas led by
Françoise Delannoy, Sr. Proj;ct Off tcer, end Included Ors. J.L.Lamboray end Roland Saîthès,
Phormaceutical Specilist/Consultant. Richard Heyvsrd (UNICEF),  ild egard Ruzîbiza (Regional
Representative, UNFPA), end Barbera Seligman, F*mily Planning Speciallot (USAID) work.d clocely
with the second appraloul misslon. Th. report was drofted by the mission members end completed
by F. Delannoy. It wsa edited by go. Phyllis Roos (Consultant) and processed by Os. Janine
Violra d Luzt Staff Astlstant. Mrn. Kath-rine Msrshsll and Ur. Florent Agueh are the
Deportement Director end the managIng Division Chief, respectively, for the operntion.
Ur. Aubr.y Williams, Principal Health Spc;nal'ot, was the Le.d Advitor.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their officiai duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Worid Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
ANNEXES
1    Basic Data Sheet and Comparative Indicators
2-1 Organization Chart of MSPAS
2-2 Present Health Care System in Mali
2-3 Health Sector Financing
3-1 Draft Development Policy Letter
3-2 Proposed District-based Health Care Systemn
3-3 District Health Development Plannir.g
3-4 Decentralized Health Management Information System
3-5 Population Covered by the ComHC Program
3-6 Financing of the District-based Health Care System
3-7 Infrastructure Program
3-8 Management of Physical Resources
3-9  Financial Management
3-10 Project-related Training
3-11 Pharmaceutical Program
3-12 Population and Family Planning
3-13 Rural Water Supply and Iodination Program
3-14 Project Coordination and Management
3-15 Criteria for the Annual Review
3-16 Project Costs by Component, Cost Category and Financing Source
3-17 Key Documents in the Project File
4-1 Specialist Services and Studies
4-2 Procurement Procedures
4-3 Disbursements Profile
4-4 Supervision Plan
MAP: IBRD 21988



- j -
REPUSLIC OPF MALI
SECON  HEALTI4. PCPIJI "TION ANOR1RA.WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
CREDIT AND FROJEtT SUMUARY
Dorrocer:          Ropublic of aill
etneficiories:     Miniatry of Public Hea1th end Socalr  Affaira, ilnltry of Industry, Water end Energy,
Minlotry of Plon
Credit Amount:     SbR19.2 million (US826.6 million equivalent)
Termw:             Standard, with 40 yearn' maturlty
prooect            Through an lntegroted program of policy/lnstitutional reforma end învestm.nts, the
project will support tho Governuent. offtorto to Improvo the hoalth statun *nd tel l-blng
of the Maliln population, notably womon end children, Imploment Ito emerging population
policy, end broaden nccesn of deprlved rural communitles to h.Ith services end sot-
ester.
Proi-ct            To attaln those objectives, the project compriae. three components. Th* htifth c   nont
escrclption:       wlii  increae, the coverage end quaIity of h-alth care (a) directly In four Ragions end
the capital ares of Mali through the devolopment of a decontralizod, District-based
héélth development program Involving the construction/rehobiit4ttion of primary &nd
reofrral care conter*, as wel1 ets active community, NGO end private sector participation;
and (b) indirectly by improving the planning end management of the sectorl* personnel,
physlel and financial resources as well as the provision of essentela  druge.  The
0p0ultion comDonont wcil (a) *trength-n the Institutions ln charge of diseminat-
ln,m  ement ng the national population pollcy end of planning, managing end evaluating
ftmily planning (FP) programa; end (b) tncres  the demand for, aval,abillty end quelity
of FP servies nationwide. The rural vster su.ply component wi il (a) Increase the supply
of *nfe drinking wster for the rurl Ipopulitton in the project *res; (b) support the
Oovernment c policy of community particepatIon ln tho financlal end technicol management
of rural w4ter supply; and (c) Cplement an lodination program In aresn where todine
defIclency le provalent.
Proi ct            $y lncro;aing th. utlilzation of prlmary health services, the project wlil addroes the
B-n-f7tsle:        basic needo of sous of the most vulnerable segments of Malion soce;ty , lmprove the
productivity of sectoral ;nvstent, end *trengthon the supply response of the  conmy
to the on-going adjustest.t procees. The hotith eomlonont hns been devigned to dlrectly
bonf it 2.4 million people (31% of Mail  a populotIon) who wuli gain *cc en to quality
heaith cars. For this target populotion, by 1997 the proportion of disease *pisodes
trerted cill double, to raoch 60%; that of childr«n fully lmmunlaed before ge, 1 wili
Incroase from 26% to 40%; e0% of pregnancies wlîl recove prenatal care (at loeut two
v;slts), agninot 38% today; the proportion of d10rrhoe eplsodes trested with oral
rehydration wc11 rise f rom 3% to S0%; the growth of 60% of chiidren ages 0 to 2 wiii be
monltored; and 60% of the estimated nes cases of tuberculoole end l-prosy wili be
detected end treated.   The Impact on mortolity end morbidlty ie expected to b.
substantiel, *lthough it cannot be quantified. In addition to these direct benefiina-
ries, Mail'a entire population wlii  benefit indirectly from th- project, insofar et it
wiiI relnforce the Mînistry of Hea1th'e cepacity to plan, mnage end coordinate sectorel
development progrxm.  Similarly, the poi  Jon cou 2nent uiii have brond benefit  1n
terme of Increased awarenes. of po      on pau   and experience galned on how beot to
tackle thm. The Oovernmnt e capacity to pin, manage end coordinate the implementation
of population end FP programe wil I be *trongth*ned, Increésing the effecti venes of thes
progrus.  Through the developuent of a veriety ot Information progroms end deiivery
channele, by 1997 76% of urban women end holf of rural comen w11 be fully lnformed on
modern FP mothoda end the modrn contraceptive provolene rate should riee f rom 1% to 10%
in the Regions of project concentration *nd to *bout 8.6% country;ide. The rural water
componont wili reinforce the impact of the heaIth component by providing acceso to *nfo
*etop eor *bout 180,MW  people living ln the project ares.  These benefits wili be
*nhonced by the lodlnatlon prograe. which will *liminote lodine deficiency *mong *bout
240,00 people (E50 of the population) In the Districts of Kita, Kenleba end Bafoulabe,
hehr. on, thlrd of the inhabitante presently show clînical signe of golter.
Proi-et            The project face, thre major rishk. The first rik ie thot the expected improvements
-R;Nkl  drug procurement end distrlbution my b. *loo to materialIze.  Thle rlsk  1i1 b6e
addr eeed through up-front introduction of the requlred pol;cy reform, its moaltorlng on
the baste of objective indicators, end the graduel development of alternative supply
channels. The second rluk le thnt the *ttltudinal changes required, for instance, to
*ffectlvely docentrelize h alth cars management or for governmont services end NtOs to
cooperate more fully (eg   in FP) may *lso be slower than expected.  Thle risk io
mitlgeted by the Government's ctrong coamituent to decentrelization end by the omphasis
put on complementerlty end weli-deftned responsibilltie  among the verlous operntors.
TIb third rlsk le thet the proposed approach to heaith cars, chleh depends for succese
on communlty sensitization and participation, es veli as on significant cost recovery,
could suffer occesional setbocke  in som  project arees.   This rink will be reduced
through erefully phnsed implementation and closemonltoringof key activitie, including
the cost-recovery *chem.



- ii -
REPUBLIC OF MALI
SECOND HEALTH. POPULATION AND RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
SUMMARY AND PROJECT COST ESTIUATES M/
ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS                                  LOCAL  FOREIGN    TOTAL
1. HEALTH
-TTRCREASING THE COVERAGE AND QUALITY
OF HEALTH SERVICES IN FOUR RECIONS AND
THE CAPITAL AREA                                    8.1      11.6      19.7
1.2 IMPROVINO THE EFFICIENCY OF DRUGS, FACILITY,
PERSONNEL AND FINANCIAL M ANACEENT                  1.0       s.0       4.0
2. POPULATION AND FAMILY PLANNING
1.1 INSTITUTIONAL STRENOTHENING                         0.6       1.0       1.6
1.2 CORE IEC/FP PROGRAN                                 1.8       6.0       7.8
1.3 POPULATION FUND                                     2.8       1.9       4.7
8. RURAL WATER SUPPLY
S.1 CONSTRUCTICNjREHABUILTATSON OF 886 WATER POINTS    1.9       8.0       9.9
8.2 IODINATION PROGRAM                                 0.1       1.2       1.8
4. PROJECT COORDINATION UNIT                               0.4       0.9       1.8
TOTAL BASE COST                                       16.7      88.S      S0.2
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES                                 1.8       2.9       4.2
PRICE CONTINGENCIES                                    1.7       5.2       8.9
TOTAL PROJECT COST                                    19.7      41.7      61.4
FINANCINO PLAN
IDA                                                    6.6      20.0      26.6
EDF                                                    4.1       8.2      12.8
USAID                                                  4.4       6.7      10.1
REPUBLIC 0F OERMANY                                    2.1       4.1       8.2
FAC                                                    0.1       1.6       1.7
LOCAL COMMUNITIES                                      1.4       1.4       2.8
GOVERNUENT                                             1.1       0.6       1.7
TOTAL                                                 19.7      41.7      61.4
- a:SS~~~~~~33                                           -      -    3
IDA FISCAL YEAR
ESTIUATED DISBURSEUENT 1991   19M    1998  1994   1m        199l      1997       1998
___~~~~~~iwmt  -_ - -N ----O U - -----------~~~
ANNUAL             0.6    8.4    6.2   C.2   4.2    4.0            2.6        0.4
CUiULATIVE         0.6    4.0   10.2  16.4  19.6   28.6           2e.2       26.6
£1 Totale ay not add up due to roundlngs.



REPUBLIC OF MALI
SECOND HEALTH, POPULATION AND RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.1       The Government of Mali has requested IDA's assistance in financing a
project to help achieve its development goals in health, population, and rural
water supply.   Total project costs are estimated at US$61.4 million.   The
Government would contribute about US$1.7 million; local communities (and
beneficiaries), about US$2.8 million; European Development Fund (EDF), about
US$12.3 million; United States Agency for International Development (USAID),
about US$10.1 million; The Republie of Germany, about US$6.2 million; and French
Fonds d'Aide et de Coop&ration (FAC) about US$1.7 million. The remaining US$26.6
million would be f inanced by IDA. The basic data sheet and comparative indicators
are in Annex 1.
1.2       This will be the second IDA-financed project for the development of
health services in Mali. The policy measures and investments included in the
project were developed through a health and population sector dialogue with the
Malian authorities and through experience gained during implementation of both
the ongoing Health Development Project (Cr.1422-MLI) and the ongoing Rural Water
Supply Project (<'r.1431-MLI/SF7). A Population Sector Memorandum was discussed
in April 1987. A draft population policy prepared by the Malian Government was
issued in July 1990.
Il. THE HEALTH, POPULATION AND WATER SUPPLY SECTORS
A. Sectoral Overview
1. Health Status of the Population
2.1       Mortality. Mali's estimated population of 7.7 million (1987 Census)
has one of the highest mortality levels (a crude death rate of 19.5 per 1,000)
in Africa and in the world. Infant mortality (170 per 1,000) and combined
infant/child mortality (296 per 1,000) place Mali second in the world after
Afghanistan. Consequently, life expectancy at birth (45 years) is extremely low.
At least 70% of infant and child deaths are attributable to malaria, measles,
tetanus, respiratory diseases, diarrhea, and malnutrition; all are preventable
through low-cost interventions. The high level of aduit and child morbidity is
largely attributable to water-related diseases such as schistosomiasis and Guinea
worm. Maternal mortality is a leading cause of death among women of reproductive
age (700:100,000 live births). The spread of HIV represents a serious health
threat: in 1988, sero-prevalence for HIV1 and HIV2 in a large samLple of students,
young soldiers and prostitutes was 4.1. If unchecked, the eisease might become
a major cause of adult deaths.
2.2       Nutrition. Data on the nutritional status in Mali for the early 1980s
are limited. Although per capita calorie availability rose above the 2,000 k.cal
mark in 1989, from 1,720 k.cal in 1986, malnutrition is still prevalent;
according to the 1987 Demographic and Health Survey (DHS), the proportion of
children (3-36 months) showing signs of chronic malnutrition, as measured by
height for age, is al>out 25%, which is not uncommon; however, the proportion of
children showing signs of temporary, acute malnutrition, as measured by weight
for height is a very high 11%; in Bamako, 15% of birth weights fall below the
2,500-gram standard for low birth weight. Iodine deficiency, which contributes



- 2 -
to infant mortality and causes mental and growth retardation, is revealed by the
prevalence of goiter at rates above 102 in all five Regions below the 14th
parallel. Prevalence rates of 30-40%, with peaks above 80%, indicate moderate to
severe lodine deficiency.
2. The Health Sector
2.3       Organization.  The Ministry of Public Health and Social Affaire
(Ministère de la Santé Publique et des Affaires Sociales-MSPAS) has overall
responsibility for health. Its functions include the formulation of health policy
and strategy, planning and management, coordination of sectoral activities,
operational support, training of health manpower, and monitoring and evaluation.
However, historically, the Ministry has tended to focus on the direct provision
of services. An organizational chart of MSPAS is in Annex 2-1. MSPAS is
represented in each Region and in the capital area of Bamako by a Regional
Directorate, and provides most of the health services.  These government-run
services essentially parallel the country's administrative structure, which
comprises seven Regions, plus the capital area; 46 Districts ("Cercles"); and 286
3ub-districts ("Arrondissements"). Most sub-districts (264) have a health center
("Centre de Santé d'Arrondissement"-CSA), and each District has a amall hospital
("Centre de Santé de Cercle"-CSC). All Regions except Koulikoro have a hospital,
Bamako is served by three national hospitals. In addition, there are 362
maternities, 322 dispensaries and 203 "dépats pharmaceutiques" (warehouses) at
the village level. Overall, about 45% of the population live within 15 km of a
health facility. Annex 2-2 describes the present health care system and its
functioning.
2.4       NGOs operate lese than 10% of the health facilities, providing support
to the government-run services. They have helped pioneer innovative approaches
to health care management, such as cost recovery, rationalization of drug
prescription, and improvem--it of local health planning. Despite the lifting of
the ban on the private practice of medicine and pharmacy in 1987, in 1988 there
were only 16 licensed private practitioners (9 physicians, 4 registered nurses,
3 midwives) and 29 private pharmaciste, most of them in Bsmako; however, many
signs suggest a high level of private sector dynamism.
2.5       Service delivery. Of the four levels of government-run services--
central, regional, district and sub-district--the higher three perform the same
functions: provision of curative primary health care (PHC) for the surrounding
population and referral services for, plus supervision of the next lower level.
Information, Education and Communication (IEC) and outreach activities are
practically non-existent, so that communities are left largely to themselves for
village-level health care.
2.6       Health maniower and training. Of MSPAS's estimated 6,000 employees,
some 2,075 are at work in health facilities throughout Mali: 249 physicians, 562
registered nurses, 256 midwives, 749 nurse's aides, 65 community development
workers, and 194 sanitation workers. Although Bamako represents only 8.5% of
Mali's population, 42% of the physicians, 40% of the registered nurses, 51% of
the midwives, 35% of the nurse's aides, 3% of the community development workers,
and 37% of the sanitation workers are concentrated there. Formal health education
is provided through four schools: Ecole de Santé Secondaire (ESS) for nurses,
with campuses in Bamako and Sikasso; Ecole.des Infirmières du Premier Cycle
(EIPC) for nurse's aides; Ecole de Formation pour le Daveloppement Communautaire



(EFDC) for community development workers5 and Ecole de Médecine et de Pharmacie
(EMP) for physicians and pharmacists. Recently, graduates of these schools have
had difficulty finding employment in the public sector, due to drastie
limitations on civil service tecruitment since 1984 (250 p.a. for all sectors
combined). In 1987, for example, only four of the 60 graduates in medicir.e and
one of the 35 graduates in pharwacy were recruited; of the 85 nurse's aides, 19
vere recruited by the civil service. Slightly over one third of the schools' 270
graduates, in all categories, were hlred by NGOs^ the Pharmacie Populaire du Mali
(PPM), or the Union Nationale des Femmes du Mali (UNFM). The high level of under-
employment among graduates of the four schools remains a serious concern for the
Government.
2.7       Drugs. Most of Mali's'supply of drugs i  imported by PPM (4/5 of the
total), a Chinese-assisted parastatal under MSPAS, and by the Institut National
de la Prévoyance Sociale (INPS) and the Armed Forces. NGOs (e.g., Médecins sans
Frontières et Médecins du Monde) and external donors, especially UNICEF, provide
the rest. Some 30-odd products are manufactured, i.e., tabletted and packaged,
by Usine Malienne de Produits Pharmaceutiques (UMPP), another parastatal in
operation since 1983 with Chinese technical assistance. Drugs are distributed in
bulk by PPM to its own outiets (numbering 98 in 1989); by PPM, UMPP and the
above-mentioned NGOs to health facilities; and by PPM and UMPP to private
pharmacies. All these outlets, plus an estimated 203 village warehouses make
retail sales to the public. UNICEF has played a major role in the promotion of
essential drugs, especially since 1987, when it co-sponsored with WHO the "Bamako
Initiative' which was adopted by all African Health Ministers.
3. Population and Famiiy Planninx (FP)
2.8       Demoaraphy. According to the 1987 Census, the crude birth and death
rates yield an annual rate of natural population increase of 3.7% (Bank estimates
2.7%). Although reduced tc 1.8% (Bank estimatet 2.5%) by out-migration, this rate
holds potential for a population explosion: at current levels, Mali's population
vould double in about 38 years (the Bank estimate: 28), making it extremely
difficult to meet basic needs and improve living standards, especially if
reductions in mortality are not accompanied by fertility reductions.
2.9       Fertility is high and stable in Mali, as documented by a Demographic
and Health Survey (DHS) conducted in 1987. The number of children per woman
during the reproductive years averages 6.8. This high total fertility rate (TFR)
i not surprising in light of the high mortality of children and the low
educational level among women (only 14% of women have accesa to schooling and
86% are illiterate). No significant downward trend in fertility can be detected
in any part of Mali since independence, with the exception of the capital area
of Bamako, where the TFR is 5.4. Child apacing is a major preoccupation among
Malian women; about a third of married vomen would like to delay their next
childbirth by at least two years, and 17% do not want any more children.
Nevertheless, only 10% of potential users intend to use modern contraceptive
methods, partly for lack of information about these methods, partly because of
the cour.try's pro-natalist tradition and partly for lack of access to FP
services. The median length of post-partum abstinence is 2.4 months; in this
context, the current practice of breast feeding, which lasta an average of 21.6
months, is of particular importance as a means of child spacing.



2.10      Family Rlanning. Mali was the first country in francophone Africa to
accept FP as part of its effort to protect the health of mothers and children
through wider birth spacing. FP services started in Bamako in 1972 through the
Association Malienne pour la Promotion et la Protection de la Famille (AMPPF),
an affiliate of International Planned Parenthood Federation (IP?F). Today, the
Division de la Santé Familiale (DSF) is responsible for FP policy-making, program
management, and clinic-based services, including contraceptive distribution,
while AMPPF has concentrated on IEC, except in Bamako wh.re it has an FP clinic.
FP services are available in Bamako, all Regional capitals and main towns, and
all 46 Districts; they are also offered in some sub-district health centers (the
few that are staffed with an obstetrical nurse). Demand for sterilization is
minimal, hence hospital-based services are not significant. FP acceptora number
about 21,000 (1990). The predominant contraceptive method is the pill (used by
about 80% of acceptors). About 53% of the contraceptive usera are served at the
AMPPF clinic in Bamako, another 22% in government-run maternities and MCH centers
in the city, and the remaining 25% in centers outaide Bamal.:o.
2.11      Many donors have been active in the population/FP sub-sector. In
particular, UNFPA, ILO, UNDP, UNESCO and UNICEF have provided institutional
support, e.g., in developing a national population policy, conducting the 1987
Census, providing contraceptives, and developing research and educational
programs on family education and planning. Among bilateral donors, USAID, the
main donor, supports an integrated family health program involving, inter alia,
the rehabilitation/service upgrading of 15 MCHIFP centers, and the Republic of
Germany finances a self-help project for rural women which includes FP
activities. A total of Il NGOs, mostly USAID-financed, are implementing micro-
projects involving research, IEC and alternative delivery modes. Of special
interest are four USAID-supported programss the Enterprise Project, which has
successfully established employer-provided IEC and FP services in two major
parastatals; a CBD (community-based distribution) operation using MCH clinic
midwivea and men's informal groups to distribute contraceptives; a Johns Hopkins
astisted experiment in IEC/FP, based on female rural community workers
("animatrices"), which has yielded impressive resulta; and a Social Marketing
Project, which will develop private and commercial contraceptive distribution
channels. Despite the Government's receptivity to FP concerns, acceptance remains
low, with a modern CPR of about 1' among women of child-bearing age.
4. Water Supply
2.12      Only 35% of the rural and 55% of the urban population have access to
a safe and clean vater supply. The rest of the population obtains water from
polluted sources, contributing to high infant mortality and general poor health
status (para 2.1). In recent years, .s part of its efforts to meet basic needs
and improve public health, the Government has taken steps to remedy the
situation, including measures to involve village communities financially and
technically in the construction, rehabilitation and maintenance of modern water
points. Results of these measures are evident under the ongoing Rural Water
Supply Project (Cr.14311SF7-MLI) in the western part of the country, where some
630 village boreholes equipped with hand-pumps were constructed between 1985 and
1989. Prior to the drilling of boreholes,  the villagers are required to
contribute about US$400 per water point, which is equivalent to the price of the
pump. Most of the pumps are functioning satisfactorily, wlth some in operation
for more than three years. Village repairmen trained under the project have full
responsibility for the maintenance of the water points.



5. Health Sector Financinz
2.13      Total health expenditures. In 1989, total actual spending on organized
health services amounted to CFAP 13.6 billion (2.4 for investment, 11.2 for
recurrent expenditures), equivalent to US$53.7 million. Public financing
accounted for only 36% of the total (down from 47Z in 1983), private financing
(mostly for drugs) for 44%, and external financing for 20S. The decline in the
public share resulted from a reduction in the proportion of the total Governtent
budget allocated to the sector, combined with sharp increases in private and
external financing. Over 1983-87 the allocation by levels increased slightly for
hosoitala (to reach a moderate 16%) at the expense of the district heslth centers
(which are still a fairly high 61%).   On a per capita basis, outlays for
organized services are estimated (1987) at CFAF 1,780 (US$7.0); of this, the
public contribution (CFAF 690) is one of the lowest in the vorld (half that in
Burkina Faso). By contrast, private expenditures a.e quite high--about CFAF 750
on organized services and 635 on traditional, informal or private services. As
a result, total health spending (organized plus non organized services) may be
about one third higier (at CFAF 2,400) than expenditures on organized services
alone. Details on health financing are at Annex 2-3.
2.14      Investment versus recurrent expenditures. Total sectoral investment
more than doubled between 198ô  and 1987 (from CFAF 1.2 to 2.6 billion, nominal
terms), and has slowly declined since then (CFAF 2.4 billion in 1989). The
increase vas mostly due to the.first IDA-financed health project and an AfDB
project. Public recurrent expenditures on organized services declined f rom CFA?
4.5 to 4.3 billion during 1985-89 (nominal terme); this is equivalent to a real
reduction of 18% on a per capita basis. The share of health in the total
Government recurrent budget has stagnated at a low  6.5% in 1986-89, compared
with about 7-8% in neighboring countries. The structure of the recurrent budget
by type of expenditure shows salaries at a relatively low 652 of the total (vages
are low in Mali and the salaries bill vill be frozen until 1992 under the ongoing
adjustment program) and non-wage operating expenditures at about 21S. The
remaining 14% is for drugs, but represente a small fraction of total spending on
pharmaceuticals (para 2.21).
2.15      Cost recovery. Cost recovery has been practiced for a number of years
in projects f inanced by IDA, NGOs and other donors, and is becoming a Goverrment
policy. In 1987, cost recovery amouated to about 502 of recurrent expenditures
on organized services; however, 48Z of this vas attributable to the purchase of
high-priced, non-essential drugs through PPM, and only 2% consisted of user fee
revenues. User charges, for in-patient care and drugs, vere firet introduced in
the three national hospitals, which were granted financial autonomy. This and
other experiments--in particular the IDA-financed project in the firet Region and
a project financed by EDF and assisted by the NGO Médecins sans Frontieres (MSF)
in the sixth and seventh Regions--have yielded encouraging results. In the IDA
project, which covered some of the poorest parts of the country, user charges for
deliveries, consultations (CFAF 50 per visit), laboratory vork, drugs and surgery
met all non-salary recurrent expenditures and over half of vage expenditures (for
health centers vith 3 staff). Wherever drugs have been available at affordable
prices, as    the MSF project, utilization rates have increaseds by 300Z at the
primary level and 50% at the first referral level. In all the cost-recovery
schemes, fee revenues were managed by staff under supervision of a Local Health
Committee (LHC), resulting in efficiency gains.



B. Main Issues and Constraints
1. The Health Sector
2.16      In terma of access, quality and utilization, the health services of
Mali rank among the lowest in the world. In 1984, only one Malian out of three
had contact vith a health service, down from one out of two 10 years carlier.
More recently, only 25% of infants over one year old were vaccinated against
measles, 3% of diarrhea cases were treated with oral rehydration, 1% of women of
reproductive age used a modern contraceptive method, and 38% of pregnancies
received prenatal care. While the situation 18 particularly scute in rural areas,
even in urban areas large segments of the population are severely under-served.
The Government alone cannot solve the problems it has been unable to provide a
reliable supply of drugs, its health manpower has low productivity, and its share
of sectoral financing ls declining. The key issues-access, quality, and resource
management-are analyzed below.
a. Limited Access to and Poor Quality of Health Care
2.17      The limited access to and coverage of basic health services are due
to three factors: underfunding (para 2.23), the use of administrative instead of
people-oriented facility planning criteria and service delivery approaches in the
government-run services, and the lack of alternatives, such as private medicine.
Under the present system (Annex 2-2), the network of sub-district health centers
provides access to only 45% of the population. Some sparsely populated areas have
over-dimensioned, under-utilized facilities (e.g., one center per 1,000 pop.),
while in the urban areas, where hospitals are not equipped to provide PHC and the
size of the community served (e.g., 300,000 per center in Bamako) is too large,
basic health needs are increasingly not being met. Even in the present system,
coverage could be substantially higher if goverrnment health personnel, instead
of taking a passive attitude, adopted an aggressive public health approach and
rcached out to the communities. As alternative delivery modes are limited to a
few mission dispensaries and A amall number of private physicians (para 2.4),
many Malians continue to resort to traditional healing, even where modern
medicine would be more effective, and a few communities have spontaneously
created their own health centers (about 45). There is need to increase the
productivity of the system by improving the match between supply and demand in
terms of service area and by making health personnel more accountable for the
health statue of the community they serve.
2.18      The poor aualift  of health care is the main cause of the declining
utilization of services. This is largely due at the primarv level to the lack of
drugs and supplies, low personnel productivity, limited responsiveness to local
health needs, and at the secondary or referral levels (District and above) to the
lack of supervision and clear delineation between the PHC, referral and
management functions (para 2.5). The nature of the services to be providee under
these three functions and the corresponding responsibilities, staff profiles,
consumable needs (druge, medical supplies, etc.) and operating guidelines are not
clearly defined, leading to inefficiencies. For instance, in-service training
for health personnel is geared towards narrow, vertical diseass-control programe,
instead of an integrated public health approach, resulting in expensive
duplications. At the referral level, specialized personnel are wastefully used
for PHC, for which they are over-qualified. Staff assigned to managerial taske
have not been trained for that purpose. No targets have been set to measure



- 7 -
performance, and anyway the financial, logistical and akill requirements for
supervision are lacking. Faced with long waits, insecure or unconcerned staff
and a shortage of drugs, patients tend to turn elsewhere for care.
b. Inefficient Use of Sectoral Resources
2.19      Weak sec-oral planning and operational management. MSPAS's traditional
foecus Or the direct provision of health services and its top-heavy operating
style are no longer austainable in a rapidly evolving sectoral context,
characterized by a trend towards decentralization, a decline in the share of
public sectoral financing, and the emergence of alternative, complementary
delivery modes involving local communities, NGOs and private practitioners.
First, being overstretched in its attempt to provide services, MSPAS has
neglected its role as the institution responsible for sectoral policy-making,
strategic thinking, and resource planning and management. Numerous community-
based, donor-supported experiments have taken place without being coordinated,
monitored or evaluated to guide future interventions. The emphasis should now
shift from direct service delivery to formulating a strategic framework and
creating a policy and regulatory enviroriment supportive of new, more efficient
and sustainable systems. Because practice has moved ahead of policies, there Is
a regulatory void to be filled, e.g., by defining (a) thé distribution of roles
in the new partnership among the Goverrment, local authorities, the private
sector, the communities, and donors; (b) a blueprint for cost sharing and cost
recovery; and (c) norms and standards for health care, staffing, drug use, and
investment. Second, due to the historical reliance of the health system on
vertical, centrally directed disease-control programs, operational capacity at
the intermediate levels is weak. In particular, Regional teams have typically
been circumvented by these programs and do not have the means to support and
supervise the lower levels; as a result, the service mix has been increasingly
determined by international initiatives instead of by local demand.
2.20      Lcw health manpower productivity. As the second largest Government
agency, MSPAS employs aboput 6,000 people (13% of the civil service, including
contractual employees); however, its staff has low productivity and the Ministry
ta not equipped to manage staff efficiently. Automatic civil service recruitment
until 1983 and administrative deployment have led to overstaffing in some
facilities and understaffing at the periphery, w$th broad Regional disparities
in staff per population ratios (a range of 1-3 for physicians and 1-17 for
mitdwives), and misuse of specialized skills. Poor personnel management, including
the lack of operational norms, supervision and on-the-job training, contributes
to a sense of abandornment among health workers. This is exacerbated by
insufficient and, until recently, frequently delayed pay and difficult working
conditions, especially the lack of critically needed drugs and other medical
supplies. The low motivation and job dissatisfaction resulting from this
situation explain in part why the quality of public health services has
deteriorated. Under-employment among health school graduates is widespread (para
2.6) and the prospects, particularly for physicians, are not bright. Despite the
lifting of the ban on private medicine, the prescribed medical fees (CFAF 4,000
per visit) and technical standards for opening a private practice are so high as
to discourage any young medical graduate from establishing a practice, even in
Bamako. There is need for the Government to enhance the socioeconomic status of
the health career stream; optimize the use of existing staff; improve working
relationships with NGOs, which have become major employers of health achool
graduates; and develop opportunitles for private practice.



2.21      Lack of druRs. Drugs, a critical factor in  the credibility of health
services, are neither affordable nor physically available in most parts of the
country. Throughout Mali, medicines are sold at widely varying prices. The firet
to fifth Regions have been supplied by PPM, the parastatal with drug import
quasi-monopoly and a dominant role in drug distribution (para 2.07). PPM
purchases directly from firms mostly non-essential, expensive brands; both the
structure of its margins and prescription practices in the government-run
services are biased in favor of such brande. There is a mismatch between nee&4
(essential drugs-EDs) and supply (costly specialties, including the output of t
domestic producer, UMPP), aggravated by losses during distribution, theft, and
lack of effective control at the distribution level. The shortages and high cost
of drugs explain why, despite the large isze of the drug market (about CFAF 12
billion in 1989, of which 8 billion for PPM), the quality of care is so poor and
service utilization rates so low. The Health Development Project (Cr.1422-MLI)
has only partly succeeded in addressing the issues just described (para 2.37).
On the other hand, in the seventh and sixth Regions, the NGO, Médecins sans
Frontières, has imported under ICB a limited list of essential drugs and has
trained staff to prescribe them. These Regions have had a regular supply of
quality drugs, demand has been high, and service utilization has increased.
2.22      The PPM case illustrates the dilemma of a parastatal caught between
social objectives (such as the promotion of EDs) and commercial objectives
(profit-making). Acc-rding to studies undertaken during project preparation,
rationalizing drug importation, distribution and prescription could reduce the
average prescription cost from the current CFAF 1,500 to 400. Implement- ing
these policies could, at the conmunity level, free resources that could be
captured to improve the quality and coverage of health services. This would
require (a) fully implementing the EDs policy and improving procurement and
distribution practices; and reducing dependence on a single public sector
importer/distributor by establishing a well-regulated, multiple-channel drug
import/distribution system. Supervision of this process will, in turn, require
strengthening of MSPAS's pharmaceutical inspection and quality control capacity.
2.23      Financial constraints. Sectoral financing--characterized by a low
level of public expenditure and a high level of private expenditure--needs,
first, to be rationalized and, second, expanded. Improving the coverage andior
quality of health services requires substantial additional resources, which
cannot come from the central Government budget alone. At the same time, the
pattern of both public and private spending is highly inefficient and wasteful
(e.g., in the use of Government health personnel, provision of free health care
to civil servants, and private purchase of non-essential, expensive drugs). As
a result, studies have estimated that over one third of total health expenditures
could be saved, while still improving quality, through rationalizing the sector's
spending pattern.
2.24      Therefore, reducing the resource constraint on public health services
depends on (a) improving the efficiency of public as well as private health
expenditures, including rationalization of sectoral investment; (b) increasing
the sectoral share of the recurrent budget, while concentrating MSPAS's efforts
on its planning, policy-making and support functions; and (c) broadening the
sectoral resource base, first by channelling toward cost-effective services the
savings that could be achieved on patients' drug purchases, and second by
building on existing cost-recovery schemes to develop a clear but flexible
partnership between the Government, communities and NGOs. Improving cost-recovery



performance will involve a gradual expansion of fees for curative care,
implementation of an ED policy, establishing a mechanism for regular price
adjustment, and setting up local "safety nets" for the truly indigent.
2.  Population and Family PlanninR
2.25      An emergin2 population ,olicy. Most Malian want large families, and
at present fertility rates Mali would have a population of about 19 million by
2015 (compared to 7.7 million in 1987). In its statements on population, the
Government has traditionally emphasized human resource development (improvements
in education, health and employment, morbidity reduction, the status of women,
environmental protection), over purely demographic objectives. Until recently,
it was hesitant in recognizing the social and economic development implications
of rapid population growth in the context of a limited natural resource base, and
in formulating explicit demographic targets. Its reluctance to do so was
reinforced by data problems, such as the initial results of the 1987 population
Census, which suggest a surprisingly low intercensal growth rate of 1.8% since
1976 (para 2.8). This reluctance is gradually changing to a more realistie
assessmex.t of the situation.
2.26      A draft population policy that includes specific strategies as well
as quantified demographic targets (para 2.33) was discussed at a national seminar
in July 1990. The draft was prepared (with UNFPA/ILO assistance) by the Ministry
of Planning's Population Unit, which serves as Secretariat to the inter-
--nisterial Groupe d'Etudes et de Coordination des Activitis de Population
(GECAPOP); official adoption is expected by end-1990. The seminar, while
supportive of the policy, confirmed that a long time-lag and an all-out IEC
effort will be required to increase public awareness of the issues at stake,
build a consensus on objectives and strategies, implement action programs, and
achieve results. Therefore, the Government needs early, well-designed and
sequenced assistance in disseminating and operationaliaing the policy.
2.27      Limited demand for and availability of FP services. Despite the
Government's early acceptance of FP for the protection of maternal and child
health (para 2.10), efforts have remained diffuse for lack of a well-defined and
coordinated strategy, and expansion of FP services is constrained by a
combination of supply and demand problems. Where there is a demand, mostly in
urban centers, it remains partly unmet due to an insufficient number of delivery
points, the few FP options offered, the limitation of authorization to distribute
hormoual contraceptives to physicians and midwives (the only staff receiving FP
training), and the practice of restricting the prescript- ion of contraceptives
to married women who have marital consent. As a result, the number of abortions
(in Mali they are illegal) is growing, although still modest. In rural areas the
main problem appears to be the low level of demand; this is largely due to the
absence of a clear and systematic IEC strategy explaining FP, its benefits and
availability, targeted at priority groups and carefully tested and timed with FP
service development. Such a strategy has just been prepared, building on the
draft population policy, which proposes CPR target; various experiments that have
yielded insights on how to proceed with FP; the fact that many organizations,
NGOs and private practitioners are prepared to assist with implementation; and
the operational norms for integrated MCHIFP, which have being tested in Bamako
since 1987. The two leading institutions active in IEC and FP, DSF and AMPPF
(para 2.10), are understaffed and overstretched, leaving donor coordination
unattended. The needs are therefore to (a) reinforce sectoral capacity to plan,



- le -
manage and evaluate FP activities; (b) stimulate demand for FP through IEC; and
(c) strengthen traditional as well as alternative IECIFP channela to satisfy
effective demand by improving service delivery.
3. Rural Water Supplv
2.28      To increase accees  of the rural population to a safe vater supply,
especially in the most deprived areas, and thus improve their sanitation and the
health environment, the Government needs assistance in completing and expanding
the work begun in the drilling of boreholes and equipping/maintenance of water
points with hand-pumps (para 2.12). Because of the prevalence of goiter in many
areas due to iodine deficiency, the lmprovement efforts should include an
iodination program, carried out mainly by village pump repairmen.
2.29      Improvement of rural water supply used to be hampered by inadequate
cost recovery for investment and maintenance, as well as by shortages of skilled
personnel and material resources. These issues have been addressed through policy
measures involving the technical and financial participation of villagers in the
irstallation, operation and maintenance of their water points. The respective
responsibilities and functions of vill.age communities and DNHE (Direction
Nationale de l'Hydraulique et de l'Energie) are specified in contracts between
them. The issue now is to generalize countrywide this policy, which i8 being
successfully implemented under the IDA-financed Rural Water Supply Project.
Community development activities are being promoted to directly involve the
v_llagers in the improvement campaign, keep them informed of the health benefits
of safe drinking water, and motivate them to assume responsibility for operating
and maintaining their water points and to participate in other aspects of the
ongoing efforts to make the Malian rural environment more healthful.
C. The Government's Sectoral Stratexies
2.30      Despite tie difficulties faced by the public health system, there are
reasons for optimism: the many tests and experiments supported by NGOs or donors
have elicited a strong community response, leading the Government to revise its
strategy. In particular, (a) various cost-recovery formulae have been successful-
ly tested, notably in Kayes Region (KBK Districts, first IDA-financed Project),
in the Gao and Tombouctou Regions (EDF-f inanced project, with Midecins sans
Frontières) and under various UNICEF schemes; (b) Mopti Region, with UNICEF and
German assistance, has pioneered in the area of decentralized health planning
involving Local Health Comnittees; (c) treatment protocols have been developed
and EDs introduced In KBK, Gao and Tombouctou; and (d> KBK Districts and Sikasso
Region have shown the way in preparing District health development plans,
assisting in the establishment of community health centers and mobilizing local
tax financing to cover part of their costs. The lessons learned from these
experiments are providing the building blocks for implementing the Government's
health strategy that the project will support.
2.31      The health sector. Mali pursues the goal of "Health for Alla through
the promotion of primary health care (PHC). Intermediate objectives are to expand
coverage, improve quality, and rationalize sectoral resource use. As a pre-
requisite to achieving these objectives, the Government proposes to refoeus its
role away from service provision toward its strategic, policy, management and
support functions, improvement of the quality and efficiency of referral care,
and the promotion of public health. This strategy was developed through a policy



- il -
dialogue conducted with IDA during project preparation. It endorses the basic
principles of the 'Bamako Initiativeu(para 2.7). Its key elememts aret
(a) Decontralization of heslth services manatement to local goveraments,
communties and NGOs--a policy adopted by many African couantries for
health and by Mali for all sectors, with a strong local tax-base (CFAF
6 billion in 1989). To itaplement the policy, the District is identi-
fled as the critical level In the administrative structure, since lt
te the firot level encompassing both prlmary sad referral services,
and lt ls close enough to the com=uilties (160,000 inhabitants on
average) to be responsive to their needs.
(b)  Imolementatlon of the essential dru£ (ED> policv. The Goverament has
placed PP! and U4PP under HSPAS'  control, In ti. expectation that
these parastatals will cesse pursuing purely financial objectives and
become effective instruments for ensuring a sustainable supply of low-
cost, quality druge. A list of 199 EDs has been officially estab-
lished. To make these drugs available countrywide within a year, M4SPAS
and PPM are finalizing a revised 'Contrat-Plan' specifying the
implementation.details of the policy (para 3.25). The Government has
also encouraged the private sector to assume more responsibility for
distribution (14 new pharmacies opened in 1989 and all of PPI's retail
points vere to be divested by end-1990), while protecting the consumer
through an information campaign.
(c)  Cost recovery. Recognizing its inability to finsance the expansion and
improvement of the health care system out of the public budget, and
building on the country's tradition of self-relisnce, the Government
las proposed adopting countrywide the principle of cout recovery (para
2.15). Ongoing experiments have demonstrated the feasibility of sn
arrangement under which a large share of the r-current costs of
commuaity health facilities are borne by the surrounding population,
provided they receive support from their local governrent and are
.mpowered to manage the facilities. MSPAS bas studied the conditions
for saccess of this approach and is finalizing the regulatory
provisions for including it in its sector finsacing stratogy.
2.32      Th. above-described principles, which are being adopted in many other
African  countries,  are  sound  and  deserve  IDA's  support; moreover,  the
Government's use of this policy framework to coordinate all donor interventions
is «specially velcome. However, the proposed strategy has tuo veaknesses. First,
it is not geared tovard specific, quantif ied targets and consequently the
monitoring of progress and measurement of success vould be difficult and
subjective. Second, while Mali has gained experience Lu decentralisation and cost
recovery, the implications of operationaliz:ng these policies on a large scale
need to be thought through. The strong interest of the donor community in
providing large-scale assistance makes systematic planning, norm-setting,
monitoring, evaluation and feedback especially important. At the same time, the
clarity of th. strategie directions set by the Goverament, the urgency of the
needs, and the rapid pace at which changes and innovations are spontaneously
taking place at the "grass roots" level all argue in favor of leaving some
flexibility in the implementation process.



- 12 -
2.33      Pooulation policy and FP strateay. Stnce the 1983 Mexico Conference
on Population, GECAPOP, assisted by the Centre d'Etudes et de Recherche sur la
Population et la D&mographie (CERPOD), a Sahel-vide institution based ln
Bamako,and by UNFPA and ILO, has been studying the interaction between
demographic variables and socioeconom«lc development. The recently drafted
population policy (para 2.26) proposes to (a) control demographie growth; (b)
improve the health statue of the population, especially children, vomen of child-
bearing age and elderly people; (c) make out-migration an integral part of the
country's socioeconomic development plans; and (d) improve living conditions
through food security, protection of the environment, human resource devolopment,
the promotion of women*s role, and demographic research. Under (a) above, a
number of measures are proposed, including (i) broadening acces to FP to raise
the CPR from 4.6% (all methods) to 40% by 2000 and to 70Z by 2020 in urban and
10% and 40S in rural areas; (ii) promoting breastfeeding and other traditional
birth-control methods; (iii) enforcing the legal age of marriage (18 years for
women, 21 for men); (iv) promoting female education and introducing family health
education in both the formal and nonformal systeus (v) reducing teen-age and
over-age pregnancies by 40% by 2000 and 90% by 2020; (vi) promoting IEC on the
benefits of FP; (vii) systematically integrating FP into MCH; (viii) addressing
sterility-related issues; (ix) training all health personnel ln FP; and (x)
supporting public, private and non-governmental institutions involved in FP.
2.34      This policy is quite ambitious (because reaching the proposed CPRs
would require fundamental changes in attitudes which are unlikoly to happen 80
rapidly) and still lacks operational specificity, as vell as short-term
objectives. By contrast, the FPIIEC strategy recently adopted by the MSPAS is
tmmediately actionable. It sets a short-term, tvore realistic CPR of 10%, precise
geographic and user targets, and Identifies means to intensify services in urban
areas and extend them at the periphery. It proposes to build on a variety of
complementary channels and options to expand demand for FP through IEC, and to
increase service availability while putting in place appropriate mechanisms to
plan, Implement, coordinate and monitor the national FP program.
2.35      Water  sul,ly strate2a.  Vithin  the  framework of the Water  and
Sanitation Docade, the Government set a goal to provide potable drinking vater
for the entire rural population by end-1990. To date, there are about 10,000
modern water points, serving about 352 of the rural population, representing an
annual increase of 2-3% in service level over the past six to seven years.
During the best years, some 1,300 modern water points were constructed annually.
£ven if this construction rate vere maintained uantil 1995, the service level
would increase to only 50S, provided all existing vater installations are kept
in good working condition. Realising that providing accees to potable water to
the entire population in the near future would be a nearly impossible task, the
Government recently adopted a strategy for achieving a modest increase in service
level, but more importantly, for keeping all existing vater installations in good
operating condition. To attain this goal, the Governient has placed strong
emphasis on villagers' financial participation in investment and maintenance--a
necessary criterion to ensure the sustainability of vater Installations.
D. The Bank GrouD's Role
2.36      The Bank Group's involvement in the health sector in Mali includes the
Health Development Project (Cr. 1422-MLI), approved on January 23, 1984; health
compononts in agricultural and livestock projects (Mali Sud II and the Mopti Area



- 18 -
Development Project); vater and sanitation components in the Rural Water Supply
Project (Cr.1431-MLIISF7), approved In December 1983; and support for the
Regional onchocerciasis control program. A Population Sector Memorandum vas
issued in February 1988.
2.37      The nearly completed Health Development Project (Cr.1422-MLI) consists
of two parts. Part A supports national-level activities (training, drug supply,
capacity building in planning. and coordination); Part B foeuses on three
Districts in Kayes Region--Kita, Bafoulabe and Kenieba (the KBK Districts). At
the national level, the training component has had mixed resultss due to,
disruptions in the provision of technical assistance, in turn caused by the
bankruptcy of the agency selected and the difficulty experienced in finding a
replacement, revision of the curricula is behind schedule. In contrast, health
f inancing and planning have been strengthened and nov play a key role in sectoral
policy formulation and implementation. MSPAS has improved its central capacity
to collect, compile and analyze health services data. The project helped improve
PPM's management, convincingly tested the acceptability of generic drugs, and
demonstrated the cost advantages of ICB. However, the project did not succeed in
making EDs widely available, because PPM concentrated on repaying its debt; the
sales proceeds vere mainly used to purchase more lucrative drugs, thereby
perpetuating the shortage of EDs. The cost-recovery measures proved the
feasibility of maintaining District-level drug revolving funde and resulted in
quality improvements; however, because the centers purchased drugs at PPM prices
(2 to 3 times higher than needed), drug utilization did not increase.
2.38      In the KBK Districts  the Health Development  Project  aimed to
strengthen the exîsting public health network in accordance vith PHC objectives
and to develop related activities at the village level. This part of the project
is undoubtedly the most successful, despite implementation problems with NoOs
involved in the civil works component and considerable delays and cost overruns
in the facility construction program, which are nov resolved. Annual District
health programing and budgeting vere successfully introduced, in-service
training improved, and medical and nursing students provided vith field training
in the project area.
2.39      MSPAS has drawn extensively on the experience, both positive and
negative, gained in KBK to develop the investment and organizational policies to
be implemented under the proposed second projects
(a) Construction: To avoid locating health centers in sparsely populated
areas, facility planning vill be based on strict population criteria
instead of the administrative level of the particular locality.
Infrastructure norme for rehabilitatinglconstructing and equipping
health facilities have been reviewed to reduce investment and
maintenance costs.
(b) Drux provision: The full package of measures required to implement the
EDs policy is being introduced up-front; EDs vill be sold in Community
Health Centers (ComHCs) under the supervision of the District Health
Team and a local Health Committee. To achieve significant progress irn
rationalizing drug utilization, protocols for ensuring better patient
diagnosis and prescription practices are being developed and applied,
for both PHC anïd refetral care.



- 14 -
(c)  Financing:  The  cost-recovery  measures  procedures  successfully
implemented in the referral contera under the firet project vill be
extended to the newly croated Community Health Contera (ComHCs) under
already tested, well-defined arrangements (para 3.08). The District
Health Team vill use the experience 8ained in programming and
budgeting in KBK to develop District Health Development Plans.
(d)  Information oyatem: Assistance has been provided to the central level
of MSPAS to procesa locally produced data; in lino with the Governmen-
t's current strategy of decentralization, priority vill be given to
developing local management information systems to monitor service
quality and utilization.
(e) Management arrangements: The first health project'a implementation
mechanisma, under whicàh the current Project Management Unit (PMU) has
tended to function in isolation from the rest of MSPAS, have been
revised to give more responsibility to the various parts of the
Ministry, while emphasizing PMU's coordinating and support role.
In addition, the processes for managing community vater points successfully
applied under the Rural Water Supply Project (para 2.12) will be extended.
2.40      Rationale for IDA's involvement. Socioeconomic indicators place Mali
among the five lowest-ranking countries in the vorld in terms of health status
and the situation of vomen, making human resource development a top priority in
IDA's country strategy. Rapid population growth is alseo a source of serious
concern, given the relatively limited resource base and harsh natural environment
in Mali. Broadening access to quality, affordable health and FP services vill
contribute to achieving the Goverrment's objectives of growth and equity, while
helping to meet the basic needs of some of the poorest and most vulnerable
segments of Malian society. Reversing the vorrisome trends of the past 10 years
vill require drastic reforma in the way health services are operated, financed
and managed. Some of these reforms (EDs supply, cost recovery) have been
initiated under the first IDA-financed project, and IDA is vell positioned to
play a catalytic role in ensuring that they are carried out. With the donor
community prepared to provide large-scale assistance to the sector, the
Government is using the strategy and policies developed during its dialogue vith
IDA as a framework to coordinate their interventions. The rural vater supply
component vill not only reinforce the impact of the health component, but also
cover parts of Mali that are the most deficient in acces to safe vater and for
which external f inancing might otherwise not be forthcoming. Finally, the proj ect
vill contribute importantly to IDA's macro objectives for Mali (para 3.56).
2.41      Donor assistance and coordination. Many donors have been active in the
health, population/family planning, and vater supply sectors. In health, some
have focused on strategie activities and others on specific geographic areas.
For instance, French bilateral assistance has concentrated on institution
building at the central and Regional levels, health training, the hospital sub-
sector, and more recently the establishment of young doctors in rural areas.
Hospitals have also been the main recipients of AfDB assistance. On the other
hand, EDF, German and Swiss aid flows have supported Regional and District
operations. The f irst IDA-financed project included both types of activities. Tn
population and family planning, USAID, the UN Fund for Population Activities
(UNFPA) snd IPPF, through its affiliate AMPPF are the main sources of financing



- 16 -
for training activities, contraceptive and equipment supply, technical
assistance, and programs. Other donors, including UNICEF (a major providor of
drugs), WHO, bilateral agencies and NGOs, contribute to maternal and child health
(MCH) programs that include family planning. In both sectors, preparation of the
proposed project has been instrumental in moving avay f rom f ragmented approaches
and in building a consensus between the Government and donors arourà a program
that provides an "umbrella" for all future donor interventions. In rural vater
supply, AfDB, IDA, the French CCCE, Denmark, Japan, Saudi Arabia and Switzerland
have supported in varying degrees the Government's program based on community
participation in vell building and maintenance. Most of these activities have
been undertaken under parallel financing, and coordination has been satisfactory.
III. THE PROJECT
A.  Proiect Objectives and Descriition
3.1       The project is part of a multisectoral effort to help the Government
achieve sustainable growth vith equity. Through a set of policylinstitutional
reforms and investments, it aims to improve the health status and vell-being of
Mali's population, especially vomen and children by:
(a)  Increasing the coverage and quality of health services directly for
about 1.4 million people in four of Mali's seven Regions--Kayes and
Mopti in a Phase 1, Koulikoro and Segou in a Phase 2--and in the
capital area of Bamako, and indirectly nationvide by strengthening the
efficiency of sectoral resource use. As a result by 1997, at least
52% of the population are expected to live vithin 15 kms of a health
center versus 45% today; in the areas of project concentration, the
proportion of children immunized before age one vill increase f rom 25%
to 40%, while 60% of pregnancies vill receive pre-natal care versus
38% now, and the growth of half the children below the age of two vill
be monitored;
(b)  Implementing its emerging population policy through integration of FP
into MCH and an all-out IECIFP development effort designed to increase
the modern CPR from 1.2% to 8.5% countrywide by 1997; and
(c)  Providing access to safe vater for about 180,000 people living in some
of the poorest part of the four Regions mentioned above and implement-
ing an iodination program to eliminate goiter from among 240,000
people.
The project is expected to both alleviate poverty and improve the economy's
supply response to the adjustment process, thus increasing the health system's
ability to become self-sustaining (paras 3.53-3.57). The Government's strategy
for health and population is stated in a Letter of Development Policy dated
December 15, 1990 (Annex 3-1). To attain the above objectives, the project
comprises three components: health, population and rural vater supply.
3.2       The health component vill:
(a)  Increase the coverage and quality of health services directly in the
four above-mentioned Regions, through implementation of a decentral-



- le -
ized, district-based health development program involving communities,
NGOs and private practitioners. The project vill finances
(M)     The broadening access to PHC at the comunity levels construc-
tionlupgradinglextension of about 120 community health centers;
provision of EDs; IEC materials; support to community initia-
tives; motorcycles; training; and incremented operating costs
(Base cost: US$5.4 million);
(ii)     Quality improvement of health referral services:  construct-
ionlupgrading/extension of about 21 District health centers and
about 25 "enhanced" sub-district health centers; provision of
equipment, furniture, EDs and supplies; training and short-term
surgical expertise (Base cost: US$7.4 million); and
(iii)     The strengtheninR of health management, at the District levels
construction/upgrading/extension of about 21 existing District
offices; vehicles and motorcycles; training of key staff and
community devalopment agents; project workshops; incremental
operating costs (Base cost - US$4.3 million); at the Regional
level: construction/upgrading/extension of five Regional offices;
provision of office equipment and supplies; vehicles; training;
study tours; maintenance and incremental operating costs (Base
cost: US$2.5 million).
<b) Improve the efficiency of the national directorates in charge of
planning and managing sectoral resource use. The project vill finance:
(i)     Health planningt health planning specialist services; office
equipment and supplies; vehicles; training and IEC in rural vater
management (Base costs US$1.3 million);
(ii)     Human resource and financial managements specialist services and
training in personnel and f inancial management; provision of
vehicle, office supplies and equipment (Base cost: US$0.5
million)...
(iii)     Facility  Planningimaintenance:  local  long-term  construct-
ionlmaintenance  specialists;  short-term  computerIprocurement
specialists; vehicles; provision of furniture and equipment (Base
costs US$0.7 million);
(iv)     Drug supplys 4 years of pharmaceutical management specialist
services; scholarships and workshops for technical staff and
prescribers; provision of equipment and vehicles (Base costs
US$1.5 million).
(c)  Proiect Coordination Unit (PCU). The project will finance: remodeling
of facilities; provision of additional equipment; contractual staff,
short-term specialist services; training; and incremental operating
costs (Base cost: US$1.4 million).
3.3       Countrywide, the population component vill:



17 -
(a) Provide institutional support for implementation of the national
population policy and the national FP/IEC strategy by financings the
provision of short- and long-term population, FP, IEC, O&M and
sectoral specialist services; the training of FP program middle-level
managers; facilities rehabilitation; provision of vehicles, office
equipment and supplies (Base cost: US$1.6 million).
(b)  Increase the demand for, availability, and quality of FP services by
financing: strengthening of AMPPF's five Regional antennae and opening
of two new ones; integration of FP delivery into MCH; IECIFP special-
iste services; provision of vehicles; contraceptives IEC/FP material;
training; establishment of a fund (POPFUND) to finance public, private
and NGO innovative activities in population, IEC, FP, female promo-
tion, and operational research, surveys and studies (Base cost:
US$12.5 million).
3.4       The rural water sup2ly component, in the Regions of Kayes, Mopti,
Koulikoro and Segou. will:
(a) Increase the rural population's supplv of safe drinking water and
support the Government's policy of community financial and technical
water management by financingt the construction of about 385 modern
rural water points in the Districts of Renieba and Bafoulabe (Base
cost: US$8.5 million); the rehabilitation of some 500 existing water
points on a priority basis (Base costs US$1.2 million); and studies
(Base cost: US$0.3 million).
(b) Combat iodine deficiency by financing the supply, installation and
evaluation of iodine modules in about 1,500 existing and new water
points (Base cost: US$1.3 million).
The project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1997.
B. The Health Component
1.   Increasing the Coverage and Quality of Health Services
3.5       To alleviate the constraints on access to and quality of basic health
services, the project vill assist the Government in implementing its District-
based health development program (para 2.31) in the capital area of Bamako and
in the four Regions mentioned in para 3.1 (a). In doing se, the project will help
MSPAS to concentrate on its key management and support 'unctions. while
supporting the capability-of loeal communities to extend ari manage the network
of basic health centers. Specifically, this sub-componer't will, in each District
selected (a) expand PHC by supporting the creation of .tetwork of Community Health
Centers (ComHCs) (paras 3.7-3.12); (b) improve the quality and utilization of
primary and referral services, which will bo provided, respcetively, by these
ComHCs and by District Health Centers (DECs) (paras 3.14-3.15); and (c) establish
District Health Teams (DHTs) to manage the District health systam , and ensure
that they receive adequate support from Regional Health Teams (RHTs) (paras 3.16-
3.18). Annex 3-2 describes, for each level of the proposed system, the entity
responsible and its staffing, functions and operational instruments.



- la -
3.6       Proposed approach. The project will be based on the principles of
population-based planning, community empoverment, and separation of primary care,
referral and management functions. It will provide support to 17 Districts (out
of 29) in the four Regions and to four Districts (out of six) in Bamako. The
assumed eligibility rate of 60% is based on observed contributive capacity and
management capabilities. To be selected, the Districts should meet the following
eligibility criteria: (a) a five-year District Health Development Plan (DHDP),
specifying the District's health statue and issues, health strategy, and
investment/recurrent financing plan, has been drafted in accordance with an
agreed framevork, endorsed by the District administration and approved at the
national level by a Ministerial Project Monitoring Committee (para 4.4);  at
least one ComHC within the District is operational, as measured by agreed upon
technical and financial performance criteria; (c) the District's Local
Development Committee (LDC) has made a formal commitment to spend in support of
the DHDP at least 7% of revenues from the Local Development Tax (corresponding
to their estimated average share of the costa); and (d) the Dist ict Health Team,
consisting of personnel already based at the District level, has been selected
and is adequately staffed. Under the project, the Regional Health Directorates
will assist the candidate Districts in meeting the conditions of eligibility and
in Implementing their DHDP. The DHDPs (including a base line survey, (para 4.8
(a)) for the Districts to be assisted during PY1 vill be ready by Project
Effectiveness. Annex 3-3 describes the framework for District Health Development
Planning; and Annex 3-4, the performance indicators agreed with Government for
the Community and District Health Centers; Annex 3-5 shows the population covered
by the ComHC program.
3.7       Establishit a network cf ComHCs te provide PHC. In the selected
Districts, health services vill be brought closez to the population and made more
responsive to their needs by supporting the creation or reinforcement of about
120 urban/rural ComHCs and by encouraging community participation in their
management and in the promotion of public health and self-care.
3.8       Under the DHDP, which will be approved with IDA each year in a
consolidated form, the DHT vill Ruarantee to eliaible communities a sustained
minimum packaRe of basic health care services if the community axrees to support
the remaining recurrent cost8. The norme and standards to be applied in ComHC
staffing (2 or 3 staff), type and number of services offered, facility planning,
and equipment have been tailored to the communities' ability to austain the
recurrent costs. Sector work and ongoing experiments have shown that the proposed
cost-sharing arrangements can succeed. These arrangements typically involve a
well-defined but flexible mix of (a) allocation from the Local Development Tax
equivalent to the nurse's salary (the 7% mentioned in para 3.6); (b) the charging
of a fee based on various possible formulae to cover other operating costs; and
(c) sales of drugs to patients. This financial framework is described in detail
in Annex 3-6.
3.9       To break even, a 3-staff ComHC should collect annually CFAF 2-2.5
million in revenues, corresponding to 4,000-5,000 visita at a charge (combination
of yearly memberahip, fee per eplsode, etc.) of CtAF 500, or half the charge for
twice as many visita. In addition, EDs vill be sold to patients with a amall
profit margin determined by the local health com$ittee (except for k'igh-priority
items such as vaccines, contraceptives, medications against tuberculosis and
leprosy, which viil be subsidized). The cost of drugs i8 estimated at about CFAF
400 per episode once the pharmaceutical sector is rationalized. This total level



- 19 -
of cost recovery is realistic, given that total private health expenditure are
presently estimated at CFAF 2,400 per capita and that the above corresponds to
a conservative utilization rato of 0.4-0.5. However, to initiate the process, the
LDC vill, for a period to be determined on a case-by-case basis, finance the
equivalent of the nurse's salary on a decreasing basis until financial balance
te fully reached, at which point LDC support vill be ahifted to nev ComHC8.
UNICEF vill conduet operational research on the best way to provide performance-
based compensation for staff paid by the communities. £-en when well managed,
some of the poorest ComHCs (no more than 10%), might require permanent LDC
support. These decisions vill be made at the yearly DHDP review.
3.10      The  conditions  for  .ommunity  eligibility will be  (a)  previous
selection of the District where the community is located for project support;
establishment of a Health Committee representing at least 5,000 inhabitants and
up to 15,000 within a radius of 15 km; (c) evidence of community initiative, such
as construction of a primary school; and (d) contribution of 50% toward the cost
of rehabilitation (estimated at US$4,500 per ComHC) or construction (estimated
at US$20,000) of the facilities, which vill not exceed 124 sq meters; this is
equivalent to a range of US$2.0-0.7/person for a new center and is already
vorking in KEK. To achieve the 50% target, the communities vill be encouraged to
include in their participation their labor, ad hoc allocations from local
governments or contributions from NGOs--an approach successfully initiated under
the ongoing Education Sector Consolidation Project (Cr.2054-MLI). Sustainability
'a discussed in para 3.54. The proportion of communities expected to receive
project assistance is about 60% of the potentially eligible pointa in Phase 1
area and 40% in Phase 2 area (starting one year later).
3.11      Following an information/sensitization campaign conducted by the
District'8 community development agents, local coamunity applications vill be
screened at the District and Regional levels and approved for each District at
the central level by a recently created Project Monitoring Committee, for
inclusion in the yearly ComHC program. Simple agreements apecifying the
obligations of the communities and the DHT vill be signed by representatives of
both parties. Project contributions toward the cost of the investment vill be
released by MSPAS in tranches upon satisfactory completion of pre-agreed phases
(maximum of 4) and technical requirement certifications by the Ministry and
CEPRIS. A preventive maintenance system vill b. established at regional and
central levels (paras 3.18 and 3.28). Experience vith community mobilization vill
be examined each year during joint government/IDA reviews.   The program is
described in Annex 3-7.
3.12      The ComHc program vill be based on community participation at three
levels. Firat, the ComHcs vill be managed under the supervision of Local Health
Committees, which will work with the DHT in planning, implementing and monitoring
the program. Second, a training system, involving successively the Regional,
District, and community levels, vill equip the ComHC to assess the community's
health and nutrition statua, monitor the growth of children, and address local
health problema through IEC on appropriate practices (in FP, hygiene, child care,
nutrition, use of EDe, swnitation, vater-point maintenance) and through local
initiatives. Third, the ComfHcs vill promote self-care by operating pharmacies to
supply the village with EDs ranging from chloroquine to contraceptives. During
negotiations the Government gave assurances that it will apply the criteria
agreed for selection of the Districts atd communities to be supported under the
project.



- 20 -
3.13      To further improve access, at least in the urban areas, promote
employment among medical graduates (and thus free public resources which could
be channelled to health care for the poor), the project will provide incentives
to the development of private medicine. First, physicians will be able to be
contracted by the Districts and communities to provide integrated care in the
framework of an association ('Convention") with the Governrent--an approacb
already tested in Sikasso Region. Second, young medical graduates will bh
eligible for financial assistance and technical guidance to establish their ot.-'
practice under a line of credit opened under the ongoing Education Sector
Consolidation Project. Third, the Govcrnment has recently revised its legislation
to liberalize medical fees, and to provide more favorable incentives and
technical specifications for establishing private medical practices and
pharmacies.
3.14      Improvinz the qualitv and utilization of health services. Under this
sub-component, primary and referral care will be clearly differentiated and
placed under the respective responsibility of the ComHCs and the DHCs. A minimum
package of health services 1230'defined        and rigorouely applied for both
levels. At the PHC level, the package of services (curative, health IEC, MCH/FP,
immunization, pharmacy) provided by the ComHCs will take into accouat the local
epidemiological situation as well as public demand. Using training modules,
already developed on the basis of tested treatment protocole, staff will be
trained to provide integrated çare. Quantified utilization targets have been
agreed for the annual reviews. Poorsy performing ComHC will rece,ve intensified
supervision/assistance from the Dis -ict unless the DHT and the ComHCes Health
Committee jointly reach the decisi-,n to close it down. However, the sharp
interest expressed by the communitie.-, and the prudent pace of implementation
proposed (an average of 1.2 ComRC to be opened each year in each District)
suggest that these cases will be rare. Conversely, in more affluent communities
the minimum package could be expanded and staff upgraded (e.g., by recruiting a
physician) as long as the community could bear the full incremental cost. Thus,
the syctem will be based on a combinat.ion of needs and effective demand,
depending largely on the satisfaction of its clients and its responsivenese to
their needs.
3.15      At the referral level,  the DHCs will be staffed with existing
Government personnel and paid out of the public budget. Service fees will be
charged and druge will be sold at cost. The existing DHCs will be strengthened
to offer referral consultations (pregnancies with complications, an important
safe motherhood feature), medicine, surgery, laboratory, radiology, dental care
and ophthalmological services. In addition, one of every four ComHCs will be
equipped to offer limited referral services (such as microscopic examinations)
to the surrounding ComHCs. These "enhanced ComHCs" will, typically but not
necessarily, be the sub-district health centers.
3.16      Providinx District and Reiional manaRerial support. Under the new
decentralized system, (a) in each selected District, a District Health Team (DHT)
will be created to manage the District Health 3ystem; and (b) in each project
Region, a capecity will be created at the Regional level to support District-
level operations.
3.17      The District Health Team (DHT), which will b. constituted (as a
condition of eligibility for project support) from Government personnel available
in existing DHCs or Regional Directorates, will report to the LDC and the



- 21 -
Regional Health Officer. Its main responsibilities will be: (a) programming and
budgeting, including preparation of the DHDP, a detailed implementation plan to
increase coverage and gradually integrate services, a budget and financial plan,
and an annual report; (b) the management of physical resources, especially drugs
(purchased from the Regional or central PPM stores, UMPP or other sources, stored
and sold to the District hospital and the COMHCs), financial resources
(preparation of financial reports and guidance to ensure the financial viability
of the ComHCs), and human resources (staffing plans for both the civil servants
and locally recruited District health staff under the DHDP, and supetvision of
staff); (c) the training of ComHC staff in integrated, preventive and curative
care (including FP and simple management skills) based on the treatment
protocols, and with participation from already operational ComHCs; additionally,
the DHT will organize workshops (on a quarterly basis for two years, then twice
a year) on implementation issues and experience; DHT will also provide regular
supervision of the ComHCs based on the training and visit system; and (d) social
mobilization by two community development agents who will be part of the DHT.
These agents will be trained by UNICEF field staff in mobilization techniques
already under experimentation. Downstream, the DHT will reach out to the unserved
communities through an Infirmier d'Etat, based in each sub-district and equipped
vith a motorcycle, who vill also assist vith ComHc supervision. Upstream, the DHT
vill receive support from the Regional level.
3.18      In the four project Regions and in the capital area of Bamako, the
project will build Regional capacities and establish the mechanisma needed to
effectively support District health operations. This support vill foeus on (a)
program manaRements the Regional Health Team (RHT), dravn from staff of the
existing Regional health Directorates, vill assist the Districts in meeting the
eligibility conditions, preparing the DHDPs and ensuring their implementation;
it vill organize exchanges of experience between Districts, appoint the DHT
members, and review each District's annual report and its program for the
following year, prior to submission to the Ministerial Project Monitoring
Committee for approval; (b) resource management of (i) staff and other resources
(establishing with the assistance of CERPOD a Management Information System (MIS)
to collect and analyze,  for the purposes  of monitoring,  evaluation and
redeployment, such data as personnel profile and history, essential drug
availability and cost, utilization rates, cost-recovery performance); (ii)
physical resources (maintaining the physical inventory system and systematizing
equipment maintenance, assisting the Regional pharmacist in promoting the
essential drug policy, developing local maintenance and repair capability); and
(iii) f inancial resources (assisting the DHTs in applying the accounting
guidelines to be developed by DAF by the first joint annual review in November
1991); and (c) support to the District community development agents. As the
Malian teams are not yet familiar vith some of the approaches to be taken under
the project, in each project Region UNICEF vill provide outside the project the
services of f-ve public health specialists to the concerned RHTs to help put the
new system on track. Also complementary to the project vill be a major USAID- and
UNICEF-supported cimpaign  -ocusing on child survival practices,  including
breastfeeding and oral rehydration techniques. Details are in Annex 3-6. In
Annex 3-8 is a description of the proposed management of physical resources;
financial objectives are set out in Annex 3-9. All of the administrative reforma
described in para 3.5 through 3.18 have been formalized and implementation has
begun in a number of Districts (para 3.32).



- 22 -
2.   Improving the Efficiency of Resource Use
3.19      StrenxtheninR sectoral planning and operational capabilities. To
facilitate implementation of the proposed health system in the context of general
government decentralization (para 2.31 (a», the project vill (a) reinforce the
planning function of the Ministry,  recently transferred to the Direction
Administrative et Financière (DAF) (para 3.20); and (b) support the development
and use of operational guidelines for the District health system (para 3.21).
3.20      Each year, DAF, in liaison with the Directorate of Public Health
(DNSP) and the Directorate of Social Affairs (DNAS), vill prepare for a joint
Government/donor review a work plan for the sector, including project and non-
project activities. The plan vill take stock of experience gained during the
previous year relative to intermediate objectives as set in the national health
strategy, and vill propose revised objectives and approaches as needed, including
studies and research action proposals.
3.21      Logistical and material support vill be provided for the development
and use of operational guidelines by DAFIDNSPIDNAS. This task is already underway
vith technical assistance from a multi-national team (American, Belgian, French,
German and UNICEF specialists) based in and coordinated by DNSP under parallel
agreements. It involves an iterative process analyzing the Nalian experience vith
health service delivery, especially NGO and community initiatives, and building
on the lessons learned to develop norms and procedures for providing basic and
referral services by program and for ComHC,  DHC and DHT management.  The
guidelines vill be tested as a planning/programminglevaluation device in two
Regions in PY2, five in PY3, and the whole country in PY4.
3.22      Improvinx the productivity of health personnel. The project vill (a)
provide guidelines, training and supervision for service delivery and (b) at the
central level, help MSPAS's Administrative and Financial Directorate (DAF) to
rationalize staff deployment, improve manpower management, and enhance the status
of the health professions. The training modules have been developed vith USAID
assistance on the basis of the operational guidelines prepared in the KBK
Districts by observing the mout commonly performed tasks in a ComHC. This
training vill be provided by the Regional Directorates to the Districts, and by
the Districts to ComHC staff. The initial training vill be reinforced by
intensive supervision, based on the T and V system. It vill be enriched through
the lessons learned during supervision. Recruitment of consultants i8 under way
for a major personnel study, involving a detailed Census of health personnel,
preparation of staffing plans (taking into account the existing 'cadres
organiques') and recommendations to improve NSPAS's organization, management and
financing (TORS in project file). The study will produce a Manpover Development
Plan (MDP) to be discussed vith IDA and to serve as a basis for the Regional
staffing plans. Through an iterative process between the MDP and the Regional
plans, all major staff deployment imbalances are expected to be corrected by end
of PY3.
3.23      The recommendations of the personnel/financial study vill help modify
the preliminary targets and modalities for a voluntary departure program agreed
with the Government during preparation of the proposed Structural Adjustment
Lending (SAL). They will also include incentives to motivate personnel on the
basis of performance, and to improve career prospects, especially for the
District Medical Officers, whose salary levels do not match their new responsi-



- 28 -
bilities. The personnel statistics collected vi}l be computerized, and the three
personnel data bases (Ministries of Finance, Heolth, and Civil service) will be
harmonized and integrated into the Management Information System (para 3.18). In
parallel, two studies vill be conducted: one on hospital efficiency (ongoing as
part of bilateral cooperation vith France), covering financial as well as
technical organizational and staff ing aspects, and the other on the labor market
for health graduates. During negotiations the Government gave assurances that it
vill review the hospital and labor market studios and action plans with IDA by
September 30, 1991, and implement the agreed recommendations vithin six months
thereafter.
3.24      Ensuring the availability and affordability of essential druxs (EDs).
A regular supply of low-cost quality drugs is a key element in improving service
utilization and cost-recovery performance. Therefore, this sub-component will (a)
help the Goverrment speed up implementation of the reform of the pharmaceutical
sector undertaken under the first Health Development Project (Cr.1422-MLI) and
the Public Enterprise Project (Cr. 1937-MLI); and (b) strengthen MSPAS's Pharmacyl
Laboratory Division to enable it to monitor progrese in implementing the reform.
The drug policy reform aima to make quality druge available throughout Mali
vithin a year, to reduce the cost of the average prescription by 2/3 to 3/4
through implementation of an EDs policy, and to ensure the sustainability of the
system by gradually developing a vell-regulated, multiple-channel, open drug
import and distribution network to reduce dependency on a single source.
3.25      To achieve these objectives, the Government has initiated implementa-
tion of a far-reaching pharmaceutical reform Master-Plan.   First, recent
legislation limits exemption from import taxes and duties to the 199 approved EDs
(the list of which can be revised every other year); under the SAL, differentiat-
ed import taxation vill be used to discourage the consumption of commercial
brands. Second, PPM's import monopoly has been lifted, and regulations governing
tie opening of the drug import market to other operators (private sector, NGOs,
etc.)  are being finalized.   Third, a 3-year Contrat-Plan redefining the
respective obligations of Goverrment and PPM as the official vehicle for
implementing the new EDs policy is at an advanced stage of preparation, based on
detailed management and financial studies. The draft document commits PPM to
buying EDs only in generie form and by competitive bidding, phasing out the
import of all EDs brand equivalents over a two-year period, including the 350
brand equivalents to the 60 most critical EDs by end of 1991 (other operators
vill be allowed to import brands), to limiting to 15% the preference margin
granted to U.MPP, the local drug producer whose prices have been twice as high as
those on the vorld market, to reducing its staff of 700 by at least 300, to
suspending its functionally and financially marginal activities, and to
introducing greater transparency into its financial operations. Two areas still
under study are PPM's internal price system which vill be revised to reflect its
nov cost structure, and the modalities for PPM to retain 8 retail sales points
(one per Region) out of 98 to offer customers a low-cost alternative in a context
of liberalized drug prices (para 3.27).  Fourth, bids have been launched by PPM
for a major purchase of EDs vhich vill bring its stock to a one-year level.
Fifth, a technical and financial diagnosis of UtPP is underway and vill serve as
a basis for its restructuring. Sixth, vith the assistance of UNICEF and USAID,
MSPAS has launcied an information and training program on the benefits available
and use of EDs for opinion leaders, thi general public, and prescribers.
Seventh, only generie EDs vill be provided in government-run and project-
supported community facilities. Issuance of nev drug import regulations and the



- 24 .
signing of a Contrat-Plan for PPM (including an acceptable plan for restructuring
UMPP) will be conditions of credit effectiveness.
3.26      At negotiations the Government gave assurances that during project
implementation three indicators will be met to monitor (a) PPM's competitive
biddinx for the Purchase of generic drues: the Bamako price paid by PPM for EDs
will not excoed the CIF Bamako price offered by UNIPAC (UNICEF's Procurement and
Assembly Conter); (b) PPM's margins a revised margint based on PPM's new cost
structure, and designed to encourage the sales of EDs, will be agreed with IDA
and specified in the Contrat-Plan and implemented vithin six months; and (c) drug
availability: at least 55 out of the 60 most critical EDs will be available in
every project District outlet by November 1, 1991. Compliance will be controlled
by the Pharmacy/Laboratory Division of MSPAS (with tochnical assistance) for the
Goverrment, and by UNICEF (random checks) at the field level. The Pharmacyl
Laboratory Division will be reinforced toe supervise the reform; promote the EDs
policy; inspect public and private pharmacies; broadly publicize the price at
which EDs will be sold to retailers. PPM's accounting and stock inventory systems
will also be strengthened. A pharmaceutical sector management specialist, has
been recruited under a twinning arrangement with a specialized institution, to
monitor and assist the reform process through a combination of short and long-
term missions (TORs in project file).
3.27      The new drug procurement and distribution system will be as follows.
A more efficient PPM could become a loint Procurement aRency, placing multi-year
drug orders for public as well as private distributors. Conversely, PPM's failure
to adjust would lead to its collapse. In any case, drugs will become available
in Mali and customers will be protected through quality controls. In distribu-
tion, the private sector is also expected to take over an increasing share of the
market in the more affluent Regions (Bamako, Sikasso, Segou and Koulikoro) and
down to the District level. PPM will gradually become a wholesaler. Below the
District level, druge will be offered initially through PPM's sub-district retail
points, and gradually through community-run sales points and "dépôts" and the
ComHCe as they are created. PPM will only operate varehouses down to the District
level (and eventually to the Regional capitale only), and distribution will be
flexibly organized by the District medical officer. The price of all drugs was
be liberalized in private pharmacies as of January 1, 1991. For the community
"dépôts" and the ComHCs, the final retail price will cover distribution cost plus
a small margin, dotermined by each Health Co-mittee. Details are in Annex 3-11.
3.28      Developinz a facility PlanninR and maintenance capacity. In order to
strengthen Regional and central capacity to maintain and manage existing
infrastructure and to plan for expansion and its financing through increased
local participation, the project will improve MSPAS's facility and equipment
inventory system. At the central level, at CEPRIS, a computerized inventory of
existing infrastructure will be developed, standards for construction and
equipment will be updated, procurement for nedical equipment will be rationalized
within the existing Malian legislation, and regular maintenance capacity will be
reinforced. This will facilitate budget preparation, minimize replacement coste
and enhance the quality of health services. Oporating procedures and additional
equiptent will allow SEPAUMAT to improve its equipment maintenance capability.
At the Regional level, major DHC repaire will remain the responsibility of
CEPRISISEPATMAT, while CEPRIS will be responsible for sensitizing communities to
the need for regular maintenance of ComHCe. Such maintenance will be entrusted
to skilled labor under the control of the RHT.



- 26 -
3.29      Alleviatina the sector's  financial constraints.  To mobilize the
resources required to improve the coverage and quality of health services, this
sub-component will rationalize and broaden sectoral public and private f inancing.
3.30      Regarding public health f inancing, as part of the cross-sector effort
to improve public resource management, support vill be provided to NSPAS's DAF.
The personnel/financial study (para 3.23) vill help DAF to revise the health
budget nomenclature and make it more functional and transparent, to develop and
implement budgetary norms and a cost and expenditure monitoring system, to
prepare consolidated budgets and financing plans integrating public, private and
external contributions, and to define the key financial indicators to be included
in the sector's Tableau de bord for the annual reviews (para 4.10). Under the SAL
(1990-92), the Government vill gradually increase the sectoral share of its total
recurrent budget froma 6.6% (1990) to 8% by 1992, with a 65:35 wage non-wage ratio
(targets by type of expenditure and level vill be agreed during PY1 on the basis
of the revised budget nomenclature). Folloving completion of the SAL, and as
indicated in the Letter of Development Policy, the Government vill continue to
increase of the share of health in its recurrent budget to reach 9% (as
recommended by WHO) by 1995 and will apply the allocation by level and type of
expenditure agreed vith IDA on the basis of the study. During negotiations, the
Government gave assurances that each FY as of 1991 it vill review vith IDA, prior
to approval, MSPAS' draft. investment budget, as vell as lts three-year rolling
investment program, based on the agreed criteria (in Annex 3-9).
3.31      This sub-component wlll alseo help the health system to capture the
household expenditures at the community and District levela and to combine the
public and private sectoral resources into an equitable and sustainable financing
framework. This framework, vhich vill be flexibly adapted to meet the particular
circumstances of each District, vill be based on the principles outlined in Table
1 below. Alternative coet recovery formulae (e.g., per episode, per visit, annual
fee) vill be offered to the communities, all falling vithin sustainable ranges
(para 3.54). The DHTs and the Health Committees vill closely monitor the
financial affordability of the system, and when faced vith sigus of reluctance
on the part of potential users of an othervise vell-managed ComHC, vill examine
whether a solution lies in a reduction of the minimum package of basic care or
in an increase in the allocation from the Local Development Tax. The community
vill select its poorest members eligible for f ree care (only 4% in the Tombouctou
experiment va 30Z, when salected by government services). A local Research
Institute (Institut National de Recherche sur la Santé-INRS) and the Social
Dimension of Adjustment (SDA) program about to start in Mali vill monitor the
impact of cost recovery.
TAM. 
D(VESTMDfl  .SARZSES    NON-AE   DRtXS ItSSIL
OP9RTIM coSrs
DISTRICT MCi2rTH TEAN  COV'T IRfuG GOO'T   OOV'T  __  OOV'T
<)W)    E".FPINCMt
DISTRICT HEALTM CENTER OWV*T TtROWH CDV'?T   uS>5  US5  CV'T
(REMMAL    Vrr. PINANC0
CONITY HEAL1H CB1ffi COV'T THR0WM iiaSa NL#R S  USE   COMMUNITIE
(PHC)     DAL    LOCAL O6VLPT (FmS)
FXNA:DC  .   TAX
C09MMES + OTHE
LUCAL ODVLPT 2 STAFF.
TAX4400 - 80% «»TIoE



- 2G -
3.32      A decree formalizing the financial and administrative framework for
the District health system vas recently approved . Annex 3-6 gives details on
the financing framework.
C. The Population Component
3.33      Disseminatint and operationalizina the population policv. This sub-
component vill help the Governrment to implement its population policy.
Following the national debate of July 1990, a Presidential statement on
population is expected by early 1991. Under the aegis of the Ministry of
Plan, a multi-sectoral commission on humen resources and population will then
be created, with an operational arm, tentatively named the Bureau National de
Coordination des Programmes de Population (BUNACOP). BUNACOP vill prepare an
action-plan to be presented at a donor's Round Table by end-1991. The project
will, first, assist the Ministry of Plan in completing the analysis of the
1987 Census results and improving population data collection/processing.
Second, it will finance, for each Region, two seminars (PY1 and PY2) run by
the Population Unit and aimed at sensitizing administrative, political and
religious leaders on the new policy. Third, the project will support the
establishment and efficient operation of BUNACOP. Finally, it will complement
the support already provided by ILOIUNPPA by funding the services of sectoral
specialists to prepare projects under the action-plan. A mechanisam will also
be provided to finance a trial experimentation of these projects (para 3.42).
The full action-plan, or parts of it, could form the basis for a free-
standing IDA-supported population project. At Annex 3-12 is a detailed
description of the population component.
3.34      Strengtheninz local MCHIFP capabilities.  NSPAS's MCHIFP strategy
(para 2.34), calls for an all-out effort involving the public and private
sectors, NGOs and donors and a stepping up of IEC and FP activities. Hence,
there is need to reinforce local capabilities to plan, manage, coordinate and
evaluate FP programs (the responsibilities of the Division of Family Health-
DSF), to define and monitor an IEC strategy (National Directorate of Social
Affairs and AMPPF), and to deliver IEC and FP services (Government, NGOs and
private practitioners). To that end, the project vill offer an in-country,
Mali-specific training course for some 250 managers of MCH/FP/IEC public, as
well as private programs. This program, which will ale include short-term
specialist services and a study tour, will be designed and carried out under
an umbrella-contract vith a specialized institution. DSF's recently created
evaluation capacity will be reinforced, while the centrallRegional offices of
DNAS and MSPAS's Health Education Division vill be re-equipped to allow them
to play their role more effectively. Yearly seminars mill be organized by DSF
to compare the cost effectiveness of different ongoing IEC and FP approaches.
3.35      Increasing the demand for. availability and auality of FP services.
This sub-component vill, in the context of the Government's emphasis on
integrated MCHIFP, support MSPAS's, local, NGO and private efforts to (a)
promote IEC se as to stimnlate demand for FP services where it is veak,
especially in the rural areas (paras 3.36-3.38); satisfy unmet demand where
it exists, using different strategies for urban and rural areas (paras 3.39
and 3.40); and (c) improve the quality of FP services (paras 3.39 and 3.41).
To achieve these objectives, the project mill rely on two toolst (i) a core
program of thoroughly appraised priority investments, and (ii) a donors' fund



- 27 -
for population activities (POPFUNP) (para 3.42), which vill flexibly finance,
on a competitive basis, sub-projects that have been identified but require
more preparation or are of an experimental nature but warrant expansion, or
have yet to be developed as the strategy is implemented.
3.36      The project vill stimulate demand for FP services throuRh an all-
out IEC effort. First of all, to reduce the constraints on demand for FP
services, MSPAS recently issued internal guidelines (a) authorizing all
trained médical personnel (including assistant-nurses and midwives) to
prescribe and distribute hormonal and other contraceptives, while community
agents vill be allowed to resupply vomen previously screened at a District or
sub-district facilîty; and (b) reminding public and private health/FP
personnel that there is no legal basis for denying access to PP services to
unmarried vomen or to women who do not have parental or marital consent.
Against this background, this sub-component vill. (i) help to ref ine the
messages to be delivered and the channels to be used, depending on the target
group;   (ii) support both formal and non-formal types of IEC and family
health education. The population policy has identified three priority target
groupe Cor IEC: vomen of reproductive age (15-49 years), especially young
mothers, men (who tend to be more conservative) and young people (among whom
the groving number of illegal abortions and early pregnancies pose a serious
health problem). During PYI, a beneficiary assessment of the underlying
causes behind the low demand for FP services in different parts of the
country vill be conducted. Taking into account the results of its findings,
a Malian task force (DNAS, AMPPF, the Health Education Division, DNAFLA, the
NOO Coordinating Committee, and the médical profession associations),
a«sisted by short-term IEC and FP specialists, vill evaluate the existing IEC
messages for appropriate emphasis, congruence and maximum impact. Focused
tests of the improved messages will then be conducted, using the vomen's and
youth associations' network, the national trade Union for men, and the rural
functional literacy centers.
3.37      Once the messages have been refined, posters, brochures, video
films and audio cassettes vill be produced. DNAFLA's Materials Production
Unit of the Ministry of Education vill be reinforced for that purpose. A
media campaign, using radio time, newspaper coverage, and télevision clips
vill be prepared with the assistance of local media consultants based on the
inputs of the task force and launched in PY2. The existing family IEC
education program for basic and secondary education vill be improved for
clarity and simplicity by the Health Education Division and the National
Pedagogical Institute (IPN) and vill be introduced in the teacher training
colleges by PY2 and in the schools by PY3. Every school will receive a family
health éducation kit (total: 2,000). Family health education training vill be
provided to 1,000 experienced teachers, and reinforcement vill be provided by
AMPPF mobile video units.
3.38      MPPF has traditionally been thé lead agency for IEC. Its five
Regional antennae vill be strengthened with contractual staff, equipment,
materials and mobile video-units. Additionally, to ensure countrywide
coverage, two new antennae vill be created in Gao and Tombouctou. Dissemina-
tion of the IEC message vill be carefully coordinated with the introduction
of FP into the public health facilities or its development through the
private sector and vill follow the Regional phasing of the health component.
Basides this core program, other IEC activities, using eight different



- 28 -
channels, will be eligible for financing under the POPFUND following
satisfactory foeus testing (para 3.42).   Breastfeeding as a natural FP
technique and sound nutritional practice vill receive major emphasis.
3.39      To satisfv unmet demand for FP vithin the context of integrated
MCHIFP the project vill create additional complementary channels and
distribution points and broaden the choice o' contraceptives to match
individual needs and preferences, taking into account -ocio-cultural,
logistical and economic considerations. In urban areas: (a> the urban health
centers included in the health component (about 64) vill gradually expand the
menu of PP options (pill, condoms, spermicides, injectables in the ComHCs,
plus eventually surgical services in the DHCs) as part of the minimum and
referral care packages; (b) FP, hitherto largely limited to the 46 Districts,
vill be extended down to the 262 sub-district health centers countrywide.
This vill be done through the training by DSF of some 400 nurses and midwifes
in integrated MCHIFP on the basis of training modules already successfully
developed and tested. To improve the quality of service delivery, which is
essential to increase the number of nev acceptors and of regular usera, the
training will cover, inter alia, the identification of specific fertility
problems, monitoring the potential side effects of different types of
contraceptives, and managing a regular supply of FP products. Standardized
equipment vill be provided through the POPFUND.
3.40      In rural areas, for the first time, FP vill be made available
through the PHC system, with the opening under the health component, of rural
ComHCs (about 56) offering integrated health and FP services. Furthermore,
outreach activities vill ensure that the centers respond adequately to
fertility-related needs of the local population. Other FP activities
(community-based distribution, social marketing, and FP clinics), relying
heavily on the private sector, are under experimentation and vill be eligible
for expansion under the POPFUND (para 3.42). As indicated in the Government's
Letter of Development Policy any public, private or non-governmental
institution or individual that meets the agreed criteria vill be authorized
to provide IEC and FP services in line vith the national MCH/FP strategy.
3.41      The provision of contraceptives (pills, IUDs, condoms, injectables,
vaginal tablets and spermicides) vill be the final element in the core
program. Given the socioeconomic, technical and logistical constraints,
projections of contraceptives needs vere made (Annex 3-12), using a more
conservative CPR target than in the population policy (8.5% vs. 13%). Each
year, DSF vill organize a meeting of the project cofinanciers and the other
key donors, UNFPA and WHO, to coordinate and contraceptive inputs snd
streamline the number of brands purchased. The efficient computerized stock-
management and distribution monitoring system recently developed by DSF vill
be expanded to serve the whole country.
3.42      The fund for population activities (POPFUND) (US$5.0 million, to
be financed by IDA, USAID, EDF and the Republic of Germany, plus possible TA
contribution by UNFPA), vill be a flexible mechaniom to provide grant
financing to public, non-governmental and private operators for implementa-
tion of the population policy, while facilitating aid coordination and
monitoring. The criteria and rules under which the POPPUND vill operate have
been defined and are being translated into legal statutes. They include (a)
types of sub-prolects financeds population (up to 10S), IEC (up to 252),



- 29 -
MCH/FP (up to 30%), WID (up to 25%), and operations research, surveys and
studies (up to 10%). About 20 sub-projects (listed in Annex 3-12), potential-
ly equivalent to twice the amount of the fund, have already been submitted
for financing; (b) eligible recipients: public, parastatal entities, firms,
NG0s and private individuals (full grants for the first two, and matching
grants up to 75% of costs for the latter three); (c) indicative ceilings by
type of sub-project, category of recipient, and Region; td) expenditure
cateRories: local and international consultancies (including twinning
arrangements with international NGOa) rehabilitation of buildings, vehicles,
supplies, materials, media coverage, critical operating costs; (8) management
arrangements: an autonomous entity placed under the authority of a joint
Steering Committee consisting of representatives f rom public, private and NGO
sectors (the BUNACOP) for one-third each, and equipped with a strong
Technical Secretariat (five Malians: a Director, a physician with an FP
background, an IEC specialist, an accountant and a procurement specialist;
and an internationally recruited Administrator); provision of counterpart
funds by the implementing agency; (f) controls: semi-annual audits by a firm
acceptable to IDA; IDA prior review for sub-projects above US$100,000, ex-
post review below that threshold; blannual field supervision of all projects
by UNICEF, plus selective supervision by IDA; and (g) legal framework: each
sub-project will be pre-screened by the Technical Secretariat of the POPFUND
on the basis of a brief and approved by the Steering Committee on the basis
of a full report following an approved format; a contract will be signed
between the implementing agency and the fund; and funding will be granted for
three years and be renewable on the basis of performance as determined by
quantified indicators. Disbursements under the POPFUND vill be conditional on
<a) creation of BUNACOP (para 3.33), and (b) establishment of POPFUND
management and staffing arrangements fully satisfactory to IDA (including
full appraisal of at least one sub-project in each category).
D. The Rural Water Supply Component
3.43      To reinforce the impact of the health component and maintain at
least the current service level while keeping pace with population growth,
more modern water points need to be created in the four project Regions and
existing installations kept functioning and adequately maintained. The rural
water supply component aims to (a) support the Government's stiategy of
involving villagers financially and technically in investment and especially
in maintenance services; (b) strengthen the project identification,
preparation, implementation and supervision capabilities of the Direction
Nationale de l'Hydraulique et de l'Energie (DNHE) of the Ministry of
Industry, Water and Energy; (c) train village pump repairmen and establish a
decentralized village-based maintenance network; (d) ensure the sustainabil-
ity of water installations; and (e) implement an iodination program to combat
goiter. A detailed description of this component is at Annex 3-13.
3.44      The village communities will make a significant contribution to
this component. Boreholes will be drilled ouly after the villagers have
contributed about US$400 (75% of the coet of the hand pumps); the villagers
will be able to choose the site of the water point vithin the limite of
technical constraints. The pumps vill be maintained by village repairmen
selected locally and trained under the project. All costs of labor and spare
parts will be borne by the villagers1 including those for construction of
drains and drainage pumps and regular cleaning of the pump areas. Village



- se -
water committees, composed of women, will be expected teo take full responsi-
bility for the water point from identif$cation through installation,
coumissioning and maintenance. A model contract between village communit$es
has been developped. During negotiations the Government gave assurances that
the contracte between the village communities and DNHE, defining community
responsibilities and financial participation in the rural water supply
component, will be signed and the cash contribution (CFAF 135,000 per vater
point) paid one month before arrival of the borehole siting team.
3.45      A villaRe-based decentralized maintenance system will be estab-
lished to ensure the sustainability of the vater installation. The pump
repairmen vill be selected locally from among motor-bike repairmen and vill
undergo training through integration in the team of the firm selected to
install the pumps. Each repairman vill participate in the installation of at
least 10 pumps. He will be provided vith tools and means of transport, and
will take care of 10-15 pumps in his area of operation. The village vater
committee is expected to select one pump caretaker to clean the pump areas;
the caretaker will also be trained to make minor repaire. A large network of
spare parts dépôts will be established; the distribution and sale of spare
parts will be finally entrusted to the project unit for this component and
eventually transferred to small traders. To ensure the immediate take-over of
the pumps after installation, there vill be no guarantee period; only obvious
factory transport or pre-instaliation defects vill be repaired by the
project. At the time of commissioning of their vater point, the villagers
vill be expected to immediately purchase a small stock of spare parts. This
system of decentralized maintenance of vater installation has been tested in
the ongoing Rural Water Supply Project (Cr.1431-MLIISF7) and has greatly
reduced the need for the Government intervention and financial support.
3.46      This component includes a program to supply and install iodine
modules Ln the KBK (Kita-Bafoulabe-Kenieba) Districts of Kayes Regions. This
area has a high iodine deficiency prevalence,  known to contribute to
neonatal, infant and childhood mortality, and to hinder children's mental and
physical developaent. As an experiment with five boreholes in Kati Region has
proved, modules of resin fitted into boreholes 8lowly release iodine, thereby
eiiminating iodine deficiency vithin six months; no side effects vere
detected. In light of the exparimental nature of this technique, the iodine
modules vill be installed in two phases: an exparimental and evaluation phase
for two years; and if results are positive, an expansion phase at a rate of
200 new vater points per year (the 630 existing vater points, the 385 still
to be constructed in the KBK area, and the 500 to be rehabilitated under the
project. Under the project, French bilateral aid will finance Phase I and, if
conclusive, Phase II. This program vill continue to be externally financed
after end-1996.
3.47     C*ommunity development activities in this component vill start soue
six months ahead of construction/rehabilitation of vater points. Community
development and health agents vill be seconded from the project unit. They
vill inform the villagers about the objectives of the rural vater supply
component, get them involved Ln choosing the site of their vater point,
assist in establishing the vater comimittees, and generally help them to
gradually assume full responsibility for the operation and maintenance of
their vater point. Major themes of discussion vill include the proper
sanitation procedures to clean and drain the pump area, the importance of



- SI _
maintenance and cost recovery, and the health benefits of safe drinking
water. An agreement specifying the rights and obligations of all parties
concerned with community development actlvities in the Districts of Kenieba
and Bafoulabe was recently signed. Details are in Annex 3-13.
S.  Pro1ect Coordination Unit
3.48      Prolect Coordination Unit (PCU). Each component will be implemented
by the relevant Ministry Directorate (para 4.04), while project overall
coordination and support will be the responsibillity of the existing Project
Management Unit, recently streamlined and reorganized into a Project
Coordination Unit (PCU> to address the issues mentioned in para 2.39 (e). The
PCU will essentially foeus on planningIcoordination functions and financial/
procurement aspects. It will act as liaison with IDA and the other cofinanci-
ers, and will also serve as the Permanent Secretariat of the Project
Monitoring Committee (para 4.4), with responsibility for preparing its
meetings, following up on decisions, and organizing the annual joint
government-donors review meetings. The PCU will be specifically responsible
for (a) supervising and monitoring project activities; administering project
resources; (c) maintaining project accounts, preparing reimbursement
applications, and providing necessary certifications for disbursement,
including SOEs; (d) ensuring observance of IDA's procurement procedures; (e)
reporting on progress in project implementation; (f) organizing yearly annual
reviews with IDA and other donors and the mid-term review; (g) liaising with
other government ministries and the donor community; and (h) ensuring
adequate auditing of project activities.
3.49      Based on recommendations from an independent audit firm which
conducted a study on administrative and management arrangements, the PCU
staff will comprise, on a full-time basis: (a) a Project Director, (b) a
Deputy Director in charge of project monitoring, (c) a procurement specialist
(d) an accountant, (e) five Regional accountants to be posted in the RHTs,
(f) support staff, and (g) short-term specialists, as needed, for preparation
of biddîng documents, external evaluation (for preparation of annual reviews
and the mid-term evaluation), audits, and future project preparation. PCU's
accounting system will be reinforced as recommended by the study. During
negotiations the Government gave assurances that the positions of Project
Director, Deputy Director, procurement specialist, and accountants (6) will
be filled at all times by persons with experience and qualifications
acceptable to IDA.   By decree, PCU has recently being reorganized and
adequately staffed.   At Annex 3-14 is a detailed description of project
coordination and management, including implementation responsibilities for
each component. Criteria for the joint annual review are set out in Annex 3-
15.
F. Pro1ect Costs and FinancinR Plan
3.50      At current prices, taking into account the country cross-sector
disbursement profile and the six-year implementation period, the project is
estimated to cost US$61.4 million equivalent (net of taxes and duties), with
a foreign exchange component of US$41.7 million (68%). The base cost will be
US$50.3 million (81%). Physical and price contingencies are estimated at to
US$11.1 million (18%); the physical contingencies include 10% for physical
investments and 5% for training, technical assistance and operating coste.



- 82 -
Price contingencies assume (a) a domestic Inflatlon rate of 32 throughout the
llfe of the project and (b) an internatlonal inflation rate of 3.9S p.a.
during the first five years and 3.72 p.a.  iti the sixth year. The major
assumptions made to obtain the cost estimates, as well as detailed project
costa by component, cost category and financing source, are given in Annex 3-
16. Cost estimates by component and by category of expenditure are shown in
Tables 2 and 3 below.
TAL                                                                   REWLIC OP 1I 
S%COe M4 L LTM, P0P&AtN AQ  RL   AT L      LY  S      T
PRoO4ET  eT sisqÉ  PER CA7EooRr 0  OISMmD1TB
(CFAF Ml LllN)   OP o      TOTAL                    <48 MIL",ON>L
FORE1T*    0MB                                   F008804    8As6
L. 0A4.  F0OEll    TOTAL  EXCHo   E   CmOT        LOCAL fW824    TOTAL   BXOWoE   COST
A.
I.COVMACE AND OILITY OF HEALTH SICB
SuPPORT TO 120 coNm0       HEALNr CE«IS          6o.ce    760.30  1.369.29        86     il          2.41     8.01     6.41        se      iU
QUALTYXPROVIS<OPHELTIs;myym   cB           831.10  1,047.24  1 678.86       86      16          .2       4.14     7.42         6       1
ESTASLISH9E« Op 28 D1STICT Tf                     12.47    77  el  t'ose 708 1            q          1.24              4,2         71        9
REIONAL SUPPORT IN PIVE REOI       C    N        80S.18 l     76      4 e0.8      e8    Sa           1.20     1.U8     2.88        se   s
SUS-TOTAL CavatAoE AND  JUALm  OpF HE LT      2.0 c.se 2.918.90  4.974.8         se    ae           0.la   %11S4    19.66         89       a9
2. INMREASINQ 74 WTCXR    .3 REU.CE
STRelcTHENINo  S0TORAL  NNM                      127.26    190.26    128.8S       et      a          0.10    0.78      1.29        el        a
FACILXTY PU     AN NCE                            48.99    120.8 l9     .92      7n .                0.10     0.46     0.06        72        1
AvAIVAOILTY 0f ESSETIAL 0686                      87.70    841.2    87e.s2        90      a          O.18     1.88     1.80        90        s
HIHAl RÆSOURCE dVLQOPF                             0.60     67.21     67.71       9       1          0.00     0.27     0.27        ee        1
W4AL.1H4FlépMDC                                   84.61     28.16     89.60       42      O          0.14     0.10     0.24        42        O
SUa-TOTAL INEASINQ MHE EFIC54tCY OF              246.07   768. 4*    9.50        78      a          0.97    20        8 °.98      7S        a
RES8WRCE USE
SUW-TOTAL IEAL.T                               2.801.7   8.a2.82  s 974.00       si    47           9.10    14.62    28.61        et       47
S. POPULATON NO FPAILY PLM64
1. BTZTUTOlNALSTR S4OR eD40                      111.07    26. 19   897.26        S2      a          0.60    0.97      1.87        82        s
2 CFORE  INf  eOe°A 460.$8  1.822 .8  1.968.48                                    77    16           1.62    6.02      7.64        77       16
3.PmrlATIONFZ,5                                 697.49    482.87  1,160.06       41      9           .7      1.91    4.Se         41        9
:8-TOTAL POPUAATION ANO FAI4LY PL4INO          1.09.19  2.281.   3.8O6.70         6a    28           8.17     0.9o    14.07       e6        28
C. MWAL SUPPLY OF POTAOLB WAT
1.CONSUCTION OF as UATER POINTS                 414.98  1.726.07  2,141.60       e1      17          1.64     6.88     0.47        81       17
2.Re"AILITATIW Of 8co VATER POIS                  48.14    252.7    29t.06        85      2          0.17    1I00      1.17        es        2
3.SUPPLY/INSTALLATIXN OF IOD3E NUOD.              16.68   81l.12   881.77         os      a          0.07     1.28    1.81         9t        a
4.5TUIES FOR FRtUE Rf5A8. f762ION                 82.48     89.48     71.98      6t       1          0.1*     0.18     0.28       aS         1
SUS-TOTAL RLUAL UAATER SUPPLY OF POTABLE WATUl    807.20  2.884.15 2.641.88       82    22           2.00     9.28    11.28        S2       22
O.                         < M T INCLUDuN o   MN-TTU  140.82   2J8.29    a42.61      70      a          0.41     0.94     1.88        70        s
TOTAL 8ASELINE COsrs                           4.222uOS 0.496.  12 719.01         e7    100         10.69    88.68    80.27        67      100
P<YSICAL CONTI?eNCIES                            SU:.1    787.28  1.070.48        do      8          1.32     2.91     4.23        69        e
PRICE CoNTINEcIEs                                481.14  1,809.97  1.741.14       7t    14           1.70    8.18      6.e8        76       14
TOTAL PROJECT CO«T                             4,987.01 10.648.67 18.880.88       es    122         19.71    41.67    61.89        es      122



- as -
PRenJECT COST   9R  PS CPM P4T
(CFAF MU104tiS)        4TAL(15  NILLSI W                              t)i
(CFAF MtLlfflTOTAL                             (U$m"m10 OF            TOTAL
F0021114   6482                                 706226      BASE
LOCAL  FEtOI    TOTAL.   EAE   CST               LOCAL FOREION   TOTAL    8XCONW    COST
A ~ ~    ~       ~      ~      ~     .              ,
CONSTRUCtl9
1. CON. CONThACTS                              977,14  l'us5.40  2,912.34     de    28            8.86     7.es   Il-Si        66       23
2. SELF 1ELP                                   506,64   273.40    760.12       85      6          1.92     1.06     8.00       88        6
Un-TOTAL CO#S79uCTloe                       1t,463 8s 2,2ce.69  8,592.46       60    29           562      e 73    14a59        do      29
1. veIIcLEs                                     -       462.a9    442.a9      100      4          -        1.83     1.83      100        4
2. cOHPr s                                      *          9,94     9.94      100      o          -        0.04     0.04       100       O
3. NMW-lWALT4 PIVED  ATERALS                     4.98      4.02     S.98       45      0          0.02     3.02     0.04        48       o
4. RR4hlrtI.                                   109.68     68. 98    190.60     48      2          0.42     0.88     0.79       48        2
. N04-MEDICAL 3UIPlIT AéD WPPLSES              120.17   934.03  1.062.22      86       a          0.49     a.09     4.20       a8        2
8W-TOTAL FII*  AéD IJfstT                      242.99  1,49.34  1*742.38      e6    14           0.92     8.93     S 89       se       14
C. mm"CAL EUPM  My NDmaT
t. MEDXCAI.. EOJPIF  AND SUPIIES                -         5.06      5.08      100      0                  0.02     0.02       100        0
2. AEAI$-RELA     TERTIALS                      -        sss.23   360.23      100      a                   1.83     1 .5      100        3
S. NStfliAL OF=                                 -        820.99    82s.9s     100      a                   1.28     1.2e       100       S
4. CON4flUCEPTXVES                              .      1.032.:24  1.082.:24   100    62                    4.06     4.06      100       82
6. IOOINE MUJLES                                         294 90   294 90      100      21.17 1tr                               100       2
SUI-TOTAL POICAL EQUITM AND RWWC.                0.00 2.044.44 2.044.44       100    16           0.00     6.oe    e.oe       100       la
O. SPECIA;IST SMR;f
1. NéI. SPIEIAL75TI                             -           .8.1a   6U0. 1    100      O          0.00    8.1        .8le     100        e
2. TEcIICAL PmES                               S04.93   370.5    678.25        sa      a          1.15     1.46    2.67        as        a
8. NMTOAL. SPECMIAITS                          872.63     -       872.53        -      5          2.82    0.00    2.26          -        a
SW-YOTAL SPECUIST SEflVCES                     877.44  1.175.46  2.052.92      67    le           3.48    4.1 s    $.l         67       16
E. m621z
1. LOCAL NALIAN TRAINn                         528.45    -        e2e.46        -      4          2.00    0.00     2.09         -        4
2. ASIONAL AFRICAN TRAtINq                      _         92.76     276       100      1            00    0 87    0.87         100       1
J. ONESEAS TRAININ                              -         95.09    98.09      100      I          0.00    0.35     0.86       100        I
4. TRAINISO IE5ZAL                              -        246.80   248.50      100      2          0.00    0.97      0.97      100        2
a. TRASNINO ODEfV NT MOND EMAUJATION            25,                25.20        -      O          0.10     0.00    0.10         -        o
S-TOTAL TRAININO                               8US.$6    484.55   9se.00       44      a          2.10     1.72     8.91       44        e
F. POPULATION                                      714.22   46.12  1.210.84        41      9          2.71     1.96    4.78        41        9
TOTAL IWEIUn  COls                           8,872.06 7,68.42 i1.76.80         67    92          14.62   81.06    46.87        67       92
PHfSICAL C0TDNeOCIu8                           SU1."5   705J.8  1t021.00       69      e          1.20    2.79      4.04       69        a
FRICS C0ITZI4IES                               878.8   1,177.92  1 848.27      TO    12           1.44     4.66    1l.14       76       12
TOTAL INILLUOD   C.4rDoeCE.s                 4.588.06 9e741.69 14t304.78       se   11S          17.46    ss.50    56.54       ee      tts
I. 
*. V4ICLE OPEATIONS                             8.48    28.60   2es.0o         79      2          0.22    0.82      1.04       79        2
t.        mJIGENAINTwewCB                        2.84     7.86     10.20       77      o          0.01    o.08     o 04        77        O
<.D*IA8TftJCTIM   APTNTSAICE                   1.18     8.68      4.76       76         .0     0.01c    0.02                 76        O
4. A62L8423615« 0F MATESUALS/*1'PLI1.10 t.85                        4.85       76      O          0.'00    0.01    0.02        76        O
Pe.R0 0IEN                                   151.1.      02         .0lo      -      1          0.51    0.00    0.64          -        1
f  PROMC=lON OF RMiMAR/IFO MTRALS                0.o8     2.14      2.80       76      o          0.00    0.01    0.01         76        o
.P00ATINO EXPOO ESS                         48.87    141.11    1864.6      76      2          0.17     O.6"     0.78       75        2
IALRIES                                     04.80   278.02   s57.a1        76      a          0.29     1.00     1.41       76        S
TOTAL REOJONT COSt$                            8e0.50   687.98    996.81       68      8          1.a0    2.82       .91       aes       a
PW<SICAL COeTIENCIES                          17.58    81.90    49.48        es      o          0.07    0.1S    0.20         e6        o
FRICE CONToE1cCES                             85.81   1t2.08   187.97        70      1          0.07    0.o2    0.74         70        1
TOTAL INCaUD4O COD 8ENCZES                     428.92   601.6s  1.2286.0       es      9          1.8s     8.17     4.85        6        9
TOAL 8AELN2 07 4C22TS66  6496.86 12 719.01                                   67   100          16.49   881       10.27       87      100
F,ICAl  cLoerxQecISm                         388.16     7 258  10 70.48      69      6          1.82    2.91    4.23         70        8
PRXSCE CwTfNOCS                              481.16  1.09.97  1.741.14       75    14           1.70     6.16     6.85       76       14
TOTAL PFRW6T a07                             4,967.01 1O,SS.57 18,80.6Sé       e8   122          19.71   41.67    e1.89        e8      122
3.51            IDA has allocated US$26.6 million toward the financing of this
project, or 43.3S of total cost. Contributions by local communities for
construction costs (US$2.8 million, or 4.6%) and budgetary allocations by the
Governsent (US$1.7 million, or 2.7%) add up to US$4.5 million esquivalent, or
7.3% of project cost. Financing of the remaining US$30.3 nmillion will come
from (a) EDF (US$12.3 million, or 20.1S); (b) USAID ',S$10.1 million, vr
16.52); (c) FAC (US$1.7 million, or 2.8%)> and (d) dhe Republic of Germany
(US$6.2 million or 10.0X). The Kingdom of BelSium, UNICEF and UNFPA will
continue their ongoing programs (technical assistance, community development
training, and IECIFP) which, although not costed here, have been reoriented
to complement the proposed project. A condition of Credit effectivenese is
that the grant agreemente with EDF and USAID have been signed.



- 84 -
3.52      Recurrent cost implications. Project incremental operattng coatu
amount to US$4.9 million, or 7.9% of total coet, of which US$1.2 million is
to be financed by the Government. The project has been designed to keep
incremental operating costs to a minimum by (a) emphasizing rehabilitation
whenever possible and (b) promoting a cost-efficient use of sectoral
resources. By the end of the project (mid-1997), total annual project-related
incremental recurrent costs (staff, fuel and maintenance, operating expenses)
vill be equivalent to about 15% of the 1990 MSPAS recurrent budget; however,
this will only cover the needs for 26 out of 46 Districts. This is why, in
order to improve service quality and coverage countrywide, budgetary norms
have been prepared and vill be refined, which vill require a 25% real per
capita increase in the health budget over 1990-96. It is estimated that about
30% of total recurrent health expenditure, excluding EDs and contraceptives,
could be recovered from patients by 1996. Contraceptives alone by 1996 will
be equivalent to 13% of the 1990 MSPAS recurrent budget. This is clearly not
sustainable and highlights the need for Mali to finance these needs by using
a combination of donor contr'butions and coet recovery.
G. Impact of the Prolect
3.53      Impact on health.  The health component has been designed to
directly reach 2.4 million people (31% of Malies population). Table 4 below
compares the current key health  indicators,  to those  for the target
population by 1997. It should be borne in mind that, vithout the project,
access to and utilization of organized health services would continue to
deteriorate.
TABLE 4
1989       1997
COUNTRYWIDE TARCET POPUL.
X OF DISEASE EPISODES TREATE                     0% B%
X OF CHILOREN IMUNIZED OEFORE ACE 1              5%         40%
S OF PREONANCIES RECEIVING PRE-NATAL CARE        a8%        OX
S OF CHILDREN UNDER 2 VONITORED FOR OROWT.4     N/A         50%
- OF NEW CASES OF TUBERCULOSIS AND LEPROSIS TREATED  N/A    5X
CONTRACEPTION PREVALENCE RATE                  1X          10%
X OF WOMEN AWARE OF MODERN CONTRACEPTIVES:
URBAN                                          67%        76%
RURAL                                          19%        60X
ACCESS TO SAPE WATCR (KENIEBA à AFOULADE ONLY)  27%       60X
3.54      Financial impact. The questions of affordability and equity are
critical for the sustainability of the project. Depending on the population
served (5,000-10,000) and on whether, and to what extent the communities
obtain or not assistance from the local development tax and from NGOs, the
per capita investment costs to be borne by the communities vill be in a range
of US$2.0-0.7 for construction of a new ComHC, and of US$0.4-0.1 for facility
renovation. In the XB1C area, which is among the poorest in Mali, these coets
vere entirely borne by community contrltlutions, including remittances from
abroad. For recurrent costs, depending on the population and utilization rate
(from 0.3 to 0.7), the feo per disease episode required to cover entirely the
operation of a 3-staff ComHC vill be in a range of US$1.15-0.25. Once the
price of the average EDs prescription is added, the cost per disease episode
to the patient will be US$2.65-1.75. At present vage and exchange rates, the
US$2.65 upper limit is equivalent to the daily vage of unskil^ed labor, or to
about two days' rural income during the low agricultural season and less than



- a6 -
one day during the high season. These are vithin the commonly accepted
thresholds for affordability. However, these amounts might still be beyond
the reach of, say, workers in the informal sector or some of the poorest
farmers (Mali had a per capita GDP of US$230 in 1989). This is why (a) the
project proposes a cautious approach under which the matching grant ratio
(50:50 on average) could be modified to increase the project's subsidy
element (with a concomitant r-luction in the infrastructure program), (b) the
scope of ComHCs services and staffing ComHCs will be tailored to the
population's ability to pay and (c) the local development tax and NGOs vill
complement the communities' contribution, as is already frequently the case.
3.55      Impact on employment. The project involves about 400 new positions
(nurses, midwives, clerks to staff the ComHCs and to reinforce public and
private FP services, and village pump caretakers). These positions vill be
either filled through redeployment from MSPAS or MIHE (in lino with the
proposed SAL) or financed by the communities themselves. Qualified candidates
should be easy to find, given the large pool of unemployed graduates.
Additionally, more favorable regulations and incentives and the opening up of
the drug market vill stimulate the development of private medical practice
and pharmacies outside Bamako, although the precise impact of these measures
i difficult to estimate.
3.56      Links with Programs of special emphasis. Macro-economic ad-lustment:
the project vill complement the proposed SAL in its emphasis on lifting long-
term human resource and population constraints, on promoting the private
sector, on lmproving public resources management and on mobilizing private
resources for health. Women and children vill be the main beneficiaries of
the project. Women are expected to play a prominent role in the community
health and water committees. The integrated health care package offered at
the primary and firet referral levels vill include the key elements for safe
motherhood (pre-natal care, obstetrical care, FP), as well as simple
procedures to improve child health (malaria treatment, growth monitoring, IEC
on nutrition and hygiene, immunization, oral rehydration). By 1996 an
estimated 175,000 couples countrywide vill use modern contraception, up from
about 21,000 in 1990. Finally, the rural vater supply component vill reduce
the distances valked by women to fetch water, resulting in substantial time
savings; the improved vater quality vill translate into a reduced prevalence
of vater-borne diseases. AIDSt through IEC and integrated health care, the
project vill increase the level of avareness of the AIDS threat, the use of
preventive practices against sexually transmitted diseases (STDs) (condoms,
hlood transfer precautions, etc.); and the treatment of STDs. This vill be
complemented by setting up an AIDS IEC capability evaluation system under an
IDA-financed Special Project Preparation Facility (SPPF).
3.57      Environmental impact. As disposal of hospital refuse is becoming
a serious issue in developing countries, IDA supervision missions will
monitor the situation when visîting health centers. Under the rural vater
supply component, the project vill either construct new vater points or
rehabilitate existing- ones; they consist of a sma1l-diameter village
borehole, equipped with a hand-pump, and vill be built only if the villagers
so desire and at locations indicated by them. The yield of a borehole and
hand-pump ls very small and provides only for the basic needs of a village.
Construction is not expected to have any adverse environmental impact, as no
over-ground disturbance vill occur except for a small pump platform and a



- se -
drainage pump to ensure cleanliness around each water point. Substantial
environmental benefits are expected from this component, which will not only
provide the communities concerned with a clean source of water, but also
educate them on the hygienie aspects of the transport, storage, use and
consumption of water through community development activities.
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Status of Proiect Preparation and Readiness
4.1       Following a national workshop that evaluated lessons learned from
the first project in the context of sectoral strategies, project preparation
started in 1987 and was entrusted to local task forces under the coordination
of the Project Unit. The population and health components were prepared by
staff from MSPAS and the Ministry of Planning, and the rural vater supply
component, by the Ministry of Industry, Water and Energy (MIHE) with only
short-term external assistance.   Preparation took a long time, and two
appraisal missions, principally because initial conditions were not ripe for
a successful population dialogue.  The cost of this two-stage approach was
amply recouped in terms of policy and implementation readiness. The extra
time allowed the Government to develop its population policy, while
mobilizing the broad commitment which is a sine qua non condition for
effective project implementation.
4.2       Under the ongoing firat project and on a trial basis, three ComHCs
vere opened and became fully operational by end of 1989 in the Districts of
Kita, Bafoulabe and Kenieba (KBK). The KBK expérience is being used as a
model by MSPAS. District Health Development Plans (DHDP) are currently being
finalized for these Districts and others in the project area and the criteria
for District eligibility are expected to be met before crédit effectiveness.
The rural vater supply component is ready for implementation, as it will
compléte and expand the work sucessfully begun in the KBK area under the
Rural Water Supply Project (para 2.12).
4.3       Implementation plans and achedules for all components have reached
an advanced stage of préparation. The number of ComHCs, DHCs and Regional
Directorates to be rehabilitated and/or constructed vere determined on the
basis of a national survey. Construction standards for ComHCs have been
agreed, and site sélection for the first year will be available by effective-
ness. A consultant firm has been selected for préparation of construction
guides. Furniture and equipment lists have been reviewed by IDA and found
acceptable; final designs and technical specifications will be refined by
consultants and bidding documents vill be ready for tendering prior to the
estimated date of credit effectiveness. Detailed management arrangements for
the POPFUND (para 3.42) and full appraisal of the first group of sub-projects
vill also be completed before project start-up.
B. Prolect Coordination, Monitorina and Evaluation
4.4       Taking into account lessons learned from the firet health project
(para 2.37), each project component vill be implemented by the relevant
Ministry Directorates or District Health Teams (DHTs) under the overall
guidance and supervision of a Prolect Monitorinft Committee, while the PCU
will be responsible for iprolect coordination and support. The Monitoring



- 87 -
Committee, chaired by the Minister of Health and including representatives of
DNSPIDSF, DAF, CEPRIS and DNHE, vill (a) meet each quarter to discuse and
resolve any outstanding issues; (b) review semi-annual project progress
reports; (c) conduct joint annual project reviews with the donors; and (d)
meet at least twice a year to examine and adopt the DHDPs (including pre-
screened applications for grants to ComHCs), which vill be consolidated and
transmitted by the Regional Directorates.
4.5       Each component vill be coordinated by a technical staff of the
implementing Directorate. The PCU vill act as liaison with IDA in all mattets
related to project coordination/execution and vill assist the responsible
Directorates in case of implementing difficulties. Basic health services will
be delivered by communities under the guidance of the DHTs with support from
NGOs and the Regional Health Teams (RHTs) and under DNSP's overall supervi-
sion. DAF (formerly DNPFSS) vill supervise all project-related training,
evaluate project impact, and coordinate donor support. The construction
program vill be supervised by the existing Technical Division of MSPAS
(CEPRIS) with assistance from consultants for studies and from the Regional
Urban Planning and Construction Directorates (DRUCe), in particular for the
constructionlremodeling of DHCs and Regional offices. DSF vill alseo have
overall supervisory responsibility for the population component, except for
the Population Unit (Ministry of Plan) and the POPFUND.
4.6       DNHE, as the executing agency for the rural vater supply component,
will second personnel to the Water SuPP1Y Prolect Unit, which vill be
assisted by a consulting firm for technical and financial supervision of
implementation. Before the signing of the consultant's contract, DNHE will
submit to IDA a list of personnel to be seconded to this unit and vill
ensure, to IDA's satisfaction, that they are adequate in numbers, qualifica-
tions and experience. The Water Supply Project Unit vill liaise vith the PCU,
particularly on matters concerning disbursement, procurement, action plans,
and regular reporting. The Unit Chief vill attend the regular meetings of the
Monitoring Conmittee for information and coordination. While proecurement in
the vater sector remains the responsibility of MIHE and DNHE, the Water
Supply Project Unit vill liaise with the PCU to ensure observance of the
proecurement procedures set out in the Credit Agreement. An agreement between
MSPAS and MIHE, defining their respective responsibilities in the implementa-
tion of the rural water supply component has been signed.
4.7       Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E). As many of the project activities
are innovative, M&E vill be given special attention and be carried out during
the entire life of the project. The system calls for the monitoring of
activities by each implementing agency at all levels of the health pyramid
which vill in turn report to its supervisor. Readily measurable indicators,
to be consolidated into a project 'Tableau de Bord' have been defined for the
various levels of the M&E system. Additionally, specific evaluations wil! be
undertaken during project implementation.
4.8       M&E at critical stages of the project cycle will comprise the
activities outlined belows
(a)  An initial baseline survey, covering health, FP, vater supply, and
f inancial and management data in the project Regions, vill be
conducted by the DHTs with assistance from the RHTs and CERPOD and



under the supervision of DAF; this vill be a two-phased exercise
conducted, first, at an aggregate level (the eligible Districts as
part of the DHDP) and, second, at a more detailed level once the
communities have been selected; the baseline data will be computer-
ized and used to monitor project impact (MIS, para 3.18).
(b)  To complement this broad data base, more foeused qualitative
evaluations w$il be conducted, especially for FP, in the form of
an initial and regular beneficiary assessments (every two years)
and knowledge, attitude and practice (<AP) surveys limited to two
ComHCs; the results vill be analyzed by DAF and fed back to the
field for follow-up action.
(c)  Each year, a loint Government donors review of the project vill be
held on the basis of a report prepared by the Ministry with
assistance from an independent agency (such as the Bamako-based
Institut National- de Recherche sur la Santi-INRS); using the
baseline data, th$s report vill compare project objectives and
achievements by component and make recommendations to correct
problems that arise.
(d)  An external mid-term evaluation (funded by the IDA credit) vill
also be conducted after three full years of implementation to
review overall progrese, particularly the effectivenoss of FP
activities, the quality of basic health services delivery, and the
efficiency of cost recovery at the ComHC level In at le.st two
Regions and in Bamako. The review vill help to assess whether the
strategies and implementation arrangements being followed are
producing the expected outputs and what the potential is for
expansion in other Districts or Regions under additional financing
£rom other donors.
4.9       Regular monitoring w$il  comprises
(a)  For PHC, monthly reports from the ComHCs concerned and regular
field supervision by the DHTs; the results of this monitoring vill
be consolidated by the DHTs and transmitted to the RHT and
eventually the DAF for analysis and feedback to field staff (Annex
3-3).
(b)  For referral services, similarly, monthly reports submitted by the
DHTs to the RHTs and DAF.
(c)  Yearly evaluation of District Health Development Plans, conducted
esch year by each concerned RHT; the results vill be transmitted
to DA? and the PCU for review and comparison with control Dis-
tricts.
(d)  FP-specific monitorina (CPR, effectiveness, etc.), conducted by DSF
on the basis of the above reports from the DHTs, health centers and
maternities outside the project area, and concerned NGOs and
private practitioners; the results vlll be discussed at least once
a year at the joint seminars (para 3.34).



- 89 -
4.10      Indicators, as well as the above-described M&E arrangements, have
been agreed with Government. During negotiations, the Government gave
assurances that it vill organize by November 30 of each year, beginning in
1991, a joint review with IDA of all aspects of project implementation and
that by September 30 of each year, beginning In 1991, it vill transmit to IDA
a preparatory report for the annual review showing (a) performance in project
achievements based on a quarterly 'Tableau de Bord"; a work program for the
upeoming project year; (c) progress on policy reform indicators, as per the
Devolopment Policy Letter (Annex 3-1); snd (d) the draft health budget for
the upcoming fiscal year for review. The preparatory report will be prepared
with the assistance of an independent institution, acceptable to IDA.
C. Consultant Services and Trainina
4.11      The project vill provide a total of 101.2 man-years of short and
long term consultants (of which 68% will be local), estimated altogether at
US$6.4 million equivalent, as vell as US$3.1 million equivalent for technical
fees comprising architectural services and engineering services for studies
and supervision of construction (including the rural vater supply component).
Terus of reference have been prepared and contracts for the major consulting
services and technical fees (especially for the drug reform and the rural
vater supply component) vill be signed before credit effectiveness. Details
on specialist services and studies are given in Annex 4-1.
4.12      A total of 81 man-years of training (of which 93Z locally arranged)
vill be provided during project implementation. Training mQzdules have reached
an advan&ced stage of preparation, and final details vere be settled at
nogotiations.
D. Procurement
4.13      Table 5 below shows expected procurement by category of expenditu-
re. A detailed description of the procurement procedures is at Annex 4-2.



- 40 -
tiéii,E     4    NSAM OIS AND Mor0 OF PRwOCr548  <oa MILLION UICU.INO COSNNGCIES)
No,      Cate9ry of ElApenditure          Ica       LCS    Other       N/A  tot*l Coat
1. Civil Workm Contracte                  7.12     1.e6      -         5.84 /à  14.11
(iceluding Part 1 and C)             (7.12)    (1.68>    *         (--)     (8.77)
2. crante foer Sfl.lp Cotruotion          -         -        -         3.95 /b   8.95
3. Furniture and Equipaant                5.19     0.98      -          S  /c   i.83
(6 19)   (0.96>     -        (--)      (6.15)
4. Ildical SuppllIe àEqui;Pnt
I. Medicel Equipeent                  0I7       -        -         1.19 /d   1. 96
(Part A only)                        (O.77)    -         -         (--)     (0.77)
b. erantial cruga a Contraceptiva    0.64       -        -         6.25 /    7.09
(Part A ol,y)                        (0.84)    -           t       ()       (O.84)
c. Iodin   oduleu                     -         -        -         1f.2 /    1.52
6. Conaultanta Seruica
. Local Speclliat                               -        0.51      2.13 te   2.64
-    -       ~~~~(0.51)    (--)   (051)
b  International Spoclaliat          -         -        2.29      1.44 th  S373
-        -        (2.29)    j--)      (2.29)
c. TechnIeaI Fea                      -        -         2.74       .38 /Ji   8.12
(Parté A, and O only)              _        _        (2.74)    (--)      (2.74)
e. Trinin f(
a. Loa  rîio-                                   -        1.07      2.62 Il   3.89
b. Fol louahipe                                          00 1.07>    9 /k  (1.07
b F%l lrw hips              -         -         0.18      .72/    0.9s0
-        -        <0. 18)    (--)     (0.18)
7. Population Fund (POPFPND)                                          a528 6l   8 28
-  -         -       <~~~~~~0.57)    (0.57)
8.   e ting Coets                         -        -         1.26      8.e0 /a   4.86
icluding Part D>                     -        -        f 8 
Total Flnwnced by the IDA credit    (18.92)    (2.61>    (7.79)   (2.28)   <28.60)
Note. Flgure in parnthee art th reapoctive samite finnc.d by th. MA credit.
The capital ettea ohm, thl-foiloina proJ ct    eat e au folloe:
Part At Covera9e and quelity of h«tb  ervîc
Part et Incr ea  the effli .ncy of reaource uaë
Part C: Populatlon end Faui ly Planning
Part 0: Rural vater aupply
Part E: Project Coordinatlon Unit (PCU)
Footnote. wtth amll letter. Indicate a*oounatu finened by other donore end prccured
under thIr proedure:
a 1U1860.3.4                    (b) us17 U> 31 0 se2
d)18119                      <e> 180626           f USSO1582
(   .                         <k> 1S88 h 44       ci> 180.38
(J> 11802.62                     k USf0 72          )l> 11US4.78
(><1.25
-  r  amy not add up to total due to round lne.
4.14            ICB.  Contracte for boreholes drilling (estimated at about US$7.1
million) piping equipment (estimated at about US$0.5 million), water pump
installation (estimated at about US$1.8 million), goods, including furniture,
office supplies, vehicles, teaching materials (estimated at about US$2.9
million), drugs, medical supplies and equipment (estimated at about US$1.6
million), totalling US$13.9 million equivalent and representing 84% of the
total value of contracte for civil works and gooda financed by IDA, will be
grouped into five packages, estimated at more than US$200,000 each. These
items, which are suitable for international competitive biddinR (ICB) will be
proecured in accordance with the Bank'a Guidelines for Procurement Under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits (May 1985). Contractors for borehole drilling and pump
installation will be subject to pre-qualification. A preferential margin of
7.5% for civil works and 15% for goods manufactured locally, or the existing
customs duty, whichever is less, over the c.i.f. prices of competing goods,
will be given to domestic contractors and manufacturera in accordance with
IDA's guidelines.
4.15            LCB. The remaining goods and civil works contracta financed by IDA
(totalling US$2.6 million equivalent or 16% of the total) will b. grouped
into about 10 packages, suitable for procurement other than ICB. The
exceptions to ICB procurement will be for: (a) contracte for gooda (limited
to office supplies and furniture) estimated to cost less than US$200,000
equivalent each, which in the aggregate will not exceed US$1.0 million; and
contracte for civil works, which are amall in aime and scattered on 5
different Regions, totalling US$1.6 million. These items, which are not
expected to attract foreign bidders because ot their amall aise and the



- 41 -
diversity of site delivery, will be awarded on the basis of competitive
biddin« advertised locally (LC8) in accordance with procedures acceptable to
IDA, provided that (a) bidders are allowed sufficient period for submission
of bide (45 days'minimum); (b) evaluation criteria are clearly apecified
(price, capacity and capability to perform, adequacy of equipment and
personnel, and financial capacity); (c) no preference margin is granted to
domestie contractors, suppliera and manufacturera; and (d) eligible foreign
firms are not precluded from participation and are not required to be
incorporated in Mali in order to participate in the bidding.
4.16      Other methods of procurement.  Items under catexory "operating
costs", not exceeding US$20,000 and totalling a maximum of US$1.2 million
equivalent, could be purchased through international or local shopping on the
basis of price auotations obtained from et least three reliable suppliera to
ensure competitive prices.
4.17       "Granta" (totalling US$1.9 million equivalent) vill be provided
to match the financial efforts of communities, local governments andlor NG0s
for constructionlrehabilitationlextension of ComHCs. These grants are
expected to be funded by other donors, especially by the Republie of Germany.
They will be paid upon evidence that tranches of vork, pre-agreed in terms of
quantity and quality have been delivered and prefinanced in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set by other donors. Contracta for works
between communities and small contractors vill be based on commercial
practices, including a comparison of price quotations obtained from at least
three contractors. The PCU vill be responsible for certifying that this
procedure is followed.
4.18      Review. For contracta for civil vorks and goode estimated at more
than US$200,000 equivalent each, the bidding documents, advertisements and
proposed contract avards will be reviewed by IDA prior to the tendering of
bide and the decision on final avards. It is estimated that this review vill
cover about 84% of the total value contracted for goode and works f inanced by
IDA. The remaining 16% of the value contracted for goode and works vill be
subject to either (a) post-review for contracta estimated at between
US$20,000 and US$200i000 equivalent, or   random post-avard review for
contracta estimated at lesa than US$20.000. For the latter, expenditures vill
be made out of certified Statements of Expenditure (SOEs), and documentation
will be retained at the PCU for random review by IDA staff and for annual
audits.
4.19      Consultants and training financed by IDA, totalling US$6.8 million
(US$0.5 million for national apecialists, US$2.3 million for international
specialists, US$2.7 million for technical fees, mostly for rural vater, and
US$1.3 million for training), will be contracted in accordance with the
Bank's GuidelinAe for the Use of Consultants (August 1981). During negotia-
tions the Gove. nment gave assurances that it vill apply the procurement
procedures and arrangements outlined above.
E. Disbursement
4.20      The IDA credit vill be disbursed in accordance vith the country
disbursement profile for all sectors over a period of seven years on the
basis of the categorles shown tn Table 6 below. The closing date vill be



- 42 -
December 31, 1997. Given the availability of thé Special Account, the mindmum
application for direct payments vill normally be for the equivalent of
US$20,000. The amounts to be financed under each category are ahown below.
The estimated quarterly diabursement schedule for the IDA credit is shown in
Annex 4-3.
TABLE S
AlIloceton *nd Dlburs_mnt of the IDA Cr d1t
(UNW million)
C*tegory of Exp nditure       Proposd IDA     S of Exp.ndttur
Allocatlon      Flnanced by IDA
1. Clvil Works                    7.8             lM%
2. Furalture end Equlpm.nt        4.8             un
a. Modteol Suppl.s end Equlpm.nt  2.8             lm5
4. Consultant ServIces            4.9             1DX
5. TreIning                       1.1             i68%
6. POPFUND                        0.6             lOOX
7  Inorm.ntai Op.rmtng Comte      2.6              80
8. Unallocated                    2.8
Total,                        20.6
4.21      Special Account, Counteriart Funds. To facilitate disbursement,
US$0.4 million equivalent, denominated in CFA francs, vill be advanced from
the IDA credit ar.d deposited into a Special Account opened by the Government
in a local comw-rcial bank. The amount la estimated to cover about three
montha of expe litures. The Special Accouant vill be replenished through the
submission of ±ully documented vithdraval applications (WAS) to IDA. However,
expenses related to contracte valued at less than US$20,000 equivalent each
vill be reimbursed against Certified Statements of Expenditure (SOEs), for
which documentation vili be retained at the PCU for post-review by IDA staff
during supervision missions and for regular semi-annual audits. Reimbursement
applications submitted against the Special Account vill include a bank
statement shoving account movements since the last application, vith the
balance certified by the bank holding the Special Account and a reconcilia-
tion statement shoving that the balance represented ie the original amount
lesa any payments avaiting reimbursement. The Goverrment vili submit
replenishment requests to the Special Account on a monthly basis, or whenever
the account Ls dtminishid by one-third, whichever comes first. The Government
vill deposit each year the equivalent of US$0.2 million in a commercial bank
account. These funds vili represent Goverrment's 20% share of oporating costs
as vell as monues to make amall advance payments to $mplementing agencies.
F. Accountina. Auditinî and Reporting
4.22      Accountinx  and  auditina.  PCU's  accounting  system  is  being
strengthened to meet the, requirements of the second project. The PCU will
maintain, to the satisfaction of IDA, separate accounts and records to be
used exclusively for the project. All project-related receipts and payments
vill aggregate expenditures Lncurred by project componont and vill be
recorded in accordance vith accounting principles and procedures consistently
applied.   Beginning in 1991, the PCU vill furni$h to IDA as soon as
available, but Ln any case not later than March 31 of each year (four montha
after the end of the Goverument'.  fiscal year)s  (a) annual financial
statements on project accounts and records (including a separate SOE audit



- 48 -
and semi-annual statements in the case of the Special Account and the
P0PFUNDP) separate opinion reports, satisfactory to IDA, from a competent and
independent auditor, acceptable to IDA, as to the accuracy and authenticity
of such f luncial statements; and (c) certificates, satisfactory to IDA and
from the same auditor, that the value and quantity of services are adequately
reflected ln such financial statements. An auditor acceptable to IDA vill
al8o Issue a management letter and furnish to IDA annuel performance audit
reports on PPM, and auch other Information concerning such accounts and
records, audits and certificates as IDA may from time to time reasonably
request.
4.23      Reportinu. The PCU vill submit to IDA: (a) semi-annual reports on
project £mplementation by June 30 and December 31 of each year, beginning In
June 1991; by September 30 -of each year, beginning in 1991, a proparatory
report for the annual review as descrlbed in para 4.10; and (c) a completion
report vithin six months of the credit closing date.
V. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
5.1       By lncreasing the utilisation of prlmary health services, the
project vill address the basic needs of some of the most vulnerable segments
of Malian society, improve the productivity of sectoral investment, and
strengthen the supply response of the economy to the on-going adjustment
proces.  The health comonent has been designed to directly benefit 2.4
million people (31Z of Mali"* population) who vill gain access to quality
health care. For this target population, by 1997, the proportion of disease
episodes treated vill double, to reach 60S; that of children fully iamunised
before age 1 vill increase from 252 to 402; 60g of pregnancies vill receive
prenatal care (at least tvo visits), against 382 today; the proportion of
diarrhea episodes treated vith oral rehydration vill rise from 32 to 502; the
growth of 502 of children ages 0 to 2 vill be monitored; and 50S of the
estimated new cases of tuberculosis and leprosy vill be detected and treated.
The impact on mortality and morbidity te expected to be substantial, although
Lt cannot be quantified. In addition to these direct beneficiaries, MalV s
entire population vill benefit indirectly from the project, insofar as it
vill reinforce MSPAS's capacity to plan, manage and coordinate sectoral
developient programs.
5.2       The population component vill have broad benefits in terms of
incroased avareness of population issues and experience gained on how best to
tackle them. The Government's capacity to plan, manage and coordinate the
implementation of population and FP programs vill be strengthened, increasing
the effectiveness of these programs. Through the developuent of a variety of
information programs and delivery channels, by 1997 752 of urban women and
half of rural women should be fully informed on modern FP methods and the
modern contraceptive prevalence rate should risc from 1.22 to 102 in the
Regions of project concentration and to about 8.52 couatrywide.
5.3       The rural vater supply component vill reinforce the impact of the
health component by providing accoss to safe vater for about 180,000 people
living in the project area. These benefits vill be enhanced by the lodination
progrm«, vbich vill eliminate Lodine deficiency among about 240,000 people



- 44 -
(50% of the population) in the Districts of KBK, where one third of the
inhabitants presently show clinical signs of goiter.
B. Risks
5.4       The project faces three major risks. The firat risk is that the
expected improvements in drug procurement and distribution may be slow to
materialize. This risk is being addressed through up-front introduction of
the required policy reform, its monitoring on the basis of objective
indicators, and the gradual development of alternative supply channels. The
second risk is that the attitudinal change required--for instance, to
effectively decentralize health care management or for government services
and NGOs to cooperate fully (e.g., in FP)--may also be slover than expected.
This risk is mitigated by the Government'a strong commitment to decentraliza-
tion and by the emphasis put on complementary and well-defined responsibili-
ties among the various operators. The third risk is that the proposed
approach to health care, which depends for success on community sensitization
and participation and on significant cost recovery, could, after an initial
period of enthusiasm, suffer setbacks in some project areas. This risk will
be reduced through carefully phased implementation, close monitoring of key
activitieG (including the cost-recovery scheme), and the opportunity for
corrective action offered by the annual reviews.
VI. AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.1       During negotiations, the Government gave assurances that it wills
(a)  Apply the criteria agreed with IDA for selection of the Districts
and communities to be supported under the project (para 3.12);
(b) Review the hospital and health graduate labor market studies and
action plans with IDA by September 30, 1991, and implement the
agreed recommendations within six months thereafter (para 3.23);
(c) Ensure that during project implementation three agreed indicators
are met to monitor (i) PPM's purchase of EDs in generic form at the
most competitive price (as published by UNIPAC); (ii) PPM's margin,
to be agreed with IDA and specified in the Contrat-Plan between
goverument and PPM; and (iii) the availability of EDs at the
District level (para 3.26);
(d) Each FY as of 1991, review with IDA, prior to approval, MSPAS'
draft investment budget, as well as its three-year rolling
investment program, based on the agreed criteria (para 3.30);
(e) Ensure that the contracts between the village communities and DNHE,
defining community responsibilities and financial participation in
the rural water supply component, are signed and that the cash
contributions (CFAF 135,000 per water point) is paid one month
before arrival of the borehole siting team (para 3.44);
(f) Ensure that the positions of Project Director, Deputy Director,
Procurement specialist, and accountants (6) are filled at all times



- 46 -
by persons with experience and qualifications acceptable to IDA
(para 3.49);
(g) Organize by November 30 of each year, beginning in 1991, a joint
review with IDA on all aspects of project tmplementation and after
thre, full years of lmplementation, a mid-term review of the
project; and by September 30 of each year, beginning in 1991,
transmit to IDA a preparatory report for the annual reviev (para
4.10); and
(h) Apply the agreed procurement procodures and arrangements during
project Lmple-entation (para 4.19).
6.2       The following vill be conditions of credit effectivenesss
(a) Signing between Government and PPM of a Contrat-Plan acceptable to
IDA (para 3.25)S
(b) Signing of the grant agreements with EDF and USAID (para 3.51); and
(c)  Issuance of new drug tmport regulations (para 3.25).
6.3       Disbursements aftainst the POPFUND vill be conditional upon (t)
creation of the BUNACOP; and (ii) establishment of POPFUND management and
staffing arrangements fully satisfactory to IDA (para 3.42).
6.4       Recommendation. Subject to the above terms and conditions, the
proposed project vill be suitable for an IDA credit of US$26.6 million to the
Republic of Mali on standard IDA terms, vith 40 years' maturity.
c:xsar



- 46 -
Page 1 of 2
EU LIC OP r Ll
1SCOND lSALTU. POPUSSION AJD RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECS
BASiC DA SgEU   AND CO              iv   IDI CATORS 1\
OENEAL.\                                                               2»19)
LANA REA                                                           1.a millio,n l
POPULATION                                                         7.7 *Ill on b\
OF 041cm im                           1s
POPUATrION O TM                                                       ek
PoPULATION  om   RiE
NATJIAL                                                          8.711; 8.71 b\
NET (ALLOUINO fORI EiATION>                                      211 1.818 b\
CRUDO BIRIl RATE                                                   400 pe ltou.nd
COUDE DEATIH RATE                                                  19.8 pae litous
INFANT  OTALMT RAT                                                 178 pet tkouemd
INFANT/IILOD  MAT Ym RATE                                          8   par tho«ud
LSE EXPECTANCY AT 814                                              4«
TOTAL FERTILXT PMALDC  RAT                                         0.7
NODERN lEtH0                                                     1.21 %
TDITIONAL NETHOS                                                 4.S «%
TOTAL PE  CAPIA                                                    U   .
OF 0110: PWLIC                                                   USL.7
PRIVA!                                                 UI#..
F00ll01 AID                                             S.
1111USt.
vLXH    _ai *\
UTIML RO£-TAU $
OIUL HOITALS (7 ,UIN                                               Omliel Kol lr.)
EALIN CENTENS
CAPITAL AE  0F SAM(O                                             O
OiSlicT8< ()                                                     40 (l poe Dut il«)
UOISRCTS (8)                                                     814 (52.81
POPULATION 11141 Io KM 0F NHULIN
FACIUTY                                                           451
MLrH PRU
7TUTL HULTH CA P        _RsOll                                    t 2
OF 011C0t Pf8ICIAN                                                 t4o
74.
SANITATION WUMER                                         181
TOTAL 121481 0F IUALIN PU11I1EL 1%                                 a -
1\  Ail f r'5   ferfodUP ultolobeuwie imdsaled
.%Soute. Sou eebllmal, mlese ethlhes   oindlceued
b%  Sre lSm Co u
to  So«ue lmS        régle sud N.ullit Survq
4%  Sores          ooulmb Ceete la th  NouIlt Solou  S  lm
Souret: ielty et Publie mmSolt sud Soial A1ftetz  (WAM>, 1
f  Sou"rce  laly et Labo, &M Civil Serice, U9



- 47 -
Paep 2 of 2
«C. MLF;TH. PgP__ATICN AM  MAL WATEN    PLY PROJC
COMPARATIVE SOCI0oCOMc INDICATORS \
COTE     tRINA
!201   CAMEROON          o      9tfl  FASO    K             .        MAL
TOTAL POPULATION                     lu         10.5       1J2*       l.?         6.        81.2        7.6
UROAN POPUUTION <) (1906)              w          42         U8         46          a         te         80
CME OIRTH RATE                                    t6         46         49         47         62         48
mUt OEATN RATE                        1U          la         si         14         le         12         19
AVERACE AWEUA  GIORIN
POPULATIOW (l1eu-l    lm S)          8.8         .8         .1        8.6        8.0        8.9        2.3
TOTAL FCRTtATY RAnX                   6.9        6.9        O.8        7.1        0.6        1.7        C.t
tNF  lTAUTY RATE                     U14          s          fl                   140         74        144
UPE XECTAM At O                       sRiH 61    os         U4         e          47         57         «
POPULATION PEt PWYSIC    (lUi)    120         13,9»        , 6,          -     a,7l       le,19      2s,6U
POPULATION PE     E U 199  1        2,42       1,9siU   - o un                                        2,20
ACCUS T0 Sn WATEI (1                    -         2t         8                     te         17         80O
OAtLY PEP cAttA CAURES LY
AS S OREW5iRem    (lu0)               t         u1          o         112 l8                 a          8U
AOULTLITERACY ATa (S)    0)            84          -          -         8                     47        1   d
PUR CAPITA tCM                        640\       el;        les        78        1u         SU 
AVEA     OMM  CCP 198-1990 tu         1.9        5.0       -1.7        1.2        1.8        1.0        1.2
WEALt14 W ITMU  As PERCENT
OF C«lIRA. OOVEUNMENT
WENDTIUE (190)                         -        8.7        8.8       -           0.6        t.         1.7
*\  f    IO-RI- , UNLEUS  flERSISE  SICATER
b\ PEu CAPITA IC«M  13171 88
cs 1900
d 10S
SaUCE:  U    OtvLmUN R uT, lm
** ist
-se  Tb* show d.tl  oe  InlruIly   herItl Wbl  the ce_e of Mael o1h aude disemolas eu                  ranls6 .ot_
;lourt, hlghil hloies Oh rmd tleprvo th. satrai dét& h.



SECOD  MEALIN. _    L_IA LM                   t
MINISTRE
~~ .-
I FLULEIOS ~ODEI SNATEO    ___
on  JfFAI    SUl |                           ET FWJM    (CAF
PoeILD TION      I                 j DES DàlAS1REEIIRE D
OUPRJT OS SANMIE T DE             -O'OOAIE DE ENFORCEMBITf
I ~. j                                ^S(
DIRECTIIII UNATII     DtRECTIOON  FTIOlE                                      hATIONALE    I      ¢ ITIAaL
DELA UIIE  JE                              DES AFAS            PLFICATIO  Et           REO    ES EN SANTIE
SAM  PMU*£                                          S~~~SOIAES J  ORMATO  SAIAR    PUI  
sxns nxuw   n  ^ _ r   I    soes             t«rt__________i                                              o
O |DIISIO                DIVISION              DIVISIOI               OIVISION
SSIIwm  ET           «M  SCU                OEVEUIIIPPEHT          EIWES ET                AOMINISIOETION
COfINUTMAIRE           POGRAIMATrION Et
EVALMIIO
SA    FAMUAE           SA LM      DE         PTECTION K LA          STATTIE  ET            SAME COIMAUAIRE
L EVRETFAMILLE                                DOCUONETATIO
ECD»  CURAiVE         L4SORTIrEm             SERICES RAITTAME       FRMATION                8IO-CLINIQJE
AKILYSE DE L'EAU            CC,
SAUT SCOLAIRE Et       SERVCES RATTACHES                             ECOLIE DIE FOMATION    CENTRE DE FORMATION
SPOTIE                                                                SAMi                 DE RECHlERCHES
DIRECTIOS                                                                  APPLIQEES
LABO-U ARMACIES        RE1IO1     NtOIEE                                                         SATE RIRALE
_  UlE ET
SERVCES RATTCH         ASAINSSEMTS
IRcnTIs 101601.
DE SAUE PFULIQ



- 49 -
ANNEX 2-2
Page 1 of 4
REPUBLIC OF MALI
SECOND HEALTH.- POPULATION AND RURAL VATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Present Health Care System in Mali
La structure sanitaire du Mall
I. Descriotion de la pyramide des soins
1.        La structure nationale des soins de santé primaire peut être
schématisée sous la forme d'une pyramide dont la base représente l'ensemble
de la population et le sommet, le dernier recours médical du pays: les
hôpitaux nationaux (voir Tableau A). Entre les deux ce trouvent les unités
de recours du premier degrés Centre de Santé d'Arrondissement, du deux m»
degré: Centre de Santé de Cercle et du troisième degré: Hôpitaux Régionaux.
2.        En principe, l'ouioe de santé de villase est Installée dans un
gros village.   Elle  travaille dans une case construite en matériaux
traditionnels par les villageois. Cette case comporte une salle pour les
soins et une salle pour les accouchements. Le personnel comprend essentiel-
lement un hygiénistelsecouriste et une accoucheuse traditionnelle. Il est
prévu qu'Ils seront second j par une animatrice et que pourront s'y adjoindre
des guérisseurs tradition-els.   Pour réaliser une couverture de 80S  il
faudrait que 8.032 villages soient pourvus d'hygiénisteslsecouristes et
d'accoucheuses traditionnelles, pris en charge par la communauté villageoise.
S.        Il existe 1376 secteurs de base constitués par la réunion de
plusieurs villages, en général 6. Les secteurs sont dotés d'un dispensaire
rural et/ou d'une maternité rurale.  Le personnel est composé d'un aide
soignant et d'une matrone, l'un et l'autre formés sur le tas pendant 6 mois.
Bien que d'une capacité technique légprement supérieure à l'équipe de santé
de village, l'4quipe du secteur de base ne peut être considérée comme une
instance de recours. Elle constitue une forme d'assistance rapprochée pour
l'équipe de snté de village.
4.        C'est au niveau de l'Arrondissement que l'on trouve du personnel
nettemsnt plus compétent, un équipement technique et une gamme plus large de
médicamente.  L'Arrondissement est doté en principe d'un dispensaire de
soins, d'une materité-PMl, d'un centre de développement communautaire, d'un
centre de récupération nutritionnelle et d'un bureau d'hygiène. Le personnel
prévu est composé d'un infirmier d'Etat, d'une infirmière obstétricienne,
d'un infirmier de santé, d'un infirmier de grandes endémies, de 2 agents
d'assainssement, d'un technicien de développement communautaire et de 2
agents de développemeat comnautaire.  C'est le premier niveau où l'on
trouve du personnel diplffl. En principe, l'infdimier d'Etat supervise des
équipes de santé de villages, à partir de l'Arrondissement.
5.        Au niveau du Cercle se trouve le Centre de Santé.  Il est dirigé
en principe par un médecin de Santé publique, responsable de la santé pour
l'ensemble du Cercle. Avec lui travaille un autre médecin qui, souvent, a un



- 50 -                             AmoEX 2-2
Page 2 of 4
compétence chirurgicale. C'est le niveau le plus proche de la population ot
est affecté un médecin et of existent des moyens de diagnostic importantss
laboratoJres d'analyse médicale, examens radiologiques, etc. C'est aussi le
lieu oW l'on peut pratiquer une thérapeutique plus élaborée: médications sous
surveillance médicale, interventions chirurgicales. Outre les médecins, le
personnel du Centre comporte en principe 4 à 6 infirmiers d'Etat, 1 & 3
sages-femnes, des infirmières obstétriciennes, 6 infirmiers de santé, 2
techniciens sanitaires, 3 agents d'assainissement, etc. Un des deux médecins
a la tâche de superviser le travail exécuté dans les arrondissements et dans
les Villages, d'apporter son concours & la solution des problèmes difficiles
et d'assurer la formation continue du personnel.
6.        Les Hôpitaux réaionaux sont sensés compléter cette infrastructure
en apportant à distance raisonnable de la population des possibilités de
diagnostic et de thérapeutique supérieures à celles des Centres de Santé de
Cercle.   Il devraient être équipés de services spécialiséss radiologie,
laboratoire d'examens plus élaborés, gynécologies, obstétrique, urologie,
traumatologie, maladies contagieuses, etc. avec les médecins ou techniciens
spécialisés nécessaires à ses services.   Mais, les  locaux datent de
nombreuses années et, souvent, sont mal adaptes à leurs fonctions.
7.        C'est la Direction réaonale qui assure la coordination de toutes
les activités de santé de la Région et la liaison avec les autorités
administratives et les autres secteurs d'activités.  Le Médecin-Directeur
régional supervise tous les hôpitaux et Centre de Santé de la région,
recueille les données de statistiques sanitaires, est responsable de
l'affectation du personnel paramédical et de  son  recyclage.   Il est
représentant du Ministre de la Santé dans la région.    En principe, le
personnel de la Direction régionale est constituée par 3 médecins de santé
publiques le Directeur régional, un épidémiologiste, un spécialiste de santé
familiale, de médecine scolaire et sportive; ils sont aidés d'un pharmacien,
d'un ingénieur sanitaire, d'un éconoumiste de la santé, de 9 techlciens
divers et d'une jardinière d'enfants.
8,        Au niveau national existent trois Uô§itaux nationau:s  Point G,
Gabriel Touré et Katio.  Le Mistère de la Sout nublicus et de Affaires
sociales comprend 5 directions nationales et 4 organismes rattachés au
Cabinet du Xinistre. L'organlgrame est présenté en Annexe 2-1.
II. Les orobléme
9.        L'organisation sanitaire pyramidale présente de nombreux problèmes,
tant au niveau de l'offre de soins, qu'au niveau de leur gestion et de leur
administration.
A. Problèmes au niveau de l'offre de soins
10.       Disoarité de l'offre de soins au niveau orimire.  L'offre de soins
primaire varie, en fonction de sa localisation dans un petit village, un gros
village, un secteur, un arrondissement, un chef lieu de cercle, de région ou
dans la capitale. Elle n'est pas organisée en ville, un peu coma si l'on



- 51 -                                2-2
Page 3 of 4
n'y installait pas d'écoles primaires, sous prétexte qu'il y a un collège.
Par conséquent, les formations de référence sont encombrées de consultations
primaires quî seraient mieux soignées, et à meilleur marché au niveau des
quartiers.
11.       Choix inapnroorié du ler échelon de soins.  La pyramide sanitaire
du Mali comporte pas moins de 2 échelons de personnel formé en 6 mois. Une
formation de cette durée ne permet pas d'acquérir des connaissances et des
compétences supérieures à celles que toute famille devrait posséder.  Le
ratio d'un infirmier d'Arrondissement pour 35 équipes de santé villageoise
est insuffisant pour assurer une supervision et un appui logistique correct.
Les villageois refusent souvent de payer les agents de santé villageois pour
des services qu'ils estiment insuffisants, et les agents communautaires
abandonnent rapidement leurs fonctions. De plus, la présence d'un premier
niveau d'agents insufflsaument formés peut retarder inutilement la consulta-
tion à un niveau technique compétent.
12.       Distance excessive du nremier niveau technique comnétent.   Le
premier niveau de soins habilité à vacciner ou à injecter des antibiotiques
est constitué par le Centre de Santé d'Arrondissement. Ce centre ne peut
raisonnablement pas fournir les soins au-delà d'un rayon de 15 km, ot en
moyenne 3-10.000 h résident. En pratique, les autres habitants sont livrés
à eux-mOrnes, et expriment par la construction de leur propre formation
sanitaire, leur aspiration à obtenir les soins d'une équipe techniquement
compétente.
13.       Anoroche olus administrative aue fonctionnelle de la olanification
de l'linfrastructure sanitaire.   Selon la pyramide sanitaire, le statut
administratif d'une localité constitue le critère prépondérant pour y
Implanter une Infrastructure d'un type particulier.   De l'application
systématique de ce critére administratif peut résulter la construction de
btiments surdimensionnés dans des sites dépourvus de population.   Par
exemple, le premier projet de développement sanitaire a financé dans le
Cercle de Kita la construction d'un Centre de Santé d'Arrondissement qui
dessert 1.000 habitants dans un rayon de 15 km. La mème formation installée
ailleurs aurait pu en couvrir 5.000.
14.       Camlexité excessive des niveaux de référence.  En comportant 3
types différents d'hôpitaux la pyramide sanitaire fournit une justification
erronée aus investissements dans des formations sanitaires de référence sans
cesse plus coplexes.   A un moment qf la couverture par les soins aux premier
et deuxièm niveaux sont loin d'être terminés alors qu'Ils ont le plus grand
impact sur la samté, les investissement  dan  le soin  de référence aux 2ème
et 3Sme écholons (régional et national) entraSneraient des coûtt d'opportu-
nité excessifs.



- 52 -
ANNEX 2-2
Page 4 of 4
B. Problèmes au niveau de la gestion du système
15.        Mangue de différentiation des responsabilités.  Selon la pyramide
sanitaire, chaque responsable supervise les échelons inférieurs, leur alloue
des ressources et représente le Ministère aupres des autorités locales.
Cependant, le pouvoir de décision aux différents niveaux n'est pas défini.
Il s'ensuit une centralisation excessive de la prise de décision.
16.        Faiblesse de la gestion au niveau opérationnel.  Le Cercle est le
premier niveau qui englobe les echelons de soins primaires et celui de
riférence. Il s'agit aussi du niveau de plus piriphérique oa se trouve un
médecin, qui peut assumer la responsabilité de l'ensemble des soins prodigues
dans le Cercle. La pyramide sanitaire ne reflète pas l'importance strategi-
que de ce niveau, représenté par un médecin qui à lui seul est responsable du
Centre de Santé et de la supervision dans le Cercle.
TABLEAU A          LA PYRAMIDE SANITAIRE AU MALI
* .
:1      *
o          *
*   HOPITAUX   *
*    NATIONAUX   e
*      H0HPITAUX
*      RECIONAUX      *
*                 e~~~~~~
* CENTRES DE SANTÉ DE CERCLE.
e DISPENSAIRES D'ARRONDISSEMENT s
lI5UIPE DE SANTÉ DE VILLA¢E o
La personnel prévu pour chacun des échelons est le sulvant:
ÉCHELONS DES SOINS      ÉQUIPE DE SANTÉ   -NOMBRE TOTAL:10089
DE SANTE PRIMAIRE        DE VILLAGE       -NOMBRE D'INITES LIÉES
A L'UNIT D£ RECOURS
DU 1ER DEGRE: 86
-UN HYQIÈNISTE/SECOU-
RISTE POUR U8S HABI-
TANTS
rUNITS DE RECOURS DU     DISPENSAIRES     -NOMBRE TOTAL: 281
IER DEGR       I   D'ARRONDISSEUENT    -NOMBRE D'UNITÉ U CES 1
:'  4                   ~~~~~~~UNE YNITE DE RECOURS
DW 2EME DEGRÉ: 8
-UN DISPENSAIRE POUR
81a0i HABITANTS
UNITÉS DE RECQURS DU    CENTRES DE SANTÉf   -NOMBRE TOTAL: 46
2EME DE¢R      |       DE CERCLE   I -UN CENTRE DE SANTÉg
POUR 189 088 HABITANTS



- 53 -
ANNEX 2-3
Page 1 of 3
REPUBLIC OF MALI
SECOND HEALTH, POPULATION AND RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
HEALTH SECTOR FINANCING
TOTAL INVESTIENT COST OF (ORGANIZED) HEALTH SERVICES
TABLE 1                                      (UILULON FCFA NOMINAL TERUS)
198      1984     1986     198      1987    1f88       1909 l99l
PUBLIC FUNDING
BUDGET (NATIONAL OR PROVINCIAL)      e82       24S      296      448      882       412      298      280
OTHER PUBLIC                          136      108       98       79       67      1W       800      8s0
DEVELOPMENT AGENCIES                    8       il        8        7        4         -        -        -
SOCIAL SECURITY                       122      169       18       22       62
SUBTOTAL   1           U         T    m            m        E        E        U
HOUSEHOLD BUOCETS
USER CHARGES                            2        -        -        7       44         -        -        -
OTHER PRIVATE                           a        8       1O        6        6
SUBTOTAL        6        8       10        12       60        O        O         0
EXTERNAL FUNDINC
BILATERAL COOPERATION                  60      268       88       6?      284         -        -        -
INT'L ORCANIZATIONS                   80       101    1,810    1,580    1,511    1,500    1,600    1,600
NON OOVERNMENTAL OR¢UNIZATIONS        231      129      124      889      820      a80       800      8
SUBTOTAL     UiI  i N           ,88S  1,0        F.M      TI       I.        IrNl
TOTAL                               1,208    1,020    2,189    2,489    2,w0    2,362    2,898    2,898
TABLE 2 TOTAL RECURRENT COSTS OF (ORGANIZED) SERVICES (MILLION FCFA NOMINAL TENUS)
1988     1984     1986     l98m     1987      1n88     1909    1990
PUBLIC FUNDING
BUDGET (NATIONAL OR PROVINCIAL)    2,926    2,97C    8,971    4,115    4,478    8,917    8,7t7    4,4C2
OTHER PUBLIC                           60       78       81       91        78      100      14      180
DEVELOPMENT AGENCIES                    a        1        1        8         7                 -        -
SOCIAL SECURIM                       847       296      450      878      468       460      460      4SO
SUBTOTAL    8,68    8,8N49    4,603    -H        6,019    4,487   84,Y U 7   6
HOUSEHOLD BUDGETS
USER CHARGES                          146      168     18       28B      149       105      186      200
OTHER PRIVATE                       4,441    4,108    4,742    0 472   56488    6.01       6.90    6,0
SUBTOTAL   '4,58     4,284    4,9 0        6'U! "08    68i6 6
EXTERNAL FUNDING
BILATERAIL COOPERATION                  8        a       24       48      18s       140      140      140
INT'L ORGANIZATIONS                   81       108      179      254      287       800      B00      80U
NON GOVERNUENTAL ORGANIZATIONS         el       96      869      246      288       80W      800      800
SUBTOTAL      IiE                 Ea1              PT! mEç                    7m1
TOTAL                               8,887    7,819    9,986   11,842   11,812   11,872   11,222   11,922
SOURCE: MISSION ESTIMATE, 199f



- 54 -
ANNEX 2-3
Page 2 of 3
REPUBLIC OF MALI
SECOND HEALTH. POPULATION AND RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
HEALTH SECTOR FINANCINO
PERCENTAGE DISTRIBUTION OF EXPENDITURE BETWEEN
GOVERNUENT AND OTHER SOURCES. 198S-1987
TABLE à
1988      1984      1985      1986    1987
INVESTMENT EXPENDITURE
GOVERNMENT              62.8      24.0      18.S      17.8     9.0
OTHER                   47.7      70.0      806.      82.2    91.0
RECURRENT EXPENDITURE
GOVERNUENT              86.0      B8.0      89.8      84.8    40.0
OTHER                   os.o      02.0      00.2      86.2    80.0
RECURRENT EXPENDITURE ON OROANIZED SERVICES BY TYPE. 1988-1987.
EXCLUDING PATIENTS' PAYMENTS
(MILLION ZFAF)
TABLE 4
TYPE                     1988      1984      1988      1988    1987
PAY OR PERSOINNEL        2 ô19    2 492     8 006     8 169  8a sO
PHARMACEUTICALS            468      401       762       731   1 047
OTHERS                     841      888     1 477     1 e9s   1 S12
TOTAL                    a 928     8 769    S 246     6 S9S  8 160
Notes  ne date prosent.d In those tables art based (a) on Implem.nt.d expendItures, genorelly *mounting
tO about 8SX of voted .xp.ndItures; (b) Include the health expenditures of the Defonse Mlnlstry (about 7-
8X of the total); (c) include the *xpenditures r*lat.d to Institut Natlonal de la Protection Social.
( about lU); (d) exclude the expenditur.. relatod to USPAS'. soclal affalra activities (about 101), end
(a) inolud Regional contributions (from the communes end sub-dlstrlcts) to hea1th expendlturs.
Source: Hsalth recurrent costs in Mail, WHO, 1988
TABLE 6                         TOTAL PRIVATE EXPENDITURES ON HEALTH. 1989
(CFAF MILLION)
CRU¢S                         12,000
FEES                            1l0
TRADITIONAL MEDICINE           2,000
PRIVATE MEDICINE                 600
HEULN-CARE RELATED TRANORT    800
TOTAL                         14,9SO
Sources Mission estimtés, 1989



REPUBLIC DF MALI
SECOND HEALTf, POPULATION AND RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
HEALTH SECTtI FINANCINO
TABLE 8                  BREAKDOWN OF TOTAL SECTORAL EXPENDITURES ON ORGANIZED SERVICES, BY LEVEL AND SOURCE OF FINANCING (1987)
EXPENDITURE      DISTRICTS           HDSPITALS        ADMINISTRATION         OTER            SOCIAL SECURITY
SOURCES            TOTAL   AMOUNTS PERCENTAGE AMOUNTS PERCENTbGE AMOUNTS PERCENTAGE AMOUNTS PERCENTAGE AMOUNTS PERCENTACE
INVESTUENTS MILLION             MILLION            MILLION             MILLION             MILLION
& RECURRENT  FCFA         s      FCFA         s       FCFA      s        FCFA       s        FCFA       s
BUDGET                    4,897    1,104       23.8     1,804    38.4       1,484 U1.8           ae0       8.8         0         _
OTHER PUBUC                  lu8      129      96.8         8      4.3          0                               O  _ 
DEVELOPMIIET AGECIES          il       il     100.0         0        -         O          -        O         _         0         _
SOCIAL SECURITY              E o  _ 0        _                                          - J  _  O   _             0.
INSTTUE
SUBTOTAL       6,861    1,244      23.2    1,809      33.8      1,484     27.7       810       6.8       s8u        9.S
USER CHIiRES                 198       29      16.2        49    26.4          O         -       116      69.4         0         -
OTHER PRIVATE              6,4a9      l       99.           9 6        .1                           O           _0            -                 u
SUSTOTAL       6,682    6,483      97.0        64      1.0          0       0.0      116       2.0         a       0.0 .
BILATERAL COOPERATION        870       41      11.1        7a    19.8         118     81.8       188      37.2         0         _
INTERNATIONAL             1,798      642      8s.7         1      a .4       904      S0.a       191      10.e8        0
ORCANIZATIONS
NVERNIMEAL                   80..349         S.j4       -M        24aL       2az                  ai      101                     -
ORANIZATONS
SUBTOTAL       2,778    1,032      87.2       28C     10.8      1,03C      37.3      423       16.2        2       0.1
TOTAL                       13,789    7,789      S8.2    2,149      16.6      2,S20     18.3       848       8.2       510       3.7
TOTALS MIY NOt ADD DUE TO ROUNDIHO
SourM:      'Recurrent coste In the Health Sector' by Amadou Koita 1/, Joseph Brunet-Ja;ily 2/, Seydou Coulibaly S/ and Kafin Diarra 3/, WHO, 1988
1/ Project Leader Instttut pour la Recherche en Santé Publique, Bamako, Mali
2/  Sclentific Advlsor, Office pour la Recherche en Sciences et Technologie Outre-Mer; and INRSP, Bamako, Mail
3/ Research Offlcer, INRSP, Bamako, Mali
A:X2-3N (SAR)



- 56 -                                ANNEX 3-1
GOWERNEHT DE LA REPUELIQUE                              REPUBLIQIE DU MALI Page 1 of 12
DU MALI                                      Un Peuple - Un But - Une Foi
MINISTERE DE LA SANTE PUBLIQUE
ET DES AFFAIRES SOCIALES
DECLARATION DE POLITIQUE SECTORIELLE
DE SANTE ET DE POPULATION
1.    La présente déclaration a pour objet d'exposer la politique de
santé et de population du Gouvernement de la République du Hall qui sert
de cadre à la réalisation des plans, projets et stratégies de développe-
ment du secteur.
I.    Contexte
2.    La Constitution de la République du Mall garantit le droit à la
santé.
3.    La politique sanitaire du Mall est conforme, d'une part, aux
grands principes de l'Organisation Mondiale de la Santé dont il est
membre et d'autre part à ses réalités socio-économiques et culturelles.
Elle est fondée sur le principe d'universalité qui fait de la santé un
droit fondamental de tout malien et de l'action sanitaire une oeuvre
sociale de solidarité de l'Etat, des collectivités et de l'individu.
Il.   Orientation
4.    La priorité de l'action sanitaire reste réservée au milieu rural
et péri-urbain, à la prévention des maladies, à la promotion socio-
sanitaire et au bien-étre de la famille.
5.    La santé étant une composante indissociable du développement
socio-économique, elle représente donc un secteur d'investissqpent et
devrait de ce fait obéir à la loi de l'utilisation rationnelle des
ressources.
6.    Afin d'assurer la pérenrité du développement sanitaire, sa
planification tiendra compte des ressources disponibles et mobilisera
tous les acteurs - Etat, privés, ONG, bailleurs de fonds - et au premier
chef, les populations bénéficiaires.
III. Objectifs de Politiaue de Santé
7.    L'objectif majeur de la politique sanitaire du Mali est la
réalisation de la santé pour tous sur un horizon aussi rapproché que
possible.                                                                     !
8.    La concrétisation de cet objectif passe par la réalisation des
objectifs intermédiaires suivants:



57 -                                   ANMX 3-1
Page 2 of 12
(a)  Améliorer létat de santé des populations afin quelles
participent plus activement au développement socio-économi-
que du pays eni
-     réduisant la mortalité maternelle et infantile;
-     réduisant la morbidité et la mortalité dues aux prin-
cipales maladies;
-     développant les services de planification familiale;
-     promouvant des attitudes et comportements sains favo-
rables à la santé et au bien-étre de la famille.
(b)   Etendre la couverture sanitaire tout en rendant les services
accessibles i la population ent
-     implantant un dispositif de soins adapté aux réalités
socio-économiques du pays et le plus rapproché possi-
ble des populations;
-     assurant des services de santé de qualit0 géographi-
quement et économiquement accessibles y compris la
disponibilité du médicament essentiel;
-     intensifiant l'utilisation des services par des ac-
tions d'information. d'éducation et de comaunication.
(c) Rendre le système de santé viable et performant ens
-     intégrant la politique soclo-sanitaire dans celle du
développement socio-économique du pays;
-     rationalisant les services du secteur de la santé et
leur expansion en rapport avec les ressources disponi-
bles et mobilisables:
-     améliorant l'efficacité du système de santé par une
gestion rationnelle des ressources humaines, matériel-
les et financières;
-     organisant la participation de l'Etat, des collectivi-
tés, des individus et des partenaires au développement
à la prise en charge du système de santé%
-     développant une approche multidisciplinalre et multi-
sectorielle de l'action sanitaire.
IV.   Stratésie Nationale de Déveloynement de la Santé
9.   La  stratégie de développement sanitaire du Mali est basde sur le
concept de soins de santé primaires adopté par la conférence mondiale
d'Alma-Ata au 1978.
10.   Afli s'accélérer la mise on oeuvre des soins de santé primlrais,
une quadruple stratégie a été adoptée dans le droit fil des principes
énoncés danr l'Initiative de Bamako.
(a)   faire évoluer la notion de pyramide sanitaire d'une concep-
tion hiérarchique et administrative vers une conception plus
fonctionnelle qui différencie les niveaux opérationnel,
d'appui et d'orientation. Le cercle représente le niveau
opérationnel et constitue l'unité chargée de planifier le



58                                       ANIEX 3-1
Page 3 of 12
développement de la santé, de le budgétiser et d'en assurer
la gestion. Le niveau régional est chargé d'appuyer les
cercles sur le plan technique. Le niveau central, chargé de
l'appui stratégique, détermine les investissements et le
fonctionnement du secteur, les standards qui tiennent compte
des principes d'efficacité, d'efficience. d'équité et de
viabilité. Il veille à l'application de ces standards par
tous ses partenaires & l'action sanitaire. Il s'efforce de
mobiliser les ressources privées, celles de l'Etat et celles
des bailleurs de fonds pour le financement de soins de
qualité accessibles à tous.
(b)   assurer en permanence la disponibilité et l'accessibilité
des médicaments essentiels à travers une série de mesures
dont la réforme de la PPN et de l'UMPP, la levée du monopole
dtimportation, la rationalisation de la distribution et de
la prescription, et le recouvrement des coùts du médicament.
(c)   renforcer la participation communautaire à la gestion du
système, les individus, les ménages et les communautés
assurant leur propre santé. Malgré la modicité de leur
pouvoir d'achat, ces derniers peuvent, grâce au développe-
ment de techniques nouvelles, peu coùteuses et efficaces
favoriser grandement la survie de leurs enfants et réduire
l'importance des maladies. Afin de garantir l'accessibilité
aux soins et & l'information nécessaires à l'amélioration de
la santé, les bénéficiaires seront associés à la gestion des
services du niveau opérationnel.
,d) mobiliser les ressources nécessaires au financement du
systèm de santé, y compris par le recouvrement des coûts
dans les formations sanitaires, et rationaliser l'utilisa-
tion de ces ressources à tous les niveaux.
Le Gouvernement souhaite que l'ensemble des bailleurs de fonds soutienne
cette stratégie.
V.    Le Constat de Mise en Oeuvre de la Politiaue de Santé
11.   La mise en oeuvre de la politique ci-dessus définie a connu certes
des résultats encourageante. Cependant des besoins de santé et des
problèmes de santé persistent toujours et dont la non satisfaction et la
non résolution contrarient les efforts fournis. La situation sanitaire
continue toujours d'ltre caractérisée part                              r :
-     la persistance d'une forte morbidité et mortalité en parti-
culer, dans la population infantile et maternelle;
-     la prddmiance de maladies Infectieuses, parasitaires et
nutritiomnelles au sein de la population.
12.   Cette situation sanitaire est aggravée part
-     le fait que les populations ont été insuffisaument associées
à la définition des politiques de santé;



- 59-                                     ANNEX 3-1
la faiblesse de la couverture sanitaire;                        Page 4 of 12
*     une forte sous-utilisation et un fort sous-équipement des
services de santé;
-     un manque notoire de médicaments et de matériels de travail;
-     une insuffisance dans l'intégration des activités;
une capacité lnsuffisamment développée dans la gestion des
ressources humaines, matérielles et financières;
un resserrement des dépenses publiques de santé;
un personnel quantitativement et qualitativement insuffi-
sant, peu motivé et mal déployé;
-     la faiblesse de l'accès à des sources d'eau salubre.
VI.   Mises en Oeuvre de la Stratesie
13.   Devant cette situation, le gouvernement a entrepris une série de
réformes de politique sectorielle, institutionnelles et d'investisse-
ments, visant a faire fortement et durablement progresser la réalisation
de son objectif social de la santé pour tous.
14.   Cette stratégie vise, par exemple, i faire passer de 252 à 80S  la
proportion d'enfants vaccinés avant l'âge d'un an, doubler la proportion
de grossesses suivies pour atteindre environ 602, et suivre la crois-
sance de la moitié des enfants de moins de 2 ans.
15.   Le Deuxième Projet de santé, population et hydraulique rurale est
un outil privilégié, mais non le seul, de cette stratégie.
A.    Santé
16.   Pour améliorer l'état de santé de la population en général et de
celui de la mère et de l'enfant en particulier, notre stratégie vise à
i) élargir l'accés aux services de santé, c'est-&-dire à en accroStre
la couverture et l'utilisation; (ll) en améliorer la qualité; et tiii)
viabiliser le système de santé de cercle par l'utilisation rationnelle
et efficiente des ressources (personnel, médicaments, finances, patri-
moine) et l'organisation de la participation des populations.
17.   Elarcissement de l'accès.  Pour accroître la couverture et
l'utilisation des services, notre approche privilégie le développement
de systèmes de santé de cercle et de coamune et utilise un processus de
planification, d'organisation et de gestion décentralisées selon une
approche dite populationnelle qui s'articule autour des principes
suivsncsn
(a)   l'étude du milieu et l'élaboration de cartes sanitaires de
cercle opérationnelles sur la base de concentrations optima-
les de populations dans des aires géographiques données             .
appelées secteur de santé;
(b)   la différenciation entre les fonctions de soins de santé
primaires, de soins de santé de référence et de gestion du
systéme;



_60                                       ANNEX 3-1
Page 5 of 12
(c)   la réhabilitation et si nécessaire la construction de struc-
tures légères de soins comprenant dans un premier temps, un
dispensaire, une maternité et un dépôt de médicaments essen-
tiels au sein des secteurs de santé et dénommés centres de
santé communautaires:
(d)   l'organisation de la participation des populations dans la
gestion des centres de santé de cercle et de commune et dans
la réhabilitationlconstruction et la gestion des centres de
santé communautaires.
18.   Dans cette approche, la mise en oeuvre systématique et uniformisée
est délaissée au profit de la capacité des cercles et des communautés en
tant que partenaires, à remplir les conditions suivantes d'éligibilité
au financement de l'Etat, canalisé à travers des opérations telles que
le Deuxième Projet.
19.   Les conditions d'éligibilité à ce type de financement sont les
suivantes:
(a)   constitution d'une équipe de santé de cercle suivant les
normes convenues, notaament la présence de 2 médecins;
(b)   élaboration d'un plan quinquennal de développement sanitaire
de cercle (PDSC), précisant la situation sanitaire et les
problèmes de santé du cercle, la stratégie sanitaire, les
programes et un plan de financement des dépenses d'inves-
tissement et de fonctionnement. Ce plan doit être approuvé
par le Comité de développement du cercle (CLD) et entériné
au niveau national par le Comité de suivi du projets
(c)   existence d'un centre de santé communautaire opérationnel
suivant des critères de performance technique et financière
convenus d'avance;
(d)   engagement des communautés & contribuer financièrement et/ou
physiquement pour 50Z du colt de réhabilitation ou de cons-
truction des Centres de Santé Commuunautaires (CSCOM), lEtat
devant financer le complément;
(e)   engagement du Comité Local de développement du cercle à
consacrer i la santé au moins 72 des recettes produites par
la taxe locale de développement;
(f)   appui de la Direction Régionale de la Santé Publique et des
Affaires Sociales aux cercles pour les aider à satisfaire          j
aux conditions d'éligibilité.
20.   La satisfaction des conditions d'éligibilité requiert une campagne
soutenue d'information et de sensibilisation des populations en vue
d'obtenir leur participation sur la base d'engagements contractuels
entre les pouvoirs publics et les communautés organisées.



* 61.                                       ANNEX 3-1
21.   L'application de l'approche ci-dessus définie se traduira par la         Page 6 of 12
réalisation à l'intérieur des circonscriptions socio-sanitaires de
cercle et de comune, d'un réseau-de centres de santé cocmunautaires le
plus rapprochée poseible des populations et capables de dispenser de
soins de santé de base (curatifs, préventifs, SMI, FP, vaccination,
pharmacie) lntégrés. Un système de référence et d'appui sera créé au
niveau des centres de santé de cercle et de commune qui seront renforcés
en conséquence.
22.   Amélioration de la Qualité.  Celle-ci sers obtenue par la défini-
tion d'un plateau technique, tant pour les soins de base que pour les
soins de référence, la formation et la supervision du personnel sur la
base de protocoles de traitement, eux-mêmes liés au plateau technique,
et la disponibilité en médicaments essentiels à des prix abordables sur
l'ensemble du territoire.
23.   Gestion.  L'équipe de santé de cercle garantira aux communautés
éligibles un plateau minimum de soins de santé de base dans la mesure où
la communauté acceptera de partager la prise en charge des autres colts
de fonctionnement de son centre de santé communautaire.
24.   L'équipe de santé de cercle aura les responsabilités suivantes:
Ca)   assistance à la confection du plan de développement sani-
taire du cercle, du plan de financement prograame-budget, du
programme d'exécution et du rapport d'exécutiont
(b)   l'obtention de la contribution du Comité de Développement au
financement du plan de développement sanitaire du cercle;
(c)   la gestion des ressources humaines, en particulier le recru-
tement, la formation, la supervision et le suivi de la
carrière des agents; la confection de plans d'affectation et
de mutation du personnel sanitaire de l'Etat et de plans de
recrutement et formation d'agents de santé communautaires;
(d)   assistance à la gestion des ressources physiques et en
particulier les médicaments, des ressources financières
mobilisées dans le cadre du systime de recouvrement des
colts, des contributions des Comités de Développement et
d'Organisations Non Gouvernementales;
(e) X.< préparation de rapports financiers et la réalisation
d'activités de conseil aux centres de santé comunautaires; 
(f) 1 mobilisation et la formation des communautés dans le
cadre de leur participation & la mise an place et au fonc-       J
tiomuement du systme.
25.   L'équipe de santé de cercle bénéficiera du soutien de l'éauine
réi2onale dont les capacités seront renforcées et porteront surs
-     la réalisation par les cercles des conditions d'édligibilité
au financement de l'Etat;



-62 -                                    ANNEX 3-1
-     l'appui & la confection et à VeXécution des plans de déve- Page 7 of 12
loppement sanitaire de cercle, et l'examen des rapports
annuels des cercles;
-     la gestion des ressources dans le cadre du système d'infor-
mation de gestion. Elle concernera les ressources humaines
en matière de progra=âation des besoins, de déploiement. de
formation et de suivi de carrière des agents. Les ressour-
ces physiques concerneront surtout la disponibilité en
médicaments au niveau régional pour les cercles, l'inven-
taire et la maintenance de l'équipement par l'élaboration et
la mise en oeuvre d'une capacité locale d'entretien et de
réparation. Les ressources financières gérées par les
cercles le seront avec l'appui de la région en conformité
avec les directives de comptabilité élaborées au niveau de
la Direction Administrative et Financière du Ministère de la
Santé Publique et des Affaires Sociales dans le cadre du
système d'information de gestion qui sera mis en place;
-     le soutien aux équipes socio-sanitaires de cercles en ma-
tière d'information, éducation et communication.
26.   Financement.  La stratégie gouvernementr'e vise d'abord à rationa-
liser le financement du secteur afin de max±m4ser les économies possi-
bles, puis d'augmenter ce financement.
27.   En matière de financement oublic de la santé, une étude financière
est en voie de réalisation qui aidera le Ministère de la Santé à
examiner sa nomenclature budgétaire et à la rendre plus fonctionnelle,
mettra en oeuvre des normes budgétaires pour le fonctionnement et
l'investissement, et un système de suivi des coûts et les dépenses,
préparera des budgets consolidés et des plans de financement intégrant
les contributions du secteur public, privé et de l'apport extérieur et
définira les principaux indicateurs financiers du tableau de bord.
28.   Dans le cadre du Programe d'Ajustement Structurel, le Gouverne-
ment augmentera progressivement la part du secteur dans son budget total
de fonctionnement afin qu'elle passe de 6,6* en 1990 à 7,30S en 1991 et
8O en 1992. Après le PAS, le Gouvernement continuera à accrottre la
part de la santé dans son budget de fonctionnement de façon à atteindre
9S en 1995.
29.   Au niveau des cercles, les pouvoirs publics ont défini les
modalités de participation des communautés au financement des soins de  
santé primaires:
*     participation physique à travers leurs contributions
aux constructions et à la maintenance des centres de        J
santé comunautaires, à l'aménagement des points
d'eau, à l'entretien et à la réparation des pompes;
participation financière à travers la générallsation
du système de recouvrement des coûts (vente de médica-
ments, tarification des actes, etc.) et la contribu-



.63                                  ANNEX 3-1
tion effective des organismes locaux de  eveloppeaent 8
et des ONG à la prise en charge du système de santé.
30.   Le Gouvernement veillera à ce que les coûts de participation des
populations n'entravent pas leur accès aux soins et ne compromettent pas
le développement des services.
31.   Le cadre de politique, les plans et les stratégies sanitaires
ainsi définis doivent concourir à faciliter la mobilisation des finance-
ments extérieurs. L'utilisation efficiente de ces ressources nécessite
leur coordination en rapport avec celles de l'Etat et des communautés,
La présente déclaration de politique de santé et population, et la
création de la Cellule de coordination santé et population sont des
décisions prises par le Gouvernement dans ce sens. La coordination de
l'aide extérieure sera ensuite assurée par des examens annuels conjoints
Gouvernement-bailleurs (y compris ceux qui ne participent pas au
financement du Deuxième Projet) au cours duquel le programme et le
projet seront passés en revue.
32.   Personnel.  En application des cadres organiques, le Ministère se
propose de prendre des mesures afin d'assurer une meilleure adéquation
entre les profils des personnels et les postes à pourvoir ainsi quià
assurer la priorité à donner aux zones rurales.
33.   Médicaments.  Le Gouvernement a choisi de faire de la Pharmacie
Populaire du Mali (PPM) l'outil privilégié d'exécution de la politique
qui vise à rendre les médicaments essentiels disponibles et abordables
sur tout le territoire malien dans un délai d'un an à travers les
mesures suivantes:
(a)   adoption de textes juridiques fixant la liste des médica-
ments essentiels en noms génériques (189 présentement) qui
seuls seront exonérés d'impôts et taxes douanières et inter-
disant l'importation par la Pharmacie Populaire du Mali de
350 équivalents en spécialités correspondant aux médicaments
essentiels libellés en DCI;
(b)   la levée du monopole d'importation de la PPM et la réglemen-
tation, dans ce contexte, des conditions d'importation par
d'autres opérateurs (qualification de l'acheteur, contrôle
par le Ministère, etc.);
(c)   libéralisation des prix des médicaments;
(d)   la mise en place de mécanismes de contrôle de qualité des         4 
mtdicaments essentiels et d'inspection des pharmacies:
(e)   adoption d'un contrat plan dans lequel la Pharmacie Popu-
laire du Mali s'engage, en particulier, à n'acheter des
médicaments génériques que par appels d'offres ou par l'in-
termédiaire de VUNIPAC, à limiter à 152 la marge préfé-
rentielle accordée à l'Usine Malienne de Produits Pharmaceu-
tiques, à se retirer de la distribution et des activités non
rentables et ne correspondant pas aux missions essentielles



ANNEX 3-1
- 64                                 Page 9 of 12
de la PPM et & céder ses officines et succursales aux phar-
maciens privés selon un prograame établi, à réduire de façon
correspondante son personnel et à réviser les prix des
médicaments essentiels en fonction de la nouvelle structure
des prix. La PPM pourra exceptionnellement avoir recours
aux consultations restreintes en cas de menaces de ruptures
de stock; les prix obtenus doivent étre équivalents à ceux
du dernier Appel d'Offres ou à ceux de l'UNIPAC; une pro-
grammation sera proposée pour l'élimination des équivalents
de l'ensemble des 189 médicaments essentiels;
(f)   mise en oeuvre d'un programme de formation et d'information
pour promouvoir les medicaments essentiels auprès des pres-
cripteurs, des pharmaciens et des consommateurs;
(g)   planification des commandes sur plusieurs années de façon à
assurer la disponibilité constante des 55 médicaments essen-
tiels les plus critiques au niveau de tous les cercles;
(h)   seuls les médicaments essentiels seront dispensés dans les
formations sanitaires publiques et communautaires;
si)   la réalisation d'une étude sur l'Usine Malienne de Produits
Pharmaceutiques dans le but d'adapter ses objectifs Cligne
de produite coûts) à ceux de la politique des médicaments
essentiels et ce d'ici à 1992.
34.   Patrimoine.  Concernant les infrastructures sanitaires, la
stratégie adoptée met l'accent sur l'extension de la couverture sani-
taire par le développement rationnel des établissements de santé et
l'intégration des activités avec définition de normes de construction et
de maintenance, d'équipement et de personnel, l'ouverture du secteur aux
prestataires privés, la priorité donnée à la réhabilitation, à l'équipe-
ment et à l'extension éventuelle des infrastructures existantes sur les
constructions nouvelles.
35.   Le Sous-Secteur Hosioitalier.  Les hôpitaux constituent le sommet
de la pyramide de soins. Ils sont classés en hôpitaux secondaires,
régionaux et nationaux. Jusqu'à présent, ils dispensent de la même
manière des soins de santé de base, des soins de technicité élevée, et
le dernier niveau de référence pour les malades. La première de cee
trois fonctions est appelée à disparaltre à mesure du développement des
réseaux de CSCOM urbains.  C'est dans le cadre des deux autres fonctions
que le Gouvernement a entrepris la restructuration du secterz hospita-
lier en érigeant les hôpitaux nationaux en établissement' publics à
caractère administratif dotés de l'autonomie budgétaize qui garantirait          y
au 4inistér. chargé de la Santé Publique et celui chargé des Finances
une gestion rigoureuse des ressources. Une expérience-test est en cours
au niveau de l'hôpital du Point G avec le partenaire français dont les
conclusions seront examinées avec les bailleurs et prises en compte dans
la mise en oeuvre de la politique hospitalière.
36.   Le Secteur Privé de la Santé.  Conveincu que l'intéaration des
Privés dans le secteur de la santé permettra d'accroître la couverture



-65 -                                   ANNEX 3-1
de soins, l'efficacité et la qualité des services, le gouvernement a  Page 10 of 12
pris des mesures pour promouvoir le développement du secteur privé.
Elles concernent l'assouplissement des conditions d'exercice des
professions sanitaires notamment en matière de normes d'ouverture
d'établissement, la révision dans le sens d'une libéralisation des
tarifs et l'autorisation des privés à prendre part à l'intégration des
activités de planification familiale dans leurs activités de soins,
l'interrelation à créer entre secteur public et secteur privé sous
l'égide du Ministre chargé de la Santé Publique avec le concours des
ordres de santé.
37.   Dans le cadre de la PréDaration des jeunes diplOmés A l'accès à
l'emoloi, le Deuxième Projet servira de cadre à des stages rémunérés en
vue de combler le déficit en personnel nécessaire au projet et en même
temps de leur permettre d'acquérir de l'expérience avant leur installa-
tion dans le privé au niveau des communautés ou à leur propre compte.
Le Gouvernement encourage les comuwautés urbaines et rurales à engager
de jeunes diplômés pour réaliser en leur sein le programme de Centres de
Santé Communautaires.
38.   L'évaluation de ces différentes approches à tester dans le cadre
de l'intégration du secteur privé dans la politique nationale de santé
du Gouvernement permettra de définir des stratégies appropriées en la
matière.
39.   Hvdrauliaue rurale.  Afin de renforcer l'impact de sa stratégie de
santé, le Gouvernement poursuivra sa stratégie basée sur la participa-
tion des villageois au financement, à l'exécution et au suivi systémati-
que des points d'eau. En outre, le programme d'hydraulique villageoise
servira de support à travers l'iodation, à la lutte contre les carences
on iode.
8. PoRulation et Planification Familiale
40.   En juillet 1990 s'est tenu à Bamako un débat public sur la
politique de population du Mali, dont les conclusions et recommendations
devraient être approuvées début 1991. Cette politique se fixe pour
objectifsi
(a)   d'améliorer l'état de santé de la population, en particulier
les femme, les enfants et les personnes &gées;
(b)   d'adopter la fertilité au potentiel de développement écono-
Mique$
(c)   d'am_liorer les conditions de vie à travers la sécurité cli-
netaire, la protection de l'enviromnement, la valorisation        )
des ressources humaines, la promotion féminine et la recher-
ch. dé»mgraphiquet et
(d)   de faire de la migration un élément & part entière des plans
de développement du pays.



- 66 -                                   ANNEX 3-1
Page Il of 12
41.   A lintérieur de cet ensemble, qui relève de plusieurs Ministères,
la responsabilité du HSPAS porte plus particulièrement sur la planifica-
tion familiale. Dans ce domaine, notre stratégie vise un développement
intégré des services de planification familiale, l'amélioration du bien-
étre de la famille, et tout particulièrement la promotion de la femme.
Elle a pour double objectif d'améliorer la santé de la mère et de
l'enfant & travers l'espacement des naissances et pour le pays, d'adap-
ter la fécondité à son potentiel socio-économique. A cet effet, les
mesures suivantes ont été prises:
(a)   élaboration et mise en oeuvre d'une stratégie nationale de
planification familiale et d'information, éducation et
communication mobilisant les services de santé publics,
privés, communautaires ainsi que les Organisations Non
Gouvernementales;
b)    levée de l'interdiction d'accès aux services de planifica-
tion familiale à une femme mariée ou non sans autorisation
maritale ou parentale préalable. Toutes les parties prenan-
tes à cette composante en seront informées par un texte
réglementaire;
C)    autorisation de distribution de contraceptifs non hormonaux
par le personnel sanitaire des centres de santé d'arrondis-
sement et communautaires tandis que pour les contraceptifs
hormonaux la prescription est médicale avec distribution et
suivi par le personnel sanitaire qualifié des centres de
santé d'arrondissement et coununautaires. Pour ce faire,
des modules de formation et des normes et procédures ont été
élaborés et serviront à la mise en oeuvre de cette straté-
gie.
42.   Une fois les contraintes levées, les actions de développement des
services de planification et d'information, éducation et communication
réalisees, le Gouvernement vise que d'ici la fin de 1996, 752 des femmes
urbaines et SOZ des femmes rurales connaissent l'existence et l'utilité
des moyens contraceptifs modernes et qu'un taux de prévalence contracep-
tive moderne de 10Z soit atteint dans les réglons de concentration du
deuxième projet et de 8,52 pour l'ensemble du pays.
43.   L'implantation géographique des activités de Planification
Familiale suivra celle de l'Information, Education, Communication (IEC).
Elle ira des capitales régionales vers la périphérie et suivra en
principe la progression du deuxième projet, avec toutefois toute la
souplesse voulue pour répondre à l'évolution plus au moins rapide de la
demande. Pour ce faire, les services de planning seront renforcés en
conormité avec la stratégie nationale de santé maternelle et lnfanti-.
le/planificatio familiale définie par le Gouvernement,
44. Les activités d'information-éducation-commugication seront
intensifiées en utilisant tous les canaux de coumnication appropriés
afin de stimuler la demade de service de planning la où elle est
faible.



ANNEX 3-1
67 ,                                  Page 12 of 12
45.   En outre, un fonds autonome pour les activités en matière de
population dont les mécanismes de gestion et le cadre juridique sont
définis sera mis en place après la création du Comité National des
Activités de Coordination (CONACOP) et permettra de financer avec
souplesse mais selon des critères et règles de fonctionnement rigoureux,
les sous-projets population et promotion féminine qui seront approuvés.
VII. Conclusion
46.   La mise en pratique de l'ensemble de ces mesures devrait permettre
au secteur de la santé d'augmenter le rendement de ses services et de
favoriser la réalisation de l'objectif majeur de notre politique de
santé dans les meilleurs délais.
47.   L'application de la présente déclaration de politique de santé et
population devrait se traduire par la relance de la confiance des
populations dans les services de santé, leur mobilisation et leur
participation au fonctionnement du système, la mise en oeuvre de la
politique des médicaments essentiels, l'utilisation accrue des services
de santé et de planification familiale, l'augmentation de la couverture
sanitaire, le recentrage des fonctions des services centraux et l'aug-
mentation de la part du budget d'Etat et sa réallocation en faveur des
actions non prises en charge par le système de recouvrement des coûts.
48.   La présente stratégie de la santé et de la population au Mali
s'inscrit dans un processus de développement sanitaire à long terme.
Elle servira de référence à l'ensemble des interventions nationales et
extérieures en vue de la réalisation de l'objectif final de la santé
pour tous.
Vash$ngt n, le 15 décembre 1990
Pour le Gouverneyent de la République du Mali
Le Ministre de la Santé Pub/ique et des Affaires Sociales



- 68 -                        AIINEX 3-2
Page 1 of 3
01                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
:1;                        .I ,
-  0             lil~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a



I mmO PO          ATTM VAZ         PPLY BO=
FROFS DZMT-&AM MEALS CARE IYTH
a<rrr, STAM* RJCTZOIS IGsIMe
ei«1Y                      STAFFE                        #ALTH CJR Rt4Tt cn» «awmir  rfoIVBOC                             DbluuJts
co mtey        Cl»MY   W5ALTH CETE    tSEI                               PUDVEE  ZC I5lf CARE PAOCE         -UCL 0EV. ca»ETTE            - cOM%cT r        DISTRICT IN
(Cotin    tISSES AMD                         - OSATIE                             'w.Oe THE CO.                CONYC  OF OesP
<AVMOE il m OMMCT) aim/mmmcawrAL AM                       VACCDwrzMSE TC VM TO    SEJ-C
McALC PlU                                  TC)   DOWNES S AE        C t ALi  S«I5ELLVMO
-PERCN-E DOICOS
-   D   DNC SIRIle T
0w~~~~~ ~~         ~~~~~~~~                             xodrxF )  cS aE)  STAFF_-                           _           aPEl4< .S  Ita»tW
- RIW TfOl     N tJAIMLLY ff E 
-DXSUSa.zmDiStRICT caFlRISrx  TO
cae .     .          ..-. _. 
DSS OISIIICT    sneoe cae        t    sas S -ae   L  20   AT8IcA    -a  ASR ZD4  PLA4-SE AOf    a                                        - sas AS .* caseDI
c     e                    AsRé me amRS Da pu &          Me AS Cote Pm.                            As- ERR Ducas FeM                     c
ZD .
- AF» Tro WRoB< MU.TH Cm
NO F FoputLIIO A? TEr
COvUl. UV A cmg
DISTRICT       DSucr   SIEtf CamT  KI - _0 STAF                          - DO IL    A NDéU fAfCAD CF:                                    - A»tlRO OF  P*TOCOS PMt  v
(4 l1m Cam              teE1  ISL                                             AL SSem= .W Tm Dam                                            ff    Am O  RATV  CAM
CiP ~D1IWIC                                          D.SRIT '10=1èm:                                                 -aNuCE DSIcDACA
-DISTRIC SSALTMi Ce3oqmI
.IOUFT_AL SISIV»IE
- EICAL                                                            C8RJAT    oeI cases a-
O«éF ~ ~ ~ ~~~~ati eF$ DeL Lnem - ewD_O n
{MUIDD  F - )- ONW.OUS                                                                  -
DIC~~~~~~~~foiI 'TFI POUtREMR
- us & Rfroro
sEaIALMSMM
ozoimrltp.tHnm   -Fni NWOM O<.  FF1                - IWALo DtiSRICT  MOAINCUER     «l  OirrE                          ITITMLNDM            WPM(~
-FWCJUAM.I NAIS                    S?5W4 DhD..WIIO:                  -   <TIF ca  STA>r TO US  îUS'm Cose. ,O Se.
»AM                                        ROMM~~~~~~~~~AT     si TM5 DISTRIC  sToUC MM. RCFII. fRToca.s
-m'a~~IrZC M m U                 P£                               RU    A OUsLa caOrAFT                                             o'
-, csaIT?? mIjeASITW SIM1ST   - at~iff   FLUN                        - IDUtMLE lm coetA  MWLX
- RmaSe<r as 01zsmumo               lm Tm *aèke     OF auxc
essomnrAL Cam                  me n~~esra
- TRAIWMAesjpVISIO                   ZN        v~  a
I.
INNMs.o.  DiSTzcrICTUAD
- MONTMR FlMM AcWTAIes as          -F           UU  A    z
iMUM% IUSIT. <ALI.  20 -80 5TI                          - Mvus AJLa  o« OF a  tava.                                     - ,uela  airmas
150           -EM  UIcSP loiRL14                                       NOML    vIcU
(y    IN  cam as   _ _ _  _ __ _                                                 _ _
65»IMUN O'R OFI ie=                     114             - commTB as Wm    Piact                                                       mmi
0")       O-       F nJDC  wm K.OCJI   AN MO USTAR?                                                            NI uS cIvi. USmO
- AISP  OF FdnuEL   ma.           At »uiT mOmIU     L                                               RSIM.DWITI
-Wi5CIST                          ou --  .  =SRC  -t)km



-70                  AN»NFX 3- 2
g~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pg 39f
i
IS,l                 1li30  
g    ig   ! 8   Ili^  
1'   E  uai t  1 M h  i! bi .IIr  I iilt   
X                    e
i § . . _



ANNEX 3-3
Page 1 sur 1
- 71 -
REPUBLIQUE DU HALI
DEUXIEME PROJET SANTE, POPULATION ET HYDRAULIQUE RURALE
Planification du divelo,pement sanitaire au niveau du cercle
1.        Depuis 1981, Le Ministre de la Santé Publique et des Affaires
Sociales s'est engagé dans un processus de programmation sanitaire
décentralisé, qui a abouti à l'élaboration et à l'expérimentation d'un plan
régional de développement sanitaire au niveau de certaines régions du pays.
L'objectif de ce processus est de rapprocher le pouvoir de dtcision et les
structures qui le sous-tendent au niveau oparationnel et de l'exacution.
Etant donné qu'au Mali, le niveau administratif qui raalise le plus ce
rapprochement est le cercle ou la commune, il est proposé de transférer à ce
niveau les compétences de planification et les pouvoirs de gestion du
diveloppement sanitaire à la base.
2.        Le  canevas  ci-dessous  est  une  adaptation  du  plan  ragional
actuellement testa par la DNPFSS (DAF) au niveau de certaines régions du
Mali.   Le plan de daveloppement socio-sanitaire du cercle proposé pour le
deuxième projet de diveloppement sanitaire comporte les points suivants:
(A) Analyse de *ltuation
! - Défiltion - but
- Procédures
- Fiches de recuel des donnIes
(8) La concertation avec les partenatreo *a développement soclo-
* sanitaire
(C) Les objectifs gnéraux de développement du cercle
(ou de la _oeaune en atière de santé
(0) Les stratégIes de développemnt sanitaire
(E) Élsboratlon des volets du plan
- Définition du volet
- Les volet* du plan
- Volets sanitaires spécifiques (prloritaires)
Les soins curatitf
La santé fmiliale
La lutte contre les endémies locales
La vacclnation
L'amôitoration de la qualité de I' u et l'hygiène du milieu
- Volets organisation du systâme de santé
Développement des CSCOV
D4veloppement du CSC
O4veloppceent des structures techniques d'nppui
Volet* mobilisation eoclale
Organisation et participation comunautatre
InformatIon et éducatIon pour la santé
Appui aux Initiatives de bése
(F) Le pin de f Inancemant
- CMpte d'invetisment
Evaluation des beoins d'invetisement/volet
Plan de prise en charge des frais d'investisement
- Les budgets de fonctionnement
Eva luation des frais de fonctionnnemnt/volet
Plan de prie* en charge des frais de fonctionnemnt/volet
(O) La gestion et la pilotage du plan de développement snita re
- L'autonomie de itIon de le citconscrIption et se* limites
- aL«ppuio au plIotage de la circonscription
- va wuation



- 72 -                         ANNEX 3-4
Page 1 of 5
REPUBLIC OF MALI
SECOND HEALTH, POPULATION AND RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
DECENTRALIZED HEALTH MANAGEMENT INFORMATION SYSTEN
Le svstème local d'information vour la santé
I. Le problème
1.        Un système cantralisi.  Jusqu'à prisent, le système d'information
pour la santé du Mali a été conçu pour repondre en priorité aux besoins
d'information des directions et programmes nationaux, ainsi qu'à ceux des
organismes de coopiration. Par consequent, ce système est peu adapté à la
gestion décentralisée des services de santé.
2.        Un système plus administratif que fonctionnel.  Le système actuel
renseigne sur les activites des services et les ressources utilisées sans se
référer aux objectifs et aux normes à atteindre. Sans cette réfirence, les
responsables au niveau local (Centre de santé) ne sont pas en mesure
d'interpriter les données qu'ils recueillent et transmettent à un niveau
supérieur.   Pour prendre les mesures correctrices qui s'imposent,  ils
dapendent totalement d'une rétro-information souvent hypothitique et toujours
tardive.
3.        Un système peu fiable.  Parce que le système n'est pas conçu en
priorité pour servir à l'auto-ivaluation par les responsables locaux des
services, ces derniers tendent à se désinteresser d'un système dont ils ne
perçoivent pas les avantages. Par consequent, les rapports sont peu fiables,
souvent incomplets et peu ponctuels.
II. La stratiaie adoptée
4.        Décentralisation.   Le systame servira d'abord aux responsables
locaux, afin qu'ils corrigent sans délai les programmes qu'ils gèrent. Ces
responsables locaux, Centre de santé communautaire-CSCOM-: (i) définiront les
responsables de l'uniti de production de soins de base, le CSCOM, dont le bon
fonctionnement est déterminant pour obtenir un impact sur la situation
sanitaire; et (iI) l'équipe de santé de cercle qui aidera les responsables
des CSCOM à analyser les progrès et les échecs, et comparera les performances
des différents centres.
5.        Fonctionnalité. L'objectif principal est de répondre aux questions
de gestion que les responsables du CSCOM se posent:
a.   les résultats constatés correspondent-ils à l'attente?
b.   les soins offerts sont-ils utilisés dans une proportion suffisante?
c.   les activit's de soins et de gestion ont-elles la qualité voulue?



- 73-                          ANNEX 3-4
Page 2 of 5
d.   les moyens mis en oeuvre pour le fonctionnement du CSCOM sont-ils
adiquats?
6.        Les questions clés seront posees aux quatre niveaux (résultat,
couverture, activité, moyens) au sujet des programmes prioritaires et du
fonctionnement général du CSCOM.
7.        La  réponse objective à chaque  question est  fournie par un
indicateur. Chaque indicateur est constitui d'un numarateur (NU) et d'un
dénominateur  (DE).    La  valeur  de  l'indicateur  (VI)  est  daterminae
régulièrement, et comparée à une valeur seuil (VS) et a une vcleur-cible
(VC).  Au cas où la VI n'atteint pas la VS, les responsables du CSCOM en
analyseront les causes et prendront les mesures correctrices appropriées.
8.        Efficience. Parce que les supports sont conçus pour recueillir les
donnaes nécessaires aux calculs des indicateurs, les donnaes inutiles ne sont
pas enregistrées.   Il s'ensuit une économie considirable de papier et de
temps administratif du personnel.
III. Le Système d'information du CSCOM au Mali
9.        Les Tableaux A a D presentent le système d'linformation du CSCOM au
Mali. Test du svstame. Le système est actuellement dans les 3 CSCOM lancas
de la Zone KBK. Il sera pleinement opérationnel avant la fin 1990.
10.       Dafinition du centre de santé oiarationnel.         Pour ;.a'un Cercle
obtienne le financement de son Plan de Developpement Sanitaire, il devra
faire la preuve qu'il comporte un CSCOM 'opérationnel'. Par convention, un
CSCOM sera appela 'opérationnel" lorsque la valeur de tous les indicateurs
trimestriels sera située entre la valeur seuil et la valeur-cible.
Examen annuel du Prolet. Chaque Cercle prasentera la performance de ses
cSCON a la revue annuelle du Projet. <Voir Tableau D). Afin d'atre éligible
pour le financement de la tranche suivante de son Plan de Développement
Sanitaire du Cercle, ce dernier devrat 1) prasenter le rapport d'activita
d'au moins 802 de ses CSCOM. Chaque rapport de CSCOM devra etre complet à au
moins 80%; 2) présenter une analyse des problAmes de performance communs, et
un programme d'actions correctrices qui satisfassent l'IDA.
csXn3-4N



~0  IMH.  PPLTTU RUUL YA1FR BWPLY PRJlèT
.~~~~~~~~~~~~ - .. 
.... . a~~~~~~~~~~~~~AL                                                VN.H    Y  b 
ATAN ma PS LA uS  El                      m  LE M       De      L   OE L' W Lm DE  EN
otXerrqns  R        mU CO»N?                f E seBlRtia
Lun MIANS CO*MAUMB-Lus LU  Mm~  'Umm CE IHS CAPS. CE   MmUN  CE SOUS vO                           0.8      0*#       9 MhCe  SORT
A °      ON A    F4   Ofi CM    ea«    ROJU LE ESPCE UIS          Lm OS 0. 2 
ORO0 A 4 MWS                          CE L'BaENQM  SOM,pmj
LA SrflmI WTWtICEOLE  U "MMTS   NA   O'BmS oNT LE                 WOSUN E OPM«  ê4 AIS       A ETS. AETiBI.         4 ILtCE: SORT
Wl-ilU.E 8ATZ&VAZ&SM4E                POrcS W SLWFZSME PmS RWPT IUW   LmR VS LIO
A LSR TAKU.! COU A LUS AM     TRIUS?RIS.E
LA  E1T      JlUJE EST-UE RUTIU NMl  DE CA  NOUL  ao               N   DE CS eE MRWIXE           0.8      0.2        1 NU SMYWLLMC
LES EMMA" couN    PmS LE    ATTEMNS amS fNOGAMME                                  AU COCU # NAPPOR
COCN,oeL.  riRm4 WN AN                                                         CU Cuî DE sOmrs
DE CAL(aW5 SM LA
0*4 CE LA POPUL.TbO
LA PSITIS CSIYE PAS LE CSCOI UT-  NfhM DE PSNUS SATBUE  NOS CE PONIENCMIEES                       0.5      0.8       2 1.oe. Ours
ELLE SATISPAM O  OSOVIU               P« LI SORFUS
LU OIOB  OJE ATWS S SONm-aLS UvsU   tOUE TOTAL PAR AN DE          POPULATN CONUE PAR LE           0.8      0.S       4 N: EUIY   DE
CSSI PRe>                             COOLIrET O*ATIFS A _m_ _   CamON DIV1SE PAR SIAeT                                 COOLTAION
DE LA POPUALAIIN CUNTE  PASR                          Le  o.Ba TOIS
COCOmm                                                                            àà.JEL DE LA POPULA- 
av?  C.LI O TE.: 4
LUS NAtIN IUBLRM  P.AJO               NOMM DE NUINEM   IDASR  POPULAWIN CLVITM PM LE              0.8      0.6       1 NU CAsO CE
UAC1I.LIPu SM-TUILS 0ETEI« CI 8ACIU.Z E              IStU        tO CON X ItW                    O.      T0.6       4       LNJ_
FI _ tW                                                                                                                 DE: POFULUTI X 0.01
V-T i m-Xo.oe
LU FDI   ENTU cSLTr-B.UA tÀINE DE                    9 L4T        NUM    ATEO.S oE PS             0.8      0.6       4 tN: ROCIEU PUEATAL
TOMS LA CUISOLTATIO  PFATALE?         CMLT*IT LA PS?ALE AVANT  9SEOUE. PARMI LA POPULTION                               ME POPSITIO  X 0.01
LF SE MOIS                  CmuIVtT
LES FSM SOTBLU ASSNIST   PAS UNE   tOM DE FOSASSISYS              tOURSE A51T    D'A CUIOEDOE     0.8      0.6       4 WU: %SUXR OU
NATIUE PORMEE AU MOISI DE LOS                                     PAUh LA POPSI.T!O  COIAIBTE                           A=CH0UROS
ICWUMSOIT                                                                                                               VE: POPULATION X 0.01
LES NOLSOIOS» SON-ILS IDS8tI  A       tOUS DE NOLUISON  INOZT  NOUS ATTSUU DE NOLUOSO             0.8      0.6       4 NU, RPOIST  CE LA
TEMPS A LA CONULTATIUE PRMUBSTI       AVAN L'AOE DE 8 MOIS        PASE LA POPSJJTXN COLNBTT                             COUSLTATIO  Ou
.- POUATZIO X 0.01
La PUSSS  CEUY  PAS LE COCO          tOM CE PUt          M ASSIWTA    POMUN COANE PAR LE          0.8      0.6       1 W: CAITEl    S
ASSIST8I-SJ. EN PROPORTO BIPSANTE  MxEP 98COCO                                                                          CE- POPLTIO CUtAd3t-
AUX5 SEAMIO  D'ECATION POSA LA S*fN E                                                                                   TE MISE A JUi
LIS FEMS Kb  a! PAE DE    UTILSEr-  NOM DE CONATM   PP            M  RE TffAL DE FOT EN ADE       0.8      0.6       4 w4: Ca*   Pr
R tL- LE PF?                                                      DE POOR1tDIVIS PM 4                                   0E- POPtA.TXO CCUVElt-
________________________   ---           1NIAB& U LIE NT: 4
o I



TALEA C
IICATEU« DE «ALITE DE5 ACIV
BANTS TU             nsET-I  LEJ URERSE DE N81E  M  t1E D'DEFMI  VATCC1PA PI 0E C1NATS VACCINES PAR    0.S      0.8        4   NU  DE: FOUILLE DE
VACCIW.TICN?                 ~~~~~La DTC I                 LE. DTC III                                              PONffACE
1.5  4LOMS TN u Ab  AOEVD-ILE I  LES T4N=B5  O8ST. ?om1W DE TIN81Lm  0818T                           0.3      0.6        1 NU * DE. CAIS TO
TRAITEen3?                              f001  DE IUS~SMEC OIS   AU COLA DE L'MN01 PR8SCEIT
TNIPAMSr, 12 MOIS PUIS
TARD
LES FE14 DCESINMIS SON-B.I. AISIO(   NWMRE DE COMS1U.TATTeS PiOA~- NMOI  DE NOUVLBLES CEIKA.TAM-      0.8       0.8        4 NU * DE- CAMIER CPM
A LA COMNSLTATION PREMTALE?             TAtMS AU SE MOIS            Tl  A LA FIETALE
.ES FE4  COeLTAUT LE PF SOt-ELE5   MNS L DE RDEZt-VS MPF2 .   O BE DE R9DEZ-VOUS                       0.S      0.8        4 NU + OE: CNHER PF
ASSM?                                   1.5 CUNMELTANM FF of TTON0
LS        SW-ILES VACD4 CORt1ffTE-   MOUTE OO-OS'ATIONS RWOWT1r L1 OE LA SLMAVSG  iOl                0.6       0.8        I NI * DE: -LAM
ASSMENT?           t                    AUX OIITEUl DE CRRECTIN      DOSRATONS DE CONSULTA-                                   DE SWPERWISIN
TION DE VACCINATIO
L1M COULTATIOS Tflf S M-ELLES          NOMRE O'OBSERATIO S REPNNT  M0 DE LA SWSNVISIO  NOSEE         0.6       0.8        1 NI * DE. FI.A1
ASSUISE3 ClRRE1B13T                     AUX C RI  DE TE COS9.TiN     OOSOEVATIONS DE                    . WA.                 DE SPE1ISION
Ti"4 aIlATIVS
LES CCOULTATIONIS PRS4ATAI. 804-9.1.    NUE 0'OSSIRVATIGI IEPOANDM LMR DE LA SLWISICN. NOUE          0.8       0.8        I NI * DE. UFODLAZRE
ASS&mq  CCORROCY8E<T                    AUX CRrITR  DE COOSIZO4      DOBOSERVATIONS DE CONU.LTA-                              DE 9UP81VISIG4
1101S REATALES
LES COMU.LTATIS DEP F 8014-ELLES       lOUE D>OOSUWATIO  RwoeawNT Lm11 DE LA UIWSVISw. tOUE           0.8       0.8        1 NU + CE FOMUAARI
REALDSS C(ID4ITE                       AUX CRIT DE CORRECTION         OBSERVATIOS DE CONSULTA-                                DE SUPER_SI0
TIONS DE PF
LES 000*043  C0MPAU. OU COCON SOtT-IS MOURIE DE CRT11        DE1 CO RE-  TNO     DE CnRprZ   DE CiRE-  0.6      1.0        4 N. F001041  CPFTA5L5
MAgxirNUS OIRRECTBOEG?                  71CM REMPLS                  TSI A RSI'R                                              CIE: FD1WJA-tD  DE
LES FICHES DE 8700 OS è4ICUM0<  80NT- NOUEM DE CIZTERE DE CORRE-   MMU DE StiTS  DE COR-              0.8       1.0        4 NI: DOCUE4TS COMPFABLES
R i5 9R. SM    645?                    7104 ROCiS                   T10N A REMPLR                                            CE: FORMLA-AM DE
SUP1WSN                                 t
LE CSCOi S;T-fL .PRFE7                 MNOME DE 5Rr        DE COR-  MOSUE DE C5ITOM D C0RRO-          0.6       1.0        4 NI: F0IR0E0 8 COTAS
71CM ROIPLIS                 T1CM A UENLIR                                            DE: FUbILAM DE
SU9PVISION
IfiEEIIL~~~~~~R                             DaICA7R~~~~D DP ISPONTOILTTE DM5 mtESOey
U.5 tElUICAI S  ENTIE]L. SONT-ILS  ISPtF- NMBE DE JGIL OU Er LA       MOE OE .4 CItWS LU              0.8       1.0        4 FICHE DE 810
MIOLS EN PE86W45O AU e'114?             PDMIICILLIE ET~ LA ClLOROmjIJE  IRW4IRE
ET LA SMR ET LS TUBEIEumSTA-
Tram SOW NT ESNn
L'ATFFRVSIUNIBI     EN VACCIN EST-IL    PM 0465E VACCIN. tOURE DE  POMl CHUE VAN. NOUE DE             0.8       1.0        4 F        EUJA   CE ft3S1rM
SATISFAISAMr?                          DOM5 R8.CUES                  COS   WIS
Les conTRApCTIs sC-Ds DIS m    e4 NOMU CDE J405 DU Er LA   « IMU  0E    DA50NS LE                    0.8       1.0        4 F04  DE ST30
F8800405 AU oeoeM?                     PILULE Er LE DeURCYSAS Er     701347WM                                   0.6        4
LES FRESSATIF S W
OISFONOMIL
LA MJNM1ENEIFICIAM DU CSCOM IT-EL4.    CHIFFRIE D'AFAME  DU CSCON    0EPE855 DU CSCO                   1.0      1.2        4 COMPTE D'EXPLOITATM
SUFIZSANr FOM CAJW4TIR SA CONTINIrIE?
LE PFS#*  OU C<1EN   DE SIT ES T-L.    NORUE OE JOS DE FRSENCE U  ONOE DE MM DE  oC                  0.9       1.0        4 FE1JE DE PFO  CE
PFR554   LES  .404    FRE«U?           COLA   Du  TRINESTRIE         £T maJMS_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
1.fl



SD   NW4 CM    Muim
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s= 
_ | N~~~~~~IJATBB                                           |                    SBJI    1Ss CISLE  ||JHL           SOleRCE
LES4 NOICAMEM TSB6418.        Nom    ce Jo~m au Er' LA      #m>Ut DB JOWS DAN LB          0.0    1.0 7RIN   Cs=v  A CSCU a tscoec CCS   Cs= O      CSC   SO  F  CERCLE.
SmT-aLs DISFONW ES et         P8SLLINE Er LA                 TRNTR 
PERNANENEM AU CSCM            OC CGJ»NDE ET' ELrS LA                                                  2
ET' LE; TWmCILOSTATIWJ                                                 8E                            
soe« 84 sToa<                                                         4s
&'APffOVrSImeeO« 84 VACCIN  P» 04E VACCN                     PNOH O<A,E oVACCN            0.a    1.0 oRIN  COS    A csa  S CXoN C CO(  0 ct    E CSC  F MOY. FCB
w5w-IL SATIAISAN'             wNEM DE nom ESWb =             N0.9L DB DoS  CE F             c
4
fflm~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
LES CONTRACWIT'1  SON-ILS     NOW4UE DB JU    OU Er LA       NoNSRE DB JolI DAN LE        0.0    1.0 im.    CN A rC'CO 8 CSC  C COCO 0 CSCM B 584  F NOY. CLE3M
OISPWEONLE UN P4AMINCE AU   PILULE Er' LE COREWVRAS          TRINSTRE                            0.0  t
cSC3<                         Er' LES PRESORATIFS SONT                                                2
DISPONISL. AU CSCON                                                     3
4
LA FRIT'ATIOT4 DU COCO        NWME DB .1015 DB               IOM DB JOUI DB               0.9    1.0 TMD  cCOCO  A COCO  a CsCON C CSCG O csm B COCO F 1V CSTO.
Ur-ai£ BJiFIOANTU POl         PRES8CE AU CO55 DU             PRtESDeC ATT'emIJ                        1
OARANIT'R SA CONTI.JIEM       TRD51RB                                                                 2
LE PERSONNE. DE CENT  OS B 
UNIE EST-IL MSBT'f LM5
CD1
ut :



- 77 -                                    ANNE 3-5
Page 1 of 1
REPUBLIC OF MALI
SECOND REALTI. POPULATION AND RURAL VATER SUPPLY PROJECT
POPULATION COVERED BY TUE COMHC PROGRAM
POPULATION COUVERTE PAR LE PROGRAMME DE CENTRES DE SANTE COMMUNAUTAIRES
RECION    POPULATSIN POPULATION   POPULATION NOMBRE DE   POPULATION  NOMBRE DE  POPULATION TAUX DE       TAUX DE
1990       MOYENNE      MOYENNE    CERCUES     DES          CSCOM 199S TOTALE     COUVERTURE  COUVERTURE
(lm90) PAR   (1906)     APPUYES PAR CERCLES                 COUVERTE   PAR LES     CSCOM
CERCLE/COM-  COUVERTE   LE PROJET   APPUYES PAR             PAR LES    CSCON DANS  DANS CES
MUNE         PAR CSCOM              LE PROJET               CSCOV      LES CRCLES RECIONS
APPYS  PAR
LE PROJET
KAYES     1,289,821      184,189      0,092            4     700,766         8s    280,8ae         0.89       0.22
MOPTI     1,586,884      192,0e      1o0,04            6     900,20          81    8830,584        0.84       0.22
BAMAKO      065,058      144,810     1S,fl             4     577,280         20    880,09»         o.e6        0.4
SECOU     1,476,451      210,922     18,198            4 | 48,088           1l    211,108          0.26       0.14
KOULIKORO 1,487,885      2o0,888      9,09_            4     821,882         20    198,08e         0.26       0.14
TOTAL     0,085,a29      107,86o     11,449           21  8,a08,242         120  1,882,448         0.84       0.20
C:.XN8-S.n



_78 _                           ANNEX 3-6
Page 1 of 7
REPUBLIC OF HALI
SECOND HEALTH. POPULATION AND RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
FINANCING OF TIE DISTRICT-BASED HEALTH CARE SYSTEN
1.        Principles.  Under the system described in this report, primary
health care (PHC) is to be provided by self-financed Comunity Health Centers
(ComHCs), be they in urban areas ("communes"), district or sub-district
capitale ("chef lieux de cercle et d'sarrondissement"), or village groupe
("secteurs"). The ComHcs vould receive assistance from their local Government
(through an existing Local Development Tax, which is retained at the local
level for local initiatives) and from NGOs. Government's responsibility would
be to finance priority programs and to ensure the quality of care through the
provision of techl4cal staff, in-service training and supervision of these
ComHcs. The ComHcs eo be supported under the project vill include nev rural
centers to be estab-lished at the initiative of the communities, existing sub-
district health centers and the PHC windov of existing District and Commane
Health Centers (the DHCs and the CHCs vill be refoeused exclusively onto
their referral function). The decision to mobilize community participation
vas prompted by the recognition, not only of Government's persisting
budgetary constraints, but also of the desirability of increasing the
responsiveness of the health system to the concerna and needs of its users.
In order to be effective, the system needs to be vell defined while
maintaining enough flexibility to match individual circumstances.
2.        The financiunz framework proposed for the district-based health
aystem is summarized in Table 1. Although similar cost sharing arrangements
are being implemented in a number of countries (e.g. Zaire) and are under
experimentation in Mali, it is essential, prior to extending them, to
seriously review their affordability as vell as their sustainability f rom the
viewpoint of both the communities and the Government. As background for this
analysia, Tables 2 (investment) and 3 (recurrent costs) present for each
level of --he nev system (ComHc, DHC, DUT, RHT) (a) the breakdown of costs by
type of expenditures and source of funding, and (b) the total costs for the
five project regions and for nationvide extension. The base case used here
for the ComHc is a staff of three (nurse, midwife, clerk), which could be
reduced to two. The minimum target population ls 5,000, although the average
is expected to be 8,000-10,000.
3.        Level of community participation reguired to cover Investment
costs. Table 2 shows that, based on an investment cost-sharing arrangement
(for the building) of 50% for Goverument (through the proposed project), 252
through the local Development Tax (retained at the local level precisely to
support initiatives of this type) and 12.5% each for the communities and
NGOs, the investment cost per person vould be a range of CFAF 280 for 5,000
population-140 for 10,000 for a nev Comic and 60-30 for a renovated one. The
level of NGO contribution assumed (CFAF 1.3 million) is not rare in Mali,
where several donors envisage to systematically channel towards projects of
this type the large influx of private charity funds. Furniture and equipment,
an initial stock of druge and start-up operating conts are expected to be
financed through the project.



- 79 -                          ANNEX 3-6
Page 2 of 7
4.        Level of community participation reauired to cover Recurrent Costa.
Based on the same assumptions, and on the principle that the Local Develop-
ment would finance the salary of the nurse, Table 3 shows that the p.c.
recurrent cost for ComHc would be CFAF 95-45 p.a. Medical supplies and
amortization would be included in the District's budget. Drugs, with the
exception of program-related medicines (against leper, TB, goiter, etc, which
would continue to be paid for by donors) vould be charged to users (at cost)
plus a margin determined by the LHC.
5.        Financina options. Payment of the community share of investment
cost would be a one shot operation, and could be in-kind, (e.g., partly in
the form of labor); the procedures are described in para 11. Payment of the
recurrent costs of the ComHC by the commuaity would be based on a cost-
recovery system which would separate drugs from service fees.
(a)  Service Fees. In order to assess the fee requirements, during
project preparation a putative budget for a 3 (base case) and a 2 -
staff ComHC vas prepared (Table 4). Different fee formulae vere
envisaged, based on the KBK case: a yearly tax-based contribution
(with an assumed 20% recovery rate), a yearly family membership (9
people/family), and a fee per visit. Population vas prudently
assumed at 5,000 per ComHe. The impact of various options on family
budgets is presented in Table 5. Further sensitivity analyses were
conducted based on the projectwide data. The results are in Table
6. Both sets show that (i) the annual miembership fee is the least-
cost solution; (ii) whatever the fee option retained, the fee level
vill vary broadly (up to a ratio of 1:5) depending on the popula-
tion served and the utilization rate;
(b)  Drues  (generics proeured under ICB) u-ould be paid at price based
on a formula acceptable to IDA to cover administration, depot
management (incl. the salary of the nurse) and distribution. Table
7 compares the average cost of a PPM-based prescription to that
obtained in the " Médecins sans frontiares and Madecins du monde"
experiments, which already sell generies procured under ICB. These
figures give a sense of the savings which could be achieved through
introduction of the essential drug policy.
6.        Affordabilitv. If, for illustrative purposes, the cost of drugs
following the PPM reform is estimated at CFAF 400 per prescription, and the
fee per episode ranges f rom CFAF 305 to 65, the total cost per episode of
illness would range from CFAF 705 to 465. A generally accepted threshold for
affordability is that the cost per episode should not exceed the daily salary
of a modern sector vage earner, or the equivalent of 2-4 days of rural
income. Based on the salary range indicated in a recent IDA-financed study
(Lachaud:"Le marcha du Travail au Malit analyse et politiques, February
1990"), costs of these magnitude would be affordable for most urban vage
earners, down to the unskilled labor level in the modern sector (CFAF
21,O000month). The same study estimates daily rural vages as ranging from
CFAF 500 during the low season to CFAF 800 during the high season. The
proposed arrangements therefore meet the affordability criterion. However,
the fact that modern sector apprentices, large segments of the urban informal
sector work force, and the first decile civil servants do not satisfy it,
suggests the need for a safety net (para 9).



_ 80 _                          ANNEX 3-6
Page 3 of 7
7.        On the local Government aide, the financing of the nurses salaries
(at CFAF 360,000 p.a. for 120 ComHC by the end of the project), plus
maintenance of the DHT and the DHC, out of the Local Development Tax is amply
feasible. The 1990 total revenues from the Tax amounted to CFAF 6 billion,
of which about CFAF 450 millions (7.5%), plus CFAF 100 millions from the
"communes", are to be paid as contributions to the operation of the health
sector.  These amounts are to be compared to the portion of the system's
recurrent costs expected to be financed out of the tax, estimated at about
CFAF 225 million for the project area, and 334 million following nationwide
extension.
8.        Sustainability. Additional financial inputs required to ensure
sustainability of the proposed districtlbased heslth system are : (i), from
the Central Government budget, an operating budget for the DHTs estimated at
about CFAF 2.3 million p.a/district. This ls equivalent, for 21 districts ,
to about CFAF 50.0 million, or 1 S of 1990 health recurrent budget; and (ii)
f rom the donor community, a grant equivalent to about US$ 1.1 million p. a. in
the form of vaccines, contraceptives, etc. This figure should be compared to
the CFAF 12 billion external programs actually implemented in 1988. Both
targets appear easily feasible, especially as domestic health spending is
rationalized.
9.        Safety nets. Four levels of protection have been envisaged for the
poor at the individual, community and national levels. Pirst, building on
Mali's rich tradition of solidarity, the Communities themselves (through
their elected Health Committees) would determine the criteria based on which
their poorest members would receive free care. This approach has proven
effective in Timbuktu, wehere only 4% of the population was declared eligible
(to be compared with a nationwide 30%, consisting mostly of civil servants).
Second, if a whole community experienced difficulties in sustaining its
ComHc, it would receive increased supervisiontassistance from the district
for one year only, while possible solutions would be sought, namely either
increased allocations from the district budget (or NGOs), or a reduction in
the minimal package offered. Third, the Social Dimension of Adjustment (SDA)
program, which will start in 1990 in Mali, will monitor closely the impact of
cumulated cost-recovery on the poor through a battery of surveys. Fourth, in
case of a major disaster such as the 1984 drought, resulttng in a drastic
decline ln national output, income, and fiscal revenues, the proposed system
would not be viable and would require emergency assistance from the
international community.
10.       Cost recoverv arrangements. Responsibilities. The community Health
Committee elected as a precondition for community eligibility would, with
assistance from the DHT, determine the health, population and nutrition
activities to be undertaken by the ComHC, the resulting civil works, staff ing
and operational needs, budget and financial plan, including the fee levels
and options, criteria for identifying the indigents, and possible sources of
additional funding such as NGOs. It would also select the staff of the ComHc
and elect a amall executive Health Management Committee (BMC) (consisting of
a Chairman, a Treasurer, one Secretary, and possibly others). The Health
Committee would meet once a month to discuss the community health situation,
the community-based and outreach activities, and the technical and financial
performance of the ComHc. Twice a year all the Health Committees heads would
meet with the Chief of the District to discues inter alia the District's



- 81 -                         ANNEX 3-6
Page 4 of 7
contribution to the ComHc program. The HMC Treasurer would, jointly with the
ComHc$a nurse, aperove expenditures, and would keep the ComHC's accouats.
Accounte would be audited twice a year.
11.       Procedures.  For investment costs, once the community applications
for project support in constructing/rehabilltating ComHes had been screened
at the District and Regional levels, and approved by a Ministerial Project
Monitoring Committee, a simple agreement specifying the obligations of both
parties would be signed by the DHT and the communities. Projecte contribu-
tions towards the cost of the investment would be released in a maximum of
four tranches upon satisfactory completion of pre-agreed phases of civil
vorks  and technical requirements  certifications.  For the  recovery of
recurrent cost, the financial plan approved at the beginning of the fiscal
year between the district and the community, specifying the contributions
expected from the Local Development Tax, the community itself, and possibly
NGOs, would be binding on all parties. The bulk of transactions at the ComHc
would be based on membership carda or tickets per vislt, so that the amount
of cash kept would mostly consist of payments against drugs at the community
pharmacy. These funds would be deposited at lesst once a week In the nearest
bank.
12.       The above findings point to the importance ofs (i) sensitizing the
communities on the reasons for decentralizationfcost recovery, and on the
long term implications of that policy; (II) proceeding cautiously with the
opening of ComUcat especially new ones, and the a.ze of the facilitylbasic
package retained, on the principle that it is easier to let a ComHc grow
organically than to have to close it down; and (Lit) involving the communi-
ties on the decision, the concept, the management and the monitoring of the
progrem.
TABLE 1
ISTRICr IEAL1)4 T« CDV'T T*m  o'T  1OV'T  N.A.  80V'T
c>N oele 
DIZSRICT HBALTR Cam   OV'T TR11  V'T    WS  SU   OOV'T
(M)       OJB:n    =ffB
<RVSUA>  5Ar De&"2N
cGI.UGT fALfl oNnRa OOV'TTmuo  1SE    ff USeS  uea E   aawmrr
CTXNOI  CO&f
..TA&F (mu  N  T01
AsTAeLE! OUSA. NEL)



-82  -                                          ANX 3-6
Page S of 7
RLSC OF MAL
SECOND HEALTH. POPULATION ANI) RRAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
TAKE2                                         amR   C    RE
VALBJR       CAPTAL                        CCflU.           TU                       INVETI.         TOAL
imTam          EXITN             TL          LKAB              QS             12            *EM   INVOTST
A) n       DPM    £                      FA s           FCF A S        FCA   a         FA    I       FA   S         FA         FCFA
CENTE COMMMTA (CBC»
ATIJeI  <CONSO. 10.70    OS 8 ,  80     8,8   u1n      1,891  28      2S8  1         1.20   80       50       10 700
OATIMe« <ASIAS.>  10,700  701    8.840  800      1:177  un1       au8  21        80   tu1       2    au      1,177      2.884
EWJPS48«R~~NOOIUff  480   0%         0   OS         O   es           orO          0   0%         01001        480        480
Fêt     R UDE    . IC     1.000   OS        O   OS         0   OS         O   Ou         0   OS         0 tOcS    1.000 1a0m
RAIS nE LANC84U            478   OV         O   ON         0   oS         0   os         0   OS         0 lo0S       475        478i
FOSMIIA,ioNINITIAE          48   OS         O   oS         O   es         O   oS         O   on         0 1001        48         48
NEJF                     1S 470   OS   O        40S S  880  lOS    1,891  2as    2,678  10#    1,284  CM           8,0       la,470
REAUBILTATION            1S,470 S2S      .346 25S      1.177   6S   llS                89   61        282  771m   .947        6,124
C&MMR DE 0N4E E  CCLE <CSCO
BATIHENT (CtGPISTR.      C,90.400   OS      O   OS         O   OS         0   OS         O   OS         O 10S   C90,400      90,400
BAT fÉlU                 CO,90.400  78e   70.812   os      O   ou         O   OS         O   OS         O l001   19,088S     19S8S
EOUIPTM      C T          s,w700   OS       O   OS         O   OS         0   0         0   OS         O 103S   S8,700       38,700
EWIPT/MOBIL.<REHAI.      38.700  78t    M,278   0          0   OS         O   OS         O   OS         O 10       0,42S     8a425
MAT MED/Ca4IR. COT.>   11.10  os C                  O   OS        O       0   OS         O   OS         O 1001   1S,600      18,6e0
MAT M    Ja. .)                          l' S 0 SOS        o   OS            O OS        0   OS         O 00       7,600      7.80
FW4S DS ROUL. I8DC        8,891   OS        O   OS         O   OS         O   oS         O   OS         O l00S    8.891       8,391
PROdJITS DE LAOR.          403   OS         O   OS         O   OS         O   OS         O   OS         O 1S0       408        40S
FORtATION INIT AL            O   OS         O   OS         O   OS         O   On         O   GS  O        100          °          O
NBJP                    14 499   os         0 oOs          o   os         o   os         o   os         0 1001  148 49n    148.499
* RBHILITATION          148,499  71V  £08.887   OS         0   OS         O   oS         O   OS         O  2C#   41.912      41.912
EOUE E DE SAM3EX CERCLE <ESC
*  A«TD<NT (0N4SIR.)     12 e o ffS         O   OS         O   OS         O   OS         0   oS         O 10o    12 900      12,900
O BATDEDET <1844)        12,900  0OU   10,820   Os         O   os         o   oS         O   OS         O  t0OS    2.80       2.t80
18JIPrjMOOILIU    ~~19,20   oS        O   OS9        O   oS         O   os        O   oS         O 1001   19.8250      19.280
*STa       L T1NOEMIDC     8,     on        0   os         0   os         o   OS         o   oS         O l«lS    2.146       2 148
*- FEA«TION DiZYZALE      8,780   os        o   oS         O   OS         O   OS         O   OS         O  l0OS   8780       8 7S0
NEUP                      0,o048   os       0    fO        O   OS         O   OS         O   OS         0 t00     80.048     88 048
RB4AOILlTATION          S8S048  271   10,820   OC          0   OS         O   OS         0   OS         O  78#   87.728      2772S
|) COU  iDt PAR CML
CSCON: 6 CONSr * 8  HA  148,617   280    41,780  801   a7,0 9Q   1    9.811  18    38.998   91    9,110  4Sa   48 488    l06s440
CSC: 1                  145,499  80   08,060   os          O   oS         O   oS         O   oS         O 1001   01.04       61.648
Usc: I                   38.048  291    0.85    oS         O   Os         O   Os         O   OS         O 1001   20,691      29.691
cWs         D'UN COZE  831,714  405  18,940  19    87,908   81    9.876  IOS   18,998   au    9,110  011  186.789    197.774
C) CMnTS AtFI7S PAR DIRBTON REIALE
AMIORATN LOCAUO          79 920  48S   8S 964    S         O   OS         O   onS        O   OS         O 10O0    48,986     48S986
Ew TMiLiU                18,240  781 1ns   0    OfS        ô   oiS        O   oiS        O   OS         O 109S    4,862       4,862
FOlATION DUIAIE           4,8   0 OS        O   OS         O   onS        O   O          O   OS         O 10tO     4.8S0      45650
COrS APPUIS QWUNE RAMUN 102,718  4B#   49,«0   os          o   os         o   os         o   os         o lOOS  s8 8.068 88,0D8
0) =MUTS TOTAUl( PAR REOION
BMEDJcO (a COUNIE     2,098,002        06s2es        82r,910         8.287         118,98          84,m        1,011,799  1,289.709
MYS <7 CUCLU>   ~2,424,718       907,203        20899           6 9,188       182.948         68,818      1,171,80    1,487,488
MOPTel Oz MUCES       2,786,480      1,121178        80800           79,090        la1.940         72.981      1.881.877   1.088257
ECOU7 C5tCLES)        2 424, 71        907 SSS       26a,ses         69,18         182,940         68,01       1,171.m8   1,487,408
M:O7 ULCOUW (7601>    2,424,718        987208         28.8008         769.188      1829404          0s8,18     1,1,80s8s  1.487.408
BSM-TOTAL ZONE PROJET 12,128,880  411 4,988.145  181 1,829,478  a8 348,664   SS 0a4u780   41  819,074  OU 8,6870.40  7.187.418
s85Mso (7 2B,8424 716                  987,20r        20s809 s9esa s2932  8                        S8e018      1,171.0    1 487 480
CAO(8 £aR.E8)         1,761,208        719,88la 109926               49 ,81         94.968         4S,802       '82,011  1.041 986
TeOmUBCT  (a >m)    1,701,200          719,82         1s9,928        4,80u           4 ,068        48,802        082.011  1,041.936
WBM-TOTAL HOMRS REr O  ,947,292  411 2,428,987  101  648.748   81  167,694   e#  829.08   4%  184,979  eZ# 2.078.610  8,8.85
TOTAL. NATIONAL     1t,070,872  411 7,868,102   1S 1,978,29    SS  818,887   9#   87,6t10   45  474,058  t5 8s,7s8.8,0  10.700,770
4> TDrAL NATIONAL mmRTT PAR NIVEAU
COCm                  7,704.840  201 2,169,9 c  E  1,07S20 9s   818,887  191  0S7810  9C  474,08 O!S              ,86   8.8S4,800
CSC                   7 ,68.948  801 4,60,819   OS         O oS           O   OS         O   OS      'O 1001 8208,420  8,206,429
APPUI R   BIONAL         2,n 44  481  897,200S «             ocS          O   Os         O   OS         O 100t   424,644    424,844
sc                    1,978,840  25  484,425   OS          o   on         o   os         o   os         o 1O  1,848,917  1.848.917
TOAL ('000 FA)       18,070.872  411 7,86212   U6S 1,978,U   8S  8S1W7   9   987.010   45  474,053  0  s8.7ss,s00  10,708.770
TOAL (0o0  uI            ,tss          62,742         es,sos         61.796         63.408         618           08.87       87,448
fn g .-  -.-                                                                                 -          -



- 83 -                                            ANNEX 3-6
Page 6 of 7
PeLlcu OF MALI
S7Ec ML. PULION MO MA           L VAT8 S&WPLY moJEcr
IS~~~~~~~~~ILLXe5D CA A
TABEIL 
VALELR                 UTILISATDEW             TAXES         eaXEr CONTRIeUrIW
UATjIIMj          IQTL CI OLOLCA3M            ,LOCAU   FONC U        ErTA EXTERIEfRES
FCFA   N       FCFA   S       rCFA   X        FCFA   s       FCFA   S      P CFA
A) SOINS DE SANTE DE CELE
coo coequimxrRm (CSCOFn
SALAMIR   14                     Io0 10     860   On         0  100      8eo   OS          O   0%         0
SALAIRE KAtROPE              180  i0o       180 ton        tu  o0i          0   on          0   0s         0
SALARE COWIIS                180 iOn        10  to06       180   ou         0   os          O   0%         0
N80. a F01.84 NSIA          .061  ton%    2.061  Ion%    2.061   on         O   on          O   ou         0
CONTPIWTIPS          ~~216   on       O   0%          O   on         O   0%         O  100%       916
VACtIlR                     21S  0os          0   0%         O   On         O   0           0 100         48
TuB^CnL0STATI<8.%           291   os          g   os        oO  0os            o            0  100%      291
PONCTIoe.oe48« coea'NT       98 iOn          9S  tOO#       96   0%         0   ou          O 0C           O
TOTAL PCUE 1 CSOCO         8.4S2  84%s   28,7   7SS    2.517  1o%         8eo   On          O   16S      au
CeaM DE SAMTE DE CMCLE <CB
SALAZM                    12 960   on         O   es         O   oi         0 ton    12.960   on           O
MIUJ<BCIS, FW%2T.         7t888 100l     7,Ee8  100%     7.580   On         O   Ou          O   OS         O
NA2iemi                    1,am  100     1.808   es         O  lm        l0    0%          O   lm         O
FONt. COA                 2,217   0        ' O   0%          O   on         O 100      2,217   0%         O
TOiAL POR 1 CSC           24.87- S8S    9.896  9tS    7,8    7%    1.808   2    18,177   0%                O
IMUIPE DE MN  DE OCI.E <C
SALAIRES                  10,080  0          O   oS         O   OS         O  i0on    10.o08    Ou        0
MAD«ENANCE                  64  lm0          us8  0%         O  005       845   0%          O   ou         O
CARS. à EITR. VB4.         1,80     S        O    0%         0  03          0  1005    1,800   es          o
FOL58I1WS                   800   OS          O   OS         O   OS         0  1003       800   0%         o
FORMATION CONYUAJ           200   on          o   os         o   0%            1035       200  0c          0
TOTAL P    1 E8C          18,o0    aS      o4    0%          O   6%        o4u  9ou    12,35O    On        O
8) CMr INOY    PAR MU2CLE
Cs-CO: il                 87,757  us    81«S  73%   27.6es   10%    8,9a0    0%            o   16%    6,112
CsC: s                    24,873   su    9,896   ait    7,88    7%       1#808  69      15.177   os       O
EcB: 1                    la8o:0    eS      S4      S        O    %       64a   91SS   12.380   os         0
TOTAL                     75,86    SU    41.686  47%   a.s27a   9%    6,41t  a7a   27,857   8%    6,112
C) COrS APPUI PAR D2RECT21N REC3DNALE
SALAIRES                  8a6c0   On          0   os         0   os         0 103S    8600    0%           0
NAIN Ws                     800   os g        O   oS         O   os         0  t0s        800   0% g
F0154TWRES                 1,60   on          O   0%            os 0%           100%    1,60     on        O
FOATIN COaÆiW               400   ou          o   os         O   0%         0  103S       400   0«         o
TOAL APPUIS R1E3           6,400    s         0 oes          o   es         o scos    8,400   0%           o
D) Cous TOTMX PA.R R0ION
8AKWO N   O8C0tW29 488.8 280,117                       211,639         38.478         271 742         86.669
a<AVB~,CoeCLU>    8M'au8          291,808        246,912         44,841         199,29          42,781
NOPTLO OECLE>     60.25 8Ur,489                  92,2185         81,304         226,3au         48.89
SF3u C8 a88                             291:80e        24es912          44 891        199,299         42,781
KOUD    3(? CC )            ,833.86     291,808        248,912          44,891        199.299         42,781
80W-TOTAL ZNE PROT 2,649,414  88% 1,489.014  46  1,284,589   av  224,48   87%  996,496   ss  218,908
SWSS3 1 7 CERONEC)       s3sa8ee        291eteo        244,912          44,81l        199 299         42,781
O0  0<   C   )           883'173        20S,481        176,86           82,065        144,185         8O,58
T      wOI   (8          auL3173        208,481        176,866          82,085        14418           a0o58m
SO0STOTAL             s1.8o002s0   su  70s,e64  46%  899,643   8%  109,021t  a    437,669   es  109 897
TOTAL NATIL            8.969,648  M8% 2,187,677   4e% 1,834,201    s  a333,476  87% 1,484,164     s  817,802
E TCTAL NATM   L REPARI PAR NIVEA
CsCO                   1.968,848  84S 1,648.841  78% 1,489,s21  10s9 2920   O%              o sss   817,02
c,C                    1,277 600  38%  4888,96  81%  894,860   7%   94.018  62%  789,204   0%            '
APPUI F43UWAL              5i20   0%          O   on         O   Os         O 100%    81i00   0%           O
ESc                      e7,80o   8%   88,840   es            o    %   as3.80   984  e48,760   on          o
TOTAL ('OO FCMA)       8,969,648  M8  2,167,677  48  1,884,201  8a  8a3,47e  37% 1,484.164   8%  817,802
TOAL ('00 0*6>            13,380          7,879          6,41t           1,166          s,s1s           1,111
5USS - OFAF U          _                                                                -



- 84  -                                    ANNEX 3-6
Page 7 of 7
DuL                    4 R EJr                                   ZIVTfl       U»r LVEFa EYIYSRAEFOA
<CFAf                   - C^F
NNIY  YEMLY   S OF   HMtHLY  YEARLY  O OF
UI.MIES                            TOTAL                _TAIAL
Im                        a8o000  8 0,000  80.01   00 8O 60 ,0000  471
mXmOwIf                   1,000  16,o00   19.01  152000  180000  24S
TOTAL                     1 000  172 000   20.01                  711
MAL                 so'~~~~6,000  720,000  77 .01  48,000 O.00 71
YoeNAf coS             8,000  96,O0   t1l  8,000  90,000  181
NOTVACVCLE OlUffTI0NS/     4.000   40,000    tS   4,000   48,000   71
NOTORCltE AIRTATION    e    ,000  72,000     ES  6,000  72,000 9S
TOTAL                     78,000  90,000   1001  68,000  786,000  S100
TABLE 6                         FER R«E TO COVE THE COST OF A CGIHC,           FEE        TO COV  tHE Cm OF 2 SYAFI Ol.
^SAM ON «NEI@ T SALARBF                           ON COTV61  SA0F2SAF
a StAFF comC                                     2 RYF ,
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _   ________   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~(fAF  F91ANCSj _ _ _   _
PUD4IC    HIDOLE SCU4ARIO  0P1D41STIC       P6SHISTIC       MNCE sAIc0  OPTIMZSfC
SeIRIO (CALL <MMIFE PAI  SY            6   SUfE (  AU.    <MIWI  PAID DY s0e    (MM
COSTS PAM 8Y  LDX)          PA   Y UX:)    corsT PAZOU S    0Y )           PAID BY  C)
THE CoeouNm                                1tH4 COMNUN_TY
-YEARLY TAXUA  CoenRDxUN    90/TAX PAYIER  O1/TAX PAYER   87/TAX PAYV     8/TA PAV1    486/TAX PAY      216/TAlX PAV6
-Y  RELMVILY RmAT          1506/FAIILV   1470/FAM4LY   1n088FAIEILY     1080/FANILY     82/PAMILY       M/FaLy
-YE^ALY FANLY MB«t$
-F6E PER VISIT
- WSTM 0.2 UrILZATION RAMt   ISIT       762/VISIT       22/IS             2/SXT        402/VISIT      162/VIT
- OII 0.8 UTILZTION RATE    08/ISIt '       /V1T        $88/VIT           r/iST        26/ISIT        108/VISIT
- V    0D OCLIVU          70            7680            80              780           .78             730
SOUCE: MISSION TMAT7E
TAME 8            ~~~RANOS  F FM5  TC LE APPLIEO TO COVER A TYPICAL. COMHC RECIROEN  COSTS
A) fEE PER EPISODE OF TLLNESS
UnTUZATION RATE        P,OPULSUN
090        68 0       7 0        8 000      9   08    18 W
O.8            1 600      1 5        2 18        2 40       2 70       B a Ou
0.4            2 00       2 4     800  2         8 20      8a e        4 000
0.6            2  sou        00 a    888         4 000      4 5W       6 en
0.8            a          8u 004     4 2W        4 8e     00           a 4a  68OO
0.7            8 58       4 208      4U          5 en80     68 wu      7 n
COST PER EPISODE
0.8              ao4       25U       217        190       169       1S2
0.4              228        190       les       148       127       114
0.6              182        162       luO       114       loi        91
0.6              162        127       109        9S        84        76
0.7              lBO        109        9a        81        72        eS
8) AMAL FER
PARTICIPATION RATE    LEVEL OF ANNUAL FEE PER PERSON
Sm00      e6          785 8   80 W          90B       10 aM
0.7              10         189         98         81         72         eS
0.8              114         9o          81         71          8a        67
0.9              loi          84         72         OB         s6         s1
TABLE 7
PRESCRIPTION COSTS. MALI. 1988
AYROE PPU-MAED PRgIRIPTION .......... CFAF 2,690
LEECINS SMN  FRONTIRES
* TOMBOUCTOU ......      .........198
*    ..O  .       ...... *............            248
NEDECINS DU MONDE
* BANK U.4.......
* KORO    ...                 ...***.....         420
SOURCE. OLE FIhNNCEENT DES COOTS R&CURRENTS DE L  SANTÉ AU MAULO, MNWP
A:Xn8-8.N



- 85 -
ANNEXE 3-7
Page 1 of 15
REPUBLIC OF MALI
SECOND HEALTH, POPULATION AND RURAI VATER SUPPLY PROJECT
INFRASTRUCTURE PROGRAMIINFRASTRUCTURES SANITAIRES
I  DIAGNOSTIC DU CONTEXTE ACTUEL
1 * 1     La structure du réseau sanitaire existant.   Depuis les trois
dernières années, pour pallier l'insuffisance de la couverture sanitaire des
soins de base, de nouvelles structures se sont criées à l'initiative des
collectivités locales (au total 45 en milieu rural et 6 en milieu urbain,
notamment dans le district de Bamako). Dans ces centres de base, les soins
primaires (soins curatif-préventifs, consultations prilpostnatales et parfois
accouchements assistés) sont délivras par du personnel employé directement
par les centres eux-mames qui fonctionnent selon des principes privés ou de
cooperatives.
1 2       Au niveau des Arrondissements couvrant une population moyenne de
25.000 habitants (50S des arrondissements comptent entre 14.000 et 31.000
habitants), les Centres de Santé d'Arrondissement (CSA), taplantés dans les
Chefs Lieux des Arrondissements, dilivrent les mames soins primaires que
décrits ci-dessus, mais actuellement avec du personnel de la Fonction
Publique, et dans des structures appartenant à l'Etat. Ces CS&A n'ont en
géniral pas les moyens d'offrir un appui technique aux centres de soins
ouverts par les collectivitas, alors que le besoin s'en fait ressentir,
notamment pour des soins rifarés de la compétence de ces CSA ou des analyses
rudimentaires n'exigeant pas d'installations de laboratoire autres qu'un
microscope.
1.3       Au niveau des Cercles couvrant une population moyonne de 128.000
habitants (502 des Cercles comptent entre 98.000 et 183.000 habitants), les
Centres de Santé de Cercle (CSC), installés dans les Chefs Lieux des Cercles,
sont sensés offrir des soins de référence, dont la technicité demandent des
moyens matariels et du personnel non disponibles dans les CSA. Ces soins
comprennent la consultation par un mdéecin, des services hospitaliers de
midecine ginérale ou de chirurgie simple faite par un madecin, des services
de laboratoire, ainsi que des accouchements rférés. Le personnel appartient
à la Fonction Publique et les installations sont la propriéti de l'Etat. Les
études sur les activités du personnel de santé conduites durant la phase de
préparation du projet ont montré qu'en l'absence de centres de soins
primaires accessibles aux populations, ces CSC sont sollicités en permanence
pour des soins primaires, et ne peuvent pas en conséquence répondre à leurs
missions essentielles en matière de soins de référence*
1.4       Au niveau régional et national, les soins tertiaires sont assuras
par les centres hospitaliers# en réalita, ces centres sont surtout utilisés
pour les soins au premier niveau, par manque d'linfrastructure sanitaire
urbaine de base.
1.5       La ranartition du raseau sanitaire existant. 25S de la population
totale du ali, habite à moins de 15 km de plus de 522 des structures de soin.



- 86 -                          ANNEXE 3-7
Page 2 of 15
Par ailleurs la population urbaine s'adresse en masse aux hôpitaux pour les
soins primaires, ce qui dévie ceux-ci de leur vocation principale.   Les
centres de soins primaires sont très inégalement répartis entre les régions,
ainsi qu'à l'intirieur d'une mame region entre les cercle«: le ratio varie de
2.500 à 25.000 habitants/CSA.   En conclusion, seule une répartition plus
aquitable et une meilleure décentralisation de l'offre de soins primaires
permettrait d'augmenter l'accessibilité aux soins.
1.6       Les Programmes des infrastructures existantes.   Chaque projet
sanitaire applique ses propres normes pour la programmation du volet
infrastructure, ce qui conduit très souvent à des sur-dimensionnements
importants par rapport à la demande potentielle (les surfaces de CSC
oscillent entre 270 et 3.800 m2, selon la source de financement). Sur la
base de l'échantillon de 20 CSA, 5 CSC et 2 CS de communes à Bamako
(représentant 82 des CSA, 11% des CSC du pays et 33Z des CS de Bamako), les
risultats des études, confirmés par des sondages durant les visites de
terrain au cours de la mission d'évaluation ont permis de dresser le bilan
suivant:
(a)  Environ 25X des centres de soins de base disposent d'une petite
infrastructure en général bien dimensionnée par rapport au talx
d'utilisation et aux moyens de fonctionnement.
(b) Dans 85X des CSA, le programme d'espace construit dépasse de 170 m2 (ou
902) la surface optimale, ce qui entraîne des charges additionnelles
d'entretien. Les CSA disposent dans 75% des cas d'un dispensaire et
d'une maternité, et dans 25% des cas il existe un logement pour
l'infirmier d'Etat. En ginéral, la collectivité met un logement à la
disposition de la matrone.
<c) Dans 90X des CSC, le programme d'espace construit dépasse de 1.000 m2
(ou 117X) la surface optimale, et dans 50% des cas le dépassement
atteint 2.000 m2.. (ou 235X). Le logement du médecin chef n'existe que
dans 50Z des cas.
Cette situation rivèle l'absence de viritables normes nationales permettant
de dimensionner les infrastructures sanitaires en prenant en compte la nature
des soins et le potentiel de la demande basée sur le nombre d'habitants ayant
accis aux soins. Il est également important de souligner qu'aucune disposi-
tion administrative ne prévoit les conditions d'ouverture, d'extension et de
fermeture de centres de soins primaires. Cependant le Ministère dispose de
techniciens qui pourraient examiner les dossiers techniques et conseiller
efficacement les collectivités qui entreprennent la création de centres de
soins primaires.
1.04      L'état du patrimoine. L'étude portant sur un échantillon représen-
tatif a mis n ividence que pour rattraper le retard d'entretien, il faut
diployer un budget de réhabilitation iquivalent a environ 10 ans du coût
d'entretien normal, ou iquivalant à 25% du coût d'une construction neuve.
Actuellement, il n'y a pas de stratégie pour l'entretien des infrastructures
sanitaires.  Il en résulte un retard d'entretien dont les conséquences, dans
le cas ou aucune solution ne serait apportie, entraîneraient l'abandon



ANNEXE 3-7
-87 -                         Page 3 of 15
d'environ 50Z des batiments actuels dans les 10 années à venir, et augmente-
raient sensiblement le coût de la réhabilitation des 502 restant.
Il.  OBJECTIFS.
2.1       Le volet infrastructure de la composante 'Appui au programme des
cercles' comprend dans les ragions du projet les objectifs suivantst
(a) L'appui aux actions visant à introduire un programme de santa communau-
taire couvrant 602 des communautis de 5,000 h situés dans un rayon de
15 km. Selon les régions, de 60 à 100% des ménages appartiennent à des
communautés qui répondent a ce critère.
(b) L'appui aux projets communautaires aligibles pour la réalisation des
investissements nécessaires en matière de réhabilitation des installa-
tions existantes et/ou de constructions neuves.
(c) La mise en oeuvre du programme de rationalisation du réseau sanitaire
et l'application de normes permettant de rapondre d'une façon optimale
à l'offre minimum de soins.
(d) L'amélioration et le maintien, à un niveau acceptable du point de vue
technique et financier, des conditions physiques des isfrastructures.
(e) Le renforcement et la réhabilitation des infrastructures des CSC, dans
les cercles des régions du projet qui répondent aux critères d'aligibi-
ilté.
(f) L'extension et la réhabilitation des infrastructures des Directions
Ragionales de la Santé, dans les régions du projet.
III. STRATEGIE.
3.1       Pour atteindre les objectifs énoncas ci-dessus, la stratégie du
projet comprends (i) l'application de normes pour dimensionner les programmes
de construction; (ii) l'application aux communautés de conditions d'iligibi-
luta aux appuis accordés par le projet;   (iii) l'adoption de mécanismes
souples et innovateurs de financement de ces programmes de construction; (iv)
le renforcement et la mise en valeur des acquis (encouragement des traditions
d'initiatives de base des communautés, utilisation des structures existantes
au niveau des CSC, notamment les techniciens de Daveloppement Communautaire
(TDC) pour la sensibilisation et l'information des communautés, et les
capacités techniques du secteur de la construction); et (v) un micanisme de
programmation annuelle suffisament flexible pour s'adapter aUX initiatives
communautaires.
3.2       L'aiplication des normes. Les programmes architecturaux pour les
infrastructures sanitaires seront basas sur des normes correspondant à une
offre minimale de soins.  Les études de préparation du projet ont permis de
convenir que les normes suivantes représentent la réponse optimale aux
conditions présentes sur le terrain:



ANNEXE 3-7
- 88 -                       Page 4 of *5
(a) Les centres crées ou rahabitas avec 1'appui des communautés seront
appelés Centres de Santé Communautaires ICSCOM) en milieu rural et
Centre de Santa de Quartier (CSQ) en milieu urbain, à Bamako.   La
surface nette ne devrait pas excéder 124 If.
(b) Le CSCOM ayant des activitas de réfirence équivalent à ce qui est appelé
aujourd'hui le Centre. de Santé d'Arrondissement offrira le Même
programme de soins communautaires.   En outre, chaque fois que sa
localisation le justifie, il offrira une gamme limitae de soins de
référence pour les CSCOM des environs.  La surface nette des CSA ne
devrait pas excéder 144 N4 pour les soins, et 53 M4 pour le logement de
l'infirmier d'Etat (hors project).
(c) Les Centres de Santé de Cercle et de Commune auront pour seule fonction
d'offrir les soins de reference pour les malades du Cercle ou de la
Commune. Les communautés habitant le chef-lieu du Cercle auront accès
à un ou plusieurs CSCOM ou CSQ. La surface nette des CSC ne devrait pas
excéder 753 1N dont 150 If pour l'hébergement des accompagnants et le
logement du médecin chef. La surface nette des CSCommune ne devrait pas
excader 915 le.
(d) Chaque cercle sera doté de bureaux (surface nette de 97 l2) afin
d*héberger l'Equipe de santa de Cercle, chargée de coordonner l'ensemble
des activités de soins.
Le Tableau 1 (Dossier du projet) dresse l'inventaire des locaux pour chacun
des types de centres de santé.
3.3       Les conditions d'ilixibiliti des communautés.   Les conditions
auxquelles devront satisfaire les communautés pour être éligibles au
programme d'appui sont les suivantes:
(a) Regrouper au moins 5.000 habitants dans un parimètre de 15 km.
(b) Avoir constitué un comité représentant la communauté.
(c) Participer à 50% des frais de rahabilitation/construction soit sur fonds
propres, soit avec l'appui d'ONG ou d'organisation de ressortissants.
(d) Avoir mené avec succès d'autres initiatives de daveloppement.
(e) Se trouver dans un District selectionné pour le projet.
3.4       Site d'imilantation des nouveaux CSCON12. Autant que possible les
nouveaux Ceutres de Santé Communautaires seront implantés de manière às (1)
raduire les distances entre les 5.000 membres de la communauté et le centre;
(2) atre proches des autres infrastructures socio4conomiques (marcha, icole,
etc.) et à; (3) etre situés sur un axe de communication permettant la
supervision du personnel et la rafarence des malades.



ANNEXE 3-7
- 89 -                       Page 5 of 15
3.5       Les mécanismes de financement des appuis aux communautés.  Afin de
promouvoir et d'encourager la prise en charge des soins primaires par les
collectivités locales, le programme prévoit les étapes suivantes:
(a)  L'équipe de Santi Régionale renforcera la capacité de gestion et de
programmation du Cercle, afin que ce dernier remplisse les conditions
pour le financement par le Projet du Plan de Diveloppement Sanitaire de
Cercle (PDSC), à savoir: (1) un PDSC conforme aux normes nationales; (2)
au moins un CSCOM opérationnel.
(b)  Lorsque le Cercle aura rempli les conditions d'iligibilité, il sera doté
chaque année des moyens financiers pour mettre en oeuvre la tranche
annuelle de son PDSC. L'objectif à long terme du PDSC est de couvrir
l'ensemble des communautés physiquement accessibles (5.000 h dans un
rayon de 15 km) par un CSCOM opérationnel. L'objectif à 5 ans est de
réaliser 60% du programme de CSCON.
(c)  Les tranches annuelles des PDSC seront consolidies au niveau Régional
et intigrées dans le Programme national de Développement Sanitaire. Ce
programme annuel sera rivisi chaque année par un Comité Ninistériel de
coordination, et soumis aux bailleurs de fonda au mois d'août de chaque
annee. Il sera accompagni du rapport d'exécution de 1'annee pracédente.
(d)  Les travaux de réhabilitation et de construction des CSCOM/Q et des CSA
pourront etre pr'financés par les Comitis Locaux de Développement.  Ces
derniers seront remboursés après certification des travaux par la CEPRIS
(Cellule d'Exacution du Programme de Renforcement de l'Infrastructure
Sanitaire).   Ces travaux seront exécutés par des tâcherons et des
petites entreprises engagies par le Cercle, et formés/encadrés par les
agents de la Direction Rigionale de l'Urbanisme et de la construction.
(e)  Les  travaux de réhabilitation et de construction des  directions
regionales de la santé ainsi que des CSC et des bureaux de Santi de
Cercle seront financis à 1002 par le projet et seront rialisas par des
entreprises après appels d'offres.
3.6       Calendrier de mise en oeuvre
(a) Les cercles de la Zone KBR développent dès à présent leurs Plans de
Développement Sanitaire de Cercle, et un CSCOM par Cercle. Au cours des
négociations, il sera procidé à l'examen de leur dossier, afin qu'ils
reçoivent l'appui du projet pour la mise en oeuvre de leur plan de
Développement Sanitaire dès la mise en vigueur du Projet.
(b)  Au cours de l'an 1 du Projet, les Régions de Kayes, de Mopti et le
district de Bamako seront dotés des moyens pour assister l'ensemble de
leurs cercles à remplir les conditions d'iligibilité. Les Rigions de
Segou et de Koulikoro suivront au courant de la deuxième annie.
(c)  Il est escompté qu'au cours du Projet, 602 des Cercles de chaque Rigion
rempliront les conditions dealigibilité.



- 90 -                         ANNEXE 3-7
Page 6 of 15
(d) Il est prévu que dans les Cercles appuyés par le Projet dans les Régions
de Kayes, Mopti et dasu le District de Bamako pourront réaliser 60% de
leur programe de CSCOM contre 40S dans les deux autres Régions.
IV. MOYENS ET MODALITES DE MISE EN OEUVRE
4.1       La sone et le volume d'intervention. La zone d'intervention du
projet comprend, à partir de la premiire annee, les ragions de Kayes, Mopti
et le district de Bsmako, et à partir de la seconde anaie, les régions de
Sigou et de Koulikoro. L'ensemble des secteurs, des arrondissements et des
cercles reprisentent la zone potentielle d'intervention. En tenant compte du
réseau actuel d'infrastructures, de l'état aénéral des locaux existants, et
des objectifs proposas, le Tableau No 2 prasente le volume d'interventions
réalisables durant le projet.
4.2       La nature des  interventions.  Le projet  comprend  les volets
suivants:
(a)  Le renforcement de Ï'équipe de la santé du Cercle pour lui permettre de
raunir les conditions d'éligibilité du Cercle.
(b) L'appui à l'Equipe de Santa de Cercle et aux communautés pours (i) la
priparation du programme annuel et la mise au point des dossiers de
demande de financement pour la rahabilitation et/ou la construction des
CSCOM. CSA et CS ; (iL) la construction et l'ameublement de Centres par
l'octroi de subventions forfaitaires fixies à 6 millions de FCFA pour
les CSCON, les CSA et les CSQ; (iii) la rahabilitation et l'ameublement
de centres existanta, par l'octroi de subventions forfaitaires fixées
a 1,5 millions de FCFA pour les CSCOM, les CSA et les CSQ; (iv) les
extensions de Centres existats estiaiaes sur la base du coat de 72.000
FCFA/Ne1 (v) la dotation des iquipements spécialisas et du stock initial
de médicaments essentiels; (vi) l'encadrement du suivi des travaux par
les  techniciens  (Techniciens  du  Développement  Communautaire,  et
interventions des Directions Régionales de l'Urbanisme et de la
Construction) en place au niveau des Cercles et des régions.
(c)  Le financement des études, des travaux et des équipements pour la
réhabilitation et/ou la construction des CSC des Cercles actifs et des
Directions Rigionales de la Santé (DRS), situés dans les ragions du
projet. Les DRS de Bamako et de Mopti devront etre entièrement
reconstruites compte tenu de leur dispersion dans plusieurs bâtiments
dont certains sont en location.  Par contre, pour les autres DRS, les
trevaux se limiteront à une rihabilitation simple à Sigou et avec
extension des locaux existants à Kayes.
4.3       Les coats du volet infrastructures sanitaires sont basés sur des
cokat unitaire* qui ont ite reconstitu.s i partir de sous-détails de prix
calculés pour des techniques classiques cte construction fraquemment utilisaes
au Hali. La comparaison de ces coûts unitaires avec des bordereaux de prix
de marchis récents a permis deétablir une fourchette de prix rtalistes selon
la taille et le type des entreprises. Les coats unitaires in4tqués sur le
tableau No 4 ci-dessous s'appliquent i des petites entreprisez pour les



ANNEXE 3-7
- 91 -                        Page 7 of i5
CSCOM/CSQ, et à des entreprises de taille moyenne pour les DRSICSC.   Le
tableau No 5 résume les couts du volet des infrastructures sanitaires.
4.4       Le  nombre  des  interventions  prévues chaque  annees  dans  les
différentes régions est donné à titre indicatif sur le calendrier des
interventions (voir Tableau 6).
4.5       Les Tableaux 7 et 8 indiquent les coûts par nature des dépenses et
par annee.
Rappels  Les Tableaux 1, 1-2, 1-3 et 3 sont consignas dans le dossier du
projet. Seuls sont repris dans cette Annexe les Tableaux 2, 4, 5 et 6.



9ANNEXE 3-7
-92-                                         Page 8 of 15
TI    r 1. L1-2. 1 <â (cf olser du projet)
lMZU  No 2                     T     TeF    QIDAEFEFIE   CVT
REOffi D'INTMVS 4TIO6 OU flOJET                                    COUVERTE 96   INTERVNTIOCNS PREWS SJ LE PROJET          IN£IME      IWCON
STRUCTURES   PAR  W              >i b)                                          A      A      A
POPULATION  Pt~iiTIN                                            ell§X   <t4l«       
lEoE PHASE           EN t987  IN £996 (a) EXISTANTiS                O OTENT.I  94 1i9 -U                         TOTAL (c) CO.f   IR ARU. COHPL
ROMION DE KAYES    1,0580,8O  1.259  ,321
DRSP                                             1            1 t                                                 1  00%             1    I
Equipe Sante de Cercle                           O            7                         1   1    1   1            4   fJi            4     t
CSC (eoins de rofetrnce)                         7            7                         1   1   £    1            4   ti             4     1
Equipe Terrain (Ia                              4ti          4t                        10  10   8                28  80T
Soinr de ref. interédlarer                       O           22                         4    4                    e   #iS     8
CSCom                                            ?           89e  au   778,90    a   7 ?          e 6      _          3611  le    17    a
RECION DE MOPTI      1,261S8sa    1S8S3,t84                                                                           l                  _
ORS?                                             O                            1                      1             100%       1
Equipe Sante deC rcle                            1            Il                        1   1                        l 1            S 6  a  1
CSC (ooin- de reforenf.)                         8            a                         1   1   2    1            a  601 1           2     1
Equipe Terrain (E)                              4?           4?                        10  10   a                9e 05
Soin- de ref. Interadiaes                        O           21                         4   4                     a   au      8
CSC                                             S9           8710        68e,458   1   e       8 6   8           t0   361   162     2    10
OAMAKt                84 1 .19    .47.868
ORSi                                .                         1                              1                    1 100l      1
Equipe Sante d Cercle                            O            8                         1   1    1   1            4  60      2     2      1
CSCo_un (soinsd   de refe)                       S            S                              1    1   1           4   40      2      2     1
Equip Terrain (DE)                                                                                                0
Soi na de rat. intoraedlaire                     O            6J2 2                                                    4        
C5COJ4                                          O0           J?89 lOi     2ni     1        4   à    S   4       20   a       78     2
2Ii3ME PHASE                                                        __                   _               
REfiIOli OE SECtiUU   1,2128.17   1t470.481
*RS.                                             1            1                                   1               1 100%             1    1
i_quipe Sante de Cerele                          O            7                              1    1   1   1    4   60S        1     8      1
CSC (soins de reference)                         7            7                              1    1   1   1    4  60S    1           a     1
Equipe Terrain (ME)                             U4           84                              S   S   S   8I   20   en
Soins de ref. Intermodiare,                                 2l                                    2               4  244    4
CSCCmN                                          47           6S  s    8741 tOS               2   4   4   6    t   24i    7           O9 
REMION DE KWtDMi 21t80.0781  1.4ti7 SSt
iARSP                   .       .                1                              1                         1 O       10ti             1
Equipe Santo de Cercl e                          O            7                              1   1   1   1    4 160i    1           a
CSC/Comune  <Soins reference)                   8                                  O   8   87  7  1   1   1                          7 4  St    1  a
Equipe Terrin<IOE) (m4                                      16a S71                                        8      60  SOt
Soin- de ref. inter_ediares                                  2t                                   2   8   O       à  24S 
Cs C_l                                          47           8S  614.1l a8,112    7                             1 20  248    Il     O    t
TOiTAL              S aS c37tG   6,SOS S24                                                      
E~quipe Santo de Cercle                          0           S5                    O   2   a    S   a   2   21   us"   42    l,    4
CSCISComwne (Soins r f.)                        es           es                    o    a   a    a   a   2    n1  sou         4     17    4
Equipe Terrain (IDE                            loi          lot                    O   20  25  27 I 13 9a vs    c               o      o 
CsMf/O^EQ                                      21etir  t2    M          811111 4.193,1?2   7   17  2iS  S2  27  t2  t20   atS   2n    oS    n
(a): Taux annuel d'eccrolie.sant de la pwpulation  2,8% pour 1lenele du territoire, et 8,71 pour Bameko.
(b): Proportion de la populeilon physiquement e*oeaible par un CaO  (8.000 Chbitante dans un rayo  de l6 l<)
(c): Le financement du Projet est prevu pour renforcers
- 100% dès directions regionales   RSP
- 60S des ercles de chaque  reion (C<5;
Uans les cercles retenue, le projet prevoit de-
- installer lequtip de cercle;
- renforcer la supervision par les Infirmiers d'Etat (Meo
- rohabbilter les CSC/CSCoeune; et
- rosi iser le potentiel de CSC0;/C8Q a 601 pour la phase 1 et a 40S pour la phase 2;
* 251 dem CSi seront dote d'equipenent et de fournitures aidiceux pour ervir de centres de roeforence interedisire;
* 100l des CSQ seront dotée de ces equlp*ents et fournitures



ANNEX 3-7
- 93 -                             Page 9 of 15
TA8EEAU B (cf Doussie du projet)
COWTS UNITAIRES EN FCFA x 1  U
TABLEAU 4
SURFACES
NETTES     Mm       c         UNBRUTES   C   LITATIO
Le       Ir  FCFA/I        U ~FCFAn         U   FCFA/I
ORSP                              4a-- 7I            111 79;1            22 I;o             1
Equlpe Sante de Cercle             el       ne       111   12,876        22 2,662          1a
CSC (Soins de reference)          758       04       100  90,400         22 19,08           100
Equtpe Sonte de Comune             97       116      111   12,876        22 2,S62           100
CSCommune (Soins de rtf-rrnce>    91C     1,099      166 109,900         22 24,179          UO
csc (KBo)                           -         -        -        -         -
Equ1pe Sonte Terrain (IOE) /o      nB S4               2   4,608         16  1,024           72
Soins de  tf. lanterm.dlaires      20        24       72   1,728         le  8a"             72
CSCOqUCSQ                         124       149       72   10,728        10 2,884            72
/l: le logemnt de I'IDE n'est pas comprie dans le projet
TALEAU C                          COUTS DU VOLET INFRASTRUCTURE EN '000 FCFA
TRAVAUX GENIE CIVIL
CONSTRUCTION       REHA8ITATION         COMPLEMENT      TOTAL
U      fCFA        U _       FCFA    r         FCFA    --CP
DRS                              2    1l9,840        a       47,262       682 12,804   W2,164
Equipe Sente de Cercle           2    26 "72        16       s8,2         288  ô,848    70,a77
CSC (Soin  rM.)                  2   .180,800.      16      298,820    1,781 88,082   517,262
Equtpe Sente de Commune          2    26,752         2        6,104         0       0     80,866
CSCo u_ro (Soens ref.)           2   219,800         2       48,856         O       a    268,156
CSC (regson KK)                  O          6                     a O               a O
Equipe Terrain (IDE)             O          a        0            0         a       a         a
Soins de ref. Intermedialres    2S    48,200         a            a         a       a    48,200
CSCOv/CSQ                       64   B88.592        se     1j8.q64        l96 12 720   882 810
TOTAL                               Y'T81,78W                Q l,a84           aâ!uîh 1,972771
TABLEAU 0                                CALENDRIER DES INTERVENTIONS
REOSm         1091     12       1m       1994     16    lm         TOTAL
KAYES
Rhebbil tetion  6        6        4        2        a        a       17
Construction    a        1        8        8        6        a       10
Extension       O        8        2        1        a        O        a b\
Total           6        7        7        8        0        0       sa
-MPTI
R.habIlltatton   2       4        7        6        a        O       19
Construction    0        1        1        à        ô        0       12
Extension       0        2        4        4        0        0       10 b\
Total           2        6        6        S        8        0       81
BAMAKO
Rehabl1 ittion   1       1        0        0        a        0        2
Construction    O        S        6        0        4        0       18
Extenoson       O        O        O        O        a        0        O
Tot*l           1        4        5        6        4        0       20
SEOOU
Rehebilitation  O        0        2        a        2        2        9
Construction    O        O        0        1        2        4        7
Extenslon       O        0        1        2        1        1        6 b\
tota            0        0        2        4        4        a       16
KUWLIKORU
RehbablitêtIon  O        O        8        6        1        0        9
Construction    O        0        O        1        4        6       il
Extenoion       O        a        2        8        1        0        6 b\
Total           O        O        8        ô        6        6       26
PROJET
Rehab Itatl on  8       il       16       10        8        2       Se
Construction    O        C        9       le       24       10       64
Extension       a        6        9       10        2        1       27 b\
TOTAL GENERAL   8       10       26       S2       27       12      120
b  L tux d'euton                    de abiletn   .en     11x   1   den le *mOr. de.
lotxeve.'ioe



0..aado : oU lG.id le.4 b.
s,,î 11*  -u   tegw      s        0     1       total      îtet   la       t~lmit    lae                .*
3.3.*...IShI  S|s *JS :S*StS ::zst*t .*ct;s.    :n.;.: &;S:S-:s   t:,::.s:.-.::::  :: S::::.:::. ::.  . ':' :  .    ~.:
t. îsînm  cuitsmm     m                                                e
0. UMUB O  61111106 .1*110 6105(0%.. .......6.... .                                                          .....
................
......................... ,..........S
I ttS*lIiMGèt                                           titil        S    6        4      2                       1?  2,2501U3      6t.6tit t   tt6 #7 6             ttit.64ti3      
2. tt0611t 01680t                                        filtl       2    4        1       6                      Si  2.210 113     14216 S    tl33.11  2            207.030              . -,tfi
s    _u                                                  3Itl1        I    I                                       I  2.21011        1.4486      13.406              180614i  Z
4. 1805rt tittltit                                      ttiil               -      2       3      2       2        9  2.2S01        31.31        6123                1031tti410 elSS       t :
S t6l0l10t*l0t3 016106i                                 Utit          -    -       X       S                       9  t2250 S1 X      &i aA m. C                     101.30 iotttXtOti
S*-hto  _ltlC  Ot filSlittt; «ftttitl t»"{tlS                                                       ~~~~~~~220.0611   3'tiS  624 *     11.2426ç g
i 6*16101*106l                                           UStt?       -        '    3      6       6               56  t0.033.00t6   260,1002    1161646             0tOSt.1O 1
t  _I t1fC16106                                          Uit          -            I       2      O               Il 10.03300 _    n1.661       363.3104             61* *tS   ott;zt 
3. i_0l                                                 tUt          -    3        S       6      O               lb  10.033*0 6    322.4101 t   1.13 Stt;13 Iti S                    FsSS.
*  1400601610 UClli                                       tt                               1 -  I  2                  tOO tI i 0.3306    11t  103    23.31           3106ltt     0   24>Z  6  u 
6 ttl6ttl0ttt16106t                                      Uitl         -    -       -       I       4      S       tI  00.033006    2tt.2S1t2   311.tl3t 1gt 1*166                             5  
t UtfS II0i6106                                          Uitl        -          I          I                       6    4tl 6tS      4.162e t      .11 1?             2 ti2e          t 1i 
2 f51016506                                              Uttit        -    2       4       *       -0 tO                    11 1itX   ,tiO3      13.9115             21.611        O      «  st 
310060                              Sft Y    .lC tl tt                            t l t    2      2        -          S4410Ct        4.0311   S.61                    11.160  tte   
4. *05100Wa t0E6t5tt                                     Uit             - -               3   I                   6   4tl 615       4.10         0.100 I310 iC>   m8|iFgt4
lé-total 61118110606t3t ISISIiUOC tt1*t tftttfti                                                                                       2t. t21t 0    t1.0t2 9           50636 911        s;fiiF! 
t i. tthrlirf| (000M    5tf 11111                          t         1    Ul      2S     t2      21      l}      t20    31 123   30.101i 3    2.015 9               231.133 m I      
01*1<0661tttiUf!ttU                                   tttl t            t1 nl 21       32      21     t1        e 120    10 1    t16.0 US t                       116.titS Ia 
fSSf llU iiS6  t111  510001 Stttt  f0 IS_Itti         Uitl        * 1S          tS    n3      21      Il      1»0   I.S1ti36  1S3t#4 Itt t                       92.tt1411
lé>-otaSl 01001*1 (OltAli4 ti_ _U9IfS                                                                                             t. 13i.0  2                      t. 129.032 2      
lé-totaol 64800505fti                                                                                                                5.333.1135    2?1.015      t      IliO 0    * 61,
f. ti610 ft6ttt f1SlttIIUS ttt  011iSI Sl _tttS             Utti        *    Il      SSS     n2     2       nl      t20      et0 m2    113.311 3    14.102 1t t330 95
111lîlUttt C l6Bttit 101110  ntf 01110011t              _Ittt0       Il   Il       nl      Us      *      3t6     30       IS 22S           -    SS t21.0  3S 2ti02101      m 065<   a. . . . ..  45  163  1
t*3 0001t 5011005*1t t_i *5 BlUtiCft                       Stt1       311  Il   1.134t  1.114   3.1 ttS    020   1161         5.12|3          -     it 04.080           * t4t 0t0S
tot*i ItUOlîtSE1t mit                                                                                                                  t tS4.2U1 4 2.16.60 S             . S n.621 3 
4~~. om«1
«Mola a ca~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~$sitS:gJ :|$tS:X:: .:'. s                  .......... .. ........       .      .... .....  .     ......... 6   ;.:
Il ltUtt10  0OSI1                                                                                                                                                                                  4
*  1S01001t _Sf1                                         481111061     1   24       46 11 111             tSte 0ma Nl me    40 ao03 O    131.259 *                        06? 9                C
----------~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .......;.................                                                                   .
. *Mi$IWmatou i0UBIflmali                                                                                         et2 0 II  1  4  1  140.061 M  a6é20   s33.e63     1061
total 0Mme        %                                                                                                                         0tt1 t       . mo  U   ri1 t1* m  ni à"  t 040 *
lo,'1C tu .
ta  00(0 0lon                                              ait 
t 75t It6 Il %
S*-tot*l CMIUCSIM a  m  auto ctutils                                                ..... ... . .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
e"_    mo  no fais$#  maid  inls                                                                                                                  .mm 



<Mt-  *sl*O 54  6.ly  S8
... .                                                                      0   .......
g 09046213W milS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
a mîmmîs miset au   s
e  _nmBOus m caisson mi. «"tz amat
amim..m                                                  mn             *    i   i    0         4 00250mai      6 comtesgleil               11ou1y
.......... ....                                                                                                   . .   .   .  .   .   .                                                                 & A
-                                                      1310           I          I             t n e2. 1 3       *r0      t *13    0 04     ^,36e 19
_M_O  Umm                                              Uit *s t                                I mi #t  »0    6  01te.   t su .           2  *1 4
î  bS.t      s       sseS     s. atos                                                                            m Mtoàf t   m.î s s     t   2  a
SinmiMnoms mt m,                                                                                              la. sU
mies mu.                        me~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t                           mm        91,en0t
utl*o mM                             n                                      ia                  t                    *. 1ts  4> - 
UmmS immt   u  sMt ne Videti è                                                   *l                                                                                                                 o
U.mm  .ie sUm                                                                                   e ..,».,.        pge    »îus               *5»
t     ttStêtim                                          n             t                            ans          ?U              *mi  lpe  M.  4  7                                          tn
Mg~~ ~ ~~ le   I            nP   l s m    lu.t          t7 se »P            les                                             go
lé tuas osuimîm a   stismai aus                                                                                  *4 *nt      * 23 s3 N * s   M      * M.                                     r ans
adtu U#Ato$ 1 fiotm% matai,                                                        9m       5814      121ll 5 Obi32t                                                   >.    >4W I
-""S41W        O-b-                                                                                              tu O*S. 2   m 4 2 t 34* 02   *n.4142  W  31 O" s
le ftluai meoms
a  mmmi  m im imiit id                                    3* 2$"C            2                    4% 81W0 mi       ou 54    on.                314on9
A*~ ~ ~ #19l «a tu                                                                                   ,lSSt      Xse         s @                 wa_  
tu Ust _mmesmm                                          mi            s? 3e     6    3    î
lé-is-et a_.5                                                      ,                   ,,sa  ,m a       .        210,." ".,,, 4103" o 21.1
sa-sou.î mimes. mmm amies                                                             il., 4328 SOi 130 .i        661222£4 fi  '
£ lam tna  tumteslff                                        B              8   S                                          i i *t; 22  6       * *10  soIs*
t  mmm          uvt mats, aue  s«? usim   Umas                                                                                                                                                    b-eu> s    s *sw^    
té eue anu           nî mues am«les o mei   semlaî 0                 .                                              mies.   oasiss                
t6101111 u   est                                                                                                    i131      453'441                                                                 1
*0440 stn t n miii                                                                                                 4u MW. 1435 144          s 43no4                                                     O
am..o* m;, *fi.-
*, cm cii *t_   t   SaS
9 *o os ees t  _-2 
sc §" nt  "  *1_"|*                                                                                                                                  ^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
heX     2*. 13  3
J           *a 



Sr.uIdon of  OUIS l Inct  Cont
(Oslo
t o * > * w * br t ~~~~~~~toc&I tExic;  Dii i   Ss
unit        1992 1993 t994 1995 1996 t99? lott ltinet Coit  for  Ic«h                IxosI        lases      lot.î
Ji StYPf3Rl cos Is 
.. .............
f    ràlii     foul CliSl_ SEtCltl
. . ............... ... ..,. _. _...
PffRCSI SCI                                       IISlttCI          3    5      6    S    2       -            21   1. IseS6    tl4.3694                          114. 3694
S ffl CSCt                                         CSil.            1   1?   25   32   27   12   120           %7 S29      33.769 0                                33 769 0
Se-lotal mIU9lAt fu CI        U   Irr  UGSIlilOta                                                                             148. 131 4                              148. 13S 4
S.*lotai SupPOlt fOR  IEC                                                                                                        14S. 13S 4                              14.A13S 4
B. t1EllAt sèt»1C{ nER CSCMl I S pis ca=l                  CSC             7    l7   25   32   27    12   120          64 SIS     3t, S69 5                               3t, S69 Ilt 
C. ttoacvtRC s I 2 PEi  oesîîcîi I                          mil            6    te   12   Io      4      -    42    452 Ot6    94.140 a                                   94. 140 S
D. SlPllT Io couu it 1m1sltlvfIS                       PER mîstiîîci       3    5    6    5        2     -    21  1.441 92        s 61. IS2 3     S0.SIO 3                147.692 6
E. IRSPII DI efIDt /o                                      ISIRICI         6    16   2»   3    42        -   130        1.218              -    745,036 3                74.036 3
..................... . .    ... . . . .   . . . . ............
Total IMutSEit       COSIS                                                                                                          43t.330 9    825.S46 6                 I. 172. 677 6
Il. mocuEmui costs
à   tJNlttt  PE8IIouS                                   PEU usa           6    16   28   3S   42        -   130    240 934    116  17t 4         34. 76  4              11,.6458 8
total REUt tl cllSS                                                                                                                  116.85t 4       34.t6B 4                11. 64  Ba
464.20S 4        0. 31  0          -   324  C2  4                                                t
ia  suow.us  PilhlU   ste îoc
..     . .  . . .  . .. .  . .  . . .   .. .  . . .  . ..  . . .  . . .   .. ..  ..  . .. ..  .   .. ..  .. ..     tfJR    ..........,..,..,,,,  .... ...    ..
1*_ 21. Iltub    S: . .
66
r4
ft
't
v



OàtU  &t 05t*.14 lii I l.^*.
i*tt5Xttt*fltl 51*8 88*  *: 81tiLtS, t: .2 :: *         :  :-:  t  '.    ,    ::..  .:
s ~~~~~~~~~~stm0 0*11~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~kagbhi
................
B  l8Il040II0la f U 0                                            a,         j           s   o »g e          e1 ..      e     0330   ,,t00                     101444
*... :u
.au             _ . $
........................
11s110îî                                                      ,                  m g       e         20  4omis  ,. VA.m S                               44?i1t
ma,$Si           Su.            mas                                               a s   o   s   i   té  o.    M         41 1  i                         4& iie 1
S*-%m*O                                                                                                                2.00484,,   Ii» 113 3            2 »k0 S n
|_ $mm a iuwtoi                                             me        N          * S   4tt w3aS nn   tg   9*11311%     MM*                        »     .Me n                               a,
uS tm  mmuumu auo             s «0    Ottsi ti.U                                             le  té   o 38         Nos                300.103             30      à 
*al lm t  Mlti  >|tZ*   »a                                                                                                               v"                      1             
......... .................                                                                                                                                                              E-4
NUis                                                  meS          -  2         il »   I  83   fa    412log    ne0. Wb3                           >20 M 3a
SS W ilfeau     tI                                    mOi             20       1     e2 t  #à3 1 W     8402       "2.Mi 0      1.3                 01W nt3
M0. Ulb       0.002 i S         U. 231 à
* IISIS5BUOBSIU                                            *f|ISHe0                 *   S   *   *   21    0.140          100.111                          l0U0' 24
t _fM m.fa        Ie                                       flilMIOlO                 i   W   1   1    0          0           .                            14240
........................................'                                                                             
USmiMM            miea                                       f_ tStC e                 S      _    &     i    . 0n  la4  e10.nm  4                         tur*
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~m tt_"                                                                               tu Ps 
........... ......................
Sé nt000 SUMIIOm U                                                                     Sun 5  0                                              tt t. mJ Wt 4                                          t
!~~~~~~~~~~~l mm*S                                  m* SitSttt                                                     3  0 S f  Z }S  " . tM  4            oi"i     e t 4                    s 
*1la m OIIM t              111111                                vin                        a 0   O   O    4       UT 42                  13.01000 ê'.0M1
5  1        Umm  m        IIIMtIIsins   leei u sà               mi           à   S         i    2         Pt      m  Pb. i                     *4414         24 24  B a
SSU MIIM 00                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Mt  3   i   4   le  21   ai      0200                 *3ILII4              Ioa300 4
14614 40110111  m"                                                                                                           33130. e0  131. 1l100S             "$0.ou 1
..............  
i  1155<550000051m0maNI     I 001511<51 a                                                                                      tu 14     ff0. par I         'Ai Wl 
*   g      M    oms 00111530S                                   00i               3        84  011  28   Ob    #2 ou        43.3111    0m à te                  44_tt3
£mSS         U~imas        S$ mm   1 la 1                    ne0un0Pli  41  12  de  W6  leIl    Pt443                      N 004014     IPO CI             o» 34 
* 100005<1                             osmusomcî            3   O~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~ 14  et  28   S%    281111  SO4. m  & 1102       101,été 
04180 SOU~M   IS01                                                                                                         0125         le. " 4             012. NU0*(
lm  am   fais
Se  mine1 005MO
aue PI #M4 Si 10



t is               "il          f...'et Y.f~               01                         <0                                                                                       onIt tO  il
-         | ~~~tit qt           *'t, 1        6 l% +,,ç    rtit         Ot»                        °tt                           ltt 1tttt   4
t feu qçr            1. IPs$><     ' I *I.ft *   *,*,'        C                         o.:                          III                                                'I t tltt   I 5t *î l
tl O49               0 tf. $6          U                                                                                                  Slitl#rv  *  "mismuws   su,'.. '*  s P
saîr.oo  c.cru  e  s  s      i     r       c        a           sa                                                      sunsu.~ou$1119M1013mlet    110811
05* O tFC                                                   s O  n  0"s                                               t                                                 to      wdi*n St 
M'S'i                       s tir oqu                        s              alea#a                       a            il                                          IttuM    t   SiDIII  l1
I tr,%"               *e.ito  cs     Coco                                                                             uam 'o i  Cus.s oasii *                              u us Imms
oq,qsg *t                          cqcs o r                                                                           nus               *, suituiitourUittt    c  I  liN t  U   I tIIIm
01%5iU't          ~    sec La    uuru,u1>                                                                                                 m.'aîW   O1IA  Sli UII iWl <1911455Pl
Æ tJ oow             t ooo wCten * «                         i                                   s       i            sa                                             MSUIIlMIS
t   *tt'tt           tt   tt         i «s        et cis      C              tou                  si t. tanI  Isgtus                                              Whist  _5/    du11
oi t tN                               I           Is         lu       t                                  Ist      i            IBM CilW tItU t
r5a5 ee              f 50th                     stet         r                                   I                                                                     $CImm   & = UIS
M               I4 F4  tCur. a          tse gc usa                s wt                                                                                                          u  C. ss11 1113do       S -#
tu=   94            1l Ota e             0n   el           aCl         Ctel çê    t                                t                Ai  »#nous                                  utvlom          ne llht4tS    _
PJ         otioq                               Ori"o         O fli0 }    q                           tl  IotlM                                                   IS3n*us                              s
ffi ~ ~ ~    ~     ~     ~    ~    ~     CS          oss         ei1W                                                                                                      lIlUlS tS if  
ObU   'tu                                             ee £9         I    utr                                                             siut. 9tSW3 c  tt                                                  i 11
g                             q                                                                                                                                                      me is irna      'O
s   Qg 4        55150f r Ccto1                            01       o e CU       S                               g       g             lW                                      15        ONIIu  Ih ImhSi t
tiI8  C  '      îqo                               rîeo          glis sI  C                                               iC f1 A9U    lit.                                      lFlStSUS   - 01lSh'C
e- uic                                              cir.  o     sO,      -                                                 t                                       U SIU1ç51
tt   ce                                                                                                                                Im Cc9 f  SS  Ot    Ol    Ol   0$  OS  1 1101  tlt LUIUS UN-I ,
c rcc ooic  oqt 3e                                                                                                                                               I    Wtoi   s  NWI '  t.
é;Ft                 mo;g  s.u _« tJ. C tc  -e  ° *OBUS-CI    c55 tS 1                                                                                                                              SUIn el
t tC rts°            i ot                        Co 9cs    r                             t*' Ce                            _                                               ISffuB (f S1ttfot 015
ta                                                                                                   I^it rt. 
,iL i t  t                          tt           çSC                                                                                                                         lm C  C  S  S  S  C i  I  iUINW
'O         £         tt6sis                                  550< t01£ tt6I CC  fOUB,UIi#WIht C OI e 6S_
80 f *tt ~~wt                         ré tsi.                                                                                                                  S            IS       5.01-0   Ntté91_ % i«" tl
i   Étt   t ZIt 9t      O m'           sort.nusais>             s                                   S       -            aBu                                                  StlII  Ue   S
4     C £1C'§                OfqtHl-      C 6ts6e      ente t6       Ul C                                                    Iltt                                        ,         SM~Sit
. ...............
rit                                                                                                                                                                                       113                     
W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A Sli 5UlliSSII 
1.ts t'51 %5#50$ f0 C



041* I1  t(f0t6l                                 Illisu les                     Je                      je      m la                  1 0   e            t tu e
s* 1016  *MUM     mawni                                                                                                     à *""         113 IC4114
$*-t.4îl *tg=%         lf-.i                                                                                                 m 03316 *    2S64 41 *          1* 2
1:110FIC 06816106
î.4Mus toissîsc Otas a  MF
untS *&te                                            1.1                                                *t ise OUt    as. 6  t    Jrt i  e              t on 7
Y* 11t1                                                Mt                                               Ie 1î            jailli    11 s  14. 0          ue. 
Itoum                                            Nil                  *                              *               si,1 31 ,   ». 11.4            0 *   t
le  4.1 wu10         Ilit5 *11041  al 0616                                                                                 U    @ "àa    3 e 3 ats  e n    * 8 O
j    lmet u1  mu e.wa £06 e0 601        *e                                                                                                               »r
j î:î*1u g  un* imitas m                                                                                                                   *
uni 1061411                                          mil                  I                              I  193          w  me 8>044 m8 1106            3~1469b
$mm                                                  mi 1..0au01                                                         11.1S0     M. 061             33 110 t
j* low u t uîsamt  uîewu  mOtuscii»M                                                                                       a1841,su     lu..              jeSIlî10, 
110606el100                                          ni,          j       jI                            I     1104       102*6selleN16
Uens                                                 01m     _     C                                              e I  st    es  § v *b ». 6fe          333mj
40item                                               mii                  j                               I      to i       5 I1.m                         51 .  6 b  es lut
ueuaîu$                                                 ni,          j      j e                                  jle Colons  im et t    e                    ut t
*  Mt-  lt l                                        mi                                                 S     m 10        yl d1Io039
M1110141                                             mai           I                                        #.M m  ,       tloia         su            si  bà
l.6.4.tM      l                                                                                                          3328    t304                   2  0 1 t 1e0* 1e t# X
Mit$e s                                              mi*                  j                                  4.1111P66    136        10.60 }           1* lés 1 i
im       11t                                           me         a       j                             S         mL906  n1 et m41                      Il m 3
Mg  Mo 101  auI                                      mi            3                                    S  I    1331     31.311>                        %21. Mr O
Mi                 e        *        Z                »l     s    »       a                             b   t2:1 ni    31ds à                           et M 
ftllî                                                 mi 0                à                             S 219  tu3 m                 iut t  04. m CI       4 li                                                         13
lamit/nil,                                        106 6Mo         le      à                            *S    les6 ou01                                   16S                               >>                                  r           W
tttltîd    l1                                        lott t4a                            6                                     it 2»  6 .161             6 *el M *0
-nuj
1* .6   (*0815611614361 Sim36o à                                                                                                         t.1336          i M.21 1131
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. #                                                          wt s ... .  ;e".;.   ;, .t.;. .; ...   ..   ... '»'!'-   
*, *.t_. tl,
Cm-INUtt #4Mn. t UI"'                                                                                                                                   s  o                                                             DIAl
C 1010*6 ilS                           a
* *Ws11C _ll sffi0iI6                                 1116      e          Ie  Ie   I    1               33    1011        1163        463               31 a0 
s0 boul 111611 _661 _03                                                                                                                                     3î64n 41                                                                 fF 
..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.... ..........
C.4
SX Idel 1_t t *1& § n. ^ts a I» eeb 11621                                                                  4.116              11 6                                                                           t'
t  t*lsmci e"m  mi                                     ms          mt  né         M     »   ow   ow   à   s     tfl  e t                     e           31, 6   0                                                                us
I 6161                                                 mi 0111                                           e    .      m    a.13  1         it1                    
I 06516ii*C                                            061 i" eI    I    IeW                       I     31      341       1311 *6* e111                                                                                                     Il  X.t" 
S     MIUla NIlItt                                                                                                        ésli iiCI  '1  I  i    I    i    1  21  t1  ° N  14  m1100
bb W&O vt*lul M toulftel obitti«M                                                                è»~~~~II 1,1    414tu10       tu3 92                                                                             l-m
ID x
106*0101 116*101 OlltiI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
solie.     46 634                 l
I..,.,                                                                                                                       * III~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n4"61 O0o *16
* *le*J        es                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   t
0141/ «     7 s*?a TIIs *z   
04.   3'te SSI  SI t«""I"T_ n167                                                     #      e s       s       l f7                tj      *7»tX* 



- 100 -
ANNEXE 3-8
Page 1 s'ir 8
REPUBLIC OF MALI
SECOND HEALTH. POPULATION AND RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
MANAGEMENT OF PHYSICAL RESOURCESIGESTION DU PATRIMOINE
I. DIAGNOSTIC DU CONTEXTE ACTUEL
1.        Situation en matiere de Restion du Patrimoine.   Les études de
préparation du projet ont permis de dresser l'inventaire d'environ 20% des
Centres de Santo de Cercle (CSC) et des Centres de Santa d'Arrondissement
(CSA). Ces renseignements portent sur le cadre foncier, le type de construc-
tion et la surface des locaux, l'inventaire des équipements, ainsi que
l'app éciation de l'état des locaux et de l'entretien du matériel. Actuelle-
ment, les donnaes concernant la description et l'état physique du patrimoine
sont encore dispersées.   Le recensement administratif de 1986 fait une
énumération des dispensaires et maternités jusqu'au niveau des secteurs
(regroupement informel de villages dont la population varie de 5.000 à 15.000
habitants), cependant, cette documentation ne donne qu'une idie très sommaire
de la dimension et de l'état des installations; celles-ci ne sont que
partiellement disponibles au niveau régional et au niveau de la DNPFSS. La
tache d'organiser ou d'assurer la gestion du patrimoine n'est dévolue pour le
moment à aucun service, bien que certaines activités très proches de la
gestion du patrimoine soient déjà entreprises par la Cellule d'Exécution du
Programme de Renforcement des Infrastructures Sanitaires (CEPRIS), ainsi que
par les structures décentraliséba du Gouvernement.
2.        Programmation et normes des projets sanitaires. DNPFSS dispose
d'une banque de donnees collectees au niveau des Cercles (capacitis des
infrastructures existantes, iquipements, personnel, nature et quantités des
actes médicaux et médicaments prescrits, etc..).  La mise à jour de ces
informations est effectuée par le madecin chef du cercle et les risultats
sont publiés tous les trois ans par la DNPFSS dans le document intitulé ,la
Carte Sanitaire du Malî". Il est remarquable que la DNPFSS dispose dijà d'un
tel outil de travail.   Par contre, l'étude de ce document montre que la
qualité de l'information varie selon les rigions et selon la nature des
données. L'amélioration de la carte sanitaire et notamment l'amélioration des
informations immanent d'autres services est nicessaire pour une meilleure
programmation des Installations (construction, équipement, ainsi que leur
remplacement et entretien). Comme l'ont démontré les otudes de préparation
du programme proposé, les infrastructures existantes aussi bien que celles en
cours de réalisation ne correspondent pas à une distribution cohirente des
moyens financiere. Les normes utilisaées ne sont pas en relation atrolte avec
l'offre ou la demande de soins ni avec les moyens de fonctionnement (en
personnel, matériel et produits consommables). A cause de cette situation,
un grand éventail de normes et de programmes sont appliqués sur l'ensemble du
territoire pour les diffarents projets selon la source de financement. Il en
résulte des distorsiôns Lmportantes entre les surfaces des locaux,  les
equipements et le ratio actes midicauxlspicialiste. Il en est de mame pour
la programmation des equipements, leur rationalisation et les frais de
fonctionnement qui en risultent.



- 101 -
Psge 2 sur 8
3.        La situation en matière de politique d'entretien des bâtiments.
Actuellement, il n'y a.aucun moyen officace en place et aucune strategie pour
l'entretien des infrastructures sanitaires. Cet ;tat de fait est accentué
par la prioriti accordoe par la plupart des sources de financement aux
travaux neufs plutôt qu'a l'entretien des structures exlstantes.   Il On
risulte un patrimoine grandissant associe à un retard d'entretion de
l'existant qui est ivalui à environ dix années et dont les consiquences
s'expriment dÎja par l'abandon de batiments anciens.
4.        La situation on matière de nolitiaue d'entretien des  quiivements
et du mobilier. Le SEPAtMAT du MSPAS, dont 1'activita principale consiste a
entretenir le parc de vehieulos, a aussi pour mission d'entretenir *galenont
les aquipoaents médicaux et les installations frigorifiques. Pour l'ensemble
du territoiro, une équipo composé. d'un inganieur bio-midical et de deux
techniciens bio-madicaux est sous-employée a cause de l'l(nsuffisance du
matériel. Le nombre d'interventions importantes ne dupasse pas 5 par mois et
les missions à l'extérieur de Bamako n'excédent pas six semaines par an.
Dans les conditions actuelles, il est presque impossible de créer un stock
approprii de pièces de rechange, car les équipements existants proviennent
d'origine trop diverses -- on l'eabsence d'une politique des achats. Enfin,
les nacessitis d'entretien se heurtent au manque de ligne budgétaire.  A
l'intérieur du pays, le SEPAUMAT dispose dtantennes pour la mccanique-auto à
Mopti et à Rayes et est en train d'en ouvrir une autre à Tombouctou. Pour
toutes les interventions du SEPAUMAT, la main d'oeuvre est fournie gratuite-
ment par le SEPAUMAT, par contre les plèces détachies doivent Ître acquises
cas par cas par 1'entita bénéficiaire, ce qui entra;ne des retards considira-
bl*a dao aux lenteurs d'acquisition et de livraison du matériel.
3.        La Cellule d'Exécution du Progra           - de Renforcement des Infrastruc-
tures Sanitaires (CEPRIS). La CEPRIS criee par Docret No 82-20 du 5 juillet
1982, avait reçue pour mission de suivre, coordonner et contraler l'ensemble
des itudes et des opérations relatives aux projets de renforcement des
infrastructures sanitaires des ragions de Tombouctou et de Koulikoro. La
CEPRIS dispose de dix ingénieurs et techniciens et a damontri ces dernières
années sa capaciti et son efficacité à girer l'exicution d'un volume de
travaux t*onviron 4.000 m2 par an sur diverses sources de finanement
notamment la BAD. Dans le cadre du démarrage d'un programme financé par la
BD, la CEPRIS doit voir ses attributions ilargies on matlire de gestion et
de programation du patrimoine, et doit être renforcie par un planificateur
des infrastructures sanitaires et par un architecte.
II. OBJECTIF8.
6.        Ce volet 'gestion du patrimoineu a les objectifs suivants:
(a)  le renforcement des capacités de gestion et de programation des
installations du pltriaoine du secteur (on itroite liaison avec la
DNPFSS);
(b) l'appui à la mise à jour et à l'application de normes visant 
rationaliser les programmes d'investissement dans le secteur (on
itroite relation avec la DNPPSS);



102 -
ANNEXE 3-8
Page 3 sur 8
(c)  le renforcement des capacitas existantes d'êntretien des installa-
tions appartenant à l'Etat, et la promotion de macanismes d'entre-
tien des centres de soin communautaires;
(d) le renforcement institutionnel de la CEPRIS pour lui permettre
d'assurer le contrôle technique nécessaire à la bonne exécution de
la composante infrastructures dans les régions du programme
propose;
(e)  l'assistance du MSPAS par la CEPRIS dans  la supervision du
programme d'appui aux collectivités, en relation étroite avec la
Cellule de Coordination du Projet et la Direction Rigionale de
l'Urbanisme et de la Construction (DRUC).
III. STRATEGIE.
?.        Pour atteindre les objectifs énonces ci-dessus, il est nécessaire,
en complément des actions privus sur le financement de la BAD, de prevoir le
renforcement de la CEPRIS pours (i) la mise à jour de l'inventaire du
patrimoine et de son état ce qui permettra de complater la carte sanitaire
garée par la DNPFSS; (ii) l'application des normes limitées dans un premier
temps aux CSCOM, CSQ, CSC et CSCommunes; (iii) l'élaboration de normes pour
les bhpitaux régionaux et nationaux; (iv) la promotion de macanismes continus
d'entretien et de prise en charge par les collectivités locales ou par les
structures ragionales; (v) l'acquisition et l'organisation de l'entretien des
iquipements spécialisés et du mobilier appartenant à l'Etat; et (v) le
controle et la supervision du volet Infrastructures du projet.
8.        La mise à lour de l'inventaire  du patrimoine et de son itat. il
serait très ambitieux de vouloir gire l'ensemble du patrimoine à un meme
niveau d'intensita ou entièrement de façon centralisée. La faisabilité d'un
systAme de gestion du patrimoine repose sur la décentralisation et l'amélio-
ration des collectes de données au niveau des cercles et des ragions. Par
contre, le rôle de la CEPRIS consiste surtout, en itroite relation avec la
DNPFSS à: (i) organiser l'inventaire complet des installations; (ii)
participer à la difinition des stratégies en matière de patrimoine, et à la
préparation des outils nicessaires à leur mise en oeuvre; (iii) promouvoir au
niveau régional des mécanismes permettant une dicerÂtralisation de la gestion
du patrimoine; (iv) participer à la préparation des budgets nationaux et
régionaux relatifs aux interventions ou avec appuis de l'Etat en mati$re
d'entretien et d'extension des infrastructures; et (v) promouvoir et
participer à la diffusion des divers programmes d'informations auprès des
collectivités locales et des autorités régionales.
9.        L'atablissement des normes.  Les nérmes seront publiées pour les
installations groupant les CSCOM, CSQ, CSC et CSCommune. Les normes dijà
itablies prendront compte de l'offre minimale de soins dont les collectivitas
locales ont la capacité de supporter le coût des charges récurrentes:
(a) Pour les CSCOM et les CSQ, une surface nette de 124 m2 qui
comprends (i) un dispensairelfMl de 95 m2 avec un guichet, une
attente, une salle de consultation pour l'infirmier de premier



- 103 -                         ANNEXE 3-8
Page 4 sur 8
cycle, une salle de pansement/soins communiquant directement avec
la salle PMI/injections/PEV, un petit dépôt pharmacie et un local
de traitement de jourlrahydratation; (il) pour les activités de la
matrone et pour les accouchements, une salle de consultation, et
une petite salle d'accouchement, totalisant 24 m2j et (iii) des
services annexes comprenant latrines/douche traditionnels et un
petit local technique/entretien totalisant 11 m2. La case de repos
pour les accouchées ainsi que le logement du personnel sont hors
programme;
(b)  Pour les CSCom exerçant des fonctions de soins de référence et de
sante publique, le programme est le même que pour les CSCOM et les
CSQ, toutefois, il est complété par des activités de laboratoire
et de planning familial. Le programme architectural totalisant 144
M2 aura en plus un bureau et un logement pour l'infirmier d'Etat
et une salle de traitement de jour plus grande;
(c) Pour les CSC et les CSCommune, le programme comprend les soins
rafiris par les CSA et les CSCOM, ou les CSQ ainsi que le programme
des activites de iestion et d'administration du Cercle ou de la
Commune. La surface totale d'un CSC comprend 850 m2 et celle d'un
CSCommune 1.012 m2. Cette diffirence tient compte de la demande
accrue dans le district de Bamako pour certains soins, notamment
pour les accouchements assistés et les consultations post et pré-
natales, comme pour d'autres actes madicaux dont la demande est
supérieure à celle des Cercles.
10.       La promotion de mécanismes permanents d'entretien. A l'issue de la
raalisat.ion du programme à lOOZ des potentialites, le riseau des infrastruc-
tures comprendra dans les régions du projet les surfaces construites
suivantes: 20.000 m2 dans 35 CSC/CSCommune, 38.000 m2 dans 161 CSA et 29.800
m2 dans 200 CSCOM/CSQ. Pour assurer ur entretien efficace et économiquement
rentable, il faut que les interventions ne soient plus des activités
fortuites quand des digâts importants ont mobilisas les autorités, mais
plutot une stratégie d'entretien continu. Cette stratégie doit se concrétiser
par des inspections périodiques des bâtiments, une programmation des travaux
sur au moins trois ans avec des budgets correspondants, la sensibilisation
des responsables et des utilisateurs pour la détection des défauts ne
demandant guère de technicité, et la répartition formelle de la responsabi-
lité de l'entretien a des personnes ayant reçu une formation spécifique dans
ce domaine.
(a)  Pour le.- bâtiments appartenant aux collectivités locales (CSCOM,
CSA, CS" . La sauvegarde des investissements effectués dans le
cadre du projet (bâtiments et équipements) nécessitera de la part
des collectivités locales un budget annuel de 18 millions de FCFA
pour maintenir le capital de 1.2 milliards de FCFA, soit 165.000
FCFA/an et par centre. Comme il s'agit d'une somme importante pour
la collectivité, il convient de sensibiliser les gestionnaires de
ces centres au moment de l'établissement du système de recouvrement
des coûts et de convenir de procédures d'inspection et de choix des
mithodes d'execittion qui garantissent un rendement optimum des



- 104 -                        ANNEXE 3-8
Page S sur 8
fonds ainsi mobiliset.   Les batiments qui seront rialisea  ou
réhabilitas par les collectivités dans le c dre du programme seront
déclarés la propriaté de la collectivité (un texte juridique fixera
les modalites de transfert de propriété). Celle-ci en assurera
l'entretien. Dans le cas des CSA existants, le transfert de
propriété sera effectué lors de la signature de la convention
passee avec le Cercle pour leoctroi de l'appui consenti.  D'un
autre cote, le projet privoit des appuis techniques en matière de
gestion aux médecins chefs des cercles, et assistera les collecti-
vités pour qu'elles insèrent l'entretien d'une manière efficace et
rentable dans leurs programmes annuels;
(b) Pour les bâtiments appartenant à l'Etat (CSC et CSCo=«une). La
sauvegarde des investissements necessitera de la part de l'Etat un
budget annuel d'entretien de 40 millions de FCFA pour maintenir le
capital de 2,7 milliards de FCFA que constitueront les DRS et les
CSC/CSCommune. Ne pas faire cet entretien raccourcirait la durée
de vie des installations de 30 a 40 Z, ce qui correspondrait à une
augmentation du coût de l'amortissement technique.
il.       Le renforcement de la canacite de la CEPRIS dans le domaine des
acauisitions et de l'entretien des iauipeme4nts spacialisas et de mobilier.
Vue la situation actuelle, il est recommandé de rendre l'équipe du SEPAUMAT
de Bamako mobile et opirationnelle pour assurer l'entretien des équipements
médicaux des CSC et des CSCommune.  Le renforcement de la CEPRIS par un
ingénieur bio-médical détaché de la SEPAUNAT permettr& à la CEPRIS d'établir
les spécifications pour les listes d'équipements à acquirir par appels
d'offres et de développer un système de gestion des équipements, en vue de
prevoir les budgets et un stock minimum de pièces de rechange les plus
courantes. Le SEPAUMAT de Bamako sera renforcé par leacquisition d'outils de
travail et de moyens de transport indispensables pour assurer l'entretien des
aquipements medicaux des CSC.  En matière de mobilier, le programme laissera
à l'initiative des collectivités l'acquisition du mobilier; cependant, pour
conseiller les collectivités, le programme pravoit le daveloppement de
quelques prototypes les plus essentiels raalisables par des artisans locaux
dont les spicifications seront mises à la disposition des collectivitas
(maquettes, plans, et un manuel de production). Pour le mobilier des CSC et
des CSCommunes, la CEPRIS sera responsable des spicifications et du
développement de modèles simples et adaptas.  Un accent particulier sera
porté au développement de mobilier mobile afin d'obtenir une plus grande
souplesse dans l'utilisation des locaux.
12.       Le renforcement de la CEPRIS pour pouvoir assurer le suivi des
oPirations du programme. A part le renforcement institutionnel de la CEPRIS
qu'opérera le programme en matière de gestion du patrimoine, d'établissement
des normes, d'entretien des installations, et d'acquisition des équipements,
la CEPRIS doit également etre renforcée pour faire face au surcro;t de
travail qu'occasionnera la réalisation du projet dans le domaine de la
supervision des études et des travaux. Ce renforcement tient compte des
actions dijà prévues sur le financement de la BAD.



- 105 -                         ANNEXE 3-8
Page 6 sur 8
IV. MOYENS ET MODALITES DE MISE EN OEUVRE.
13.       La zone d'intervention. La sono d'intervention du programe en ce
qui concerne l'inventaire du patrimoine, et l'introduction progressive des
mecantsmes d'entretien se limitera aux regions de Rayes, Mopti et au district
de Bamako dans une première phase, puis s'étendra, dans une seconde phase, a
compter de la troisième annae du projet aux régions de Ségou et Koullkoro.
Le renforcement institutionnel de la CEPRIS financi sur le projet se limitera
aux moyens complémentaires nécessaires pour la mise à jour des normes
nationales, la gestion du patrimoine et la supervision des activités en
matière de construction dans les ragions du projet.
14.       Les moyens. Pour permettre à la CEPRIS de remplir les objectifs qui
lui sont assignas, le programme tient compte de l'assistance technique qui
doit être mise en place sur le financement prévu de la BAD avant la fin 1989,
et qui vise à développer et introduire une stratégie d'entretien comprenant
la formation des responsables, et la préparation d'un manuel d'entretien à
l'intention des collectivités et autoritas régionales. Le programme prévoit
pour sa part de contribuer au renforcement de la CEPRIS pour lui permettre
d'assumer les responsabilitis additionnelles occasionnées par le projet. La
CEPRIS sera restructurae suivant l'organigramme présenté sur le tableau 2. Le
renforcement de la CEPRIS privu au titre du programme comporte$
(a)  six mois d'appuis ponctuels de spécialistes pour la mise en place
du systàme informatisi de gestion du patrimoine et pour la mise à
jour des normes et la mise au point'des spécifications techniques
des aquipements et du mobilier;
(b) le personnel contractuel national pour la gestion du patrimoine,
et pour la supervision du volet infrastructure du programme
(c)  15 mois de stage de formation des deux responsables de l'entretien;
(d)  l'extension des locaux de la CEPRIS (environ 165 m2) et l'acquisi-
tion de mobilier, équipement de bureau et de véhicules additionnels
pour la CEPRIS; et
(e) les frais de fonctionnement additionnels directement liés a
1'execution du programme.
Le personnel additionnel qui serait supporti par le programme est
indiqui sur le tableau 1 ci-dessous.
TABLEAU 1                PERSONNEL ADDITIONNEL
ten honueann6e>
DESCRIPTION DE L'ACTIVITE   1991 1992 199 1994 1995 1998 1997 TOTAL
Personnel contrectuel CEPRIS
- Ingénleurs terraln            2   2   2   2   2        le
- Techniclens bstlment          1   1   1   1   1         C
- Gestionnaire du patrlmoine    1   1   1   1   1         S
- Spocailste entretlen          1   1   1   1             4
Spéclall*te courte durée
- Spcialiste équipemnt     0.8                          O.8
- Spécaliste lnformatique  08                          0.S
16.        Les coOts. Le détail des coCts est donné sur l«. tableaux 8 et 4 l-
après.



*1" e g1    "uui -  1g 1s,i -
Co~~~_
g,- le         wI         I mmSWIDI    -        .1M    _s 1         v
s -t d1i.°ud                  q o11 1M 
's-    .m~rep/u.gam           d1|1 - *tU-UUf 1 5"  U1 w5Pi VUgOU  A.d
*VUo t  A  * t                 1u                     . *M 
MISIAlO   M         m u     MUMS          tuis                   Bi *Il                       v   -  .    D _,
_~~~~~~ X
ll Enum 9 ni          lm                   I
I.,&m   f                                                          --I      -
I . , IM



- 107 -ANNEXt 3-8
TABLE 11. FACILITIES PLANNINO/HAINTENANCEPae8o8
DETAILED COST TABLE
-  e*OO  e.  or q  r.Sr.u _   r. r. _ _        _ ~    e
_ F|
_3                                                                . .
~~ "    «   _e-e  - lo 
'  *ed -S3                       - :|w""3   .      O _  _.rii 
«~~~~~~~~                      1!*   g    «t ;  ;X   03" «!3 jE 
§~~~   --. 2t :::         
E                                                         IE
.~~~~~~~~~.f .:        _.
f                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-I
8..r 8, 28.                e
1: 
* ~ ~ ~ ~ 8 .:u
il     "1-   2S<J 
t      t     rt mmi     -             ra
'.                              -
..~ i
w f hiE    ÉcI -i   Iri4                 -    -                 :15 
i  .r.Z           },     3gS .* ma   Z                i   c     i   
|.;~~ ~~~~~~~ s                               S <.,,



- 108 -                             ANNEX 3-9
Page 1 of 5
REPUBLIC OF MALT
SECOND HEALTHi POPULATION AND RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
I. FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
HEALTH SECTOR EXPENDITURES
TABLE 1                      (BILLION CFAF, NOMINAL TERUS)
1987  1988  1989  1990  1991  1992  1998  1994  1996  1990
GOV'T TOTAL 8UDGET *\ 147.8 146.6 16.6 171.7 176.9 175.8 185.6 196.2 207.2 219.1
GOV'T RECURRENT
BUDGET             62.4  62.8  64.4  64.4  68.6  69.8  72.6  74.9  77.8  79.8
00V 'T DEVELOPMENT
BUDGET             57.8  63.8  60.2  60.2  68.8  78.6  87.1  94.6 102.6 111.8
HEALTH RECURRENT BUDGET BY TYPE OF EXPEND. b\
* WACES                               8.8   8.8   8.8   8.4   8.6   8.6   8.7
* MATERIALS                           24  1.6   2.0   2.4   2.9   8.4   8.5
TOTAL                  4.5          El   El1  1ElW   71    71
BREAKDOWN OF THE MATERIALS HEALTH BUDGET
* CENTR L                            1.1   1.6   1.7   2.0   2.2   2.4   2.5
* RESIONS                            6.1   0.1   0.8   0.4   0.7   1.,   1.0
TOTAL                  1.2   X1    2.0   El    2.9   E.    El-
HEALTH INVESTMENT BUDGET
* CENTRAL GOV'T                      0.20  0.21  0.22  0.28  0.24  0.26  0.25
 LOCAL OOV'T                        0.85  0.80  0.87  0.88  0.89  0.40  0.40
* EXTERNAL SOURCES                   1.80  1.60  1.80  1.80  1.80  1.80  1.80
-* ON                                0.20  0.20  0.20  0.20  0.20  0.20  0.20
* COMMNITIES                         0.12  0.20  0.25  0.80  0.85  0.40  0.40
TOTAL                 2. 6N7 0.12  0.2   0.2    aw    O .W   .4W
a\   UP TO 1992, IMF/BANK PROJECTIONS. BEYOND 1993, ASSUMPTIONS: RECURRENT BUDGET, PLUS 8.2%
PER ANNUM; DEVELOPMENT BUDGET, PLUS 8.5% PER ANNUWM; OTHER, PLUS 8.2% PER ANNUW
b\   THE BASIS ON WHICH THE HEALTH BUDGET MAS BEEN ESTIUATED IS THE SAME AS IN ANNEX 2-8.
Il.
1.         Investment criteria.   Under the project, each year beginning in
FY91, the Government and IDA will  review the health sector 3 year rolling
investment program prior to its approval. The criteria retained for such
review are the followingt
(a)  Any proposed new investment in the hospital sub-sector or exceeding
CFAF 150 million will be subjected to a detailed financial,
economic, social and technical feasibility study;
(b)  The recurrent costs implications will be a major criterion in
deciding the composition of the investment program; and
(c)  Priority vill be given, vithin the sector, to PHC, based on the
criteri, defined in this report (Annexes 3-7 and 3-8), and to
rehabilitation over new construction.
c:xn3-9.n



keah-   oS lotals lacS  Cot
u   t aty.                                 .     .   .     .   .
-. L.o............ .cal <mcl  Outla S
unit      lm2  1983 l994 lm9  S998 0997 total  Unit Cost  lot  f(ch            asago       lam«      lotal
. I.....t.u ous
h. BlLONIIUIBlC1116 SuIE lS                                                                                                                                                                       '
t. StIlUBISt SfcItS  (SISIue               t         -BUlWl       2    2    2      2                Il  3.09s 72      Sb.447.4                            544  4
2.3 L  to IEIILIII                                     tIIU_   3    3    3         3    3           i2         404     .5           28.0578              28.0 b? l
3.090W  MB. LINON ruIEBIS  <ou               MI-NIN           S    S           -                         ut30. 5                 88.000 9            16. 09 19
é-lotal f10511 IIUemim  StiSSS                                                                                           lis. 44? 4     44.1049 O          859.596 4
................. ._ .
. DlSIRtCI PUOCI0S M*s                                          140    -    -   000           -   209 45s2             2.007 6       2.4U3 a              4.42#3                          "l 
a. uîststIe  Pnocuuas         U                      -uu          s    -     2      -         -     8       3.045             -    001. 302 9            07.3 02 9
S-ltotal BUf - *10IIIS08U8                                                                                                2.007 6    109.705 7             111.724 3
fatal lISINIUI tOSIS                                                                                                       li. e45t 0       .u6t5 7          271.320 7
total                                                                                                                        087.41se5 O     3.065 7    , 270.3207 i;
-- - -- - - 28.    -  -590- - -- - --8          - - --0--9-86        .-.O"-2         8----4- -       0--- - -- - -- - -     . .. . .     . . .. . .. . .. .    . ..
8<
>1.
.4 O
It 1!



0ts.édom Of 1oâl1s site Csol
e  *ttty                                           .444  .IiIai,e 
unit        199?  t993  t994  lmS  1996  199?  total  Unit  otI  Ior  tach          là.sl       là*«      Iotas
... ..                             :.  .L .    :.4::.. ......... ..... . ......  ....... :: ..: ... ...
s 1msî4mIî cosîs
.... . . ..   ......
1. mOffS  - ft01AI001   01 11111188W                                                                                                                                                                        te
.. .   .  ... . . . . .......  .   .   .
s111   a8tit                                                                                  o1#0 10                                        l *842     C,802 à       2.30b8          -     4.899 3
So9ma1                                                                           mil                               -                  I    tS7  046     1.06S 9         4S 2                3.4S1 1
lîcocmet                                                                       tdt41                               1 * I  *     *     t     774 tô      3   S S. -                          J56.     S
111010C911TOCIU                                                                 m11                                                   1    157 046      3. 8  *4        427 7               3.613 8
9t10t1t                                                                          il             1     -            *                  1 5.259 *22    24.224 O                              24.224 0
oOailS                                                                            i8 *    t                  -                        11   246 554    12.911 6                                            F2.97? 6
ft1E9t1  OELI(                                                                 toi1 1                 4     4      4     4           16     20 546      1.657?5                             1.667 S       t
OSOltt f1tt gtt1                                                               l011             I b   *23 271                                             551 a                               567 a
tSlwmImS                                                                  1m118800-Itt         16   t6      -      -     *           n      77 4*8     11.103 3                               to. i03 S  -
2s"Ee: MIEf ittS fl Au PtE1i                                                   mli             4      3               *                    22? 375                    1. o23         t       .02S 3
OmiCtIS Not 4O                                                            1a0il6 tI             -    S       *     -     -           th       12 s8                   4.082 4               4.0S2 4
Sd-Total  18PISS - 0t11  411  11b5181s                                                                                                                   b2.249 4      14.257 5              t6.506 b 
Sdi-IotaSl 01CEU16111011 0III$ 1                                                                                                                             62.249 4      84.257 S              76. S0b *         
S. ,MOtII .  -10 W1
1. tIt1t St"fISCS                                                                                                                                                                                         x   4
.  .............. .-.
*iutO.ib                                                                      t0l               I     -      -                           -  -    774 16  3. 5  S                            3.S65S        2  ni_
PIO0tCOlS                                                                      mlil             I     -      -     -     -            I  1.00939S       4.07 a          SS3 6               4.641 4          C>Pot
ituICL                                                                         mlil             8     -         -     -   -           I. 2S9 O2        24.224 0                            24.224 0          $"O
am   PuOoC1ioe                                                                 mtill           2    10    10      a            -    30     49 311     1.303 1                              7.303 1       p1
ClMSTE  îlISlICtS                                                               1il             1     -      -           *1    1232t                        7                                 56n   a     5 
tS_U  1go _                                                               111a181tC lITS     o80   o80    80o                       s40       128t 1s.402 0                                29.402 0
SéI>Totol 1t0t1tt S8ICtS                                                                                                                                  39.740 2      29. 95S 6             69.703 à
2. tIC  I 11 0      m$aS )
C[Il9 tt 1101,18100  ttUiIiIIIII I                                             t0l             1                   *     *      * 1  -  -  8  5t. 677   188.849 o    t844.a7 6            2b3.7t6 6
681i8801 S   010  8110111 I                                                    mil             I                        -            t  14.419 25    29.712 3       3b.21b 9              6b.929   8
CEItOIUI SaelimllEl    t  fIt117 I                                            unit             t     -                                   26.412 5   806.964 1       14.488 a             121.40 9
9 0it11                                                                        uni81t           t                  *                     5. 342 006    24.602 S                            24.002 S       11
tomu *wISîIl fe ô l 0                                                           Mil             * l         *                         t        60                     2 721 6               2.*21 6       r
0ilitC la 01141E9 tmi44 t$ coull                                           luil8t0C 0                7sA--    75                             12 tl                    4.0S? 4               4.002 4
E5S IS0t1 U  S                                                                 mill           t      -                                    7n7 046      3.065 9         4ts 2               3.40t I       r
bu  MI                                                                          mlU             t     -                        -         5.2S90 22    24.2240                             24.2240        4
OMIS       1 1tS mi68801S                                                      tttl            4      6                              I 0O  1.232 77lt   S. tO0  S                          SS. 1016 
cm         sic IEC  ela111 2 ttECll91S                                      1l9ll 11Olit4     2      2     2                         6   3.09b 72    84 90S 7 24.9es 7                                   '
Sdi-Iot% tIC t ou" 11    a       1                                                                                                                       4I0 .430 0    202.790 -à3 220S
3. OMofss . ft&MIMG   0 10*t10t
....................    .-- .
lit Puget16  ttSttOP                                                       lu8t1t8 0r         90                                    so       82g1                   4 7.se.22             47.5622        "
s.b  8lott bIoSS   PtU 1i. Ml  11181141U1111                                                                                                                            47.bb2 2              41.5t 52 2    I
S"-Iot- i,8  oitE111I   E    41000                                                                                                                          490.178 2    280 J06 3              ?0.4a. 4 
t Pt mi*    4    Pl0l0MUMI*  t ellîSf I g
*i vi   liée liaN 07P0IFS                                                          M1is            8     1     2      2     2     2    tO  2.465 54t   127 07b 9                             127.09         o 
Pl MI«. 1M158t  i.                                                         11l88it DOtS       120   120   I20   120   120   820   720         12 la                  41.020 2               48*020 2      t14
ilfdt.081P0dI80                                                                   85088            I t                                   I    7S7 046      3.059 S        4t% 2                1.481 t
,îwaîîl                                                                           UNI 1            I                                     I b. 2) 1822    24.224 0                             24.2240       U
5811441085  5 ait                                                                   Mil            I                                     1    173 23277      Sb7 a                               5b1 a
î8188118 M4t 18808 IN tlelt8 ltS                                              818lttit08  cal          150          IbO               300       128 a                  Ibo2b9 2              161. 2b9 2
8tJ ll0lt80  il8 tomia18te11  ti8l80     11151 I                                   MI I                  I                               I    158 51       I 7i 3 I70 a d.lb29 1



£V*tl lm;I   Of COMItEl utitItil   I PD I                                                ti1t                   t                                 I    f4S 834                      I hl0 O                3 780 0
StPORI fOR Ria  SitOIES ( lUI I                                                         t1il 61                        t     I      I      1     6    3s8a 5J        b 7b2 4       2 00b S                   76b  3
S~1        tOR RfE. SlNIIES    I f'D                                     I              toi 1                             t      I         I t      5    6 a33                    20. b8 6                20 Ou  6
RtEI0t(U  S10P90tl                                                                      milti            t      t      1                         3    246 $54        3 S41 1                               3 541 1
Ml. h11      I OM UDOISIIS                                                              uNit l           4     4      4      4                   lb     49 3tt       3 D7b J                               3 67b 7
tR8INIt C    SSlOPS  /b                                                                UNItt          12t   t26   t25                          37S       12 la                    20 418 1                20 418 t
MtI. 0IR41t  SPtCia1is4                                                             Au  ttORIS                  3     3      3                   9   3.096 72   132 330 2                                132.330 2
IR 1lit*l   EwA&uA110 11. thul0Otl8s                                                                                         2                   2   3.096 72    30. S3l  7                               30  58
Istint  et Ofî*îî1    moeîis I   MICUIBIS PRODt   *Of  PtR Olits I                   UNIT                     t      I                         3      t12 25                     2toi0                   2 to3 1
vitêutilm  Of IIf*thtt  lUrtIlILS PRfOtCIIOt Aut  Pt*R  lEtS                            utni                                        I             1       304 à                     t 487 0                 1,487 0
(VALU*tIMO I Cf lR(UItUIStI& _t     I      RP R SI mi    p                                                             - UNII                     1     761 25                      3 60  2                3.49 2
IMAtRENI  Rhl _8tS                                                                      unit1            t                          t            2    246 b54        2,4S8 a                               2.45S à
S.h-1otbl PItAlitt  ttO PROGR*IINO  I MSP                                                                                                                             lit.3 493 b    2b3.l SSS 5            St. 049 t
total I1IMSl I 5l COSIS                                                                                                                                                  887. 921 2    tb8. l2t 3             1.446.042 4
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                                                                               . ...  .  .  .                               i
ti eomuno cosis
8  INCIuIEIIE       QPuitR61    ElfNOIIIS
................... ........................... . 
t  vttEtlt 091BAIIgIS                                                                Unît             t      2      2      2      1            a    240 934       b ssb 9        2  094 l9 ot.  409
2  149tl906  NUUlUUlCtt                                                                MitI             4     S      S      S      à     S    2S    129 072        i.S`Ob b       4 140 8                18.041 4
3  REP&EOISMUIINI Of Nt*ERSlS / SPPlIS                                                uiNtI             t      a                t t  t          6      86 048       t 9t2 0           S69 7               2.48t 7
4  DIl I tS f AND PfOSEbUStS                                                           tit             S             S             6           t'à    43 024       2.344t            701 t                3 046 4
S  DIsi  MfMS Aus PbocOuuES                                                            timtil           S            S             5IS                  101 5                     7  Olb                   1Ot6 3
6  ttPfSS 1(E10I1 OCMERtIUS                                                            11h11                   I     t      t      I            S    244 SJ4       4 t74 7         t1.309 3               S6840 o
y  QftPfSS aES. vtE. O4tS                                                           toAt i tt      t           t     t      I t             1         07ts 1       t 52. 9 s  là5645 2                  2     t37S    O;
Sih-totat  i      tAl O 0981*t1166 E£IMISIIURIS                                                                                                                       49.0b4 8      21 b1t 5                to 742 3 r:       su
total UlCtfRtiN l COSIS                                                                                                                                                    S0649         2t bi7t S               7       123
total                                                                                                                                                                     93b.t8b 0    st9 768 t               t stt 764 t O  O  r
---- -------------- --  -----------               ......              ...........                          ....        ...........
1         2laISl9O  IS0 S* Stff
fb-
0*
(4



Br.do.n  cIot     a    m  ota i cl
Q  antîty                                                tocal
......... ... _ .............. ..    *-                                     fcI    Out *  
Unit          1992    1993 1994 199S 1936 1997 lotal    Unit Cost  for  £«ch  lauul    leu«                  total
. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~   ~    ~    ~   ~    ~   ~    ~   ~   ~    ~   ~   ~   ~    ~   ~   ~   ~   ~   ~   ~  .  . .  .    ...  .  ..
à  m4UttSIS Of in  Umet tO  #MIN flE6tl                  m I fSS I       I*u-11i111            1                       -     3        3   1 096 72    40.840 a                           40.840 8 à
t  PEiM_        IhImCIIElI 
î  fililC  caBlitS                                                      15811l 6                   -                                            b SS  O   U 3   S30 là                     ma
2.  IiOI    I(I                                                           01 It              t    -    -                            t    77 046         3. o   9   415 2                3. 4801 
1  rnctocuitEî                                                           nit                -           t                                7139 62       3.67  4                         3 b77 4
4. UlClIt                                                               t0111                *    -                                 t  5.29 822        26.150 3                       26.150 3
f ilit f$OIDiS                                                             i1           S.C000           -                       000        0082        1.892S                          1.892 5 
?. ftSd l lot         imi;   IIUIll»                                lOstiGC Y(»              tI                           *         2     3.870 9     34. 69S                         34.60? 7
8  Sl         i»t SI VP Of falS. Oi_ElIEI1  SySli                     lu-M1n                 4    4    4                           12   3. 096 72 169.817 4                           169.817 4
9. 11111 i IIIat lS                                                     ail                 t           -           i              2  2.465 541    24.S87 7                          24.  ? 7
S    talot81 M SMI   il_Mfi                                                                                                                              265. 131 9 1.248 7              2bb.3S3 b                             .0
lofi& ai sEStu  COSIS                                                                                                                                       30S 978 8 1. 245 7              301.224 S
Il. ilE0118111   COSIS                                                                                                                                                                                                    oil         é
n. ,m  .          04 .  . __
1. Cut WiCtfL  OSIUilSS                                                 U                  -    -                  t    i         4     .40 934       3. 03 S1.094 6                  4 7Y  à                         g             .-
Sih-total amUII  ffSil4     MI.                                                                                                                           3.703 5 1.094 6                 4 7y1s i                         4<5      9
lotil f.ifRlhI COSIS                                                                                                                                          3.103  S 1.094 t               4 758                       S  i-Ib l
lotal                                                                                                                                                        309. 682 3 2.340 3              J 12 022 S
; : ............  .................         
~~~~~..............  .......   .................................-- --  ......  ...........       ....                        ........... .................r
ller   212  1990 tS.5 8
lu
90
Vo



- 113 -                        AN=  3-lO
Page 1 of 1.
REPUBLIC 0F MALI
SECOND HEALTH. POPULATION AND RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
PROJECT-RELATED TRAINING
1.        The challenue.  One of the critical factors in the succesa of the
proposed project vill b. its ability to radically change the attitudes and
practices of health personnel (a) by supporting the transition (i) from a
highly hierarchical system to a decontralizsd one; (ii) from a curative,
passive and individualistic approach to a proactive public health and
community service approach; and (b) by encouraging hoalth staff to shoulder
an Lncreased vorkload and heightened responsibilities as essential drugs
become available.
2.        Prolect stratexy.  To achieve these objectives, the project villi
(i) standardise health technical and administrative procedures; (ii) provide
initial and in-service training based on these procedures; (il£) establish a
decentralized information system; (iv) provide incentives to ComlHCs from
above and from below; and (v) establish a community personnel management and
control system.   Experience  in other countries has shown that these
ingrodients constitute an integrated whole and vork in a synergetic fashion.
Deleting one of them vould sharply decrease the expected impact of the
training program of the project.
3.        Procedure standardisation.   ComHC staff vill recelve precise
Instructions for the provision of health care and information.   These
instructions are based on observation of the tasks most frequently performed,
and mistakes most commonly made in village health care facilities (a similar
exercise is being conducted for referral care). The instructions which have
been devoloped and are being tested in the KBK area vill allow staff to offer
a minimum package of quality care to the communities.
4.        Initial and in-service traininR. Modules for the initial training
of staff avay from vertical programs towards integrated care are being
developed on the basis of the above procedures and vill be refined vith
experience. New tasks, or tasks frequently mis-executed vill be identified
and taught to trainees in ComHCs already in operation. Supervision vill be
based on the training and visit system.   A discussion of difficulties
encountered in applying the instructions vill help the supervise. to improve
hislher practices and the supervisor to refine the Instructions. Problems
common to all ComuCa vill be corrected during refresier courses which vill be
offered quarterly during the first year of operation, and subsequently twice
a year.   The training vill be three-tioreds the Regional Health Tean,
strengthened by a UNICEF hialth specialiat (internationally recruited and not
costed as part of the project) vill train the District health team, who in
turn vill train the ComHC staff.
5.        Decentralized information system. As soon as selected for project
support, Districts and ComHCe would have to collect base-line data from vhici



- 114 -
ANNEX 3-10
Page 2 of 4
project performance would be monitored.   For a number of financial and
technical indicators (Annex 3-4), target and threshold values have been
det.rmined.   This vill allow the ComHC staff and the Community Health
Committee to undertake corrective actions (specified in the instructions)
vithout avaiting feedback which might be slow or insufficiently precise.
This iterative exercise vill provide geographic and historical comparisons of
ComHC performance.
6.             Incentives.  The project is pretdicated on the provision of
incentives to staff from above and from below.  Pirst, project support vill
be available for only 60 of the Districts. Competition should be strong,
based on a number of criteria including existence of an operational ComHC.
A similar mechanism vill be used for the selection of communities in easch
District. District level staff whose performance vill be superior, according
to the criteria defined under the decentralized information system will be
entitled to training scholarships in areas clearly linked to their job. It
is also expected that th. exemple of success ful ComHCs and their impact on
the communitias' ihealth vill b. emulated by neighboring groups of villages,
and vill contribute to restoring the image and status of health workers.
Regular payment of a decent salary la alse key to the succes of the project.
This issue is approached from the macro level--for Government-paid health
staff, the forthcoming SAL vill correct distortions and ease the country's
liquidity situation; a study vill be conducted to review options for
enhancing staff compensation vithin the constraints of the IDF program.  For
the ComUCa staff to be paid by the comunuities, operational research vill be
launched by UNICEF in PYl to determine the most efficient way of capturing
the private savings expected from rationalization of the drug system s0 as to
bmprove the quality of care.
7.        Community manaRement and control. The Health Committe. elected by
a group of villages as a precondition for eligibility to project support for
the creation of a ComHC would receive from the District level training In
simple management techniques.  Following consultation vith the community,
they vould make decisions regarding who should receive free care, what type
of health problees sihould be addressed as priorities, whet form and level of
compensation should CoemC staff receive, etc. They would also oversee ComHC
accounts and drug stock.  Once a year, they would meet vith the District
health  and  administrative  authorities  to  review  experience  vith
implementation of the project's strategy, especially with the provision of
integrated care, cost-recovery and outroach to determine the level of
financial and technical support required for the folloving year, and to
arbitrage between competing claims on the revenues f rom the local development
tax.
8.        Table 1 suamarises the training programo to be provided under the
project. Additionally, the terms of reference of the resident specialists at
the central and Regional levels include training as a central objective. No
cost tables are included as training ha. been treated as an integral part of
individual components, rather than separately.



- 115 -
ANNEX 3-10
Page 3 of 4
REPUBLIC OF MALI
SECOND HEALTH, POPULATION AND RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
moIfIRELATE ,Aplé
FFOJiECT c«mpa\                STA"FF              _                          .JECA             TININO       TOTAL TIH1 NIM
FWuo.  fRM       TO      W-4l   TRADf             PLACE  IcimS
A  H-ALTH COPONF__
1. IROINt   TFE COVMAOC                                 (A) INTGATED MALTN CPM        LOA   01/91       1W        Mo          on    DiSTRICT  U0TO
AND SJALm  CF WEALTH                                    Ne  ACINISTRADTI
- coIWI" 1EAL3m ITH CGtOC STAff CNtES,C 8               1CM                        LOCAL  01/91  U /90        484         oa    COC    U15410
CEhTERS (PHC)          (IWIF00. AIS)                   DI SuEVICE TMINIO)
- CaNm T  bfALIN         co«  STAff            40       SIIK NtAco« ALD oCL  01/91                  12/9.     19e     DISTRICT   coDc    USALO
COMIToESo                                              ACCOUTINA TINI4M                                             TIIA sae-
DISTRICT
STAFF
-WALITY OF R_FVAL        PARNUICAL STAFF 0F  84    - HNIN         REFEIAL CR       LOCAL  01/91      M/       804        T.A.   9»C
CARE                   THE ONC.                      FACKAGE
- DISTRIC  MEALTH SYSTUi DISTRICT E[DICAL      el  (A) PLC  WEALTH                 F0f81E0 01/92     U/ff    21       SOVOL 0F TO 86    USAIO
KvA>4408491            OFFCERS                                                                                      PUBLIC    CETEM1N
IEALIN
(<) OSSVATI0N flsS             FU0  01/91      12/98    1            -    TO  E    USA1 I
O<TO8IN.
DISTRICT W.ALTH       42  (A) WIALI I»O           S      f0     01/98      12/W4     lu      SOiCOL  F WcEST     usAZo
Iw4AOS  me                     PNA18qACUJICAL SYSTUe                                         PUOLIC    AFRICA,
R4~CMS                         NACEM9fr                                                       PALTH    RE8IOA
8) OOVATION vIsm             F0010  01/92      12/W4    21            -    TO SE      USAtO
CeTBO4iN.
amrry                 24    - 1  ON EWI NI T             LOCAL  011/9      12e/Wo    20       SAIU1NDA MALI      IDA
LOCAL MJT ARITIE      80   - ROJST LM#M 8N               LOAL  01/91    12/98         S aM             DISTRICT  M0A
PROJETr'S IJCm.LYIN
COMC cIm MO mi        10   - YEMLy  <oFs                 LOCAL  0/e91    OS/W        10      ODH à T.A. DISTRICT  IDA
ir5R~O    rMIW                NPARED  JINT AMUAL,
JODIT REVIeOS VrIN MA
- RAIONAL RHT#.0q        l  STAFF          a 50  <A) InITI&A wIUSFs TO             LOCAL  01/91     12/92      Se        OIT    RECIONAL. IDA
SLFFORT (I8<I~~~~~~~~~                   OXDSSSEDITE 71<                                                         CAFITALS
860.1867, MiILOSOFI4
MO TfDtiCAL
<S) SAAY VORiMPS TO          LOCAL  00/91    0s/0        1m      am à       ReC IOIL  IDA
10 0I0 DtSNiT^ATIS                                           TA ZN      CAPITALS
0F Tm PROW   INH                       T<1 Aé
F&AUTIOe4 F      OE 11<F. %«a
JOINT AMJAL REVIEWS                                          MW44A80a
186 STAFF     1S             - cUWMITy ,*NiBmp.          LOCAL  01/91       1/92    18      R00104AL  TO BE  INICEF
IwnSTITU. OCTuII>4
OEsEoPIEat CommThE  11O   - YaELY IWS          TO        LOCAL  01/91      12/W      SS          RHT   Rî10omL  IDA
1E005                         O0FIbf, EVALUIMIT MO                                                     CAPITALS
RPfJIE TIf 18C STRAT80Y
ACC0*A MNTtS MO       IS    - OMMT  PARAMTION AD         LOCAL  01/91  U /94         45      MALMAN .            USA1 D
UOEMr OFfICERS                IONrTORI     A(EMTIM                                          INSITUT.
PRACTICU k. oeMoi.                                             (am T
PERSNL  OFFICES       10   - PfRWN4L lWaD CeAT,          LOCAL  01/91      12/W      S 10    SHRT       a        USAIO
INCWUINO IW4AA   T OF                                         T9I T.A,
TRAININO <Y#oLY)
APDNISTRATIVE         100  - TRAIN  lm                   LOAL  01/91       U/92      100     KIAH       *        IUSAID
OffSCI                        AC ST UTIN    .ICAL                                            SNSTITUT.
RESLL8  M. IMTI
CO,OUTB UNILLO  SGAÔ
2. MRVNO8TMtAL
R13OURE KNM&ACS«f
- ORMS                   STAFF 0F PMN<CV        S   (A) TRAININ  IN                f014 01/91       12/9      72      SC«OL Of TO BE    10A
DIsm      o MSN                PHCAEUJCTICAL SYSTU                                           PfeACy  CETIERIN.
ÙS104 NAA&00   AMD



sa cw8     ; ;t              
*.   a;        I iII <II :1 E      t i  tItI llIl      ii 14   
i a s " ç s- l}   8
ÎL~~-  -                    ,'  i  
o  o ' «t 



- 117 -                          AM3i
Page i of 8
REPUBLIC OF MALI
SECOND HEALTH, POPULATION AMD WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
PHARMACEUTICAL PROGRAM
This Annex describes: (i) the present situation in the d:ug sectort
(iL) the pharmaceutical reform proposed by the Government; and (iII)  th.
drug distribution oystem to be lmplemented under the project.
I. PRESENT SITUATION
1.        The drug roform lnitiated in 1983, whon lt became clear that the
free provision of drugs vas an impasse, bas largolv failed:
(a)  the drug coverage r.ains very low (302 of the population) and very
uneven (half of drugs sales are concentrated in the capital),
partly because the present health system dots not roach lower than
the sub-district;
(b) drugs are not available for three reasonst first, the Pharmacy
Populaire du Mal£ (PPM), the parastatal vith a quasi monopoly to
Lmport drugs, has tried to maximise lt. profite by selling
expensive specialtiess rather than essential drugs (Eds); second,
the output of the local drug producer, Usine Malienne de Production
Pharmaceutique (UMPP), another parastatal, for the same reason, te
not in lin. with the ED atrategy; third, PPM's distribution system
is inefficient;
(c)  when available,  druge  are not affordable,  because  they are
purchased under direct contract and subject to a vide profit
margin, and because prescribers have no incentive and do not knov
how to prescribe EDs.  As a result the average prescription la
almost four tlmes more expensive nationvide (CFAF 1,600 va 400)
than in th. 6th and 7th Regions whure drugs are purchased In
generic form and under ICB;
(d) the private pharmaceutical sector remains embryonic (1988).
2.        Thi  firet IDA-financed Health Development Project (Cr 1422-MLI)
only partly succoeded in introducing the necessary reform. A US$1,9 million
revolving fund vas created; EDs vere purchased in generic form and under ICB;
the acceptability of genorio drugs vas demonstrated; however, the revolvlng
fund vas not replonished because PPM used the proceeds from the sales of
drugs to reimburse its debt; the shortage continued and bocause the drugs
vere sold at high PPM.prices, drug utilisation did not increase.
3.        On the other hand, some positive develooments have taken place
recently s
(a)  under the proposed project, Government proposes to bring hoalth
services closer to the people, espec¢ally in the rural areas, by
croating a netvork of community health centers wilch vill include
a small pharmacy; community drug depots have also been lntroduced;



- 118 -                        ANNEX 3-11
Page 2 of 8
(b) both PPH and UMPP have been placed under the control of MSPAS, a
"contrat-plan" specifying their roles ia under preparation, which
should resolye the.dilemma of these two parastatals caught between
commercial and social objectives;
(c)  Governaent has announcod its intention to adopt the ED strategy.
With the assistance of WHO, UNICEF, and IDA, it has prepared a list
of 189 ED to be purchased under ICB and in generic form; this
approach vas followed under a recent European Development Fund-
financed purchase of ED.;
(d) Government has lifted the ban on private pharmaceutical practice,
and under the IDA-financed Public Enterprise Project (Cr. 1937-MLI)
the distribution network of PPM is being privatized.
II. PROPOSED REFORM
4.        The objective of this componesr te to make EDs physically available
and financially affordable all over the walian territory vithin a one year
period. The drug reform Master-Plan whitlh i8 a centerpiece of the proposed
project te based on vork undertaken under the Public Enterprise Project the
Structural Adjustment Credit approved by Eank's Board of Executive Directors
on December 11, 1990 and a UNICEF-financed study entitled "La Pharmacie
popus.aire du Mali dans le contexte de l'Initiative de Bamako".  For each
issue identifLed, the following paras indicate the msasures proposed under
the Master-Plan.
5.        The so-called 'Bamako Initiativeu £a a strategy adopted by all
African Ministers of health in 1987 and supported by UNICEF and WHO.  Its
main objective is to ensure the physical availability and financial
affordability of quality EDs throughout the national territory. The key
principles underlying the policy are the procuremer&t of an agreed list of EDs
in generic form and under competitive bidding, an active ED promotion
cumpaign vith the public and prescribers, rationalization of the distribution
system, and sale of EDs to patients at the lowest possible cost.
6.        TyMes of drues concerned. Issues until now, although a list of EDs
had been established in Mali, shortages, the incentives structure to PPM and
the prescriber., and lack of Information among the public, resulted in the
so-called lessential specdalties" dominating the market.  Proposed reforms
under the Master-Plan, a list of 189 EDs has been approved.  These drugs will
be purchased in generlc form ("dénomination comuune %nternationale").  Under
the "Contrat-Plan", PPM vill cease to import and vill ban from its catalog
and stores all the brand specialties with equivalent chemical composition
(350, corresponding to the 60 most critical EDs, by November 1991, and all
the r.maining equivalent specialties over a two year period).   Private
ffmpc-ters will be allowed to lmport brand equivalents (the so-called
'essential specialties")i but these vill b. heavily taxed (para 10).  For
PPM, the transition from "essential specialties" to EDs will take place
gradually, as stocks of the former are depleted and replaced by the latter.
Only EDs vill be prescibed offered in Government run communities,  and
project-supported facilities.



- 119 -                         ANNEX 3-11
Page 3 of 8
7.        The import of druzs.  Status: PPM's monop)ly for drug import vas
lfted recently in an effort to eliminate the shortages and fraudulent
imports frequently observed, at a high cost for the patient.   On-zoing
reform: under the Master-Plan, the goal i8 to croate a multiple-channel, vell
regulated import circuit, it being understood that an efficient PPM, which
would supply the market with adequate quantities of druge in a timely fashion
at affordable prices could become a natural joint procurement agency placing
multi-year orders for private as vell as public operators. Concomitant to
the lifting of the monopoly, regulations governing the new drug import regime
were issued to ensure a smooth transition to an open system. Among other
points, the regulations specify that NGOs, as well as groupe of private
pharmaciats vill be allowed to import druge directly from the international
market, provided their purchaser are qualified (a licensed pharmacist with
adequate experience in drug procurement), and they agree to submit their
orders to the approval of PIarmaceutical Laboratory of MSPAS for quality
control and customer protection. The recently created Laboratory will be
reinforced to ensure that the approval process is reasonably expeditious.
8.        Procurement.  Issues until recently PPM, as a parastatal, imported
drugs directly from suppliera and in packaged form,  instead of bulk,
reaulting in higher purchasing costs.  For instance, PP9's purchases of CFAF
1.2 billion in 1988 and 1.6 billion in 1989 vould have costed it respectively
only one fourth and one third of that amount under the principles of the EDs
policy. Retail packaging entailed an additional mark-up. Proposed reform:
now that PPM is placed under the authority of MSPAS, it vill follow the
"reglement des marchés publics' and vill procure drugs on the basis of
competitive bidding, as vas done recently for the European Development Fund-
financed order of EDs.  Through institutional development, staff vill be
trained to plan pharmaceutical needs over a three-year period to allow multi-
year orders, which further reduce prices as they al'ow suppliers to use their
resources more rationally. Bulk form vill be used whenever possible.
9.        Pricini.  Issues The price structure can be described as followss
(M) PPM purchasin2 prices for the reasons indicated just above, the
purchasing price of drugs has been very high; (ii) international transport
costs: because transport is largely a fixed cost, it (including insurance,
registration, various fees, handling and storage) has been higher as a
proportion of purchasing coste for EDs (33%) than for non EDs (16%); (iii)
import duties: until now, EDs, locally produced drugs (by UMPP) and
"essential specialties" vere exempted of import duties, while remaining drugs
were subject to a number of taxes (CEA0, Contribution sur les Prestations de
Services, CPS, Droit Fiscal sur les Importations, DFI) totalling about 22% of
invoice value; (iv) PPM's mariin: until recently, this margin vas a price
multiplier on the C.? Bamako price which vas substantially higher for
specialties (2.06) than for EDs (1.4), giving prescribers an incentive to
promote the former. This has been ceplaced by a single multiplier (1.95);
although this ie an improvement, the disincentive to reduce the CAF price
persists; additionally, the vay these margins are applied is subject to
considerable variations; and (v) distribution costs while distribution costs
are  practically  identical  whatever  the  volume  of  sales,  they  vary
substantially vith the distance to be covered.  However, the sales price vas
theoretically uniform throughout the country.



- 120 -
ANNEX 3-11
Page 4 of 8
10.       Proposed reform: under the reform, flrst of all, and following a
detailed  management  review  (PY1),  PPM  will,  among  other  managerial
improvements, be equipped with a cost accounting system which vill allow, in
particular, to identify and addreLs the causes of Lts 20% unexplained losses
during storage and to bring greater transparency in Lts operations. Second,
to monitor PPM procurement by competltive biddlng and in generic form, Lt has
been agreed that at all times during project implementation the CAF Bamako
price of the basket of EDs will not exceed that of UNIPAC (the UNICEF
Procurement and Assembly Center). Third, under a new decree only the 189 EDs
will be subject to the minimal rate of import taxes and duties; a highly
differentiated taxation system (taxing most heavily the brande equivalent to
EDs) will be put in place under the SAL, as a disincentive to the import,
prescription and use of the so-called lessential specialties". Fourth, as of
January 1, 1991, price f ixing vas abolished in Mali under the SAL. As far as
PPM is concerned, a revised margin based on a study of changes in the cost
structure expected to result from PPM's restructuring (para 11), vill be
agreed with IDA and implemented by November 30, 1991. Druge will be sold to
consumers at price including PPM's margin, variable transport and handling
costs to the Regions, plus a small margin determined by the ComHC Health
Committees. PPM's internal pricing mechanism vill be detailed in an Annex to
the Contrat-Plan with Government to be signed as a credit effectiveness
condition. The feasibility of PPM's retaining one retail point per region
("pharmacie-temoin") where lover-priced drugs would be offered as an
alternative to consumers is being reviewed.
11.       PPM's operations. Issues in addition to the problems discussed
above, PPM has (i) been operating non profitable services which do not form
part of its stated "mission", such as running a Diagnosis Center and a Dental
Prothesis Center; (ii) had excess staff, especially in ite administrative
directorate and among its sales personnel; and (III) had slow and unreliable
deliveries and substantial physical losses (202) during storage/distribution.
Finally, PPM staff has been receiving substantial in-kind compensation in the
form of free drugs (average of 180,000 CFAlemployeefannum. Proposed reform:
under the proposed Contrat-Plan, to be signed between Government and PPM is
a credit effectiveness condition PPM will, among other things, (a)
discontinue its non-profitable activities, resulting in a saving estimated at
about CFAF 125 million; (b) dismiss redundant staff, as part of a plan
involving adequate compensation (the early departure program established in
the context of the SAL). These two measures will substantially reduce its
total operating costs, estimated at CFAF 1,990 million, and would translate
into a further 5-10% reduction in the cost of drugs.  On the other hand,
transport costs vill need to be increased from CFAE 180 to 280 million to
bring the transport function up to acceptable standards. A stock management
system vill be established to trace and correct losses. Options to secure
staff cooperation in the new system will be studied during PYl for
implementation as of the first annual review.
12.       UMPP. Issue: Due to inefficiencies, the drugs produced by the Usine
malienne de produits pharmaceutiques (UMPP) cost, on average, about twice as
much as if internationally procured. As a result, maintaining proecurement
from UMPP under the ED policy would entail additional costs equivalent to
about 113 to 112 compared to international prices. A financial/management
study of UMPP has been completed under the Public Enterprise Project. It



- 121 -
Page 5 of 8
neede to be complemented by a study on UMPPes lUne of production on the E£D
context.   Proposed reforms a complementary study of UMPP, about to b.
launched, vill be discussed vith IDA to reach an agreement on how to
restructure UPP'es lino of production (credit effectivenees condition). Among
other measures UMPP vill, over a period to be agreed, introduce a number of
adjustment measures, including the possible closure of certain lines of
products, reduce its costs so as to charge prices equivalent to UNIPAC's
price plus a margin not exceeding 15%.
13.       Distribution. Issues Until recently, PPN network reached down to
the sub-district level. In the past two years, Government has encouraged the
private sector to increase its role in distribution, and PPM La implementing
a program aimed at divesting its more profitable retail points.   Two
questions need to be addresseds (i) how to serve the underprivileged Regions
where the private sector la unlikely to invest, and (il) how to bring druge
to the community level. Pro;osed reforms PPM is gradually evolving into a
wholesaler, with varehouses down to the district-level only (over time, Lt te
expected that the varehouses vill be limited to one per Region); in Bamako
and in the four Regions covered by the health component, the health centers
down to the coimunity level (ComHC) vill have their own pharmacy, which viil
follow the EDs policy. Outside the project, the private sector vill continue
to play an incr.asing role in distribution, although not loaer thon the
district level, below which community-run depots or amall salesmen are
expected to be the main source of supply. In the poorer Regions, NG0s also
play a key role. The Contrat-Plan vill specify PPN's social 'mission», Lts
obligations and those of the Government vis-a-vis deficit operations of a
social nature. The chief medical officer of the District health team vill be
in charge of organizing, in coordination vith village health committees,
distribution down to the village level.  UNICEF vill conduect operational
research to help identify the most coat-effective ways of reaching the
periphery. Every effort vill be made to privatise the transport of druge and
thus further cut PPN's coste.
14.       Drux availabiiitv. Issues the only way to ensure that a gradual
opening of the market does not result in dramatic price rises for patients Ls
to supply the drug market abundantly, and only then, to announce the
launching of the Bamako initiative. Provosed reforms the MSPAS has prepared
bidding documents to purchase enough EDs to own a one-year supply (including
20% stock) by the beginning of the project. Bide have been launched; as a
result, vithin a year, no less than 55 of the 60 druge most used at the
periphery vould be available at all times at the District level. UNICEF
field staff vould complement the Pharmacy/Laboratory in making spot checks to
control compliance.
15.       PrescribinR practices.  Issuet the prescribers usually do not knov
the EDs equivalent of brand drugs they have been used to prescribe.
Simiiarly,  patients knov neither  about the existence,  nor  about  the
advantages of EDs. Proposed reforms the project vill support a program to
train prescribers and to inform the public about EDs. Each pharmacy vill be
requested by law to post the comparative generic and brand prices, to respond
favorably to clients request for ED fulfilling of prescriptions, and to
indicate the location of tba nearest PPM Opharmacie-temoin".



- 122 -
Page 6 of 8
16.       ImPlementat_iin ochedule.  Most of the above reforma are already
being  implmentetd  the  remainder,  vhich  require  further  study  or
iastitutional development, vill be ln place by the firat annuel review
(November 1991).
17.       Responsibilitv.    Implementation of  the  reform vill  b.  the
reaponsibility of NSPAS, vith donors *soistance. Varlous units Ln PPM and
the Pharmacy/Laboratory of the Hinistry vill b. reinforced to that effect.
18.       Exiected outcome.  The opening of the drug market vill be a test
for PPM vUich viii either make rapidly the adjustments required to sustain
competition for. the private sector, and become a joint procurement agency,
placing multi-year orders or collspse altogether. Prop-ratory atudies have
emply shown that vith enough political vill, the former course of action la
feasible.   This vould be highly desirabi. ln the country of the Basmako
Initiative.
19.       Proposed means.  TIhe project vill finances (i> equipment and
supplies, training and apecialist services for the Pharmacy/Laboratory, which
vll be responsible for quality control; (iL) a training progra sand a media
campaign for the prescrlbers and the public (outside th. project, under
bilateral French aid, the various heslth achools vill introduce EDs ln their
curriculum); (il£) a monitoring system, Including e pharmaceutical management
speciallet who vill be based ln MSPAS to assiet vith Implementation of the
reform (terme of reference ln the project file)g after ont year on a full-
time bssis the rosidency could, depending on progress in implementing the
reform, be replaced by shorter, regular visite; the epecialist vould be
assisted by a team of pharmaceutical apecialists recruited under a tinaing
arrangement vith a apecialised Listitution; (iv) operating coste.   The
additional expenditures entailed by the reform for PP?  vill be financed out
of the latter'. ovwi resources.
TAlLE 1
aI              MDCS    ffl  UF
CONC  Oi      WLY tlP -  <0 CUE5P_E  ST llf ISALIH  i?  iEALtE UT (BLLH 01QS MO    - R.SOS ouBDU Iii 000
ozerzr OuoTsO
MIVTS
*immci Disilr 0UTa   e -    Du"A UT S  m  m MUfR   m0# oINIL   wS MD     m mIS CMSM IN Da
__<_a s oena  TPua   5T01   e~.          CMNDE>    T    E        -S AuINIUD# ENt
ci@oeeTs/P _   S S 1aN fle N                                          L D, ouais
li"  1SL  aPnaT    D VIuM PO N »MNo moUI. FASITM OirM IN uMM  ne
14 lmiE iiEI <WIM. V'iLL 14             . m E cu. -  s USOLAL  Dow.
mnLs. T                                                        1  MO1:          u m  "  f  > Bam
____   amr
lumum f» v U"    mEt<ATIW oISPSmT         IOi LU U  AlU U MOJtI lmOFSU
As a*uoe.                               sara



- 123 -
Pas* 7 of 8
T"2                                           REPUBUC Op ULS
SCOND ,LT. P  UTION AM VAT  PtPY PRJECT
PaPaO#D OU SYSTm
XJ- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~one WPP
M~~~d
NAOS   RECSWOOLLO S
PRIVAI£        40w
PHARASES
IWMACM
RTITSL POSNT       *-    /    |COC            
_aIty   _1t                     _"Ity                       _"i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ty



Unîit    tn92 9993 1994 199  t996 1997 loll Uf tt Cosl  $of t%ch         1.0es0     1es 1."       1
...............    ... ...   ..  .. .. .   .                                                .   .
I lW1SSttMll (SSIi5
6  »Iilmicai MDIt ItVl 9*0    *10LS   9VI1190*
fOMIeI  au t01    hl0i1                                 tlil         t 9              S.0561 m                        12479 1      95 211 1             27 690 2
Vt11lt9 4  4 141                                        15111        t                              2    .4A9 26    1  %2 1                             52 952 1                       C
VUiliÇt aI lGI I                                       UUlitI       t                              1   3.870 9       17.827 4                          17 827 4
SflIlll                                                 ml11         t    t    I    I    I    1    6    98 13                     41997 t               41  150 a
moUSt6  tglmilaC                                      IMIXI  t      2    2    2                     6  2.420 603     66. 370 3                          66 3tO 3                       i
SPtCi14s5  Stt1l8tS I 91101R ii 1I                    IIX111        2    2    2                     6   3. 06 72     84.908 7                           84 S08 7
et0SIAM                                                 toit9       6    6    6    6               24     27 484                   13. ut4 6            13 14 6
oe.IamIAa                                               mai          I      t t               1    6      56 su 6n    7862 0       9.3706 a7 232 7
mlUotalaS I CUolitI S189l91S 8                          fUIt         t                   -          1 4.321 n7s       8.993 7       0. 86S t            9 9778 7                        z
Sté-ota$ IIC9aiC*  tUIII la M1M1. Mo tUS  DIV  I 1 109                                                                 25t 313 3    91.289 j              342.602 4
2    _     IS6Ct Of UIEICIllS
.... . ... .... .... .......
1t160S11                                                0099        la  ta                         36     47 807                   7 579 3               7. 79 3
5it0t10S                                                 m1       l8 e  0                   -   20      82 86                    7.298 6               7.2986                  9  (
PM1l8gc11                                                                           -                                77 .46 6                           77 546 6
S10l1ES                                                 mil          1   4    1    1    1    -          5   s61 2    128.487 9                         128a.479                        O
S1C8IUJSI Sf1996S                                      MUUIU        2    2    2                     6-    3.096 12    84.908 t                           4.908 7
0W111S  lIUI8I6C                                        Mil          9    I    9                    3   2.064 48     28.302 9                           28.302 9
*j
St*-l-otal  _P00. tS3CE Of IIIO9CgItS                                                                                  319.246 1      9t 877 a            334  23 4              -9    ' p    "j
3  SiIIUGltIU(N(0D m 1006                                                                                                                                                           o
SlWitS m  9OttiliUI                                     uWil        2    -                          2    6S0 313       . 348 2        *24 3              6.0721 5             o            9-4
»lutt SII  AJ tout                                       mIl         9 -                            2    3.870 9     36.3650       *                    36  350 0                9  r'l
85t85 l0xi*xlC                                         toli i       2    2    2    -               6   2.064 48         SOS                            56.f6058 l  a3
_0SIIO                                                   mil           1       1             t I         39la if                   8.9t4 7              8*944 7
P9018UCTIUCt n*ImEtSnI SDICatISs                       MMN    Io go 10           10 90  l0    -   s0   3.098 72    735.885 2                           735.861 2                 P          5-
Sb-lol. l S5til0lt1tD 11 81109006                                                                                      834.189 2       O. 66s 0           843 56 2I
Sitb-otal #MIIut mOti"I 0t(l11EIXI                                                                                     1.404.f48 6    ItS.836 0           120.58  6                     ta     4
$ S100X lX1lil0t XI*IIIC 511tlSI                            I    1110111111  -   6    -      -          .     3.09 82    84.867 3               *             84.861 3                     4
total 8tSitll tOSIS                                                                                                        1,0t.48a.61S 9    115.836 0        1.601.451 9
sa *cemî costi                                                                                                                                                                                   c
Il titCUItll ptZ3iS i! m"l
.... .. ... .. ..... ...... ... ...                                                                                                                                                   pu   lu
I IlCIUic*t 9189 1» 9*1. A" US  DIV  I 0901  I 
...........................    . ..... .....    .....  ............
lotalt ItlIISES                                         mil II           I    I              I     6    2. 791 9    60037 3       tt. 68119 4          77. 926 7*0I
2  é~l    ttSt 01 IllDgICItaS 
. ........... . . . . . . .
Pfe SfinS                                              mtil58      98   9                         36    27 48                    20.299               20.299 *                         3
OPtlUIUC lo ti9S1S                                     00'1            I    I    I      1    1    6   1.309         30.018 6      8.944 7             38 963 3
S.â-lot1a9  990 _  SCG  Of HEDICINES                                                                                   30.0e8 6     29.1561              19.174 7 i  l
3 Sl11960 I 1i 1  119509901986
096l0*911l»C 111 9P1»                                                           1 9    8    9    6   1.621 14    36.022 4         90.733 6
"Ao ltal 512ut»itiletS   111011180Rl11t                                                                                36.07                                   



- 125 -                        ANNEX 3-12
Page 1 of 29
REPUBLIC OF MALI
SECOND HEALTH, POPULATION AND RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
POPULATION AND FAMILY PLANNING
I. GENERAL
1.  There are two major sources of information on population and family
planning in Mali. One i the "Enquête démographique et de santé au Mali'
(EDS), prepared in 1987 by the Centre d'études et de recherches sur la
Population pour le Développement" (CERPOD) of the Sahel Institute, with US
funding and technical assistance. The other is IDA's Population Sector
Memorandum, which vas discussed vith the Government in 1988. Addltionally,
the resulta of the 1987 Census are still being analyzed.
2.   EDS vas the first major attempt to analyze the levels and determinants
of fertility in Mali, actual family planning (FP) knowledge and practices,
and mother/child health indicators. The findings are detailed in Table 1.
The key points are that fertility la high and stable in Mali, due to a
combination of early age of marriag^, pro-natalist tradition, persistent high
infant mortality rate, lack of information about modern contraceptive
methode, conservative attitudes of men, and the taboo nature of FP among
spouses. Table 2, excerpted from IDA's Population Sector Memorandum,
illustrates the impact of various fertility assumptions on population and on
key socioeconomic indicators. At present fertility rates, Mali's population
vlll double in 25-30 years, making its development challenges even more
formidable.
3.   The Malian case is somewhat paradoxical. On the one hand, the Government
has been reluctant to recognize that population growth i a serious problem
and to tackle the issue aggressively, for fear it might be socially
unacceptable; on the other hand, it has encouraged a public debate on the
issue, has made genuine efforts to integrate demographic variables into the
planning process, and has supported the integration of FP into MCH as a means
to protect the health of mothers and children through vider birth spacing.
As a result of the groundwork done in recent years with the assistance of a
number of donors, especially UNFPA/ILO and USAID, a draft population policy
is nov available and basic data and toole for designing, implementing and
monitoring FP services have been put in place.
II. POPULATION
4.   Draft population policv. Based on the principle that "Mali's prime
resource is its people," the Government has traditionally followed a
"laissez-faire' population policy. For the past seven years an inter-
ministerial 'Groupe d'études et de coordination des activités en matière de
population" (GECAPOP), assisted by a Secretariat (the Population Unit of the
Planning Directorate in the Ministry of Plan) has studied, as part of an
UNFPA/ILO project, the interaction between demographic variables and various
aspects of socioeconomic development. The resulting draft of the population
policy (discussed at a national seminar in July 1990) sets as its objectives$



- 126 -                        ANNEX 3-12
Page 2 of 29
(a) accelerate the development process whilo adjusting fertility to the
economy's capacity to sustain said procos; (b) increase food security; (c)
reduce mortality and morbidity, especially among children; (d) promote
integrated MCHIFP; (e) expand schooling and employment opportunitie.; (f)
protect the environment; and (g) help vomen to become full partners in the
development process (WID). Among the means envisaged to achieve these
objectives, it ia proposed to increase the contraceptive prevalence rate
(CPR) from 5% (all methods) to 40% (in urban areas) and 102 (in rural areas)
by 2000 and to 70% and 40% for those same areas by 2020.
5. The Government (a) has undertaken a broad consensus-building exercise
prior to seeking Ministerial Council approval of the policy; and (b) to
operationalize it, proposes to formulate and implement a population Action
Plan consisting of programs in health; MCH/FP and IEC; rural development and
protection of the environment; and human resource development, including
employment, an internallexternal migration strategy, and lmprovements in the
statua of vomen. An institutional framework to that end has been proposed
(para 25).
6.   The census. Preliminary results of the 1987 census show an intercensal
population growth rate of 1.7% sunce the 1976 census. This in substantially
lover than recent censuses in neighboring countries and could be explained by
a very high out-migration rate (1.0% p.a.), which vould put the growth rate
at 2.7S, in lin. vith the 1976 estimate. For the purposes of planning and
policy formulation it is essential to obtain the best possible estimate of
population growth and its constituent elements as soon as possible. This
requires ch.cking the data for internal inconsistencies and complementing the
Information available on out-migration. The census bureau has recelved
financial assistance from UNFPA, UNICEF, UNDP and Canada to cover costs up to
the data-entry phase; lt nov needs additional assistance for analysis and
dissemination of the census results.
III. FAMILY PLANNING
7.   Service delivery and acces. As indicated in the staff appraisal report
(para 2.10), FP services, started in 1972, are nov available in the capital
and in all the main towns down to the District level. They are also offered
in the few sub-districts health centers that have trained obstetrical nurse
on their staff. Balow that level, the rural population sbmply does not have
access to FP Information or services.
8.   Table 3 shows contraceptive use, broken down by method. Among the some
21,000 FP acceptors (1990), the predominant contraceptive method ls the pill
(80%), while at the other end of the apectrum demand for sterilization, and
therefore for hospital-based services, is minimal. Over half of users are
served at the AMPPF in Bamako, one fourth ln goverument-run services and MCH
centers also ln the capital, and the remaining fourth in centers in the
Regions. Usera are generally young, educated, urban, and often reported as
singles; however, given the unbalanced distribution of FP services, it is not
clear whether this profile is supply driven or demand driven.



ANNEX 3-12
- 127 -                       Page 3 of 29
9. Until now, training in FP has been confined to physicians, midwives and
obstetrical nurses (mostly males), i.e. the staff of District health centers.
There are two important issues linked to expansion of service delivery beyond
that level: first, the majority of chief nurses ("infirmier chef de poste")
at the sub-district level are men and could have some difficulty examining
women to screen them for contraceptive use;  second,  authorization to
prescribe and distribute hormonal contraceptives has, until now, been
restricted to physicianse midwives and registered nurses, thus disallowing
assistant midwives "matrones" and nurse's aides ('infirmiers brevêtés") from
delivering prescription methods. These two factors threaten to eut short at
the sub-district level the desired expansion of services, especially in rural
areas.
10. Recently, in the context of a USAID project, distribution of non-
prescription methods by community health workers was authorized. While a
positive development, especially in the effort to control AIDS, increased
condom use cannot be expected to have a significant impact on birth spacing
and planning objectives in peripheral areas, as they are not likely to be
widely and regularly used by steady couples.
11. The logistics of contraceptive distribution. There are two parallel
logistical systems for distributing contraceptivest one is run by MSPAS's
DFH, the other by AMPPF. UNFPA only uses the former, IPPF,the latter, and
USAID both. Both systems are inadequate and need to be expanded. In terms of
storage, DFH has one warehouse in Bamako and one in each MSPAS Regional
Directorate (total 7); AMPPF has one varehouse in Bamako and one in each of
its five Regional antennae. There are no storage facilities at the District
level and below. Only recently, an efficient computerized reporting mechanism
was established to monitor the flow of goods; as a result, stock-outs, once
a common occurrence, have become less frequent. In termas of transport, the
demands of the system on DFH and AMPPF fleets are limited but will increase
substantially with the proposed expansion of MCHIFP services. As FP services
expand, it will also become more difficult and lesa cost-effective to
maintain a separate delivery system for contraceptives. These should actually
be included in the official list of essential drugs, and the current separate
distribution system should, over time, although not in the lifetime of this
project, be phased out as an effective ED distribution system is established.
12.  Under a number of ongoing or new projecta (Integrated Family Health
Project, Enterprise Project, and Social Marketing Project), USAID already has
experimented, or will, with a variety of contraceptive distribution channels:
(a) the midwives in 15 MCH/FP centers, (b) the employer-based health unit of
two major parastatals, COMATEX and SONATAM, (c) community-based distribution
through men in 12 villages, and (d) a number of private and commercial retail
outlets which offer a broad range of products and flexible hours. The
question of appropriate level and method of pricing contraceptives needs to
be analyzed thoroughlyt on the one hand, affordability is essential to
stimulate and maintain a high level of demand, especially if commercial
channels are expected to contribute significantly to improving access to FP
products; on the other hand, the level of subsidy should be such as to keep
recurrent costs within sustainable limits and encourage rational use.



- 128 -                          ANNEX 3-12
Page 4 of 29
13.  Information/education!communication. The fact that 32% of women would
like to delay their next pregnancy and that 17% want no more children, as
well as the growing although still modest number of illegal abortions suggest
there may be a large potential demand for FP services. This demand could be
drawn out through strong promotional and information efforts. The principal
impediments to acceptance--belief that the Muslim religion forbids the use of
contraceptives, fear that the effects of modern contraceptive methods may be
irreversible or that contraceptive use would affect the sexual behavior of
one's wife or daughter, or simple lack of information on the existence and
availability of modern methods of contraception--could be overcome through
well-designed and targeted information campaigns. These efforts are
especially important in rural areas, where such beliefs are widespread.
14. In Mali as in other countries, FP IEC activities are (a) either
integrated with clinic services, particularly those targeted to women coming
to health centers for maternal and child care services; (b) or brought to the
general public through various channels--public meetings, seminars, mass
media, etc. Clinic-based IEC is done mostly by health personnel, though they
may be assisted by other specially trained agents (e.g., social welfare
personnel) and by AMPPF staff in conducting discussion sessions ("causeries")
among women clients.
15. Non-clinic based IEC is organized mainly by AMPPF, often working with
Social Affairs, UNFM, UNJM, the Ministry of Education or other relay agents
("agents relais"). AMPPF is working hard to maintain efforts to promote FP;
however, its staff and resources are limited (49 staff in total consisting of
a amall core staff in Bamako plus antennae in five of the seven Regions, each
with two agents). As a result, its efforts to organize a network of relay
agents and to carry out IEC activities are often sporadic. The importance of
these activities cannot be overstated, and AMPPF should be equipped with the
technical, managerial and physical resources to fulfill its mandate, as part
of an FP strategy fully integrated in the national population policy.
16. The fact that the Government has clearly identified the specific target
groups for its IEC campaign (opinion leaders, women of reproductive age, men,
and youths) and already tested a number of approaches and messages will prove
helpful. Additionally, the design of this campaign should build on lessons
learned from experience with FP IEC elsewhere, e.g., the need for prior
research on the precise message to be delivered and most appropriate medium,
the desirability of giving the message a human, persona! and whenever
possible, entertaining twist, the importance of using ap many channels as
possible (be they modern or traditional, community or i.Udividual, private or
public) and of carefully monitoring and evaluating 't:e impact of the effort.
17. The institutional settinx. Since 1988 the distribution of roles has been
clearly delineated betweeun DHF and AMPPF. DFH is responsible for clinic-based
services, including contraceptive distribution. AMPPF is responsible for IEC;
it will continue to offer services at its Bamako clinic, but will channel its
contraceptive supplies through DHF.
18.  This arrangement raises four issues% first, the direct provision of PP
services, in line with the general thrust of MSPAS, is no longer adapted to



- 129 -
ANNEX 3-12
Page 5 of 29
the new environment,  characterized by decentralization,  the increasing
importance of communities, NGOs, the private sector and external donors, and
a shift in the Ministry's role towards its policy, managerial and support
functions. Second, DFH is not equipped to properly fulfill all these
functions (e.g., distribution). Third, to ensure that the IEC and service
delivery aspects of the FP program move in the same direction and at the same
pace, botter coordination is needed between AMPPF and DFH especially in
peripheral areas where demand generation activities (IEC) are crucial to the
success of the program. Finally, stops should be taken to ensure consistency
in the messages delivered by workers in health centers, by AMPPF and its
field agents, or by any other partner, public, NGO or private, operating in
this sensitive area. Good coordination and a full partnership are therefore
essential.
19. National FPIIEC strategy. A FPiLec strategy has just been formally
approved by MSPAS. It includes short, medium and long-term CPR targets. Its
implementation should benefit f rom the testing of MCHIFP norme and procedures
in Bamako's Commune II, from lessons learned from the varicus approaches
tested with service delivery, and from the recent improvement of the data-
base at DFH. The strategy defines quantified, monitorable objectives, to
which  the  Government  is  openly  committed,  proposes  a  framework  for
coordinated and complementary interventions, specifies the means (policies,
institution  building,   investment,  efficiency  norme  and  performance
undicators) to achieve them, monitor and evaluate progress, and take
corrective action as needed. This is all the more important as the proposed
project, involving substantial resources and a number of donors, is being put
in place.
20.  External assistance. Table 4 saumarizes donor interventions in the sub-
sector. To maximize their cost-effectiveness, a clear definition of
priorities, a system to monitor the flow and use of resources for MCH/FP
activities (level of funding, nature of activities supported, geographic
distribution, implementation performance, expected outputs, unit costs,
etc.), and systematic coordination are needed.
IV. PROJECT STRATEGY
21. Objectives. Given the issues identified above, this project component
vill support implementation of the Government's population policy and MCHIFP
strategy. Specifically, it proposes tot
(a)  Provide institutional support to (i) help the Government finalize,
disseminate and operationalize its population policy; (ii) finalize the
census; and (Lii) strengthen national capacities to plan, manage and
evaluate national FP programs (uncluding IEC); and
(b)  (t) Stimulate, through IEC, the demand for FP where it is w.an:  (iL)
increase the availability of FP services where there is unmet demand;
and (iii) improve the quality of FP services.
22.  Unlike the health component, which would be limited to four Regions and
Bamako, this component would have nationwide coverage, although its impact is



- 130 -
ANNEX 3-12
Page 6 of 29
expected to be more deeply felt in the more urbanized areas and in those
covered by the health component. Its objectives are to increase the CPR from
1.2% to 10% in Bamako and the four regions of concentration and to about 8.5%
nationvide by 1997; for IEC, the objective is to ensure that 75% of urban
vomen and at least half of rural vomen know about contraception, its
availability and benefits.
23. Tools. To achieve the above objectives, the project would use two tooles
a core of fully appraised investments, and a fund for population activities
(POPFUND), a mechanism designed to flexibly finance population-related
activitîes which either are still at an experimental stage but likely to
warrant expansion, o- are of a very innovative nature, have only been
identified in light oL the recently lssued draft population polley, or vill
emerge out of its early phases of implementation.
24. Philosophy. A few principles underlie the design of this component: (a)
it ls based on Covernment'8 policy of integrating FP into MCH whenever
possible; (b) major emphasis i given up-front to institutional development,
be it the cteation of appropriate management mechanisms or the training of
staff in their use; (c) it stresses the necessary partnership between public,
private and NGO operators in MCHIFP, as vell as the need for increased donor
coordlnatior; (d) because the few CPR and demographic targets set by the
Government may be overly optimistic, given the sociological and logistical
constraints, it aime only to create an initial momentum, and in case of
faster than expected progress, could easily be complemented by a Project
Preparation Facility (leading to a full-fledged population project financed
by an IDA credit) or by additional contributions from other donors.
25. Lexal context. To enhartce the impact of the activities to be financed
under the project, existing legal barriers or practices restrictlng access to
FP have been lifted. Operational guidelines have been circulated, authorizing
all trained health personnel down to the ComHcs to prescribe and distribute
contraceptives (including hormonal products), while community agents vill be
allowed to re-supply vomen previously screened by trained health personnel.
Complementary operational guidelines have been circulated to all health
personnel and communicated to AtIPPF, specifying that there La no legal basis
for denying access to FP services to unmarried vomen or to married vomen
without marital consent. These tessages vill be reinforced through training
and the media.
V. INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT
26.  Finalizing, disseminatina and operationalizing the population iolicy.
Responsibility for this sub-component vill lie with the Planning Directorate
in the Ministry of Plan. Thr.e steps are involved. With respect to
finalization of the policy, the ILO-executed UNFPA project has done a good
job in helping with the preparation phase, and the Planning Directorate,
which comprises the Population Unit, vishes this assistance to continue until
an Action Plan is ready for subtission to a Donors' Round Table (end-1991).
Therefore, project support vill be limited to six monthe of short term
sectoral specialist services to complement the UNFPA project if need be. For
dissemination  of the policy (1990-92), the Population Unit vill repeat its
July 1990 performance through project-financed seminars targeted at



- 131 -
ANNEX 3-12
Page 7 of 29
political, administrative and religious opinion leaders. The seminars will be
given in each of the country's seven Regions, baginning with the more
urbanized  areas.  Operationalization  of  the  policy  requires  a  new
institutional framework (a national, seven Regional and 46 District level
population coordination bureaus, cf organigram in the project file); the
project will provide O&M assistance (six months of short-term consultancies)
and equipment for the central level of the coordinating framework (Bureau
National de Coordination des Activites de Population, BUNACOP) or any entity
serving as Technical Secretariat to the national commission for population
activities, with broad public/private/NGO representation. This procesa will
begin early in PYl as soon as the policy has been formally adopted in a
Presidential statement. Additionally, experimentation of the action programs
proposed under the Action Plan could be financed under the POPFUND (para 45).
27.  Regarding the Census, the project vill provide to the Planning Bureau
(Ministry of Planning) through CERPOD (a Sahel-wide Center for population and
development Research based in Bamako and backed up by the Population Council)
punctual technical assistance as described in para 6 (six months).
28. Strengthenina national FP management capacities. Responsibility for this
component will lie vith DNPFSS (recently merged into DAF), which is in charge
of planning training activities in MSPAS. The Government's policy of
intagrating FP into MCH services countrywide and the Population policy option
of mobilizing all potential partners to increase the CPR will generate a
strong need to train middle level managers of public, private and NGO-run FP
programo. To meet that objective with the required flexibility, this sub-
ceomponant vill be contracted to a specialized institution under an umbrella-
contract providing for two-tier in-country training, short-term specialist
services, and a study tour. Over the six years of project implementation,
some 250 middle-leval PP project managers (roughly one third each from the
public, private and NGO sectors) vill receive five weeks of training (three
in project management properly speaking and two in monitoring and evaluation
a year later).
29. The training wilI'be'provIded by an institution, preferably vith Malian
experience. During PY1 the existing needs assessment and curriculum elements
vill be refined and training facilitators vill be trained in Bamako
(principles of adult learning, delivery and feedback, etc.), with a view to
becoming trainers themselves by the end of the project. The areas to be
covered by the training have been idantified, ranging from organizational
assessment to the development of vork plans, including communication, systema
management, quality of care in FP, etc. , for the f iret round of seminars, and
stressing the development and use of monitoring tools for the second rounds.
The training vill take place in rented facilities in Bamako. Selection of
trainees vill be made by DNFSS on the basis of qualification and eligibility
of the concerned FP program, and assurances from the employer that the same
person vill remain in charge of the program for at leaet five yoars. The
approach vill be highly participatory, and follow-up vill be provided in the
form of specialized assistance to interested FP programs. Short term
specialists in FP planning, management and evoluation vill help, for
instance, to reinforce DFH's Evaluation Unit and to create in UNFM a project
management capability, as vell as solve additional, unexpected problems.



- 132 -
ANNEX 3-12
Page 8 of 29
Finally, a total of 25 higher-level FP managers will go a tour abroad
(Tunisia) to gain exposure to and exchange views on succeseful FP programs in
other francophone countties.
30. To complement this training, DFH, DNAS, DNAFLA (WID Division) and AMPPF
will receive a joint total of one year of O&M short-term assistance and
office equipment and supplies. The precise distribution of the services and
nature of the equipment will be deterained following a detailed diagnosis of
their individual and collective functional probleme and a complete inventory
of the resources available to them from a variety of sources (PYI).
Coordination, information, M&E management tools will be reinforced as a top
priority (the distribution of responsibilities is in Table 6).
VI. INFORMATIONIEDUCATIONICOMMUNICATION (IEC)
31.  Stimulating demand for FP throuth IEC. Within the broader framework of
the population policy, the FPIIEC strategy submitted to IDA specifies (a) the
tarRet xrouRss opinion leaders, women of reproductive age (15-49) especial.y
young mothers, vomen who tend to be more conservative, young people, and
Mali's development partners (the latter group hardly needs to be convinced of
the benefits of FP); (b) the channels to be useds participatory structures,
the media, political organizations, opinion leaders, artists, and rormal
education system and the informal functional literacy network; (c) the
intermediaries ("relais"): rural "animateurs," community development agents,
functional literacy agents, cooperative staff; (d) the pedazosical supports:
video, audio, cinema and photo materials, plays, role games, etc.; and (e)
the formats: discussion panels, workshops, puppet or theater shows, mobile
audio libraries.
32. In line with this approach, this sub-component will (a) refine the
IEC/FP message, bearing in mind the Government's policy of integrating FP
into MCH and of stressing child spacing for health reasons; and (b) following
the development and focused testing of improved messages and materials
adapted to the various target groups, support their dissemination through
using both the core investment program for the most urgent activities
(reinforcement of AMPPF and of DNAPLA, media campaign, and strengthening of
family health education in the formal education system) and the POPFUND for
others <para 47).
33. The IECIFP message. During the January-June 1991 period, sub-groups f rom
the task force that prepared the MCHIIECIFP strategy will continue to work on
detailed implementation plans and will initiate start-up activities. In this
IEC design sub-group, the key actors will be DNAS, as the Government entity
responsible for IEC strategy, and AMPPF as the lead agency for IEC delivery
(and therefore the one with the most practical experience). The sub-group
will be assisted by an IEC specialist for an initial period of six months,
followed by short-term visite (additional six months over the project life).
First, the sub-group will conduct an evaluation of the Impact of the many
IECIFP experiments already ongoing--through female UNFM rural agents, the
DNAFLA literacy centers network, men and midwives, artiste and media-stars,
15 Government clinics experimenting with integrated MCHIFP, and the health
agents of large industrial firme. This evaluation will be complemented by a



- 133 -
ANNEX 3-12
Page 9 of 29
beneficiary assessment of individual knowledge, perceptions and behaviors
related to fertility matters.   The beneficiary asseasment, a technique
already used to design and monitor FP programs lin other countries, vill cover
a spectrum of socioeconomic groups and regions. It vill be conducted by a
Malian team from MSPAS, assisted by an independent consultant, possibly from
the "Institut malien de recherche appliquée sur le développementl (INRA») vho
successfully assisted in a similar exercise in the education sector.
34. Using the combined results of the evaluation and the beneficiary
assessment, the sub-group vill sharpen the message and adapt it for each
target group. PY2 vill be devoted to foeused tests of the revised message run
vith UNFM and the medical and mldwife professions to reach vomen, UNTM for
men at their workplace, UNJM for young people, private pharmacies, ANPPF's
mobile units, extension workers for farmers, etc. Once satisfactorily tested,
these approaches could be expanded under POPFUND financing. The geographic
coverage, however, vill be carefuily phased with the development of health
services, i.es, Kayes, Mopti, Bamako (and Sikasso outside the project)
beginning in PY2, Segou and Koulikoro in PY3. Within each Region, the effort
vill start in the urban areas (the capital, then District and finally sub-
district leval) because of the resulting multiplier affect.   lovever,
flexibility will be essential. Once a year during the life of the project,
the sub-group vill organize, each time in a different Regional capital, a
national one-week seminar for all the operators involved in IECIFP. The
purpose of the seminar will be to share experiences and learn from thom, and
use the feedback to correct the program as needed.
35. The refined message will be translated by DNAFLA into the six languages
of Mali (Bambara, Songhoi, Tamashec, Pulfulbe, Dogon and Soninke). About
2,000 posters, 2,000 brochures, 14 audio films, and audio cassettes (the
latter two will be the same as under the media campaign) vill be produced,
some internationally, some locally. DNAFLA's Materials Production Unit vill
be reequipped and receive three montha of technical assistance to that end.
36.  The media camaixn. Responsibility for this sub-component vill lie vith
the Division for Health Education. Once the core IEC message has been
formulated (PY1), the above sub-group vill, vith assistance from local media
consultants (on. from the radio, one from the television, and one from the
prese, three months each over the total project period) vill develop a media
campaign to familiarize the public vith the health and economic benefits of
feamily planning. lWhile integration of FP into HCH and of MCH :Lto prlmary
health care vlll be constantly stressed, the foeus of this campaign vill
clearly be FP and family health (at loast 602). Radio time i already
available to DFH (one hour per week), the Ministry of Education (one hour per
week), and for rurallagricultural messages (several hours per veek). About 2
new radio programs per month vill be issued as of PY2 (120 over a five year
period); they vill be adapted for different audiences. Taking into accout
the experlence vith the audio-visual programs developed under a Jobns Hopkins
assisted operation, six TV clips p.a. (30 over the life of the project) vill
be prepared. These vill als  be made available in video film format.
Listener and viever feedback vill be used for evaluation and monitoring
purposes. The level of pres coverage vlll be determined by the vorking
groupe



- 134 -
ANNEX 3-12
Page 10 of 29
37. Family health education, Responsibility for this sub-component vill rest
with the Division for Health Education and the Ministry of Education's
National Pedagogical Institute (IPN). Given the high level of teen-age
pregnancies, the existing family education program needs to be improved for
clarity, practicality and simplicity. Using the basic IEC message, and vith
assistance from UNESCO (six months in total), the team vill, in coordination
with UNFPA, evaluate and revise the existing program, with different modules
for Grades 5 and 6 (the final school years for many children, especially
girls), for Cycle 2 of basic education (Grades 7-9) and for secondary
education (Grades 10-12). The basic principles vill be to integrate the
training into the existing disciplines ("eveil", science, home economics and
ethics) rather than add to the curriculum. The modules will be tested in
about 10 classes each (in different Regions) during PY2 and refined. Once
improved, in PY3 they will be distributed as a kit to 811 schools in the
country (about 2000) and introduced in teacher training colleges (IPEGe,
ENSECs, ENSUP). The project will finance five summer camps to train in family
health IEC about 1000 teachers (600 primary teachers, 400 science teachers)
sufficiently experienced to play a catalyst role among their colleagues. The
program will be backed up by visits from the mobile units of AMPPF (para 36)
and by educational radio (one prograu per month). Additional in-service
training for the whole teacher corps could be financed out of the POPFUND.
38. AMPPF has traditionally been the lead agency for IEC delivery and
training, and caters to over half of the demand for FP services in its Bamako
reference center. To spearhead the IEC effort, AMPPF's five existing Regional
antennae--Mopti and Kayes in PY2, Segou, Sikasso and Koulikoro in PY3--will
be reinforced with contractual local staff (2 per center), equipment,
materials and mobile video-units. To ensure countrywide IEC coverage, two new
antennae will also be created in Gao and Tombouctou (PY3). If the quantified
indicators to be developed for the District health system (Annex 3-4) showed
signe that demand for FP services exceeded that which can be provided by
Government-run clinics, these antennae could, under the POPFUND, be upgraded
into reference centers patterned after the one in Bamako. This situation is
not expected to arise in Gao and Tombouctou, however, where the new antennae
might have to deal more with problems related to sterility than hyper-
fertility.
39. All additional IEC activities, which are unlikely to start until PY2,
vill be financed under the POPFUND, provided they wieet the eligibility
criteria (Section VIII).
VII. EXPANSION OF FP SERVICES
40. The draft population policy sets ambitious CPR objectives (para 4). To
initiate the required transition, the project's strategy stresses (a) IEC, as
just seen, (b) integration of MCHIFP into the primary health care package to
b. offerod La the ComHCe La the Regions of concentration of the health
component, (c) introduction of FP into MCH countrywide, and (d) improvements
in the quality of FP services. Pour memoire, under the health component, 66
"urban' ComlCs vill be created (20 in Bamako, 21 la District capitals and 25
in sub-distriet centers) and 56 rural centers. All vill offer a menu of
short- and long-term FP options: condoms and spermicides, injectables and



- 135 -
ANNEX 3-12
Page 11 of 29
pille (following screenlng at a first referral facility), will be available
at the ComHcs; IUDa and (eventually) voluntary sterilization in the District
health centers. The 240 technical staf f of the ComHCs will be trained in
integrated health care by their District health teams, themselves trained by
the Regional teams, initially assisted by expatriates.
41. Additionally, under this sub-component and under the responsibility of
DFH, the project vill, in all Regions of Mali brlng FP services down f rom the
District level (46 health centers) at present to the sub-district level (264
centers). To that effect, about 400 technical staff (assistant nurses and
midwifes) will be trained in integrated MCH/FP techniques. This will be
carefully coordinated with an ongoing UNFPA-supported operation expected to
cover about 10 Districts by end-1993. Training modules have been successfully
developed and tested vith USAID support, and some 15 traîners (from DFH,
DNPFSS, the midwifery school, the medical and pharmacy school, and the
Regional health directorates) have been trained. The training will combine
one residential and one on-site training sessions. The former (about 12 days,
to be held in the Regional Health Directorates) on management techniques, and
the latter (12 days) on integrated care (immunizations, nutrition, FP,
dlarrhelc diseases, pre- and neo-natal surveillance, child delivery, growth
monitoring, vell children, etc.,). The FP part of the training covers IEC,
identification of specific fertility-related problems, including sterility,
prescription of contraceptives, insertion of IUDs, monitoring of the side
effects of different types of contraceptives, and management of a regular
supply of contraceptive products. It is reinforced by the distribution of a
booklet on MCHIFP norme and procedures (for staff), another on family health
(for patients), and a standardization of equipment. The training vill be
offered to some 400 midwives and nurses countrywide, allowing them to
prescribe hormonal contraceptives and insert IUDs. The concomitant provision
cf equipment will be funded under the POPFUND.
42. Further expansion of FP services vill also be financed under the
POPFUND. It vill rely largely on the private sector (associations of
physicians or midwifes) and NGOs to meet existing unmet demand in urban areas
and on CBD and various informal channels to satisfy the newly generated
demand in rural areas.
43. Contraceptive provision. This sub-component will ensure the timely
provision of quality, affordable contraceptive products needed to attain the
project's CPR targets, in line with the development of services.
Historically, most of the contraceptive products consumed in Mali have been
provided on a grant basis by UNFPA and USAID (Table 6). Given the time lag
required for the proposed IEC campaign to begin to bear fruit and for the
quality of services to be sufficiently strengthened to ensure that new
acceptors become regular usera, project allocations have been based on a
realistic scenario (CPR of about 8.5% by 1996) entailing yearly allocations
of US$ 2.1 by 1996. This scenario assumes qualitative improvement in
Government-run services and a sharply increased role for the private sector.
44. Contraceptive product needs have been projected using the Bongart's
TARGET model. This model, frequently used in preparing Bank population
projects, generates as outputs the number of new acceptors and continuing



- 136 -
ANNEX 3-12
Page 12 of 29
users required, by method, source and delivery system, to reach the target
CPR rate. Inputs used were derived from the DHS for Mali, Bank population
projections, and the Government's draft poflcy. Tables 7 and 8 show the
projected number of users by method, and the estimated expenditures
respectively under the base acenario and the lower case (project) scenario.
The country's total contraceptive needs have been quantified at about US$ 7.6
million for the life of the project. Of this total, about US$ 5.0 million
will be f inanced under the project by EEC, thei Republie of Germany and USAID
as grant and by the IDA credit. The remaining contraceptives will be provided
by UNFPA and WHO outaide the project, following a yearly coordination
exercise led by DFH and AMPPF,in which a special effort will be made to foeus
purchases on a limited number of the most popular brands. USAID will finance
oral pills, IUDs, condoms, spermicides and vaginal foaming tablets. The other
donors will finance these and other products as well (including injectables
such as DEPROVERA, and NORPLANT). WHO will provide condoms only, as part of
its AIDS program. In case of an unexpectedly rapid and sustained increase in
contraceptive product consumption beyond the levels projected here, the
POPFUND could provide emergency funding and a PPF, leading to a free-standing
population project could be put in place.
45. Logistics. Under this component (a) the existing Central and Regional
warehouses of both networks will be upgraded; (b) the new AMPPF, Gao and
Tombouctou antennae will be equipped with a amall storage capacity and these
will be core activities; and (c) a capacity will be created gradually at the
District and sub-district levels countrywide, along the same geographilc
sequencing as for the health component; this will be funded under the health
component where applicable and under the POPFUND for the rest of the country.
To facilitate transport planning, both networks will rely on contracta with
local trucking companies. Additionally, a study for further lmproving the
existing planning and monitoring system as consumption increases will be
conducted prior to the beginning of the project, for implementation during
PY1. Table 9 shows the proposed distribution mechanism.
VIII. POPFUND
46. Rationale. The purpose of the donors' fund for population activities
(POPFUND) is to assist the people of Mali to find truly Malian solutions for
implementing their national population policy countrywide. It was designed as
a response to the specific Malian situation, which has three characteristicss
(a) the newness of the policy and its still evolving nazure; (b) the basic
tenet that the mPgnitude of the tasks at hand require a major, well-
coordinated effort from public and parapublic, NGO and private operators at
the national and local levels; and (c) the need for prompt action, given the
sociological obstacles to be overcome and the normal time lag in population
programs. Thus, the POPFUND will be a flexible mechanism providing eligible
implementing agents with grant financing for priority, well-prepared
population-related sub-projects. Table 10 shows the breakdown between core
and POPFUND investments.
47.  Description. The POPFUND will be an autonomous body, funded by donors
and managed by an independent Malian team, assisted by a Steering Committee
comprising public, private, NGO and donor representatives. Ita Statutes and



- 137 -
ANNEX 3-12
Page 13 of 29
by-Laws, to be approved au a condition of diabursement for this componont,
will specify its operating ruless
(a)  types  of  sub-prolects  to be  f inanced;  the  POPFUND vill  support
population-related activities which are either of an experimental or
innovative nature, or build on successful exper$mentation. Based on an
analysts of ongoing or required activities, the eligible sub-projects
vill fall into five categories:
(i)     Experimentation with, or detailed preparation of, DoDulation
activities such as defining a migration policy or a land-
planning policy (up to 10% of the Fund);
(ii)     IEC activities using formal channels (UNFM,UNJM, UNTM, the
school system, community development, functional literacy,
health agents, extension services, the media, etc.) as vell
as informal or innovative ones (women's groups, cooperatives,
employer-provided health services, puppet shows, plays, etc.)
*up to 25% of the Fund);
(iii)     Expansion of FP services to strengthen and complement the
existing (mostly public and AMPPF) networki, in lino with
Government's MCHIFP policy (up to 30S of the Fund);
(iV)     Activities aimed at improving the socioeconomic status of
vmen through the promotion of income-generating activities
and the provision of t$me-saving devices (up to 25% of the
Fund);
(v)     Studios, survev and oDerational r.search, e.g., to gain
insights into the socio-cultural, economic and other
determinants of fertility, to study specific sterility
problems, and to experiment with the medical and social
acceptability of new FP methods such as NORPLANT (up to 102
of the Fund).
At least one sub-project in each category is expected to be fully prepared
and appraised prior to initial POPPUND disbursements. An indicative list of
about 20 already identified sub-projects is in Table 11. The portfolio vill
not necessarily be limited to this list; conversely, the proposals mentioned
there may be eventually rejected by the POPFUND. The projects vill typically
be in a range of US$50,000-500,000 to avoid unmanageable dispersion.
(b) Elixible implementing axencies vill includet
Mi)       Central  and  local  government  and  parapublic  agencies
(Ministries of Health and of Education, parastatals, Regional
development organizations, etc.) up to one third of the Fund's
resources on a full grant basis; and
(ii)      NGOs, private practitioners or professional associations,
physicians, pharmacists and midvives, private firms and



- 138 -
ANNEX 3-12
Page 14 of 29
educational   Institutions,   and   legally   constituted
organizations (such as "Centre DJoliba<) meeting the criteria
defined here, up to tvo thirds of the Fund's resources; these
implementing agencies vill receive matching Qrants amounting
to 75S of the estimated cost of their sub-project;
(c)  Ooorational auidelines. The legal framework (Statutes, by-Laws) for the
POPFUND vill specify, inter alia, the folloving basic principlest
(i)      All sub-projects to be submitted for POPFUND financing vill
be in lino vith the Government's Population Policy and its
FPINCH strategy;
(il)      Indicative ceilings reflecting the geographic phasing of IEC
and ?P services expansion vill be set;
(iiL)    All IECIFPIWID and studyloporational rosearch sub-projects
vill have a clear focus on MCHIFP; sub-projects in all
categories vill be for a period not exceeding three years;
fundin; reneval vill be based on performance;
(iv)      Each sub-project proposal vill initially be screened by th.
POPFUND's Techuical Secretariat on the basis of a standardized
project brief, and approvet by its Steering Committee on the
basis of an appraisal report folloving an agreed format; the
appraisal report vill include, in particular, a detailed
analysis of recurrent costs and quantified, monitorable
objectives against which performance can be measured;
(y)      A nmmber of items forming a negative list vill not be eligible
for funding; thoy vill Lnclude civil servant salaries or
premia, new construction,  and a 10%-of-cost ceiling for
vehicles and travel;
(vi)      Competition based on cost-effectiveness vill be encouraged for
similar proposali.
(t)       Expenditure categoriest
(i>       Local (INRSP, IMRAD, etc.) and international consultants
(UNICEF, IPPF, World Vision, Save the Children, Christian
Children Fund, etc.) and twinning arrangements between local
and international NGOo, based on a roster to be prepared by
the Technical Secretariat;
(Li)      Equipment, vehicles and supplies, including contraceptives ant
IEC materials
(iii)     Rehabilitation   and  upgrading   civil  vorks   (no  new
construction);
(Iv)      Media time and space;



- 139 -
ANNEX 3-12
Page 15 of 29
(vi)      Training; and
(v)       Critical operating coste;
Exceptions to these rules could be made to accomodate specifie cases (e.g.,
face-to-face IEC), as long as these exceptions are provided for and fully
justified.
48. Management arrangements. The POPFUND vill have a Malian director (a
manager with a proven record), assisted by a Technical Secretariat consisting
ofs an internationally recruited financial manager/administrator; one
physician with a strong FP background, one IEC and one WID specialist to
sereen and appraise sub-projects, and one accountant--all Malians vith
qualifications and experience satisfactory to IDA. As needed, they vill be
assisted by Malian or international short-term specialists (e.g., to help
finalize preparation of sub-projects). Sub-projects vill be approved by a
Steering Committee consisting of representatives selected from the public
sector (MSPAS, UNFM, UNJM); and the NGO/private sector (AMPPF, NGO
coordinating   committee,  medical  association,,  midwives   association,
pharmacists association). The Steering Committee vill meet on a quarterly
basis to approve pre-screened sub-projects.
49. Controls. Sub-projects for which sub-loans in excess of US$100,000 are
sought vill be subject to a Driori review by IDA; others vill be subject to
a posteriori control. POPPUND accounts vill be aud4ted twice a year by a firm
acceptable by IDA. Physical supervision of the sub-projects, which are
expected to be scattered all over the country, vill be conducted by UNICEF
semiannually. Additionally, IDA missions vill conduct random inspections.
Each year, as part of the Annual Joint review, Government, the donors and the
implementing agencies vill review experience with POPFUND operations and
agree on improvements as needed.
50. Contractual arrangements. For each sub-project selected, a contract
specifying the obligations of the POPFUND and the implementing agency vill be
signed by their respective representatives. A standard contract for each type
of sub-project vill be prepared prior to initial disbursements of the
POPFUND. Funds vill be released in tranches based on pre-agreed monitorable
achievements. Accounting and procurement procedures vill be acceptable to
IDA. The POPFUND Director will submit a semi-annual report to the donors
through the Project Direct-r.
51. Orieration. Disbursements under the POPFUND vill be conditional upon the
creation of the BUNACOP (or any agency fulfilling this population
coordination   function   and  featuring  broad  membership)   and  upon
implementation, by the Govérnment of management arrangements,  including
recruitment of staff with qualifications and experience fully satisfactory to
IDA (and the other concerned donors). The POPFUND' S objectives and operating
principles vill be broadly advertised thrcvtgh seminars and a booklet. It vill
receive special attention at the time of the project launch seminar.
52.  Table 12 summarizes the sharing of responsibilities for implementing
this sub-component. Table 13 provides the implementation plan for the whole



- 140 -
ANNEX 3-12
Page 16 of 29
population component, and Table 14 indicates ite detailed cost. Notet Tables
4 (Donors support), 5 (BUNACOP organigram), 6 (tentative distribution of
responsibilities for FP), 7 (Base case projection), and 10 (Distribution
between the core program and the POPFUND) are available in the project file.
POPULATION AND FAMILY PLANNING
TABLE 1 Main Findings of the DemoRraphic and Health Survey, 1987
SIZE OF THE SAMPLE
- 15-49 YEAR OLD WOMEN                                      3,200
- 20-66 YEAR OLD WOMEN                                        970
- 8-36 UONTH OLD CHILDREN                                   1,688
CHARACTERISTICS
- X OF WOMEN:
- IN URBAN AREAS                                           26.2
WITH MORE THAN PRIUARY EDUCATION .\                      1.1
- LITERATE                                                 18.6
FERTILITY DETERMINe NIS
Z-  0F WOMEN IN UNI -4                                       92.1
I-  O F WOMEN EVER  .RRIED                                   96.6
- MEDIAN ACE AT 1F MARRIAGE OF 20-49 YEAR OLD WOMEN          1S.7
- MEDIAN DURATION UF BREAST FEEDING (MONTHS) b\              18.1
- MEDIAN DURATION OF POSTPARTUU ABSTINENCE (MONTHS)           2.4
- MEDIAN DURATION OF POSTPARTUW AMENORRHEA (UMONTHS) b\      13.8
-  O 0F UEN IN UNION                                         78.8
-X OF MEN EVER MARRIED                                       79.9
FERTILITY
- TOL-TILITY RATE c\                                          e.7
- AVERAGE NUMBER OF CHILDREN ALREADY BORN TO 40-49
YEARS OLD WOMEN                                            7.1
- X OF WOMEN IN UNION AND PREGNANT                           18.0
DESIRED CHILDREN
- X 0F WOMEN PRESENTLY IN UNION
WHO DO NOT WANT AMY UORE CHILDREN                        16.6
WHO WISH TO DELAY THEIR NEXT PREGNANCY 8Y AT LEAST 2 YEARS 32.4
- IDEAL AVERAGE NUMBER OF CHILDREN DESIRED SY 15-49
YEAR OLD WOMEN                                              6.9
- X OF UNWANTED PREGNANCIES d\                                8.5
- X OF UNTIMELY PREGNANCIES *\                               10.7
KNOWLEDCE AND USE OF FAMILY PLANNING
- O OF WOMEN PRESENTLY IN UNION
VMO KNOW OF AT LEAST ONE FP METHOD                      43.2
- AMONO THESE, X WHO APPROVE OF FP                         70.7
WHO HAVE ALREADY USED A FP METHOD                       19.0
WiO PRESENTLY USE A FP METHOD                            4.7
* FILL                                                    0.9
* IUD                                                     0.1
* INJECTION                                               0.1
* CONDOM                                                  0.0
* VAGINAL METHOD                                          0.1
* FEMALE STERILIZATION                                    0.1
* PROLONGED FEMALE SEXUAL ABSTINENCE                      1.6
* PERIODIC ABSTINENCE                                     1.8
* COITUS INTERRUPTUS                                      0.1
- O 0F MEN ZN UNIONs
WHO ALREADY KNOW AT LEAST ONE FP METHOD               66.4
WHO HAVE ALREADY USED A FP METHOD                     16.9
WHO PRESENTLY USE A FP METHOD                          8.7



- 141 -
ANNEX 3-12
Page 17 of 29
CONT'D  M,ain Flndinas of the DemonrophIc end HbIth SurveY. 1I8?
MORTALITY AND 4EALTN
iNflANT MOALiTT RATtE f\                                     18
INFANT/CNILD (8ELOW t YEAR OLD) MORTAUTY RATE f\             249
X OF RECENT MOTHERSs 9\
- HAVINO RECETVED MEDICAL ATTENTION DURTNO THEIR PREONANCY  81.4
- IMM1NIZED AT LEAST ONCE AGAINST TETANUS DURINO THEIR
PRECNANCY                                                 18.2
- HAVINC REEIVED ASSISTANCE FROU A PHYSICIAN, A
MIDWIFE OR A NURSE FOR THEIR DEUVERY                      81.9
X OF CHILDREN 0-2 MONTH OLD UNDER BREAST FEEDINO AT
THE TIME OF THE SURVEY                                      90.4
S OF CHILDREN 4-6 ONTH OLD UNDER BREAST FEEDINO AT
THE TIME OF THE SURVEY                                      92.?
X OF CHILDREN ie-ll MONTH OLD UNDER BREAST FEEDINO AT
THE TIME OF THE SURVEY                                      80.4
% OF CHILOREN UNDER FIVE YEAR 0LD WITH A HEALTH 800K          11.6
S OF CHILDREN 12-28 MONT OLD:
- WITH A HEALTH 800K                                        12.0
- IMMUNIZED AT LEAST ONCE                                   89.2
- IMMVNIZED AGAINST:
* DCC                                                     11.4
* DTCOQ                                                    8.4
* POLIO                                                    2.7
* NEASLES                                                  8.8
* ALL SIX MAJOR INFANT DISEASES                            1.8
X OF CHILDREN UNDER 6 YEAR OD HAVINO HAD DIARRHEA EPISODES h\ 84.4
O 0F CHILDREN UNDER 6 YEAR OLD HAVDNO RECEIVED TREATUENT      C8.4
INCLUDINO ORAL REHYDRATION                                   2.2
X OF CHILDREN UNDER 6 HAVING HAD FEVER 1\                     88.1
X OF CHILDREN UNDER S YEAR OLD HAVTNO RECEIVED TREATMENT
WHILE HAVINM  FEVER                                         7C.6
X OF 8-84 IONTH OLD CHILDREN SUFFERINO FROU ACUTE,
MODERATE OR SEVERE MALNUTRITION, lASED ON STZE FOR ACE      24.4
- OF 8-86 UONTH OL CHILDREN SUFFERINO FROU ACUTE,
MODERATE OR SEVERE MALNUTRITION, BAED ON UEIOHT FOR ACE     11.0
*\   Slx year. of schooling or more.
b\    Medtin lIngth, bas.d on the number of blrthe dur1ng the 8  conth  p.rlod prlor to the
surv.y.
c\    Bnned on the number of blrtho *mong 144 year old woon during the four y.ar perlod prlor
to th. *urvey.
d\    Porcentage of unwant.d blrthe during the 12 monthe period prior to the survey.
.\    Percontage of blrths occurr.d durlng the 12 months p.rlod prior to the surv.y, which
mothers would have pr.f.rr.d to do.ly.
f\    Durlng the 6 y.ars perlod pr.c<dtng the *urv-y (1982-86).
g\    Ba.sd on the number ot blrthn durlng the fIve ysar perlod pr.ceding the murvqy.
h\    B..ed on the number of chidren bolow fIve y«re of ng9  r.portsd by their mothere oe
hnvtng had dierrhsc during the two wooks prtor to the surv.y.
t\    Sa..d on th- numbor ot childrsn below five y.r  of *ag  r.ported by thoir mothere es
havlng had ftver durTng the four-week p.rlod pr.c.dlne the surv.y.



- 142 -
ANNEX 3-12
Page 18 of 29
REPUBLIC OF  LU
SECOND HEALT. POPUT_AIN AND RURAL WATER SVRPLY PROJECT
OEOOGRAPIHC PROJECTIONS
TABLE 2
CEMM  ému=                 ~~~1908    2000    pois   PROJET0 tUuM f.ATI
lses 800                                   0IZ 9 01S TQ lzs0 * 015
COtTM#t PfiRI                           7.8    11.4    19.1           182.0      984.0
FAOUA.L FERtILITY DEa  AFTER 199        7.S    11.2    16.4           110.0     218.0
RAPID OECINE AfTE  198                  7.S    10.8    18.8           144.0      178.0
PURC84            OU   TME AT 9010-18
10-8 10-90 M  010-11         8f4RT
2.         RO ,WTM RAT
C01BANTr FBTtIlM                        2.8     8.0     8.0                 10 78
aOIM  fTILZY DEMN AFIW  1995            2.8     2.8     2,8                 a0 YOM
RAID IYUIS  AFr   19S                   2.8     2.0     2.8                 a  6MB
s OF oxllo Umm PvM
S. 1RO05 AM0    9 018
cOAtarè  PMFTXUTV                      40.0    47.0    48.0
CRNX&AL FffIL2T COLINE AFR 1WS         40 0    40 0    41 0
IWID DEE   RAFY  1998                  40.0    44.0    80.0
DoueICY RATIO *         0                  tI91OF CHI8UM UOE  1
98.0   101.0   10D.0   AND             65 AND OV
98 0    98.0   70.0   PU 100ff lym 8          TIW4
98.0    91.0    92.0      R 1844 YIAM)
4. PAOJET0 POP.8.ATIN 0F w0m<IN  A0E      lm9    2000    2018    RtATIO OF FROJE?90 "Imm
fi&"8 W&RS                                  amiLuum _ÂIV  O108iM~    100
COIStANT FERITITY                   ,  8.0      8.7     9.8           180.0              #5.0
MAW L FRTSLIrJTY DEOLE AFR 199S         8.910.0 024.0
RAPO OE2   FffV 199S                    8.0  S .7       8.0           210.0              282.0
RATIO 0F  ROJE   M
8. PROJECT NB» OF PR»VWR  SCOOL 8&E                                                         2998 i 2  RAT    alQ   5
041181B (6--il VFAMI
CIBT*MT PTUTY                           1.8     1.9     8.4           la8.0             290.0
Aw.L F E          RALITY   E M  19  S O .8     1.9     9.0   2,6.                        0J.O0
RAD  oLI  AFI  19%8                     1.8     1.9     1.,           188.0              198.0
e. PROJ.ETR  m     OF ICH as1            19i0     9000    2018   A¶S *A10L PROJETU> 0WH
011L0R8 198e 8              RATE (PwCSET
__ILLma          10     O 2590         9000-8
oONSTNP F«ITTM                          1.4     2.2     8.7             S.0                8.0
CRAQUAL FCTTlm  CEUNE FTE  1998         1.4     2.0     2.8             2.8                0.9
RAPlD  EI AFTCF 1998                    1.4     1.8     1.4             1.0               -1.2
CONTANT FERT fX                       8M0.0   894.0   890.0             2.8                8.8
ORAOWA P=TERIt  CEN  AFT  1998    m89.0   48e.0   814.0                 2.0                0.4
RAPID ENE A     1998  8N ,               0   8N.0   812.0               0.0               -0.9
TOTAL NMN CLZUTO
ftELL!e
CONSTAN FERTITY                         1.8     2.7     4.6             2.9                8.8
GRADUWAI FPIUTY   ELUN AFF 1998         1.8     2.8     2.9             2.4                0.8
RAFD CEN  AFtER 1998                    1.8     2.0     1.7             0.e               -1.2
oipoe: LD. am's PORLATTUN SEm. OR           U  1900.



- 143 -
ANNEX 3-12
Page 19 of 29
TABLE 3afLc FM
,SECON~O MEM  PORIATION AN      A WAT6 MM PPLY  oJ=
MODERN CONTRACEPrIVE USE. 8     DNY U      HCO. AUL S   Ot
MEl40                           19s8?T
PILLS                  12 000          202 00
(CYCLES)
lm                      1 400           1OCO
(PRORESM)
FEMME STmRIATION        1 400          400
MALE STERILIZATICN       O             O
INJCtABtLES             I 400          8 700
<INJBTiOtO
CONDOMS                 1 700           168 000
(UNITS>
FCAMINQ TABLETS         1 400           105 00
soEm: USAI.
(COVEIS USAID, WFPA, IPPF AND WHO DELIVBIES)
DISTRIB1lON OF NSITUIONAL RESPONSIBIUTE
_IN1UN     DRI      Dm        AMPPF      O      PRIVATE   WRE        LW.INO    INN         m       DIVISION
SESTOR                                (ONAFI./IPN>  IEDA.T
STRATEY DEFINITION        X         X        X
IEC MESSACE                                  X         X                   X                                       X          X
IEC ODEIVEIY                                           X         X        X         X         X         X          X          X
FP S IER   DELrIVERY                X                  X         X         X
MAE                       x         X          .                                                                              X
UOCISTICS                           X                  X                   X
SOÇRE: MlSSION



- 144 -
ANNEX 3-12
Page 20 of 29
TABLES 4. S * 6. 7e(A). Z(B AND 10 ARE IN THE PROJECT FILEl
TABLE 8 <AU                                    REPUBLIC OF MALI
SECOND MEALTH. POPULATION AND RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
PROJECTED NUMBER OF CONTRACEPTIVE USERS (MODERN METH40S, INCLUDINO STERILIZATION)
1990-2000
LOUER CASE SCENARIO
PROJECTED NUMBER OF USERS BY METHOD (100) *\
PROJECTED
PREVALENCE    FEMALE      MALE
ALL METHOOS   STERILIZI- STERILIZI-              INJECTA-                                ALL
YEAR   O% 0f UWRA)   ZATION       ZATION          IUD   BLES         PILL   CONDOM  SPERMICIDES  METHO0S
1990       1.20          0.20          0.00        1.a0   4.60       14.60   0.40        0.60      21.50
1991       2.82          0.60          0.00        2.70   9.20       28.20   1.00        1.40      43.00
1992       8.48          0.90          0.00        4.a0  14.40       42.30   1.70        2.20      66.80
1993       4.67          1.40          0.10        6.20  20.30       66.80   2.60        3.20      90.60
1994       6.90          1.90          0.20        8.40  26.70       71.80   8.60        4.80     116.90
1996       7.16          2.70          0.20       10.90  83.90       87.10    4.80       6.80    146.20
1996       8.44          8.60          0.40       18.70   41.90     103.10   6.80        7.00    176.90
1997       9.76          4.60          0.60       16.90  60.70      119.50   8.10        0.70    208.90
1998      11.08          6.70          0.70       20.60  60.40      188.20  10.10       10.60    244.20
1999      12.44          7.00          0.80       24.60  71.00      163.30   12.40      12.70    281.70
2000      18.88          8.e0          1.10       29.00  82.60      170.60  16.00       16.00    321.80
*\ METH10 VIX DERISVED FROM DE4GRAPHIC HD IEALTH SURVEY 1987.
(INSTITJTE FOR RESWRCE DEVELOPMENT/WESTINCHOUSE). THE PROTECTION IS BASED ON WORLD BANK STANDARD
FERTILITY DECUNE SCENARIO.
TABLE 8 (8)
ESTIMATINO EXPECTED EXPENDITURES IN CONTRACEPTIVE SUPPLIES AND STERILIZATION
REqUIRED TO ACHIEVE  R OBJECTIVU UNDER THE LOUER CASE SCENARIW
COST PER COULE YSARS 0F PROTECTION BT METHOO (US810I  a\)
FE4ALE      MALE                     INJECTA-                                              AVERAGE
STERILIZI-  STERILIZI-   IUD AT    BLES AT   PILL AT SPERMICIDES CONDOM    ALL            ANNUAL CO
ZATION AT   ZATION AT    US8s.4    US8i1        USl0       AT USI1S  AT USSIS  M4DERN    (6-YEAR
YEAR    (US880/CYP)  (USI80/CYP)  PER CYP   PER CYP   PER CYP   PER CYP   PER CYP   METHOOS  AVERAGES
1990       10.00        0.00       10.92       46.00    146.00      9.00      6.o0      281.92    761.77
iPi        40.00        0.00       22.e8       92.00    202.00    21.00    16.06        472.68   1063.80
1992       72.00        0.00       86.12      144.00    423.00    88.00    26.50        783.82  1891.68
1993      112.00        8.00       62.08      203.00    6e8.00    48.00    37.605   1028.68   1763.66
1994      152.00       16.00       70.65      267.00    718.00    64.60    6'.00    1342.00   2171.17
1996      216.00       16.00       91.56     839.00      871.00    84.00     72.00     1689.56   2692.62
1998      280.00       82.00      116.08      507.00   1081.00   lOs.00      94.60    2164.68   8064.83
1997      860.00       40.00      141.96      604.00    1196.00    130.50    121.60    2692.96   3277.39
1998      466.00       u6.00      172.20      710.00   1862.00   159.00   151.50    8666.70   860S.63
189       860.00       64.00      20s.80      710.00    1688.00   190.60   186.00    8449.30  3724.96
2100      es8.00       88.00      248.60      826.00    1706.00   226.00   225.00    4000.60  40M0.46
a\   COST FIGURES ARE DERIVED FROM THE AVERACE OF A NUMBER OF AFRICAN COUNTRIES.



TABLE 9                                               IsULuC OF muI
SECI  AU1H. PW4LTZON M AImSAL  tE UPLY FUOJECT
_ITR CICTSEPM  DISbIW Ssl
.~~ 11
PRIVAUSE""s-CT ,
IA   fhRETAIL PO_flS
éLL                      I -~~~~~Utltl^X m It    CRti              KIS 
-tl~~~~~o   ("l OEM(L un  §
wl us                                       rS
SaloumG 1-
cm" (ALX~~~~~~~~~~>
collum    Fau»MSone«~~~~~~~~~ s



TAULE 21                                                          9RPtl8LITC OF TALI
MT I0 POPU"TION M"Lt AmN RURAL TER  PPLY PROJECT
S-PROJCTS IDENTIFIED FOR FINANCINC; UlDER THE POPF
N! OF SU8-PROJECT      I      TND  AGENCY  gIASIC   JECTIVES         _IOOONIC PHASINO 1POPULATIoN lnSTWTN BEIGITEATIVE  TIUED
Z                     I                       I                  I  RE^AEED  I  SUPORTE       g        COS
_                          I         _.aI mi_     I   __I                                    I   _I          _          _   I  __
I . P«TtA          ~~I                     I                       I                  I           I                 I
EXPERINW!TAL ACTION    IRELEVANT TECHNICAL   ITEST APPROACHES TO SE  ITO BE DETRIED I POTENTIAULYIREOIW<AL  IU          P TO US».$ MILLION
PROGRANS ZN            IMINISTRY OR AGENtY   IJSBS$%JENTLY SUMITTED IPYI, PY2            $NTIONWIOE IDIRECTORATES OF  JIN TOTAL, NO MORE
HEULTRIMCHJFP/IEC,HRO,  j                     IFOR EXPANSION AT 1991  I                  I           ITECHNICAL       ITHAN 260,oe  PUR
RURAL DEVELOPHENT ANS   I                     IPOPUUTION ROtND TABLE I                              IMINISTRIES       ISUB-PROJECT
TIM ENWIRUMENT,        I                      I                      I                   I           I                I
ENPLOY"ENT, U CRA n ON   I                    I                      I                   I           I                I
AND WZD
2I.~~~~~~ Il.        I                                                                              
1. SUPPORT TO FuNCTIONAL  IUNFM                 IIMPROVE STANDARDS OF  IDISTRICTS AND       1900 ROMEE  JUNFU UTERACY   IUP TO 810,9OeO
LITERACY FOR WOMEN     I                      ILIVINC AD PROVIDE    ISUB-DISTRICTS,      1 (3mX     ICENTERS          I
I                      MHCN/FP/IEC           IALONO PHESINO OF  IUTERACY   I                  I
I                     I                       IHEALTH CONFONENT  ICENTERS)   I                I
IPYS-PYO           I
2. FANILY EOUCATION FOR    IUNFm                |REDWCE THE NJU4ER OF  IBAMAUO PY2-PS       IFEMALE    IAMKO TRA1NNC   UP TO S26,0e0
GIRLS                  I                      ISCHOOL, DOP-OUTS AN    I                  IDROP-OUTS  ICENTER 
I                     JPRONOTE FAMILY         I                  î's.        I                 I
IEDUCATIONDNA Z                            I  
IVOCATIONAL TRAININO    I                  I          I                 ,
11 INSTITUnO T                                                   I           i                I N
3. HEALTH/FP/IEC FOR YOMNG jUNJL                 iPRONOTE RESPONSIBLE   ISAMAKO, RE¢IONAL  JABOUT      |YOU  CENTERS    1U TO st10,00e
PEOPLE                                       IPARENHOOQ, FIGHT      ICAPITALS PY2-PYS  liSAS        I                I                        a
I  ILLEGAL ABORTION,   I                   IOUTHS     I                 I
IFAMILY LIFE EO4JCATION, g                 ;          I                 I
IHEALTX INfORMATION                        i I
I                     I                       I                  I           I                g
4. EMPLOYER-PROVIOED IEC  IAMPPF                 IEXPAND THE ENTERPRISE  I BAUAO, RECIONAL  IUP TO     îHEALTH PROCRAU OFIUP TO 8C5 UIUION
FOR INDJSTRIAL WORKERS  I                     IPROJECT, EXPLAIN THE  ICAPITALS, PVO-PYB    SO,O0    IFIRIS            I
I                     IBENEFITS OF FP TO      g                  g           I
I                     I STAFFERS              I                  I                             I
S. FARYERS                |COLUWNITY DEVELOPMENT IRURAL EXTENSION NETUORKISDIASSO AND SEGOU  1UP TO    |RELEVANT COR    SUP TO $260,0
IROUPS                 (CMDT OFFICE DU NIGER) IREGIONS           I           I                 I
DINCLUJDE TE BENEFITS OFI                  I          I                 I
FP ZN ACRICULTURAL    I                   1           1                1
O. SUPPORT O'PLALITD1C  IEXTENSION MESSACE    I     I             T                               T
C SUPPORT DNFLA UTERACY IDNAFLA                 IINFORU Tif PUBLIC      IDNAFLA'S EXIST     1 UP Te    IDNAFLA           IUP TO USSO 6MILLION
EN   RADUT FP                                 IC£NXISNG          12g         I                 ;
g          g                      g~~~~~~~    ~     ~~CENTERS    II
N



I&BL il  CONT'D.                                   SUE-PROJECTS IDENTIFIED FOR FINANCING UNDER POPFUND
0AME OF SU8-PROJECT    IMPLENTI   AGENCY  l  8ASIC OBJECTIVES             APHIC PHASINC  PQPULATION  INSTITUTION BEINGITENTA1IYE ESTIMATED
iREACHED    SUPPORTED              COST
7. GRIOTS, THEATER PLAYS    IDNAS, UPPF            IDISSEMINATE FP/SEC     ISPREADING-OUT OF  ITO BE       IPRIVATE SECTOR  IUP TO USS100, PER
IMESSACE IN RURAL AREAS IRECIONAL CAPITALS  IDETERUINED I                SU8-PROJECT
i                     i ,TO RURAL iEAS,    I                                  I                 I
8. FACE-TO-FACE IEC          UNAS, UNFH, WMJ,      JDISSEMINATE FP/IEC     ISPREADINC-OUT 0F  ITO BE      I'IPLEVENTINC    lUP TO US876,e0
INO, DJOLIBA CATHOUC IMESSACE IN RURAL AREAS IREGIONAL CAPITALS  IDETERMINED IORGANIZATIONS    I(TOTAL)
ICENTER               g                       ITO RURAL AREAS,                I                 I
I                     I          .I                               I           II
III.  FP EXPANSION                                                          
1. DEVELOPMENT OF SOCIAL  |OHF                   IEXPAND TE SOMARC       IUOYE GRADUALLY     TO BE     IPRIVATE SECTOR   1UP TO US845e,.0
MARKETINC               I                     lPROJECT BEYOND BADAKO  IFRON REGIONAL      IDETERMIN!D I                 I
ITO MAKE  VARIETY OF   ICAPITALS TO                    I
ICONTRACEPTIVES AVAIL-  IDISTRICTS AND
JALE THROUCG A MULTI-  ISUB-DISTRICTS.
lCHANNEL SYSTEN        IPY2-PYO            I           I                 I
2. EXPANSION OF           IDNASJAMPPF            IBUILD ON SUCCESSFUL   IEXPAND GRADUALLY,  ITO SE      IUNFI, UNJH,       IUP TO Uss1ee,0e0
COUHUNITY-BASED        I                      lCOD APPROACHES         ISTARTINO FRON      IDETERMINED IUNTU, NaOS
DISTRISUTION            j                     I(MIDWIVES, MEN) OR     IEXISTINO PROJECT «
EXPERIWENT WITK NEW    ISITES. PY2-PYS                I
ONES
3. OPENINC OF NEW FP      IDHF                   IPROVIDE MATCHING FUNDS ISAMAKO AS OF PY2,  IUP TO 10RIPRIVATE           LUP TO USS460,0
CENTERS                                        (76% OF COST) YO ESTA- ITHEN GRADUAL       INDIEN PER  IPHYSICIANS,      I
I                     IBUSH SERVICES IN       IEXTENSION TOWARD   ICENTER    jMIDWIVES          I
;                       ULIAISON ITH MCH CLIN],    PERIPHERY      1           I                                        _
I                     INE                     I                   I           I                 I
IV.   PROMOTIN TH STATUSOP OF                                                I                   I           I                                        t
I. FORMULATINC A NID      IUNFM AND PRIVATE      IDEFINE AN ACTIONABLE  iwORK ntL REQUIRE  IALL NALIAN INONEN'S NIXED    IWU TO USS O,00
STRATEGY                10WJEN ASSOCIATIONS   IPLAN TO IMPROVE THE   IBROAD CONSULTATION INOMEN       ITASK FORCE 
1                     ISOCIOECONOMIC STATUS OFIWITH THE RECIONS.  j           j(PUBLIC AND PRIV-1
I                     I NWOEN AND THEIR ACCESS IPY2-PY3           i           IATE)             I
I                     ITO SOCIAL SERVICES     I                   I           ;
2. SUPPORT TO KONEN'S     IUNFU, NOS              MANACENENT TRAINING TO |INDIVIDUAL         ITO BE      tWomEN'S CROUP   lU? TO USS4u0,ee
CROUPS AND COOPERATIVES I                     ICENERATE ADDITIONAL    ISUB-PROJECTS       IDETERMINED JAND COOPERATIVES 1
I                     I INCONE (TECHNICAL     ILOCATED ANYUHERE   I           I                 I
j                     ISKILLS, BUSINESS       ION THE MALIAN      I           i                 t
LMUNGENENT,           ITERRITORY. PY2-PYS I            I                I
ACCOUNTINC, MARKETING  I                                                I
gAND PRODUCTDON        I                   I           g                 I
I                     ITECONIQUES, USE OF     I                   I           I                 i
I                     ICREDIT)                I                   I           1
3. SNALL NGO PROJECTS     ICCON¢                 IMATCHIN¢ FUNDS (76%)   IPRIORITY TO BE     ITO BE      ICONCERNED NGOS   1W TO US86o, e0
I                       TO PROVIDE CREDIT,   IGRANTED TO         IDETERMINED I                              *
g                     ISMALL WORKS INPUTS AND IESTABLISHED NGOS.  i           I                 I
I                     ITIME-SAVING DEVICES TO IPY2-PYO            I           g                                          X
j                     JWOMEN IN RURAL AREAS   1                   I           I                 I
o-



ANNEX 3-12
148                         Page 24 of 29
j-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
g   i ~            i                 I         I
SE  Q   §      2S    eS    pS~~Q 
'i       I           I       !X  .Q 
6.4 <
a--o                                      z
.  _  _  _  _ _ _ _   _ _  _  _   _  _ _ _  _  _  _  _  _ _  _
-  ~     ~~ 2iEg    gEga            Z      lSa  Wi§l
a     Ege!{= 21 lÉ   æl;l01ElQi
w~~                       ~ t 9         ib-3l  fi  iEi
M    >                         ~L 



ANNEX 3-12
- 149 -                                  Page 25 of 29
TABLE 12                              REPUBLIC OF MALI
SECOND HEALTH. POPULATION AND RURAL WATER SUPPLY PR_OJECT
PROCESSINO OF SUD-PROJECTS UNDER THE POPFUND
STEPS                                RESPONSIBILITIES
1. SIjBMISSION OF SUB-PROJECT - ANY PUBLIC/PRIVATE/NGO OPERATOR NEETINa THE CRITERIA
GRIEF (PO)                   ANO SPONSORO OY TINE NAnIONAL COMMISSION ON POPULATION
ACTIVITIES
2. SCREENINC OF PSB            - POPFUND'S TECMNICAL SECRETARIAT
3. PRERARATION OF St9-PROjECT  - IMPLEENTINO ACENCY, IF NEED BE WITN ASSSTANCE FROM
APPRAISAL REPORT             A CONSULTANT PROVIDED FREE OF CHARGE BY POPPUND FOR SEL-
ECTED SU8-PROJECTS
4. APPROVAL OF SUB-PROJECTS    - STEERINO COMMITTE! MEETS FOUR TIMES A YEAR)
6. SICNING OF CoNTRACT         - UETMEEN POPFUND DIRECTOR AN  AUTNoRrED REPRESENTATIVE
OF IMPLEMENTINQ AGENCY
6. RELEASE 0F FUNDS             - DY POPFUND'S FINANCIAL UNIT, IN PRE-AUREED TRANCHES,
BASED UPON MONITORABLE PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
7. IMPLEMENTATION              - IMPLEMENTINO AGENCY
8. PHYSICAL SUPERVISION 0F      - UNICEF, TWICE A YEAR, PLUS IDA ON RAN9ON OASIS. SUPERVIS-
SIUS-PROJECTS                 ION REPORTS TO SE SENT TO POPFUND DIRECtOR
POPfUND DIRECTOR
9. AUDIT                        - TWICE A YEAR, OF POPFUND ANOf 0    SUL-PROJECTS
ACCOUNTS DY AN AUDIT FIRU ACCEPTABLE TO IDA
10. FEEDBACK                   - YEARLY MEETING OF POPFUND, OOVERNMENT, PRIVATE SECTOR
NOO AND DONORS TO REVIEW EXPERIENCE
11. REPORTINO                   - TWICE A YEAR, FROM POPFUND DIRECTOR TO IDA THROUON POS
DIRECToR



o'
CS44
- o
Il      I                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~x 4OO  .a Jdog   qa
-.     i     x                     X      I   I   I   I   I   I   I    I   I  I I    l:1  1X1    1:1  1x'1    1   1X1    1                   1imu
x  x  x                                                  ff~~~~~~~~~~S~UO  ~Ilff -
-T ---Ll---l--ll---AlII 1-     =-1"m
It                   i                                                                      .umt*îaOuî~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IiiruUm 
7-1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~j                                                                o u-it- 7qe - % -1-1tttt17   
I            I                                                                                          _______       u,ubojatIp IewIiz
I 1   1   1   1   i                                                                             - x I   I   I   I   I   i   I   I  qul    I   1   1  .-|.-e.--
t _ _ _ "! -   12_5
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M                                                                                        01@t11
em j
-       OàJ~~~~lifIno-j ugtédIL
1-1-1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~+W 1                     1                               1 1mu,:,-b 
-11! I  liiiTm   I   I I I l - -                                                                                                     sll  -
i   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~j   tm*  - 0
i                                                                       -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~%lt*d   i-ll  
I11 _I1                                                                                                                    tNI  P t$imS -9 _
-l'4    P  .OULi -
__îuîe.a p ______uuw
_          uu
<eguj~. Ma.f. UsAu.Ma.
s"I ou   ou  M-Mi 9»t  léi- oi -itmi-9"1--619outluicut__ul_qu   mi miubl_Ut lit  a  lut"61ou



Sr9hdot of lotal$ OncE Cont
Ouatnt aty                                                 ti
unit     1992 1993 1994 lm5 1996 1t97 Total  tUint co$t  for  txch          laxsê       taxes      total
i-8
I ttStEt >55.............
S. OlsfSihuIt;8;1t / 0I'ER81111U*ÉiZltG tiSE POPiUl*TI0 fPOUtit                                                                                                                                             .
..- - -- - -  . . ........    -- - -- - -  -- - -- - -- -
1. S(Ui9tS fo9 OPINION tE*MOS  ta                             SEtIUIf        7    7    -                     14    3,187 1                   196. 499 7            196. 499 7                        _ O
2. PPEPARiittOf or AOlNi PLU                                 909-90t91       6    6    -    -    -           t2   3.096 2    166. 549 0                             166.49  O
3. SfTttlC UP lIE  NSiIfit11titl f18Ui     b                 KhttU-Mllf      6    6          -               12   3.096 72    t66.549 °                             l66y549 0
4.EOuIPEoit I SUPPLIE$
tIfAl; L tEvEt                                                            -            -    -    -8*                         32.089 2       4.346 0              36.4375 3                        0
REtlOtUt MIL                                              Piet PER iGUIt               7                   7     ,282. S    149, 74g P     20. 28t 5             170.011 2                        lu |
S%&-Iotol ElUIMIPU     / SUPPtlIES                                                                                             181.839 0      24. 627 s            206."t6 5 S
..........   ..   .   .. ...   ..
St*-Iotil DISSE11111U81 t   OPUATIMLIZI8 TUfE POIPUILAII   POLît?                                                                514.937 0    221. 12t t              736.064 I                        t  p
8. fUCt'ftIES fO PtAN11  IftPttlENEN  .lt 8IttO ttt ttt4tt1                                                                                                                                             z it
1. i8nforma/c                                                 SESSlioNS      I          1    I    I           5   15.935 5                   367.080 1             36?.080 7
2. 510I tEI SPECIALISI  id                                   _o-smtb         6    6    6    3    3           24   3.096 72    348.128 6               .             348.1286 6l  
Si*-TotaI CAP8CIIES 10 Pt41 . IWtlEEtU  . IlUUttE AN» E[9tU9   E                                                                 348.128 6    367.080 7               71 .208 3                            6  
C. ClteUS aS
t. t516RWttEf SPEC8I*IStS t SoIlmS i 1(89                                   6    -          -6   3.096 72                      81.68t.?                            81.681 7
2. DISSEIAITISln Wf CE#SUS RES1115 REWl?                                     I       - -                           15.935.5                   69. 141 3              69.141 3                     0   .      o  ur
Sé-total CEt1US                                                                                                                    8.681.t       69. 141 3             150.823 0 
S.  .pOAinO E      .ISIIM  am 
1.  ItIOat t tEYtl 01                                                        1    -     -    -    --.I   7.923 75               32.089 2       4.346 0              36.435                       E
2. R£SlI( UI l£U£1  /a                                        SOIItilU      7                                7    S.282 5      49. 749 8     20.t281               170 Oit 2
Stt-Total UP6RIDlt   ISItlN  M1AS                                                                                                  181,839 0     24.627 5              206 46t5                          O>
Total I#V£SltxlSIT T tOSTS                                                                                                           1 26.586 3    .681976 7            1 808.563 0                         z  m
Total                                                                                                                                                     C/I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t
l. 126.586 3    61. 976 7           1.808 5b3 O                         té (A
/a  50 P*9tiCiP8iNS Pie 9(61al
/b  OSUID St SPICIlitSt                                                                                                                                                                                       2 
ib 0 AU*69 il 9 ((Ailt
hc  50 IWut8ES PER ifESR                                                                                                                                                                                         S
id  mohI*fp oh apectallSt
/a  7 lliCllllS 
0sce.s' 21. 1990 15 56
'.%15
2      I W
001!.



8 gakdo,. of lotaus Inct  Lo
oCnt t y 
....................                                            t~~~~~~~~~ocal    IeI S t a  
lieut       0952    109st    ;994    199     t96 l19s        tolt    tihl Cout  fo        c teclie ta          ttS        lital
* ufuioPaus Mbt ItîSîli Ittt ItC i Ui i fP OtSSxu
- , ....~~~..           ....... ..................  ......... 
snelatisi                                                                                                                                         t-4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
t  ItC SPEtlUIISI                                       Ulu-MIlhIUt        12       -                                         1?    3.096 72      63. 363 4            -5163.363 4                           ÇA
2  tP SPtCIUISI                                         "-UIUINl           12                                                 12    3.09612    163.363 4                        -    163.X38 *> CA
3  OiU tiCia   OSSiSStIt                                 Pi Yti             2        -                        t                4     6,314 2             -    Iff.J81 6          -    lS.s 216
4. S   t tO Io SlitioloS la ItSI lui 8ss1                                                                                                                                                                 Mn
MIaI                                                  iS Vii             I vin                                              2    #S.9*n.S             -       t. 356               140.3 569           t 
mmoP   tE*U                                                              t       I i-                              -        2     5.935s              -    140.3589         P-03As                     z
,111il                                                PiLI  in                   t            -                             2    IS.9355                   l40.3s6-    1.36                            Q
miS                                                   PEP TEU            t       t                -       -        -        2    ff. 95  -    I<e.3569                       -    140.3% 9
S"-lToîl StfPth le 11srtf iSII0s  10 ItoS  Ist   88tu   461                                                                                                   SOI. 4210 6       - 5. 427 6                   j
5. SiuMt*EIIBIUII     011la0  PUObe11e1 1N1110bl                            I                        .                        1   26412. S    106.9t4 1        14.485 8        -    121.450 9
S. FUiCeImI tltmtr SPFCIlAIST                          Mu-NOitt            2       2        2       - -              -             3.006.72      84.900 7             -        -        49   î -         S
*. 81t8 lhISiil t00*(   /à                                 Mil              -  2.0o    2.000   2.800   2.000   2.000   10.000          O 329      16229                -        - M6.22S 8  a
Sé-total                          tuittOI   _  liSttS  I  lic  7 M  i FP UiSSIGI                                                                    534.029 m    SI 695 9              1. 226 525 3      t  g
o. Sfl tamuctiam  la FOMs  SISIlt
t. St 1069*1800 S;CIttiS;                              MUt-Mbill           8        2       2        2       *2    3.096 n2   t19.9so  8                                             169*10I a
2  1ItttS0   OF IE&lilS  ib                            "viciCIPlS           -       -     250      250     250     250    1.000         20 3J                  91.131 1               9.n3  I         >  
a .t11S c                                                                                                                                                                                                             o    
3. KIFS_ _
P9lt0                                                                1.5e -0                      -                -      so       84 SIS    425.4255 S                           4- 25   s
out Il                                             ~~~~~~~~~300                                         300       t2è.03    lm0. lm2                             l70.179 2              
Sitlt                                                                   2s                                                 25       120 03     14.10 a                              14.180 8       8        -  °
Sé-lotal IbIS tc                                                                                                                                 6     6 S                            M, *f6 5    g       j
S"-tot,l SIX t11lCAIS  lIt îornt SvSttft                                                                                                             7S9.61 n4    9I.31 J               81  41a i     O  1-  r
t  SIiflIflelt    _ m   /d
1. SiMhii94B ef iSIStlfltt  OCCittS                                         -                                         *        *                 24.055 à      28.s39 à                  u2.is 6B
2. 0i1ifl   gfOtlPIIt                                    oOItle             5                -                                 S   2.5#23 48?    51.0    5      6.s02O4               9S017 o f? 
3  Ititt10t tloCmS $lui  ie                        tt                OttII  36     36       48      48      48       48      2m4        121 a                  151.207 4      *        51.20 4  
4  IC lie  0îîêt                                                                                                                                 312.36  3                           312.9 u    3
S*-Tot4l StIESltttiIS   f    /d                                                                                                                    301.522 O    181.061 i              54.59eo3             O
o. OPob. axe ai.tu. la    m  m  tt lus u    iboeetX
; CIVIL 6905                                           PISt Oliflt                  2                                          2  11.021 o0u      47.191.4     51.024 3              184. 2n * 1
2  tSIMlmI                                                 mil                      2                                          2   6.729.209      56.0M.3       1.603 2               64. 32 9
3  ttlCt stn  If                                         M-Mil              -      U        4       48      48       40      240        121.8            -    15. lit    138. ta 4 4  1 
Sé- - total  0511 f it £ t Soit   ttt tDt OI tf_WW                                                                                                   O} 821 t   203.342 o                lot. 163 O
t  tIciles 1 Ei  mlt                                       mi                       7 l                                            7.570 462    M.2.99 3       29.9310               252.917 i            W  W
2.OlSt 4 st uf   e                                         mil                      7        7       1       1        1       3s      1.522*         252 8 4-                        252a   à  .4
Sé-luotlîl C   l8  W09 1 Ulîu ti MIlS                                                                                                                 i.g9  3    282.802 6          *    Us. 0  9 
f  1I061I6 09  400 10M5ES 8 NIt1tttif   h                   P   1(0 0t                                                                                            358. 402 9             M5. 40 9
6 titt8atPitlES P0w511SM  Mo  SlttitNtila ttIDE
............................  ..............   ...... °-é 
I  lé6 I t0C suitU                                       PfR TEUt           t       I                2                         S      25s060   637 240 6                             6372to60 a                  t
2  liC cUitiUetio                                        PiS 14tt                    t       2       3       3        4       I3      2s.06 m      0.551     t                       . no'ssV5 1w
3  11510 mie ltRttipie liés                                                         t        2       3       3        4       13      25.806 m   t. 71.    t           I.no sss  I t
4  OiUM", VCOmRlOtIttIspi f 1(01                                                             t       I       3        4        9      25.806  1.2s2.163                            1252 163 S                  o
S.h-Ioolî t      tl cauîmacii t uîS îlultS Ms  oîSIRîIu.Itb 5. 430.514 4                                                                                                              S.4305144                     1



IlK RE5ff. Of StOO6E CUASiCr   t                             doit51                   3       2       2                         7   6.428 9s6     99.611 a    119.448 1               219.060 I
1. c(UtISAcIpiW  SiOcQ  NAIIAIUI SYSIEII                 NhN-UIINTu         3                                                     -  -  3  .096 72  40.840 8                         40.840 a
.1. 51ta cCm tw     t*                                                                                                                                         142. 85 8              142. sg  8
It. Fn OR   nTI*îOem        t  fi a ci t tijs
1.  IcOt IBuItt.                                          9PEt vet o               *                                        2   60,s60 SS    23s.620 o    290.996 I               s26.616 1
2. CE_ bM     liRîuletu                                 PEf liEt                   I               I t              g        5      5'.6t?   561.000 0      692.847 a8           .253,847 a
3 fC CuOtJETlOu                                        ffR VK                     I -             I        I       I        S      57.677     6 1.000 o    892.847 a            5.253.847 a
4.  Uo cUeSAI tMfuitîoi                                 ffR VEAU           I       I       I       I        -       -        4   95. 167 OS    140.520 0    914.$59 1            1.655,079 1
S. IP11 eCUS1Si81INt110    i                            çER YE6ft          -       I       I        I       I       1        5      20.300                  441. 304 3            441.304 3
SsO-IotaI FfttilS fOII PODULAItSt   I NON R FP SCt1t 911ES                                .                                                    2.ot8.t40 o  3.032.sss 2            s.t30.695 2 16
Total  StESIEMI OOSIS                                                                                                                             s.6sts37   B S, 1I1. s42 I       - 14.811879.8
Il. lECUaM   ISES                                                                                                                                                                                    1-5K
......... -----
A. Smsistutivi aSSIStitS fO  OSF 95                         11011N111      24      24      24      24      24       24      144     154 886     82,.s5    1    24.612 1        -    t01.211 2
TotAl UECUUIN  COSIS                                                                                                                                 5 99 I        24.6t2 I              107.2I 1 2
total                                                                                                                                              9. 780.536 8 s. 140.554 2           14.121.091 0
îa~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ .00  .oiu  ue  -o    s uc a o
..... ......... ..................................................... .....................  ........................ .
b  00, P00NUY. 300 CYCtE 2 AIGU 200 Sno IIISCt 
2PE9  IF Mlle
tt2 Pt9 ttitEt                                                                                                                                                                                     i> t- 
A92 PER tilitt
la IUtEOutEO SIOSfP
Au   t CEOt A  MIt Mt*iL M ES15
/4  INCtuoSit  3 ClSLIANIS fOu     li tIS  eau                                                                                                                                                                 o
h   fOit OUWUIIOStl"  
#-  Wt
00c.r 21. 19*  15
uNb
t4
Nb



- 154 -                        ANNEX 3-13
Page 1 of 4
REPUBLIC OF MALI
SECOND HEALTH. POPULATION AND RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROGRAM
1.      Prolect component oblectives.  The main objectives of the rural water
supply component are to (a) provide potable drinking vater to improve the
sanitary end hoalth environmont of the rural population; (b) ensure villagers'
participation in investment and particularly ln the operation end maintenance of
their vater Installations; (c) establish a netvork of village pump repairmen and
a distribution network of *pare parts to guarantee the sustainabliity of the
vater installations; (d) implement an lodination program to combat lodine
deficiency, which causes golter; sad (e) strengthen the capabilities of DNhU
(Direction Nationale de l'Hydraulique et de l'Energie) for project identifica-
tion, preparation, implementation sad supervision.
2.      Proiect component contents.   This component consists of  (a) the
construction of approxtmately 385 modernu vater points in the Kenieba and
Bafoulabe Districts; (b) the rehabilitation of 500 existing vater points in the
Regions of Kayes, Mopti, Segou and Koulikoro; (c) the supply and installation of
iodine modules in approximately 1515 existing end new vater points ln these four
Regions; and (d) studies to identify rehabilitation sad new vater supply needs
In the four Regions.
3.      Executins aaency.   The Direction Nationale de l'Hydraulique et de
l'Energie (DM)E> of the Ministry of Industry, Water sad Energy vill be the
executing agency for the rural vater supply component. DNHE vill second staff
to a project unit for this component, vhieh vlll be assisted by a consulting f irm
for the technicel and financial supervision of implementation.
A.  Construction of Vater Points (Kenteba/Bafoulabe)
4.      Communitv develo ment activittes. The project unit vill be responsible
for community development activities. Six commuinty development agents vlll help
the villagers create village vater committees for the technical and financial
responsibility for the vater points. They vlll also help the villagers maintain
the puup area in good condition and vill advise on the hygienic aspects of
carrying, storing and consuming vater and on the iodination program.
5.      Vater resources.  Vater resources vill be available from underground
aquifers in between fissures and fractures existing in sandstone, schists and
dolorites.
6.      Borehole siting.  The sites of boreholes vill be identified by a team
of geophysicista f rom the project unit in close collaboration vith the villagers.
The vater point vlll be in the village's central area and site location vill,
vithin technical constraints, take into accouant the preference of the villagers.
7.      Construction of boreholes. A total of 385 modern vater points vill be
constructed under private contract ln the Districts of Kenieba and Bafoulabe, 300
In Kenieba and 85 un Bafoulabe. The expected borehole drilling success rate is
about 601, roquiring about 640 exploratory boreholes. The vater points vill have



- 155 -
ANNEX 3-13
Page 2 of 4
an enclosed concrete platform to protect the surrounding area.  The boreholes
vill be drilled using two drilling rige during three complete annual drilling
campaigns and a fourth partial one.
8.      Supply and installation of hand pumWs.  The successful boreholes will
be equipped with hand pumps supplied by the project unit but financed by the
villagers. A private contractor vill be recruited for installation of the pumps;
the contractor vill alseo be responsible for the training of 30 village pump
repairmen and 385 village pump caretakers and for the establishment of a
distribution network of spare parts, consisting of about 20 spare parts sales
depots.   These depots vill be replenished f rom the central depot in Kita
District, created under the First Rural Water Supply Project (IDA Credit 1431-
MLIISF7).   The villagers vill assume responsibility for their vater point
immediately after installation of the hand pump, and there vill be no guarantee
period except for obvious factory and/or transportation defects.
9.      Financial participation of the villaters. The village cash contribution
vill amount to CFAF 135,000 (US$500), equivalent to the purchase price of the
pump and to be collected by the project unit at the signing of a contract between
the villagers and the Goverrment, represented by the project unit.   This
contribution vill be collected at least one month before arrival of the borehole
siting team. A small stock of current spare parts, costing approximately CFA!
8,000 (US$30), vill be purchased by the villagers at the time of installation of
the pump. This sum vill be collected either at the same time as the initial cash
contribution or when the pump ls installed.  The villagers vill bear all costs
of labor and spare parts for maintenance of their pump.
10.     Proiect  supervision.    The project unit vill be  responsible  for
supervision of this component and vill consist of a unit leader, two hydrogeolog-
ists, a geophysicist, a..geophysics technician, a rural vater technician, a
sanitary engineering technician, and a community development speciulist. The
project unit vill be assisted by an engineering consulting f irm vith technical,
logistical and financial responsibility for successful implementation.
B.   Rehabilitation vorks (Kaves, Sexou. oMoti and Koulikoro Regions)
11.     Rehabilitation of existing vater points in these Regions vill also be
executed under the rural vater supply component. It is estimated that there are
some 8,000 existing vater points, of which 2,000 require rehabilitation (252).
A study vill be carried out by a consultant to identify and evaluate the
necessary rehabilitation and to propose solutions for villagers' financial
participation and assumption of full responsibility for their water points,
including the training of pump repairmen and the distribution and sales of spare
parts to ensure their sustainability. Following this study, priority rehabilita-
tion vorks vill be undertaken. Under the project, some 500 existing vater points
vill be rehabilitated.
C.   SuPPlV and installation of iodine modules -(Kayes. Mopti. Seaou and
Koulikoro)
12.     It is known that goiter due to iodine deficiency is prevalent in the
Kita, Kenieba and Bafoulabe Districts of Kayes Region; therefore, priority to
iodination of drinking vater vill be given to these areas. About 630 existing
vater points constructed in Kita and Bafoulabe under the Firet IDA-financed Rural



- 156 -                          ANNEX 3-13
Page 3 of 4
Water Supply Project (Cr. 1431-MLI and SF 7) between 1985 and 1989, 385 water
points to be constructed in Kenleba and Bafoulabe (para 7 above) and 500 existing
vater points to be rehabilitated (para 11 above) in the four Regions vill be
fitted with iodine modules, bringing the total to approximately 1,515 vater
points. The pump installation contractor (se. para 8 above) vill train village
pump repairmen in the installation of the modules to the base of the hand pumps.
The project unit for the rural vater supply  component vill be responsible for
supervision of that activity. The Project file contains a detailed description
of the technology to be used.
D.   Creation of New Water Points (Kaves, Mopti, Seaou and Koulikoro ReRions)
13.     The study for the rehabilitation works (para 11 above> will also cover
the identification and preparation of new vater points to improve the sanitary
conditions of the rural population of these Regions. It is estimated that to
increase the current service level (from about 34% to 40%) until the year 1995,
some 2,800 new vater points would have to be constructed, i.e., 400 to 500 vater
points annually. The costs of construction of these vater points is estimated
at CFAF 17 billion (April 1989).
E.   Implementation Schedule
14.     According to the implementation schedule, it iL  estimated that the
construction works in Kenieba and Bafoulabe would start in early 1991 and the
rehabilitation works one year later.
F.   Agreements Reached
15.     Implementation of the rural vater supply component.   An agreement
(satisfactory to IDA) between MSPAS and MIHE, defining their mutual responsibili-
ties in the implementation of this component, has been signed.
16.     Community development activities.  An agreement (satisfactory to IDA)
among all parties concerned vith undertaking community development activities in
the Districts of Kenieba and Bafoulabe to involve villagers in this component
(para 4 above) has been signed.
17.     Establishment of the vater supulv prolect unit.  Before signing of the
consultant supervision contract, DNHE will submit to IDA a list of personnel
(para 10 above) to be seconded to the vater supply project unit, and vill ensure,
to the satisfaction of IDA, that they are adequate in numbets, qualifications and
experience.
18.     Contract with village communities.  A  model contract between village
commnnities and DNHE, defining community responsibility and participation
(including financial) in the rural vater supply component, been reviewed by IDA
and found to be satisfactory. This contract vill have to be signed and thet cash
contribution paid at least one month before the arrival of the borehole siting
team (para 9 above).
G.   Detailed Cost Estimates
19.     The estimated costs of the rural vater supply component are shown in
Table 1.                                                            Csxn3-13.n



8readu  ot tlouIs maci  Lo
u l 1 ll
....--* ....  ..--  .... .....   ......   ...                      .......               ......
thlt  8992  tssJ   0094    8991    t99      111   1.1.1    Unît Co41   lot  fml         88.81      tae 4        to U
1  ausimt sEt oeS"S
£ hSi1flîîfl. i U.ES t0908tt I
i t_tt11     091119i                                                   -      *                       --                              6.212.243 3    6319.14*          - 1. tel.9l  8 à
Wà t _         L Stlt  lt It#Sl#4t*ll0" 
10809  . lm085 . S*   PVt$                                              Il4    1  7?     7        *       -    2S                   438.9s3 4     $1.814 9              48.88 3
MW  ESiUUtMi                                                     5o.8 à15.9  II S. S    M.         -       -    36 us                2s. o.2       34.40i        3 *           92n24 s
Sté164- t^A t      stF SMI      ltistattàit                                                                                            Mw. 444 3    for.s I           *    M2. 6    4            
8*-motl                   M. ftI                                                                                                        1. .ttf   S IP   tUrE     OnJ  5   -  m. 132 4    914.933 0  2. 193.*     4
t  tESitilUlèll Of (istsingale         polsai Pt15   Fm f tE1tS IM 
.       . ........0........ I.......-                                                                                                   828.2230 o19.09 .3.211.
2. Pm  t1S111i11t1-                                                           -       -       -       -       *        -                30.824?     49.2188            -   420.081là
tl smUTa         tistu                                                *     *                *       *                *                 58.194 8     41.0tt 8               016.012 t
s -ottal mEuitfthIrlo  0? tiSi        "li e tt4roislS t FOUI 0E9c60s I                                                                 1.21.042 S     20S.21t 3            1.462.313t 
c. #Oet
1. 1t1stttlOtltt OF lowtt  MIt($                             omit    tls  m30   1. 120   t, 120    . 320  t1.#O   8.18       il                                                                      se0 432.106 1  412.916155S
2  s5 ? 0? l1i0       te0ES                                    ait   m80    m0   I 1.120   1. 820   1.32n    8320   6.18 3sO  2 258    .002.26en              - m          .0on2.266                             I
3. StlPoVIisfle   ItD EttUl8                                 UI t      o 1m       tU20   1. 120   t. 3201   320  1S Slo        64 s       98144         8 .4ss3        -    i?. t8 2-
Sé-Toitf I0011tJ                                                                                                                         ; 614.341.1 S    8.     3           t 8.92.9i348                    s u i5    e n lJI
a U111PiUTS Ioat   ION 090 80a[ s11
'-----------''--'--''---'--------                                                                                                      gis.1         143.038                                              D *   S
Sté-tot alne MUS  OINIS 4(FM   ^eBus I                                                                                                                           3180S3                5 143.038 I   ses. m  St'
total IISIO[tS  ettst ls t423.013.8  2.3 M. 44. 0                                                                                                                              .  M. S72o11 1; 
,    ,.    ...   .   .......   ..  ..  ,  ,,,  ,.,,,,,,,,, ,, .,.,,, ............ ,,,., . ,, ,,, ... ,  , P ,,,, ,s,,...... ,.,, Ut 
1088,                                                                                                    11,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i.423.013. 8    M.85su4  O  ta M3. 182.     1   g
_be    21. t8O  il:s 
to
'Il



- 158 -
ANNEX 3-14
Page 1 of 6
REPUBLIC OF MALI
SECOND HEALTH. POPULATION AND RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
PROJECT COORDINATION AND MANAGEMENT
1.          Background. Under the f tirt Hoalth Development Project (Cr. 1422-MLI)
a Project Unit (PU) vas created. This structure has functioned in parallel vith
MSPAS, thereby alienating itself from many authorities vith whom Lt vas supposed
to collaborate. While in some areas such as project preparation, the PU has
performed well, its performance with respect to overall management of project
activities, in particular those related to the construction program, constituted
a handicap during implementation.   The Government recognized the need for
improvement in this area; however, stops thus far taken are not yet adequate to
ensure the de8ired improvement in overall Project management.
2.          Problema which romain in project tmplementation includet (a) a lack
of systematic project coordination; (b) a veak data-base and information system;
and (c) weak budgeting and accounting procedures. Coordination and planning
activities should not be carried out by the PU in parallel wlth those responsible
for these activities.
33.         With respect to the construction program, problome arose wven the NGO
selected to implement the program started vork at three sites simultaneously,
thereby over-extending its supervisory and f inancial capacity.   From the
supervision aide, problema includeds (a) sparse, fragmented and unreliable data
on supervision; (b) unexperienced supervision structure; (c) lack of capacity to
organize such programa; and (d) a poorly designed contract vith the NGO.
4.          Oblectives.  Under the proposed project a new Project Coordination
Unit (PCU) will be establiahed. Ita main tasks vill comprise coordination and
overall management, particularly ln the areas of s (a) project coordination; (b)
financial management and accouating; (c) general procurement procodures and
contract supervision; and (d) preparation of an annual work plan in liaison vith
those responsible for implementing project activities.
5.          Expected outcomes.  These includes (a) vide coverage of project
coordination and data processing; (b) improvement in financial management
resources; (c) acceleration of diabursements through improved procurement
procedures; (d) assistance to Regional and national entities responsible for
project implementation; and (e) supervision of project expenditures.
6.          Aproachlstrateav. To fully Integrate the project activities into
NSPAS's organizational framework, the relevant Directorates of MSPAS. MIHE sad
the Rezional and District Health Teams vill be responsible for implementation of
each >roiect component.  DNHE vill be the implementing agency of the rural vater
supply component, for which a vater project unit vill be created. This unit vill
liais. vith the PCU, particularly on matters concerning diabursement,
procurement, action plan, and <egular reporting.  However, to place project
coordination at a sufficiently high level in the Ministry's hierarchy to ensure



- 159 -
ANNEX 3-14
Page 2 of 6
adequate inter-departmental and inter- ministerial coordination, overall project
coordination --  .ncluding the water supply component --will be assumed by a
(Ministerial) Committee.   The PCU vill  foeus on coordination, support and
monitoring functions.  It vill also act as the Permanent Secretariat of the
(Ministerial) Committee. To thls end, the PCU vill be headed b' a full-time
national Director, assisted by (a) a Deputy Director in charge of project
monitoring; (b) a procurement specialist; Jc) an accountant; (d) five regional
accountants to be posted in the RHTs; (e) support staff; and (f) short-term
specialista, as needed, for up to 60 man-months. The performance of the PCU vill
be reviewed every six months by the audit firm.
7.          With respect to project coordination, procurement and financial
management, the Project Director vill oversee all project activities, including
liaison vith the various units of other ministries concerned vith the project,
and will serve as the direct contact point between the Government and IDA.
Specifically, the PCU will:
(a)   Assist each Directorate and entity concerned in the preparation of
work plans and budgets for the components or sub-components under
their responsibility;
<b)   Ensure, vith external assistance as needed, that all necessary
documentation is ready for the joint annual reviesa;
(c)   Coordinate all aspects of project implementation with the RHTs and
the Government entities;
<d)   Plan and handle with the institutions concerned all procurement
matters and ensure that vorks, goods and services procured under the
project are delivered in conformance vith IDA's Guidelines to their
destination and are utilized appropriately;
(e)   Organize  the  selection process  of personnel,  specialiats  and
trair.ng required and f inanced by the project, and ensure that those
services are delivered in conformity with the contract obligations
in terme of quality and quantity;
(f)   Ensure adequate budgeting and flow of funds from the Government,
IDA, other donors, NGOs, the Local Development Committees, and
communities;
(g)   Prepare and maintain all project accounts, folloving appropriate
accounting methoda and procedures;
(h)   Prepare all necessary documents and certifications for vithdrawal of
funds and their submission to IDA and other agencies;
(i)   Arrange for prompt annual audits of all project accounts (and semi-
annual audits for the Special Account and SOEs);



- 160 -
ANNEX 3-14
Page 3 of 6
(j)   Keep records, including financial, on the project and submit to IDA
semi-annual progress reports on project implementation, as well as
a completion report not later than siX monthe after completion of
the project; and
(k)   Support and organize the preparation of future projects.
8.          W1th respect to the implementation of civil works, all construction
activities vill be carried out under the supervision of CEPRIS who vill be
adequately reinforced under the project by local specialists (four technicians,
two engineers, a maintenance specialist and a facility planner) and viii be
responsible for: (a) maintaining and managing existing facilities and organizing
its financing through increased local authority and community participation; (b)
ensuring that local communities receive sufficient technical assistance to
construct and maintain adequate facilities; (c' maintaining a computerized
inventory  of  existing  facilities;  and  (d;  developing  and  updating
construction/equipment norme and standards.
9.          Neans.   Each operational responsibility vill be carried out as
indicated in Table l below. In addition to its permanent staff, all of whom vill
be adequately qualified and experienced, the PCU vill seek assistance in specific
areas from short-term consultants, as shown in Table 2.



- 161 -
ANNEX 3-14
Page 4 of 6
TABLE 1
SUXMARY OF OPERATIONAL RFSPONSIBILITY BY PROJECT COMPONENT
A. HEALTH                                 NORMS   ORGANIZE  IMPLEMENT  SUWERVISE DISBURSE
INITIATE                          PROCURE
1. COVERACE AND QUAULTY OF HEALTH SERVICES -
SUPPORT TO 120 COMMUNITY HEALTH CENTERS   -     OHT         COmHC        DHT      PCU * LDC
QUALITY IMPROVEMENT OF HEALTI SERVICES    -     RHT        ONT          RHT       PCU
ESTABLISHING 21 DISTRICT TEAUS         DNPFSS  RHT         DNT          RHT       PCU
REGIONAL SUPPORT IN FIVE REGIONS          -     DNSP       RHT           DNSP    PCU
2. INCREASINO THE EFFICIENCY OF RESOURCE
USE
STRENGTHENING SECTORAL PLANNING         DNPFSS  DNPFSS    DNPFSS        USPAS    PCU
FACILUTY PLANNING/MAINTENANCE          DAF      CEPRIS     CEPRIS      DAF        PCU
AVAIUBILITY OF ESSENTIAL DRUGS         DNSP    DNSP       RHT/PPN    DNSP        PCU
HUNAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT             DAF     DAF        DAF          MSPAS    PCU
HEALTH FINANCINC                        DAF     CAF        DAF          USPAS    PCU
8. POPULATION AND FAMILY PLANNING
INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENDNG            DNPFSS  DSF         DHF         USPAS    PCU
IEC/FAMILY PLANNING SERVICES           DNAS    DSF         NSPAS       USPAS    PCU
POPULATION FUND                         DSF     AMPPF      NGOS         NOPAS    PCU
C. RURAL SUPPLY OF POTABLE WATER
CONSTRUCTION OF 885 WATER PODNTS        MIE    DONHE       DNHE        DNHE      PCU
REHA8ILITATION OF 00 WATERS POINTS      MIWE                                      PCU
SUPPLY/INSTALLATION OF IODINE MODULES  MI! WE                                     PCU
STUDIES FOR FUTUREREIAHA. EXTENSION     MIME      .                               PCeU
L. PROJECT MANAGEMENT UNIT
TABLE 2
SHORT-TERU CONSULTANTS TO ASSIST THE PCU
SHORT-TERY SPECIALISTS                        STATUS                     OUJRATION
_(-)
(A) PROCUJREUENT SPECIALIST                     F                         7
(B) CONSULTINC ENCINEER                         F/L                       8
(C) AUDITOR                                     F/IL 
) FINANCIAL/LEGAL SPECIALIST                  F                         a
MID-TERM REVIEW                             F/L                       8
EXTERNAL EVALUATION                         F/L                       S
G  FUTURE PROJECT PREPARATION                  F/L                       22
H KAP SURVEY                                    F                         8
9.            Timetable and costs.   The Implementation calendar, quantities and
costs are shown in Table 4 below.



nammm mwrm -m gDT r PMoiMM
WJL eE C
oe~~~~~~~~~~~~~AaPSMoeom
NZVFAU R,RO                              RPAU
4nflN~~~~~D PM                                                DUrOE
IRMUME ~   ~     ~     la DE        ORD1
E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D
ccsT                                    !5                     
_  ___ -*~~~L~



*8 '.  91 Mt  tc-*-W
soîsaa,o,1 vol ci flusid -Ioasjgî à
C $04 t  0 lit ç  (la ou  9  8    t  t    9    9     feilà éïd                         u088*35 19       £ wimirnmi~     4
-                                                                                                                                                                                                                         t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ut    st$    t,  t l96i?3#wl   8f
o o   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~$13ti=9161 I,
999404   49488         499644       4484408~~ic   et       8     I              es8         5916au                              1111119811110 mft19*v      g
&  4                 04 41             99'     us2le18I89tlin    n                                                                                         s 11fil     3
C..>                                                      4~~~~~        ~      ~~~~~~~~     ~~~~~~96444  8£l   949  58i ff    o                       e             ea                                si$8111 8530 mit tom     9
'~~~~~~~~~~1                                                                                                                                                                 110~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~m    3 15 15 I
>4                                                                                         »Clu        tu  sa     04          e    e    c 9(84  19 t894                                                     SInu  îsaq,s.90
£ 8(11  -              £ 9(48        8~~~~~~~4t"O9    89                         #Stom888  51                                                 $99151 4"
114Iti £8              91414                    9                                                                                             uula  Sint     to         i
Cà,Z                                                                              CDs                              u    e     i tt ;9  *0841                                                               8  55            0 ,îv m e mit . î.î.s-8
(49464       -            tutu~~~~9al'e  CE84       OS         £          4    4                 il                                 IS811,80814     83*umm95
>*4  (~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                    (I~~~~~~~atg            ta   Et          t       186tu       8           £    I               i          ou 4959                                 1I IN1140111W 9
tu18                 .              8949        990%1't    8£       t       t               C           $eu am3                                  Sehtl Mt%9 99
~~~~~~                                                                                                                                                                                                              11*908090~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4 ilMa    1na 9 t    l-  d    ulugm p     u*mi  I
O 4095 WC48                       41sot4-41       tu13 os51% 1$ille14  031 ni                                                                                  4989385$ O
I.>  (**4~~~~~~~~~~~~*>                                    8998~~~~~~~~44                      898op4       (4(91    t              8 1            I    t          98U1*9*t                                *1  *118019tut   111
04l8tu  te8Me844                       uce        fl  u14             484999185889*4 35 £338  t10m 198
414                                            184885*~~~~~~~~~~~pfl    i  O O     t f49,94                                                                      tua90 t    l  1    t  919*9*  $185summum   ~ oit9*819*119
81(4 14Os                            g9 994*"O0  e          Bt         9 t                            98U   9                                    feuillette1  18301  
%te 1;  0 up  M'a,  gît soi    d                                  fivis nid                                   soMM3~~~~~~8519594    438384  t
g~~~~~   *~~~~~~zj                                      9 (8006~~~~~~~ls,c        i'e     68869           (4904 ose       4,I    I                    O         0*9*9 ou085 1                                         u19     *
8800                               68(0          (49904D  8i'      I    I          I                       OgioI 9*031*9                                   898189 ts
us,                    uè,,99      a,~110 m'O,                            I    I         99*9                                                $11*85lW ià09    4
sa (94                            t 9    l   4,896 ci 60         4                     4 c49#09                                    si89*9*v 181198394   de U039*   1
#».et  »J  1103 b.00   191-1 4tst %69 fa"   bui                                   $131891 I$881314 tut       899$ 
9(1911          9(49~P.P1,                 £41        8      I    I    I     I    I    4           689                                               01  



- 154 -                                              ANNEX 8-16
REPUSLIC MF MALI                                        Page 1 of 2
SECOND HEALTH. POPULATION AND RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
YEARLY ANNUAL REVIEW
AGREED MEASURES                                         INStRUMENT             RESPONSIBILITY           YEAR
A. INCREASING THE COVERAGE AND QUALITY OF
HEALTH CARE
1. VERIY-TRxrlTHE DISTRICTS SELECTED FOR                 DHPD                    RHT                    EACH YEAR
PROJECT SUPPORT MEET THE ELI¢IBILITY
CRITERIA
2. VERIFY THAT THE COUMUNITIES SELECTED                  CONTRACT BETWEEN        DHT
WITHIN THOSE DISTRICTS ALSO MEET THE                 OHT AND COMUNITY
ELIGISILITY CRITERIA
S. REVIEW SUCCESS OR FAILURE, AS MUEASURED DY            ANNUAL REPORT           RHTS AND PCU
THE NUMBER OF APPLICATIONS FOR PROJECT
SUPPORT, FROM THE DISTRICT PHD FROU
COMMUNITIES AND ANALYZE UNDERLYING REASONS
4. REVIEW COST-RECOVERY PERFORMANCES,                    OHPDS, AND              RHTS AND UNICEF
INCLUDING EXPERIENCE WITH VARIOUS FEE                OPERATIONS RESEARCH
FORMULA! AND WITH PREUIA PAYVENT BY THE              CONDUCTED WITH UNICEF
COMMUNITIES                                          ASSISTANCE
6. EXAUINE THE FUNCTIONALITY OF THE UIS SYSTEU           COMPUTER SYSTEU         PCU AND CERPOD         PY 1 A 2
ESPECIALLY
e. EXAMINE PERFORMANCE A¢AINST RUANTIFIED                INDICATORS AS STATED    OHT AND RHTS           EACH YEAR
INDICATORS (ON A STATIC BASIS BY REVIEWINO           IN ANNEX 8-4
THE BASELINE SURVEY MMD IN A DYNAUIC
SENSE, 8Y MONITORING DEVELOPMENTS AGAINST
TARGET AND tHRESHOLD VALUES)
7. EXAMINE FUNCTIONALITY OF TREATUENT                    TREATHENT PROTOCOLS,   DNFSS                   ESPECIALLY
PROTOCOLS AND T à V TRAINING SYSTEU                  TRAINING MODULES AND                           PYl-PY3
SUPERVISION REPORTS
8. REVIEW THE EXPERIENCE WITH COMMUNITY
DEVELOPUENT TRAININO AND ITS IMPACT ON
SOCIAL MOBILIZATION
9. DISCUSS UNICEF REPORTS AND ISSUES                     UNICEF REPORT           PCU AND UNICEF         EACH YEAR
10. VERIFY THAT THE NEW REOIONAL ACCOUNTINO SYSTEU 18   COVPUTERIZED ACCOUNTINO RHTS AND PCW            PYI-PY2
IN PLACE AND IS PROPERLY OPERATINO                   SYSTEN
B. IMPROVINO SECTORAL RESOURCE USE
1   MONITOR THE DEVELOPUENT AND TESTINO  F               OPERATIONAL PROCEDURES  DHSSF/DAF              PYl-PYS
OPERATIONAL PROCEDURES AND CUIDELINES                AND CUIDELINES
2. REVIEW THE STAFFINO AND EFFECTIVEWS OF                DIRECT SUPERVISION      DNSSF, DNSP            PY1
DNFSS FOLLOWINH  THE *CADRE MRGANIUJE  AS
WELL AS COORDINATION OF THE LAROE
EXPATRIATE 8ILATERAL TEAU
3. DISCUSS WITII DAF PERSONNEL FIHANCIAL                 STUDIES (BY 9/SU/S9)    DAf                    ESPECIALLY
STUDIES, AND ENSURE THAT COMPUT!RIZED                                                               PYi A PY2
PERSONNEL AND BUDGET MANAGEMENT SYSTfJ IS
IN PLACE 8Y T'E END OF PY2, AND THAT DAF
STAFF IS TRAINEO IN USINO IT
4. MONITOR STAFF REDEPLOYUENT, TAKINO INTO               MANPOUER DEVELOPMENT    DAF AND RHTS           EACH YEAR
ACCOUNT EARLY DEPARTURE PROCRAU ND
PRIVATIZATION PITCH
S. PARTICIPATE IN REVIEW OF STUDY ON HOSPITAL            STUDY (3Y 11/91)        DNSP WITH FAC          PY1-PY2
EFFICIENCY                                                                   ASSISTANCE
6. ENSURE THAT THE BUDGET NOMENCLATURE IS                STUDY (8Y 6/80/91)      DAF                    EACH YEAR
REVISED, THAT THE RECURRENT BUDCET TARGETS
ARE MET AND THAT THE INVESTMENT BUDGET
CRITERIA ARE RESPECTED



- les -                                           *.oex s
AGREEO MEASURES                                                                    mER Yl
7. MONITOR IlMNTATION OF THE DU  RERU                MSTER-PU                CABNT, PM, POP    EC TR
MASTER PLAN:
- ENSURE THAT THE CRItERIA ON DEUO                UNIPAC CATALOIIE,
PROCUREMENT (UNIPAC PRICE), PPM'S MOIN          STUDo ON MIN
AND AVAILABILtY  <55 OF THE O MMOST ESSENTIAL   (ct1t91)
DRUGS AVAILABLE At tHE CERCLE ARE MET
- DISCUSSION OF STUOY ON UMPP AND AGREENT         S11TUDY 0VY J/8si/l)    CABINET, PPU, PCU    EACH YEAR
ON MEASURES TO BE TAKEN
- IMPLEMENTATION OF CONTRAT-PLAN IN               CONTRAT-PUN             CABsIET, PPU, PCU    EACN TEAR
PARTICULAR- STAFF REDUCTIONS, DELETION OF
NON-PROFITABLE ACtIVITIES STRENGTMNINC
STOCK MANAGEM, REVISINO THE
COMPENSATION SYSTEU, ESTABLISHINO A COST
ACCOUNTINO AND AN INVENTORY SYSTEN
- PRESCRIBERS TRAINING PROGRAN
8. VERIFY COIMPLIANCE ItH PROCIREMENT                NOTE FROU AFUPN         CDEIS
ARRANGEMENTS AED   TH USPAS
C.  POPULTION AND FAMILY PLANNIN
1.  OUi      T      ETF POPULATION COORDINATION  DIRECT SUPERVISION          MIWLAN L_1 <POL- PYZ-PY2
STRUCTURE AND PREPARATION OF ACTION PLAN                                 ATION UNIT ASStSTANCE
FROM ILO
2. REVIEW PROCRESS ON CENSUS                         DIRECT SUPERVISION      CENSUS SUREAU-CRPOD Pyl-PYS
a. REVIEW CONTENT AN) MPLENENTATION OF FP MANAGERS  DIRECt UP     SION       SNI, PCU             EACN TR
TRAININO PROGRAN
4. MNITOR COORDINATION OF FP MATTES                  FP/IC STRATEOY          S,                   EACH  SR
6. ENSURE tHAT FOLLOU NO TOOLS ARE PMPTLY PUT IN   STAFF APPAISAL REPORT   UW, PCU                EACN YE
PLACE OR STRENOTHENEDt
- SYSTEU TO MNITOR FLON AND USE OF EXTERNAL
RESOURCES
- INVENTORY OF STOCK AND LOOISTTCAL SYSTEU
- YEARLY COORDINATION MEETING 117  DONORS ON CON  -
CEPTIVE NEEDS
- YEARLY MEETING 1H PRIVATE OPEATORS ANO PO TO
TAKE STOCK OF EXPERIENCES
O. REVIEJ PARTICIPATION 0F NS ANO PRIVATE SECTOR   DRC  SUERISON             SI, Peu              EACN VR
(LEVEL, tUTY, POSSIILE ISSUES)
REVIEW STATUS 0F:                                 TAFF APPRAISAL, REPT     AS, APPF  O         ESPECIALLY
- IEC MESSAGE                                     AND ODRECT SUPERVISION    OtA, IMiPf         PYI-PYS
- MEDIA CAMPAION
- ONAFLA PROGRAN
- MEN'S FAILY HEALTH EDtCTION PEORA
8. REVIEW CO S  IN PRACTICES REDINO CONTRA-           NEFCT  ASSESST
CEPTIVE DEMIU  AND PRESCRIPTION                  AND KI
9. REVIEW OPERATIONS OF PFFUO, DTNCLUOINO            POPFUND SATUT,          ONSf, Peu            ECN YEAR
DEPARTURE FROM INTIAL CEZUNOS AND TARGETS        IN-UWS, ETC.
0.  RURAL WATER SUPLI
1. VERIFY THAT CCNTRACTS SEIE   VILLAGERS AM        RANDOM CHECKS            SE                   EACH YEAR
OHNE ARE STONED, AND EACH CONTRIBUTION PAID
ONE MONTH EFORE ARRIVAL OF BORDILE snT
TEA"
2. DISCUSS PHASE I 0F IOODNATTON PIORA               EVALUATION REPORT       D FAC           E        PAS P
(2< POINTS) AND JUStIFICATION FOR EXPANSION
E.  PROJECT COORDINATION
1. ENURE THAT ANNAL REVIEJS ARE WELL PREPARED       PEPARATION  REPORT       CU        ASSISTANCE  £ACH TSAR
(SV 9S/W  OF EACN TA) PROU UNICEF A  CO-
iULTTNO PIEU
2. ENSURE THAT RECULAI COORDINATION MEETINGS        PROCRESS REPORTS         PCU                  THROUGMUT
ARE OROANIZES                                                                                 PROJECT
8. ENSURE TIMINESS, QUALT  AND EXPLOITATION         AUIt REPORTS             PCU AND AUDIt FIlMS  SACH  WA
OF AUDITS                                                                FM   ACCEPT TO IDA
4. ENSURE SUStAINEO IMPLEMENTATION OF MOMT.STUDY     A. ANDERSEN RPT         CABIT, Po            PYl-PY&



ANNEX 3-16
- 166 -                         Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF MALI
SECOND HEALTHI POPULATION AND RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
PROJECT COSTS BY COMPONENT. COST CATEGORY AND FINANCING SOURCE
1.          Basis of cost estimates.  Operation costs are based on prices at
appraisal (April 1989) revised to reflect economtc conditions a the time of
negotiations (December 1990). Cost estimates for constructionlrehabilitation are
based on a survey of existing facilitties and unit prices reconstructed for each
construction component.  Other cost estimates for goods are based on recent
tenders in Mali or in the region for similar types of gooda completed recently,
vith adjustment, where necessary, for regional cost differences. The average
cost per month of tnternationally recruited services (US$12,000, tncluding
salaries, overhead and subsistence), locally recruited specialitts (US$2,250),
and the costs of scholarships abroad (US$2,000) are those applied for UNDP
financed projects.
2.          Foreain exchanae component. The estimated foreign exchange component
of the project is US$41.7 million (68Z of total project cost) and is the result
of the following estimated foreign exchange percentages for the individual
expenditure categoriess
Civil Works (general contracts)              50S
Community Participation                      40S
Furaiture                                    50S
Non-Medical Supplies and Equipment          lO0X
Nedical Supplies and Equipment              0OOS
International Spectalists/Volunteers        100l
Local Specialists                             OZ
Training Abroad                             0OOS
Local Training                                0%
Operating Costs                              802
3.          Customs. duti9s and taxes.  Cost esttmates do not include duties or
taxes. During negotiations the Goverrment conflrmed that the project will be
exempt from taxes and duties.
4.          Contintency  allowances.   The cost estimates  include physical
contingencies of (a) 102 for hardware components, such as civil works, furniture
and equipment; and (b) 52 for specialist services, training, and operating costs.
Allowances for annual price escalations are as followss
Prolected Annual Price Escalation Rates
1991     1992     1993     1994      1995     1996      1997
Foreign Costs       3.92      3.9Z     3.9S     3.9%      3.9S     3.72     3.72
Local Costa         3.02      3.02     3.02     3.02      3.02     3.02     3.02



- 167 -                             ANNEX 3-16
Page 2 of 2
5.           Financinz plan.   The IDA credit vas based on the assumption that
cofinanclng would be available from the Government,  local conmunltles,  and
external donors.  Table 1 below summarises the cofinancing arrangements.
TABLE 1
EDF      FAC    REPUBLIC   IDA      USAIO
OF
GERMANY
A.   HEALTH
1. COVERAGE AND QUALITY OF HEALTH SERVICES
SUPPORT TO 120 COMMUNITY HEALTH CENTERS               _         _        X       _        TRAIN
QUAUTY IMPROVEMEN OF HEALTH SERVICES                  X--                       OPC        IEC
ESTABLISHING 21 DISTRICT TEAUS                       CW         _                X        TRAIN
REGIONAL SUPPORT IN FIVE RECIOt'S                     _         _        -       X        TRAIN
2. INCREASING THE EFFICIENCY OF RESOURCE USE
STRENOTHENINO SECTORAL PLANNING                                 - _      _      XX
FACILITY PLANNING/MAINTENANCE                         _         _        -      XX          _
AVAILABILITY Of ESSENTIAL DRUGS                    TA/TRAIN     _        -       X          _
H UMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPVENT                          _         _        _      XX          _
HEALTH FINANCINC                                      _         _        _      XX          _
B.   POPULATION ANO FAMILY PLANNING
1. INSTITUTIONAL STRENOTHENINO                           _        _         _      XX         _
2. IEC/FAMILY PLANNING SERVICES                      CONTRACEP CONTRACEP CONTRACEP CONTRACEP    X
à. POPULATION FUND                                       X        _         X       X         X
C.   RURAL SUPPLY OF POTABLE WATER
1. CONStRUCTION OF 886 WATER POINTS                      _        _         _      XX         _
2. REHABILITATION OF 600 WATERS POINTS                   _        _         _      XX         _
8. SUPPLY/INSTALLATION OF IODINE MODULES                 _       XX         _       _         _
4. STUDSES FOR fUTURE REHA8. EXTENSION                   _        _         _      XX         _
D.   PROJECT MANAGEMENT UNIT                                -        _        _       XX         _
CONTRACEP a CONTRACEPTIVES
XX   a FULL FSNANCINO                            CW a CIVIL WOANS
X    a PARTIAL FSNANCSNO                        SEC a INFORMATION/EDUCATION/COMMUNICATION
TA   s TECHNNCAL ASSISTANCE                   MEDEQ a MEDICAL E4UIPNENT
TRAIN a TRAINN                                  OPC a OPERATINO COSTS
6.         Detalled prolect coste.   The tables  showing project  costs  by
expenditure, category and by component are included in the report.
Assumptions made in arriving.at the cost estimates, as vell as the detailed
project costs by component, cost category and source of financing are given
in the following tables:
Table 2   By Expenditure Category
Table 3   Financing Plan by Category
TAble 4   Financing Plan by Component
Table 5   By Expenditure Category sad by Years
Table 6   By Component sad by Years
Cs XN3-16.n



lst0UUatu to8Ct                              2649 03    3.86322           »Ati>34      164890      3611,22        1. 16>82    s.044> tg    0li362        >46>8>l   9 468 2    4et 64b            84 >04 02
2 sUf 0619                                   1.08006    2.0on161           1. ou349     10810      202              3003       232 44      12688o 66032     >4226               2b29 66           à*2 16 
l. ot*l CMIa2:t2og                            8.298          6842          >.6é2        82200       lk86t42        J.4604     8>236 2' 34 40              e03>204  10, SU 2      2'lm 61          le8olib22
8 ¶8881(866                                  1.822*a                      1.81? 82     1823 là                       822 Il     0612                       job le   2.3ISIS                       2à 1660b
2     02101s                                    se29                         je2928       92                          2si        2si        ô000             3 68      46643                         468ai
3 mm8  888188  8118110  188186LS                >6 88          61            36 6        I O 69b     I 8        6     al-        8i 83ai6                     2i        le  40     2> été           42 l8
4 1888108                                      28> si      434 >9           les 28      36 >6       43 42            26 -je    612         48W 62            2 14     4>9 60      '>2  tI           %6  22
6 U880808C8t60089W18i Am   ftl$                           us0809 6*0     4.16 lu si       l         606            4>98       4960 os     si66            64674   466686i        6o844           1686680
1881&6 tota    11888d  60016081                 S.926 26      914042         08860        686          96044           062        ou600       to 0299-A                1 i 46>9 274  >16946        a863684           C
C noie"8 cWIPê U8 818C88110886
Mol08e1l  H58oiM0o ppigî$                      2000                         20 06       2 08                        2 0        222                          22?       24 36                        24 3
2068118   0618818*1808819                     8146u60                       .S   e6160   4246                       8646       PA6el        0 00           26648    >9*44 6                         tu4426
2 1S288818, 8860                             8.26si                       8.110 I6>    l >20                        820l0o     2669         0 00           26629i   8. 6646 Ob>6t0640
4 CM8U*grnsi                                 400681P00                     400680      48608                        4  060      42Si        0 00           0426 6tS4208 si.SASIS s
*001066011t                                1. 46si                       8>066i>       te                         ose8>-6    23201*        0 00          222 08    1.686>?                      8.66>   .1 8
...   . .... ..   . .... ..   ..   ...   ... ....  ...   .-                              . ..  ..   -                                             2
h2-o8a8 8883(8> 80819  - A1(iU>3C8>%            8.00  26                   .  .019 i      NO os                       800 o      .0886         0 60          6bu 69  t>0.62846                      80.6278 40  <A >9
8 >181811sm88a59cltttsIs                     3>8IV40                      2.86t206         t                        tu93  912  us826        0 00           ne836      73 211028                   272828          pu1
2 8tleSc8168 fi463> I                                    1. 206te          2.0du8ln      2te        060             >13i49     toi8e4      Si >886         ni>8 ai    2li491     1  >360          3>324 *
3 08>088 %6C>81>si$                                     1.28292          à. 2629t                 83 >6           M> 8                   2n0 48           260 41               2 6366           2.6bis6s
Ulb808814M(181818stSER8US                       4.649>16    2. 45> la.114 21              232>        >22M4>          406172     su63        2 84 22          92>00    6 46621    4 028 il            .498 04
8  e      i 10088819111416                               2.08613          2.06il                   >9411 >t 04 44                         2288et           23067?               2 432 04         2.432 08         -
I 06832*1otite06198*818                        3868 4                       38888          s                         te2>83     646 0ba00                   66 46     468 42                        46>43 
I    a4 8$18188810                             2168                          10 es92e6I 169 la                                 8 1 1        0 00            6>16l     4664>                         46648
4 119t06868>B>811                              oit2 910342                              te93                         46 11     >06 I        0 00           lob 12    8> 2911f                     8.202        1-800
9  19886UV 86801IL                                         11 61>            616                    0ln             41                    86-à30           8204,li 8180                           8>s980     (A~
>492fatal e8>8181                               1. 286 6    2>8824           3.884         as6e4      >0982           896326     2349         64>8e           489 86    2 M2lu    26"à>44           4. 60966
1,90111M eIu011l                              8. 60 a    2.622 08          4.30186     lis> le      8220            478 40       à a         22 là6b04    2.86631 3 88àts0?                       1. 228sa
>o8>16>8C06>                              28.00096    86. 304866       46.3066    2.toies 6     >.47 64        403668I   4.9666 2    >48360o           6811942.  ta642 ffl60la n40            6664063
88 81(0888 es ,î
Il 1188(11 09861988                              660         323 22          8.039 82     40 si       88                 es 6 61  701        3> 82           206 0?    I 028 la     26> 60          à 392 es
6 0088>im98 0688>0860                            301         9 24             40232       >66        0 48             20         68 2        886-            6il>       si3         834I)            411160>.
g >8118$>898o0688>1uC                            >4 42       446             la8de       0 12        0 22             0 94       236         06$'S           34>        >39         622               123
mo 0698881mM>0ai 119BIbo,1$  99116               >4 02       42               >81ei      0 I0        0 22             0 9        241         068             30' cil     2l28       6>8i             22234
8  N  I11                                                  us9663 4          6306                    2> 3 82         il 82                 los bl          803 8.3                 >2> 80           M1 10
O  UC888801   RkS4&M   i t1l088>l8tib$           846         2>               >006 O     0 42        0 88             066t       a44         03~             884        >016b        309             là44
IL 0381u6119180»UUim                             tât11,      9222> j22r90                 228          06à8b          366 >e6oi20            266>b           lit»       696as24     206 43            80812 
a U>88h1t.                                     >071>2        22288a          84>2> il     6I16        Sb666           106,3     22146        , t              a sa  139   >663      4 ti107         82MIS g
>.>is 06L08968  1.06>                              2 6>2> 46    S38 69          à 807 i>6    >260 S       1b 28           9636J    6201 46      22068 $t42 *.t    à 8bt 43            8 676 64         4 84  Ob 
lot.>                                              11 S"sa ét 40   86882        60.2 28 ?    29>402*    I 38691         41086 Ob     >2? 12    S 304 i>        8.88> 12   4>614 13   >1 >18 4%         6> ln 60
D-OW  21 9440  >6 62



oc c   04 M 9 age et a ents  et ti u  t#,~$                      .  * le008 '    tom
tuep       bc usw   le î   elee u ~ < o        .        e<si          o gouei                                                     se e.  duBî                              MiIU     oU
le.. etseg*0U s.                                                                                                                  <ou    ina                     omSoUUIUSU4  1
useou  a         4   04018 1        Ci  ui *0    60i                                                                                                             SUtSI4UUUUIeI 
r4 4                                milMomw*m  
es Sol  oc 0  a 'ai                                                                      et~~~~~~~~~~k-    g  te  4805  08im o                        1u
Co              e Us     m. 9 gop                                         *84;0                                                  ous    m  es40 de dot~                   mi mm    IUm
0<0<4<   gos  0(0t1ds41te                                                                                                                             siat
..(.  O           *04101~~~~~t  (iS  aie34                                                                               ses«0(  e    gg.m  -W it   sut s  si   a SuI  1SU4   44.3o flfl$080
a.a;s    s..  ugo.                                w opa. go.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~itp       f  -t                                        s0     MIniuet  s
,0c     r                                                                       le  u,a         a  us   sooulos m68et41et O             t044  OU   0 a4 etS ft8 MISd
wwo'   a.<  ~~miu                                   41   0404go                          u        m*  soam       0001 sea  4                   swo,aw.îsImmuf.
114#1  te &  et a     et 0  at cas   ae  a go                       a a  u ai                     11        $»w non   smn    i
Id ' *aîc    855*10 *                  0        1<61 11111  <4811e aet                                      in I  88   PUI m 0l0e8i mui                 ,oa,4.m.a~mnu.0 sg'
0..I-  ..m  psu  OS  41141;        *6  16411    *6   14811                      UP~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~my   d ît ami f800.015M         sh,w naoopm du"   ..K sot
OU  Img~~~~~~~~~  nu?  £1. ~~~~~~~~~~~  **    *0           .        .                              ..   *,         ::  ::' ~~~..  .... .....  ... ... .
es a%, s   w 8  st M'Is                                           et                           te et m sopo                             w1um     I
ne<1  140    il     oues    *0                *5610     *6  *018                                           -                                                          dW81 
s,.. 80061            .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~....  ...                                  .        . ...  ........
et 9" I   tels e  mi                          etc0*   *143 Ii   ans40    3        uIBUjet000                         iom
Od. t)                                                                   44 tg OC ett'e   et      1              Ima~~~~u.nui  SgW         MO    m  



uatitmilm
uvtOmett                  ttttt»                       bitstt RtItit' 14 tita m _   tt  *t_tlmis ttt
wICieism        OuStt                                                                        mi mt iaui titu_ a t mleitet t,s.  su ,
....    .     i..     ....i,                                                   o. s..                  ...
_i    s         u.'Mt   3                               _           S   _oss    I    _              * t   h sAt  I    i &Ch
..............................
#sat 111111111811, ttflil amatfS              O                 11 tu                    *0 t 4  U                     St    23tJ    *  M 1  S   1  11t leU 
l1w ît         m     *aiv  U 110 St11                              lit o   et    1 t. Us fO *                             -                 os. t      m e t     os  fit et      tS
utSt"Il    et HStrtt *UlE                              84 lé      os a   Ple wT  n tts   a Z s 4S                                                  se 2 et   S4    au   1 e  Xs      
sa4u      _l  la funt ut'wau u                          S      U    0 4u s tas n                                    *      *                             so   t   Ot e  o   * «t 
......m......a..... . ..     .ou  au                           . ........                .         . .  .      .*
S*-1«ss CaUC   _    tm  lu i,  uuttnta Sts  jé. et ta 4o                                                                                            o tt  S &   si t  a Xt  14 0  l  U   O ét    e    s  au X  0    1  o s  3
9. t tt t__ t  Zlitiaa    oa                                                      ma.                           aie .n ,s                       o e   a      u     ia    t   sa
..................  .  .  .  . .t..
Séî.sît"lmîiumfSlsf ttffflCvn tts   ttS   ta3  test  -aunes                            so  moo                          - a*  oie                     *oi   ss    461 2S   2   sos    0W         54 8
... ...................      .......    .........   ...................................................                           _ 
Se b8        v "Matt a fne          sa                                                     o n                                                               2 s t    et   l *      P-
a   mnevi,slsîousiau.wiuifls _                                        .                                su    e ts _t                                                       ais                  S
ji. -in; ses Sea         .       s  as                        sues                                                                                               *it   052
sé-;.,is.bom  mvUl5lie                                    toU ie  mueo                                      2a                         2      5                   031    226  554
2. m ~ et go                                               ** 0   os  S 63 et     t 2 se la lu                  12s  X  f                       e go 1n    'à 5     q*S os    te  tCa  
à loiî        lmEîii                                        liaan  6                       % 4 4                         0214  .                *      0 552,1       ès2  a5 36      s
S  l- tal "Maisottttnt _  fISttt  té_t                      1 et ts Ot   t tt QS eS    3 af la 0s                        st  14 It8                    e 4s  2         il 2  } 2s  loets     to  > t^ 
C. amtZ  S_fte @(f tçlZtf Mttf5                                                                                                                                                                         0
.ltît tSs iau   asa  iamoiiste meiaao                                                              su    ss  e O?         1         au    au                     len    u  ae s e2   it sa
t    m   1"t8tg(S lettttftitat"tt 0  |XlmonS"^ omi                                                  t set tO e0 tF et                                                     7 2    t    g
S*lz. Smuts la      rstm zet«E Ftl                              S Xe     l                                                                          0                    0 se ^t ea  XtI Xti      D tt
...   .     . .     .  ......     .....8   ...* 8* 3. 3 .  .. ..... .3 35 *.4S......  .......     ..  * .3   .. .  5  
...................................                                         .                                     ...       1...  ......    ,        ..
'4
t_   al, tto  ts:st                                                                                                                          tz X~~~~~~~~~~~~~
L4t 
* ~~~~~~~~~



16 6 0668 êC "t
SO wt *î ce oIC t *CC *  CO '68   8<  8  66  1   6060                       666(6   918  6    11060I66 ff4 60 I s4 ts0 (6t sU1s9C6 866 60 at 41 166 6SC 6 U4                   «r1.0  C3 eK Il  csC * 158 tt01
8  16    6 6   6                     040       «41    06 c e  00 Ct  0 e9  6  Of  16 s n 1    84 a cc  U  681 810    601``00 0Mu11 6ut  9 6U et       9  oc  t                                   $1     S 6O
it ou    tO u s1                Ott ele çCOt   Ut bm  e el     ce lo  s tg   l 48 lac   te ll lut   te ssc r     oC; Us no   ce OU        Il 1#U914    ges ut ilt"n  SlaitUW   9
se Il    a        q199t              O&       o         s ssif. tou °s             li céIt  tg  éC t t@4S   ut S%' C9   le t uso   et,a9   unt  t ç lKnc           sitel  oint  @j  lls» JO m#II 
06 ttt          mt   ça blist C    I 09 9    ,lo g    o 09 r  s     t g   C si suw     t "I «b      et n  CSe   b. 9441   etC m           tO a   e        r9 athS J1 outtit  0101"w sut                           e
bc86     160       68       401      I  6 ci    £b106et  s4cf   lo9 60 O61'%    6660         es01tg6ç                 # 666<6  461   tg010   69 8<IC    (600  40Suoîgow i0 1111I1111 0
cc Et t8    os tC    *C0 *  n0 9C04 *1 ffl'% 0U *6'8 bf                                         t u 1 8 9 6 9'19      II UO'I    04 Moe8 I       066                                         01638t0680  3
"        n       6aça       s     Tse         9zçf. s i U  Il  a          1 nut CssciC    Z se "%'   esi cl       oW il 00  o ocs 'i    $4 ms  e    te tus                                   31%M1 t J11*1   O
le tZt 0occ  le(  tg C>tn UC1 t              9 tU    Ut Ug    st n1       0  nf 'ut   sio  9    etSt  la   le cotl  '«94   Il n9 et       9 os '10    t8 M  l'si                              sWli      » 31» e
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t t4t $16                                                                                              18
;i cs e0 9 tog  *  4 OstC*W ti Ob in O1%'48 t t,tZ Il KA Ocl   oc 9£4    et et lob' ut 8 etai «O'# 1S                  t     6C CC'M' VînlS9 t6 et toMes 09 et  CK'tT                               Sit toSm    *tof
9161L 06          686e     c (016.   40 "O   o       t             et <166(8   0        66 §o8l  460 6lont  60  646 la    lé060 < bu ' a441*60    01es                         - cul       fmi  Oll           f
r1.4         1606  4 4 <t t K    9 6<    K 009 0   b tu    tg g616              1( c t   t6 061181   066680  16t» E s68    4     14 6s6194t  Ce8t        < tç    te nUt la                               mulins 0089
os ** soo    csb     et   4           c OC at  oct O  e go n:            çe Ge tc 'Ost   tg U0-     09 O 4 f '       fftC'S    ff tu   Ç    ct It41lO  Ob bl                                   Mau "ét    tom tN tS
u Ut   se I C  49 «lo             a         se9 titt 99 s       l C t    ta  l91       ost  n  t   got ilw  Us su it   la »C ae lott  5stgt t<t    let O'U                    tt St util ttta   I~m     10
00l86             criCou    a0 00<             tt c e   1a             1,6 a   si0 111104    84664       se  mO       a1t0         a00         666 Ob ell                             !Wt3060  "M W1 t  6
86 l     960     00  etg00     6066  688 te0Il8si1es0go lf4 os8606s1S csuon    t"dg   90 11SS                         n 014 146 IofOt8<    a8 u-lît                                             mie n oi 
6        de a 164    et   tgtU 60 sn08           ta    le n< 66l1 68   (( n6 * ff  1  lot CUt 1  et ai@S   nt  t le, mil, if"s'M  0u60t 0      «  Wt64 S(61                                 l               I
0} nO        n us1 o u 6U<c C     t uc  cielo     O S0  t  boa n  Cu    m UtS0 61  *  s '46  0 4  86 9  1t '8    ce tt       '.  ou C1  S    Ot00  'C ol   *tS'COt  te ou la  51 16<0i               501  80111838  8
o  v         o<081 1 uet    0f 91       61(4t  0n 69t %otn  os       6t044.    0 601 166   fi    t     6    01400    le m6lm8      o n'(8    te1 «    n   u0   8611 nt  06 tUCN                m                      8'S  S JI ll    Ie$l C
t 2      rt U    6 ut   6 eri    Sa cc     ,T lu    tg m        ese tu    te I e       Os Cff       Ut           UU  ms                   etw *88119  0m  C s la OCt                             sit siltwS>  eWî6F 
64    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~iolt'   4"'                                                    Css   m« M         slo           oOt          uM«828418  088838   O
m     8  s   0n 1c b  te bit  t       e u,       6      to01    1 9 6S a( VU  es "S' u <6606  U     4 Scm0 061  U05    8n<1        clé u1016   li mO                                     s,ub hm0îu t  ,sw _  e 
-'  *                                                                                                                                      %1138806<00604      0001 693063 3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~$139111       dui131111 
es 186 0se WC4  10o6 tu oti         si8 8486  460 g1 go.  1   ee " 04<     6011   460q5~46<t4     u fl.il ou 40    9*186 *_ 440u0616   te1<ut ' 80(,1go<t                   10<086<am 0801801111180801985Je
E ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                                 ..   ....   ..     ...     .  . .......       ..     ........  ......................
Ot S9*  si lç ec       ça «c . f       SCz* tu eç 6ç,  te, La go       lsitt* te Cut        00 t  'as   et M't n    a "Oies   n  to sct  to  n s111t               SJt»   mW  lllcoi  KW1111  _ unS
U   | 51it%0 94  §l n|   OI  O6 n    or OlC  se  nct          ou    te us,»   s0   Vsn    st 1111c   te #11il nnst n              ce m'Si   oit r ett_§t                                      3m m        
Uc *     c a    &Or    *bcsç            i c    i &U     cs bc     osts         n9  t        ncst          i CSCtl     sc  bul     amSCul                               sitlSlu loivit  I" mall          t 
Uso sx                                le    tC9uet    u  ncztg  se  cn   §cCst Ws1119,1        Sto tt    49 m' lS 6nnn it nsn  g to ceaI ws 1                                               wiso          s
utcs c  1666    66 m       te 961   0u060 sel     se   00         8604se<CU    860 Ct6'    1t 5u%    Il 6      us            6    6u 1S8 OtnSOt6                                             uss   U s c te   ci6C t
n446     481      406      6(6      486       144 c6 sc 'i cu e SK ('C 0 U                  (6< 1 C1t4 t  s86466 M'lm C *e                                                      0       to  U
te1 9 4 et   69   100tes   1 06 S   6069 O  90 608              6  440         06.86 .4   4 66 &       a116<        m0<18 <  M446(0    et 061168411                                  goli       2603* 044<<  geo  otu
.  .....   ......  ...  .  -t  ...   -t!  ....   .  -   5   -   ar   e   7   ............     .. . . .
9 0 m    166 m    608      666e  6O6*         t661     CUI8         M080m t608               1668 e661                68 56U  t;                                                               fi tU
«oo0. 0810                                                                   0000. 80828
10.08800300, 08'88,   680808                         a8 *1*f0S 03 0630 0s 18 0808IN



REPUtlIC O# mitl
SfCOtO Ntiaili  PO        âmtl8110     RttRxi MAIER SUtPPtY PRtOhtI
Projct Cooents ty tsar
îCi6î* ttîllo.n
8 s. Coust. ..
.......     .............    ,,.......... .    . ..... ...pS
1992~~~~~~~~~~~~~6
t992     1993      t99<      1996     t996      t99t       CtAl    tti I  ol
t. COYERtast auo Qoatili Of HEaU1N SERYcICS
...... ...... ....... .   --------.......-----------. ............ .
StPPORT 10 120 tOUNITI ttE4t1H CEGINtRS                       44 IS   138 33   232 67   343 35   395 26   2tS St   1.369 29          5 41
f3uthitV lttPROtEnt Of  EtASlH SERVICES                      292 65   274 64   687 32   341 21   228 80    53 71   1.87t  33         7 42
Eslx8tlSNtint  21 DISTRICI TEr45                               t 98   liS 35   244 as   273 46   269 26   181 l8   1. Ot6 OS         4 29
RtCIOtt3  SttPPOI Itt flY  REO5S                              99 SI   378.32    56 12    31t 47    3S 87    32 5         640 88      253
-----        -------     --------  ..... ---.. . . .....-........ ........  .   .  .... .......   ...........  ..  .
S$  lot3a  COVER4C  met QUi Il! of #AtSSI SERYICIS              438 31   906 64 t.220 96   996 S0   929 20   482 98   4.974 58    19 66
2. 11mRiESltt  TU  EffiCIEtit9  Of etSOICE  SE
~~~~~~~..   . .. ............. ............................. ...
SIRtLGIItttlIG SECIOR8t PUtUIUG                              166.56    62 73    3t 22    45 47    Il 24         8 33     3265 S      t 29
çacsiîiv PL,N11t1GlI / miUtExUtCE                             7t 24    26 si    t8 88    t8          l 18 s8    t2 t7    16 92       o t6
3lt68it411tt  Of ESSEtiat BOllOS                             '04 9S   303 i7    68 48    50 48    44 29         8 16     379 62      t SO
m1       RESoURCES OiVLtOPUEII                                29.64    16 26    18.63       024       271       0 24      67 7t      027
tASISt fimUIIICIo                                             2t.9t      9 24      3 SO     t 87      t 22                S9 80      024
..... ............ ......   ........   ...... .. ...   ..... ....  ......   .   . ..
Se-lotaI IUCI*SING  ttE EftiCIEtuCt Of RESOURCE USE             400 34   218 27   ISO 71   122 94    78 34    28 90         999 S0      3 9
........     ....... ....... ........     ........ . ... . .  . ..... .....     ............  .... 
Sub-lotol NMitlNl                                                  83t 65 1.124 92 1. 371 66 1. 119.43 1.007 53   Sll U    5.974 08    23 61
8. POtAItlaON  NS  fttilitt PIAIUINS
I  lîsitIutîitt SIKItISNEUSIls                                 2t8 30    93 99    34 52    26 23    25 23                  397 26      1 57
2  COU  lIEC FP POGOSI                                          4379S   333 73   26  58   315 S    286 56   34t 47   1,983 46           784
3. POuttallm  fu1`D                                              9S It   230.62   230 62   291 38   196.21   135 65   1.180 06          4 66
.... .................  ..........  ....... .......   ........   ........  .........  ...... 
Si6-lotal POPUtOIItOtm AND fttY PtxltttG                           *51 42   658 53   533 92   631 78   508 0ù   47t 13   3.560 78    14 07
C  tmata  StPPIt y of POT1i tatlEi
; CONSIRUCIIO1 Of 38t5 MTIE  PtOItS                             454 48   604 34   604 34   454 99    23 65                2. t41 80     8 47
2  RE#881161141tt OF se0 MAlTR POINTS                                 -    98 22    9t 22    t876    10 66                   295 86      1 17                                                                      1
3. SUPPtI t ItNS14t*itIAI    Of lODIttE MtDES                    38 61    45 22    566  o    6 90    6t Ot    67 0          33t 77      1 31
4. SIUOIES t08 fUItURE RIM#    EtlEttSIOl                        35 96    35 96          -                  -                71 93      0 28
Sib-Total RIMI SUPPtT Of Pai   88tt MAtER                          529 06   783 74   759 46   600 65   tOI 37    67 O?   2.841 35    il 23
O  PRthECI tUU4CEtmt  taiT                                          8i tl    49 79    76 35     666    49 36    30 05           342 8a      335
Total 6651titt  COSIS                                              2.200 84 2.616 9  2.741 39 2.407 41 1.666 26 t (Ab t2  Si. 7t9 Ol    6O 27
Physbcul Containocmles                                            173 34   222 S9   239 39   206 10  138 t5    91 0   l.070 43           4 23
Price Conteîgsocî«                                                t25 34   240.32   363 26   400 t    341 39   270 13   1.t4t 14          68a
lotal PRDJECI COsIs                                                2.499 St 3.079 89 3,343 83 3.04 22 2.346 80 t.447 32  36.530 68    61 39
foc.sg. Exchangi                                                t.748 60 2.035 60 2.290 Ob 2.062 65 t.384 76 t.02t 92  3O0.43 67    41 6t
.     ..   2. . ....     ......                   ......    .
Ot_e21. 1990  iS 5



- 173 -                                 ANNEX 3-17
Page 1 of 1
REPUBLIC OF MALI
SECOND HEALTH, POPULATION AND RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
KEY DOCUMENTS IN THE PROJECT FILE/
SELECTION DE DOCUMENTS DANS LE DOSSIER DU PROJET
Flnancement
1.           Financement des Fonctions au Niveau central et Réglonal et Recouvrement des CoOts,
Ministère de la Santé Publique et des Affares Soclales, Décembre 1989, Mall
2.           Le financement des Coûts Récurrents de la Santé au Mall, Rapport du Contrat OMS
(Genève) pour l 'Etude Comparative Internationale des Coûts R6current. de la Santé, Avril 1989,
INRSP
3.           Cost Recovery In the Health Car. Sector, Ronald J. Vogel, World Bank Technical Paper
No. 82.
4.           Recurrent Coste In the Health Sector, Worid Hoalth Organl2atton, Ceneva
Dlstrict Health System
5.           Analyse de la Falsabilité des Propositions d'Organlsation du Systôm. de Santé de
Cercle, CREDES, Juin 1989, France.
6.           Projet de Développement Intégré du Village de Sandlambougou, Réglon de Kayes,
ledicus Mundi, 80glgque.
7.           Système de Développement au Niveau du Cercle et Stratégle de Planificatlon
Famillale, Ministère de la Santé Publique et des Affaires Sociale., Décembre 1989, Mail.
8.           Réforme Pharmaceutique, ilnistère de la Santé Publique et des Affaires Sociales,
Décembre 1989, Malt.
Druge
9.           Le Secteur Pharmaceutique, CREDES, Juin 1989, France.
10.          Brunet-Jai  ly Study
Population
1l.          Enquête Démographique et de Santé au Malt, Centre d'Etudes et de Recherche sur la
Population pour le Développement CERPOD, de l Institut du Sahel, 1987.
12.          Population Sector Uemorandum, Worid Bank, February 1988.
Nutrltion
18.          Aperçu de la Consommation Alimentaire et de la Situation Nutritionnelle au Mali,
USAID, Mars 1988.
Water Supply
14.          Projet de Convention Interministériel entr. MLnistère de la Santé Publique et des
Affalres Sociales et Milnstère de l'Industrie, l'Hydraulique et de leEnergle, Décembre 1989.
Other Donors
16.         Planification de la Coopération Franco-Malienne dans le Domatne de la Santé, de la
Formation et de l'Action Sociale, 1988-1992, Ministère de la Coopération, France.
16.          UNICEF, Bamako Annual Report, Septembre 1989
xn3-17. n



- 174 -
ANNEX 4-1
Page 1 of 3
REPUBLIC OF MALI
SECOND HEALTH, POPULATION AND RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
SPECIALIST SERVICES AND STUDIES
DESCRIPTION                    INT'L/NATIONAL        YEARS OF PROJECT
1   2   8  4   6  e TOTAL
(IN MAN-MONTHS)
- ARCHITECTE (INFRASTRUCTURE PROGRAU)            INT'L           ?   7                    14
- MIS SPECIALIST (REGION PERSONNEL MANAGEUENT)   INT'L                                     a 3
- DRUG SPECIALISTS
* REGION MANAGEMENT                          INT'L           1   1   1   1             4
* CENTRAL LEVEL (PHARMACY DIVISION)          INT'L           a   a   a   a            12
* PRESCRIPTION SPECIALIST                    INT'L           2   2   2                 6
* CENTRAL LEVEL (DRUG MANAGER/SPECIALIST)    INT'L          12   6   6  6             86
- HEALTH PLANNER (DNPFSS)                        INT'L           2   2   2                 e
- BUDGET SPECIALIST (CAF)                        INT'L           4   2   2   2   1   1   12
- PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT SPEC. (DAF)               INT'L           6   2   1   1   1  1   12
- POPULATION AND SECTORAL SPECIALISTS            INT'L           8   8   8                24
- OAM SPECIALIST                                 INT'L           6   6                    12
- IEC SPECIALIST                                 INT'L           6   8   1   1   1        12
FP DESIGN/DELIVERY SPECIAL.                    INT'L           a   a O      1   1       12
- FP CONSULTANTS                                 NAT.           48                        48
- PHYSICAL INVENTORY SPECIAL.                    INT'L               2                     2
- PROCUJREMENT SPECIAL.                          INT'L               4                     4
- FACILITY PLANNER                               NAT.                12  12  12  12  12  60
- MAINTENANCE SPECIAL.                           NAT.                12  12  12  12       48
- MOBILE TECHNICIANS                             NAT.           24  24  24  24  24       120
- CONSTRUCTION SPECIAL.                          NAT.           12  12 12  12  12         60
- (PROCUJR., ENGINEER, AUDIT, ETC.)              NAT.            ô   6   S   2   2   2   22
- EVALUATION SPECIAL.+ PROJECT PREPARATION       INT'L           8   8  12  11   9        s8
- PCU                                            NAT.          108 108 108 108 108 108 848
PM - WATER SUPPLY EN¢INEERS                       INT'L                                   N/A
PU - IODINATION SPECi:AL.                         TNT'L                                   N/A
TOTAL MAN-4)NTHS        1 21S
OR 101.2 WAN-YEARS
DP UHIOt NATIONAL a 828 MAN-MONTHS OR 68%;      MINL a 889 MAN-MONTHS OR 82%



REPU8LIC OF MALI
sC0c   HEALTH. POPuLATION ANQ RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
SUMRY Of THE STUDIES PROPOSED
SUBJECT                      OBJECTIVE                 RESPONSI8ILITY         PY1       PY2      PY3       PY4       PYS      PYe
1. ORGANIATION AND FINANCINO
1. HOSPItAL EFFICIENCY STIDY    -DETERMINE COSTS NORMS ANI)    DNSP WITH FAC ASSISTANCE     X
STANDARDS TO OPTIMIZE
HOSPITAL EFFICIENCY
2. STUY OF 8UDGET NOMENCLATURE, -ESTABLISN A STRN              DAF WIT CONSULTANTS          X
DEFINITION 0F BUDGETARY        COMPUTERIZED, TRANSPARENT
NORMS, REFINtNG SECTORAL      BUDGET PREPARATION AND
FINANCIAL ANALYSIS             MONITORINC SYSTEN
(ESPECIALLY) PRIVATE FINANCING
a. STUDY 0F PERSONNEL AND O AND N -RATIONALIZE THM STAFFINO OF   DAF WTH CONSULTANTS AND    X
(INCLUDING INCENTIVES AND     MSPAS AND IIPROVE             IN LIAISON WITH
CAREER PROSPECTS)             PERFORMANCE INCENTIVES AND    MINITRT OF CIVIL
EFFICIENCY OF ITS PERSONNEL,  SERVICES
ESTA8USH A COMIUTERIZED
PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT SYSTE
4. REVIEW OF IVPACT OF VARIOUS   -GUIDE COUHC IN OPTI  BETWN            DNPFSS/DAF                    X
FEE SYSTENS ON COST-RECOVERY   VARIOUS FEE OPTIONS
AND UTILIZATION AND QUALITY
OF HEALTH SERVICES
S. ANALYSIS OF JOB MARKET FOR    -DETERUINE INTAKE OF HEALTH            DNPFSS/DAF          X
HEALTH GRADUATES              SCHOOLS
8. PROPOSALS FOR SAFETY NETS AT  -GUIDE COMHCS IN CHOOSIN          LOCAL CONSULTANTS        X         X         X
COMUNITY LEVEL AND FOR       BEIWEEN OPTIONS T0 PROTECT
COMMUNITY PAID INCENTIS       THE POOR AND IMPROVE
(OPERATIONS RESEARCH)         PERFORMANCE
7. REVIEW OF THE LECAL FRAMEWORK -IMPROVE INCENTVES AS NEEDED      LOCAL CONSULTANTS                            X
FOR THE PROMOTION OF PRIVATE
MEDICINE
8. EVALUATION OF EXIST'IN       -PROPOSE GRADUAL EXPANSION AND     LOCAL CONSULTANTS                            X
CONTRACEPTIVES STOCK,         MERING OF 11O EXISTING
ZNVENTORY ANHI LOGISTICAL     SYSTENS
SYSTENS
9. DIAGNOSIS OF UYPP            -TO INCREASE tHE EFFICIENCY OF DSF/AUPPF WITH               X
THE DMRU SECTOR              ASSISTANCE FROU
CONSULTANTS
o1



cn
RrEPUBLIC OF MALI
SECOND HEALTH, POPULATION ANM RURAL WAYRR SUPPLY PROJECT
z 04
:Cont'd.                                                    SUIMMAY OF THE STDIES PROPOSED
SUBJECT                      OBJECTIVE                RESPONSIBILITY         PY1      PY2       PYs       PY4      PY6       PY6
10. INTERNAL REVIEW OF PPM      -RATIONALIZATION 0F THE DRUG   DNSP WIYH ASSISTANCE        X
SECTOR THROVCH COST REDUCTION  FRON INT'L CONSULANT
ANO INCREASED TRANSPARENCY
11. PRICINC OF CONTRACEPTIVES    -DETERMINE IHE APPROPRIATE           DSF/AIWPF            X
PRICING LEVEL TO ENCOURGCE
CONTRACEPTIVE USE M4ILE
ENSURlNG ITS SUSTAINABILZTY
12. UONITORING THE IMPACT OF    -PROVIDE A WARNINO SYSYE4 IUEN MINPLAN UIYH SAL BACK-UP    X         X        X         X        X         X
CUMULATED COST-RECOVERY      COST-RECOVERY EXCEEDS
SUSTAINABLE LIMITS
F-P12LMIOLOGX
1. DEFININC 'ME PACKAGE OF      -FINETUNE AM  RATONALUZE       DNSP 117H LOCAL              X
REFERRAL CARE BASED ON  AULIAN  EXISTING PACKAGE IN LICHT OF  CONSULTANTS
_-.    EPIDEMIOLQGICAL PROFILE AND    NEW DISTRICT-BASED HEALTH
_     PHC MINIMUM PACKAGE            SYSTEM TO ALLOW START-UP IN
PY-2
2. FERTILITY DETERMINANTS       (A) 9ENEFICIARY ASSEMNT        DNAS/AfPPF                  X          X       X          X        X        X
(8) FULL STUDY TO HELP REFINE
AND MOt; tW  THE IEC STRATEGY
3. EVALUATION OF IMPAC' OF A    PROVIDt FEEDBACK TO IIPROVE    DNPFSS                                                    X       X          X
FUNCTIONAL COIIHC ON:        COIHC EFFICIENCY
- MORTALITY/MIDITY
- SELF-CARE
- FERTILITY
4. STD/AIDS SURVEY              GUIDE THE FORUJLATION AND     DNSP WITH LOCAL                                 X
IMPLEMENTATION OF AIDS PROGRAI CONSULTANT
C. SQCIOLoGY
i. SURVEY OF SOCIOLOGICAL       IMPROVE THE CHANCES OF        DNAS WITH ASSISTANCE                                       X        X         X
FACTORS IN THE SUCCESS       SUJCCESS OF THE PROGRAI        FRI LOCAL, CONSULTANTS
OF COMNCS                    (<ENEFICIARY ASESSNENT)
2. SURVEY OF DIFFfRENCES        FINETUNE IHn IEC AND          DNAS 1I7H ASSISTANCE
IN COMMUNITY PARTICIPAT-     COMMUNITY DEVELOPUT            FRO0 LOCAL CONSLTANTS
ION BETWEEN URBAN AND        ASPECTS OF THE CONHC
RURAL AREAS                  PROGRA_
XN4-1 .N



- 177 -
ANNEX 4-2
Page 1 of
REPUBLIC OF MALI
SECOND HEALTH, POPULATION AND RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
PROCUREMENT PROCEDURES
Part A.     Procurement of Goods and Works
1.          Except as provided for in Part C hereof, works and goods (boreholes
drilling, water pumps, furniture, medical and surgical equipment and materials
totalling about US$13.9 million equivalent financed by IDA) would be procured
under contra:ts avarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set
forth in Sec 4ions I and II of the 'Guidelines for Procurement Under IBRD Loans
and IDA Credits' published in May 1985 (the guidelines).
Part B.     Preference for Domestic Manufacturera and Contractors
2.          In the procurement of works and gooda in accordance vith the
procedures described in Part A.1 hereof, the Borrover may grant a margin of
preference of 15% to manufacturers and 7.5% to civil works contractors in
accordance with, and subject to the provisions of paragraph 2.55 and 2.56 of the
guidelines and para 5 of Appendix 2 thereof. During the appraisal mission, local
authorities were informed that procurement under local procedures does not
qualify for preference.
Part C. Prequalification would be required for the civil work contracta related
to borehole drilling and pump installation.
Part D.     Other Procurement Procedures
3.          Civil works and goods contracts financed by IDA, estimated to cost
between US$20,000 and US$200,000 equivalent per contract, which are amall in
aize, involve widely dispersed sites, apply labor-intensive techniques and
correspond to goode available locally at prices below the international market,
would be procured under contracta awarded on the basis of competitive bidding
advertised locally (LCB), in accordance with procedures satisfactory to IDA,
provided that: (a) bidders are allowed a sufficient period for submission of bids
(45 days minimum); (b) evaluation criteria are clearly specified--prices,
capacity and capability to perform, adequacy of equipment and personnel, and
financial capacity; (c) no preference margin is granted to domestic contractors,
suppliera and manufacturers; and (d) eligible foreign firme are not precluded
from participation and are not required to be incorporated in Mali in order to
participate in the bidding.  Aggregate amount of such procurement would not
exceed the equivalent of US$2.6 million equivalent.
4.          Itms under category "operating costsa which cannot be grouped into
bid packages of at least US$20,OOO equivalent, provided the aggregate amount of
such proecurement would not exceed US1.2 million equivalent, would be procured
through international andfor local shopping on the basis of quotations obtained
from at least three foreign and/or local reliable suppliera in accordance with
procedures acceptable to IDA.



- 178 -
ANNEX 4-2
Page 2 of 3
5.          Grant supPorting the self -help construction proRram financed by other
donors, would be provided in accordance with their own procedures.   They
represent subsidies to match the financial efforts of communities to construct,
rehabilitate and equip Community Health Centers. Given the number and small size
of contracts (about US$40,000 each), local shopping would normally be an
appropriate method to procure small and simple works, provided the contract
awards are based on comparing price quotations obtained from at least three
contractors andior suppliers.
Part E.     Specialist Services and Traininf
6.          Specialist services and training, including audit services, totalling
US$6.8 million equivalent, would be contracted in accordance with IDA's
guidelines. Whlle IDA recommende inviting proposals f rom a short list of f irms,
it does not object to the Borrower requesting a proposal from a single firm or
an individual specialist of its choice, provided that conditions for such a
decision meet the guideline requirements and that IDA approves the firm invited
and, subsequently, the contract. Whero a number of consultants are to be invited
to submit proposals, the selection procedure and evaluation criteria to be
adopted should be determined prior to inviting proposals and be included in the
letter of invitation. The short list should normally comprise a wide geographic
spread of firms, with a lower limit of three and a upper limit of six.
Part F.     Review of Procurement Decision by IDA
7.          Prior review.  About 15 bid packageslcontracts are expected to make
up the estimated US$16.5 million in the works and equipment categories. With a
threshold of USS200.000 for prior IDA review of procurement documentation, about
20% of the total number of packages for works and gooda would cover about 842 of
f      the value contracted for works and goods.  On that basis, between five and six
contracts smounting to about US$13.9 million over the six-year procurement period
would be subject to prior review, which represents a reasonable workload for IDA
staff. For all contracta or bid packages of at least US$200,000 equivalent, each
of the following stages in the procurement process would be subject to IDA's
prior review and comment before they are implemented and finalizeds
-     Scope and cost of contract (list of equipment or svamary of
civil works);
-     Proposal for bidding or selection process;
-     Prequalification  documents  (for  works  and  goods)  or
preparation of short list (for consulting services);
-     Advertisement (procurement notice);
-     Bidding documents and addenda;
-     Bid evaluation and proposal for avard of contract;
-     Contract documents and subsequent major modifications.
8.          Post-review.  For all contracts or bid packages estimated at between
US$20.000 and US$200.000 equivalent, two copies of the final contracta, together
with the bidding documents, the bid evaluation report and the avard decision,
would be furnished to IDA for selective post-review before the first application
for withdrawal of credit funds against these contracte. These documents should



- 179 -
ANNEX 4.2
Page 3 of 3
be reviewed, as a minimum, on a sample basis to determine that contracte have
been awarded folloving procedures prescribed in the Credit Agreement.
9.          Selective post-review.  The provisions of the preceding subparas of
Part F (7) and (8) would not apply to contracta valued at under US$20.000
equivalent on sacount of which IDA has authorized vithdrawals from the Credit
Account on the basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts should be
retained at the Project Coordination Unit for selective post-review by IDA
supervision missions and for regular annual audits.
Part G.      Modification or waiver of the terma and conditions of contracts.
10.         The figure of 102 would be specified for the purpose of para 4 of
Appendix 1 to the guidelines. Before agreeing to any material modification or
vaiver of the terms and conditions of contrset which would increase the cost of
the contract by more than 102 of the original price, the Borrower ohould inform
IDA of the proposed modification and reasons therefore.
Table 1
Procuroent Profile of Value/Numbr of Contracte
Eet1 te d      Estloetd Number Cumuletit  Velue S ToUl
Contract SI:a   of Contract    (qNumbr)obove   Velue (Numbor)
(.n<J*contIna.l               Theéhold       above Thre.hold
C»)             (2)        (S)      (4)    (6)   (0)
Above   7,508       -                  () 
1,808 to 7,6        1           7.1   C-)      8      (0)
200 to 1.ffl      1           7.8   (2)      en   (lm) 
-0 to  201      l18          8.7  (12)   10m(m hhS
a to   10       °           8.7  (12)      lmS   ian)>
aooos
Above   7,60M       -           -                        3-)  -  C-
l,'me to 7,tO       -           -      C-)     -        (
200 to 1.0        4          0.74    (4)     8Ô    e2
le to  am0      14          7.78   (1c)    Ton- (1)
e to   1         08         7.70   (10)    10m    (10e)
_e 1     s thr ho  e: Us 08,M  r.ultin la U6s of total velue of eontracte for
oefs amd gèode, subJect to prier ti,le.



Prof elo t i_ô6 
llPsf;ai pbre                               Ibs0.le.
0.1 arIr./ 0» r    Cail I   P /    * ^  [I PROJECT PROFILE/PROFIL POUR LE PROJET
2 <t             a _*. i llb ) llic*)  <«1>   <!>                * S MCTOR PROFILE  /PROFIL POUR LE SECTEUR
..0       o..    *.u   *.                       I
99*     a           o0.s    O  .î    M.a O.« .
8~~~~a            1.       A 0.8 8.10.4 8.
4          £4         4.0   n.4   S.                      0, 
109     S           1.4        8.4   f».J  "10.4        ,/
191                 1.0        r.o    1.4   ".a
J          10         4.    8.41  81.4t _a
4          1.        18.4   17.4  01.4                                                                          /
8O  I           .0       I1-.   14ii«   00.4"-/ 
299  £   . u    .e        4*.0    77.4t 81.
*           .0       4.0    4.1m                                                           Mm.4e a                                 l 
190     I           0.8       00.4   9911  4t.«                      _                          
2~ ~~~~~~~~~~SUIi CREDI *t.CIVS IS AT« TH MFIAS  FY91
s.0    4.A  C'.R *1N4                        0                                                  U     A          F    DE L
g          0.0      14.8   84i.11  4.B 94 0fI                                         fA.
*          1.0         1.8   81.4i  99.4t                               us       usa       us.        -          si                u
9Wt     I           0.8       ».4    4.4   81.4                      
O          0.1       4.0   14.4  90«.5
S                                  10.4 »s"""«"___
ASStUIINC CR8DIT EFFECTIVENESS IS AT THEERND 0F IDA'S FY91.
AVEC Z 'HYPOTUESE QUE LE CREDIT ENTRERA ENI VIGUEUR A LA FIN DE L1ANNEE
BUDCGETAIRE 91D3E L'IDA.  
o 



- 181 -
ANNEX 4-4
Page l of 2
REPUBLIC OF MALI
SECOND HEALTH. POPULATION AND RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
SUPERVISION PLAN
1.        Bank supervision inDut.  Regular supervision needs are described
in Table 1 below. In addition, specific tasks such as review of progress
reports, procurement and disbursement actions, audit reviews, etc., are
estimated to require a total of fou:-staff weeks of various specialists
inputs per annum.
2.        Borrower's Contr'.bution to Supervision
(a) Progress reports will be submitted twice a year, in April and
October: they vill comprise a sumary of implementation under
each project component, as vell as financial tables. The
Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) vill collect inputs from each
responsible Directorate and prepare the reports.
(b)  Project coordination vili be the responsibility of the PCU,
under the overall guidance of the Project Monitoring Committee
(PHC) throughout the life of the project, the PMC, consisting of
responsible MOPHSA Directors, vould meet monthly to reviev the
status of implementation. The PMC vill also meet four times a
year vith the Donors Monitoring Committee (DMC) to ensure that
issues are addressed as soon as they emerge and in a coordinated
fashion. The DMC vill comprise the local representatives of the
project's cofinanciers.
<c)  Once a year, in November, a joint Governnentldonors reviev
covering all aspects of the project vill be held on the basis of
a report prepared two months earlier by MOPHSA vith assistance
from UNICEF and from a Malian institution (e.g., INRSP)
independent from the Ministry. This report vill be based on
inputs prepared annually through a bottom-up process by the
Districts and the Regions which vould both supervise the lover
levels. Discussions of these inputs vill, in and by itself,
constitute an important form of supervision. The joint annual
revievw vill b. chaired by the Minister of Health. High level
representatives of the Ministries of Plan and Finance vill
participate in the discussion of the budgetary targets and the
investment program.  A mid-term project review vill also be held
arounD mid-1994.
(d) The PCU vill be responsible for coordinating arrangements for
IDA supervision missions and for providing information to them.
Two Malian officials from the concerned Directorates vill
accompany the missions on field trips.
(e) Mission briefing and vrap-up meetings vill be chaired by the
Minister and vill include all MOPESA Directors concerned, as
vell as the key Ministry of Finance and Ministry of Plan staff
mentioned in (c) above.



- 182 -
ANNEX 4-4
Page 2 of 2
3.          Cofinanciers' Contribution to SuDervision.   Cofinanciers vill
share supervision tasks with the Bank as followss (a) the November joint
annual review vill be a large multi-donor supervision mission, where the
skills brought by the different donors are complementary; (b) separate,
focused supervision missions vill be conducted throughout the year, vith
full consultations on TORs, aide-memoires, and results. Availability of
EDs at the grass-root level and detailed field operations of ComHCs and
POPFUND sub-projects vill be supervised routinely by UNICEF and on a random
basis by the Bank.
TABLE 1              BANK SUPERVISION INPUT INTO KEY ACTIVITIES
APPOX.         AcT.vI              SKILLS RJI1BqNS    STAFFW5W
DATM
02/91  REVIN OF UPqTIVO   N                               2
DIUMSOR   CdItiOm, AS
wVEL AS REVION OF ne  - PK.W4A
eSTABLSU4 OF mOJmT
PaITORNO »N N1è40«3    -  .N4NACo8
TOllLS ODOP PNB'RATONN
OISTRiCT SU.TIO
04/91  P_jET UIc4 601d          OJWT tOFFC
DCUDI ALL A NIRS m e   - PUBLC IEALTH
ACTOSTO FIALZ         - PICV£
INL0E«WT,7ICN PLAN No    -CIVXI WON(/D13<TATIMe
RIVIi SART-.P  ANAGS«  PRO0149«W
@4tuITrICTOOL ANe     -P FF <FOVIE sB I&MA
REN PR IOUIT OOCUMTS - lE <PRVIDES uSrc
07/91  ULw0VISION MISBION    - PUL.C  LTH                 8
- IALrN Tweer~*
11/91  FIT JOINTD« REYIW  8 PJ= 01C0
PU.C IEALTN
OS/92  SPIBlN IUSSH          - PUWJC DEALTN               4
-FF
07/92  UWSSUEVISN MISSION    - PUC I<LtN                  S
- HUL1t4 C
- MIau OtA6I
MLtH
11/92  9Sic  joIua RIVIzN     PROJEST OFFCEN 
- PISLI IE.4L1
- D3:UCM
-CIVIL VC(/WLU3TATIUM
-FF
Ca8   SVISIN MISSIN           PUBLIC MEAL-fl4             4
-FF
-lE
07t/9  TtVRISN missI          PUTC WEAL114                S
- PWCV;L
- S~UNS
situ   NM4   JOINT S 0f 4 me  -fGWr rOeP                  S
N1V-Ti Rtlnw          -RIO
-CIVIL WOMI/DfL9M4ATION
ONLfl WMOMST/Pu,.oe
-FF
-lES
le"    nO SUPERVISUIN MISSlN ADO
NIE JINDT RIVI. AS lN
1993
199   TW SUPVISION MlSSION AN
CM JOINT REV AS Dl 13
1998   NO SWNVISIN IMISSOn NOI
CME JOINT Mm As lm4 193m
1219n 4l-4ION ISSIN
xn4-4



_   _   _   _                                                                                     _     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBRD 21988
M  A  tI 
SECOND HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT                                                                                           N
D/ELIXI/EME PROJET DE SANVTE ET DE POPtUL4TON                                                                                   t
DISTRICTS EATM CNTERS DItO -DHC) 
A  CP.7.RS DE SANT7 Df CEr  eCCZE
REGIONA.L HEALTH TEAM (ROTU
EQIPwE RE/ioAIE DME .5147F
PROJECT AREA COVERED SY FIRST PROJECT                            \
r*lZONE DU' PREMIR PRC .11
r,-,.. PROJECT AR^ COVERED SY TMt SECONb PROJECT
ZONE Di/ DEIXIEME pRO,ET
NATIONAL CAPITAL
DISTRICT CAPITAL                   PAVED ROADS
°     CHEF aLv DE £mFczf                  RC7UTE REVEt\ES
REGION CAPITAL                     RAILROAS\
*/g    CHlF  U    /E 0 DE RE OJON         CHEMIN DE FER
DISTRICT BOUNDARMES                INTERNATIONAL BOUDARIEs
ifLIMTE De CERCLE          -       FRONTJERES INTERAffl770.LE
_    REGtON BOUNDARIES
LIMITE DE REG\ON
*~~                                                «WN -. /*b
GUI  N  EA  SAM4KO                                                      I                       -AO
M  A U  R I   T A N  1                                                                         T A ; ,      A I °
!AYM        AAA               Q o          riC .zwsr  \ --
__     50  10  15  200trt 250COl -                    af                                                       *                                 BUI(N *~  (-      ' 
) / ,@.#`.? \, N I G ~~~~~~~~~~~~E  R
Q> ~ ~  ~     ~    ~    ~    ~     CT DS,OR *.  I   gÉ                 OTi      *,WKbOOl2  /t                    GUNA r                              NIG[Rt 0A
G  U  1 NW4 E A                     KWl' aI ;                                                                                                . '                   , 
.CAP77ITZ At: 0Z YAMA              _                    
4 OF 6 cy:MmivçMAURIf  s >;      
0   S0  100 lS0 200  250          %      *     9 * t         ,oos    
I1       1                           .                   ,* x's        n    _t_ cD 1  h**Y    er u    li                          @       *BURIK5tNA *,          s'
KtLOMETER,5                 r w>e                                            *     #     f     bébtm                  ,^                  , ,v
COTE D'IVOIRE 7  -_, =:                                               a trlNA',                      j_*        ICA



