Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2217 MLI
        (Second Health, Population and Rural Water Project)
                              between
                         REPUBLIC OF MALI
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                         Dated May 3, 1991
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2217 MLI
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated May 3, 1991, between REPUBLIC OF MALI (the
"Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the
"Association").
      WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter, dated
December 15, 1990, from the Borrower describing a program of
actions, objectives and policies designed to achieve the development
of the Borrower's health and population sectors (hereinafter called
the "Program");
      (B)   the Borrower, having committed itself to the execution
of the Program and, as part of the Program, having undertaken to
carry out the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has
requested the Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
      (C)   the Borrower intends to contract from the European
Development Fund ("EDF") a grant (the "EDF Grant") in an amount
Page  2
equivalent to thirteen million six hundred thousand Dollars
($13,600,000) to assist in financing part of the Project on the
terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the "EDF Grant
Agreement") to be entered into between the Borrower and EDF;
      (D)   the Borrower intends to contract from the United States
Agency for International Development ("USAID") a grant (the "USAID
Grant") in an amount of ten million Dollars ($10,000,000) to assist
in financing part of the Project on the terms and conditions set
forth in an agreement (the "USAID Grant Agreement") to be entered
into between the Borrower and USAID;
      (E)   the Borrower intends to contract from the French
Republic through the Fonds de l'Aide 
 la Cooperation ("FAC") a
grant (the "FAC Grant") in an amount equivalent to three million
Dollars ($3,000,000) to assist in financing part of the Project on
the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the "FAC Grant
Agreement") to be entered into between the Borrower and FAC;
      (F)   the Borrower intends to contract from Kreditanstalt fcr
Wiederafbau ("KFW") a grant (the "KFW Grant") in an amount
equivalent to five million Deutsche Marks (DM 5,000,000) to assist
in financing part of the Project on the terms and conditions set
forth in an agreement (the "KFW Grant Agreement") to be entered into
between the Borrower and KFW; and
      (G)   the Borrower intends to seek additional funds from other
financiers to assist in financing part of the Project;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the "General
Conditions") constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "AMPPF" means Association Malienne pour la Protection et
la Promotion de la Famille, the Borrower's Association for the
Protection and Promotion of the Family;
      (b)   "CFAF" and "CFA Franc" mean the currency of the
Borrower;
      (c)   "COMHC" means any of the Community Health Centers to be
established under the Program;
      (d)   "CONACOP" means Comite National de Coordination des
Programmes de Population, the National Committee for the
Coordination of Population Programs to be established under the
Program;
      (e)   "District" means any of the Borrower's territorial
subdivisions defined as Cercle in the Borrower's Ordonnance No. 77-
44/CMLN of July 12, 1977;
      (f)   "District Health Team" means any of the teams to be
established under the Program to improve the management of health
services;
      (g)   "DNHE" means Direction Nationale de l'Hydraulique et de
l'Energie, the National Directorate for Water and Power of MIHE (as
hereinafter defined);
Page  3
      (h)   "DRSAS" means Direction Regionale de la Sante et des
Affaires Sociales, any of the Borrower's Regional Directorates of
Health and Social Affairs established pursuant to the Borrower's
Decree No. 90-264/P-RM of June 5, 1990;
      (i)   "Essential Drugs" mean the drugs in international common
denomination which are in the list, as updated from time to time,
annexed to the Borrower's Decree No. 90-318/P-RM of July 6, 1990;
      (j)   "MIHE" means Ministcre de l'Industrie, de l'Hydraulique
et de l'Energie, the Borrower's Ministry of Industry, Water and
Power;
      (k)   "MSPAS" means Ministcre de la Sante Publique et des
Affaires Sociales, the Borrower's Ministry of Public Health and
Social Affairs;
      (l)   "NGO" means any Non-Governmental Organization legally
established in the Borrower's territory;
      (m)   "PCU" means the Project Coordination Unit referred to in
Section 3.06 of this Agreement;
      (n)   "PPM" means Pharmacie Populaire du Mali, a public
enterprise of the Borrower established pursuant to the Borrower's
Ordonnance No. 18/PG.RM of October 5, 1960;
      (o)   "PPM Contract-Plan" means the contract to be entered
between the Borrower and PPM pursuant to Section 6.01 (d) of this
Agreement;
      (p)   "Project Monitoring Committee" means the Committee
referred to in Section 3.01 of this Agreement;
      (q)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
      (r)   "SSA" means Service Socio-Sanitaire d'Arrondissement,
any of the Borrower's Health Sub-Districts established pursuant to
the Borrower's Decree No. 90-264/P-RM of June 5, 1990;
      (s)   "SSC" means Service de Securite Sanitaire et Sociale de
Cercle, any of the Borrower's Health Districts established pursuant
to the Borrower's Decree No. 90-264/P-RM of June 5, 1990; and
      (t)   "UNIPAC" means the United Nations Children's Fund's
Procurement and Assembly Centre.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to nineteen million two hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 19,200,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower shall open and maintain in CFAF a special
deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection
against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments
out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Page  4
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1997 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the "Accrual Date") to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the Accrual Date and at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next date in that year, specified in
Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each April 15 and October 15
commencing April 15, 2001 and ending October 15, 2030. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on October 15,
2010 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
      (b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 Dollars for five consecutive years and; (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due con-
sideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Page  5
      Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through
MSPAS and MIHE and under the coordination of a Project Monitoring
Committee, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, health and
population practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
Project.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall, from
time to time, and in any case not later than November 30 of each
year the Project is being executed, starting with November 30, 1991,
exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the Project
and the Program.
      (b)   Prior to each such exchange of views as specified in
paragraph (a) of this Section and not later than September 30 of
each year, the Borrower shall furnish the following documentation
satisfactory to the Association:
            (i)   a report on the progress achieved in carrying out
                  the Program, including a project performance
                  review for the preceding year of Project
                  implementation in such detail as the Association
                  shall reasonably request;
           (ii)   a project implementation plan for the following
                  year of Project implementation in such detail as
                  the Association shall reasonably request;
          (iii)   MSPAS's current budget as executed and MSPAS's
                  draft budget for the next following fiscal year;
                  and
           (iv)   MSPAS revised three-year rolling Program of
                  Investments and Recurrent Expenditures.
      (c)   During the exchange of views to take place as specified
in paragraph (a) of this Section, not later than November 30, 1993,
the Borrower and the Association shall also conduct a mid-term
review of the progress made in carrying out the Project and the
potential for applying its results to other areas of the Borrower's
territory.
      Section 3.04. In order to carry out Part A of the Project the
Borrower shall:
      (a)   not later than September 30, 1991, submit to the
Association studies, inclusive of action plans, under terms of
reference satisfactory to the Association, on the following: (i) the
efficiency of hospitals, including financial, organizational and
staffing aspects; and (ii) the labor market for graduates in health
related fields.
      (b)   not later than March 31, 1992, carry out the action
plans specified in paragraph (a) of this Section and agreed upon
with the Association;
Page  6
      (c)   duly perform and cause PPM to duly perform the
respective obligations under the PPM Contract-Plan;
      (d)   except as the Association shall otherwise agree, not
take or concur in any action which would have the effect of
amending, abrogating or waiving the PPM Contract-Plan or any
provision thereof;
      (e)   limit the provision of financial assistance under such
Part of the Project to SSC, SSA and COMHC meeting the criteria set
forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
      (f)   except as the Association shall otherwise agree, ensure
that, starting not later than September 30, 1991 and for the term of
the Project, the price of Essential Drugs sold by PPM be established
based on:
            (i)   the Bamako price of such drugs as published in
                  the most recent issue of the UNIPAC Standard
                  Stock Items Catalogue; and
           (ii)   a margin to be agreed with the Association on the
                  basis of the provisions included in the PPM
                  Contract-Plan; and
      (g)   ensure that, not later than November 1, 1991, a
sufficient number of Essential Drugs be made available at the level
of PPM's warehouses in the entirety of the Borrower's territory.
      Section 3.05. In order to carry out Part C of the Project, the
Borrower shall ensure that: (a) agreements satisfactory to the
Association be entered into between DNHE and the water users
associations established in the areas in which the Project is
carried out, to define the rights and obligations related to the
construction and maintenance of water points; and (b) a cash
contribution of at least CFAF 135,000 be paid by the relevant water
users' association no later than one month prior to the beginning of
the works.
      Section 3.06. The Borrower shall organize and maintain for the
duration of the Project a Project Coordination Unit and employ
personnel, whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions
of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association, to fill the
following full-time positions: (a) a Director; (b) a Deputy
Director; (c) a Procurement Specialist; (d) an Accountant; (e) five
Regional Accountants; and (f) support staff.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
                  the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
                  in accordance with appropriate auditing
                  principles consistently applied, by independent
                  auditors acceptable to the Association;
           (ii)   furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
                  but in any case not later than six months after
                  the end of each such year, a certified copy of
                  the report of such audit by said auditors, of
                  such scope and in such detail as the Association
                  shall have reasonably requested; and
Page  7
          (iii)   furnish to the Association such other information
                  concerning said records, accounts and the audit
                  thereof as the Association shall from time to
                  time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                  with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                  accounts reflecting such expenditures;
           (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the
                  Association has received the audit for the fiscal
                  year in which the last withdrawal from the Credit
                  Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                  invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                  evidencing such expenditures;
          (iii)   enable the Association's representatives to
                  examine such records; and
           (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                  included in the annual audit referred to in
                  paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
                  of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                  auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                  together with the procedures and internal
                  controls involved in their preparation, can be
                  relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   A situation has arisen which shall make it improbable
that the Program, or significant part thereof, will be carried out.
      (b)   (i)   Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
                  (A)   The right of the Borrower to withdraw the
                        proceeds of any grant or loan made to the
                        Borrower for the financing of the Project
                        shall have been suspended, cancelled or
                        terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to
                        the terms of the agreement providing
                        therefor, or
                  (B)   any such loan shall have become due and
                        payable prior to the agreed maturity
                        thereof.
           (ii)   Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
                  apply if the Borrower establishes to the
                  satisfaction of the Association that:
                  (A)   such suspension, cancellation, termination
                        or prematuring is not caused by the failure
                        of the Borrower to perform any of its
                        obligations under such agreement; and
                  (B)   adequate funds for the Project are
                        available to the Borrower from other
                        sources on terms and conditions consistent
                        with the obligations of the Borrower under
                        this Agreement.
Page  8
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely that
any event specified in paragraph (b) (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of this
Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (b) (ii)
of that Section.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
      (a)   the EDF Grant Agreement has been executed on behalf of
the Borrower and EDF;
      (b)   the USAID Grant Agreement has been executed on behalf of
the Borrower and USAID;
      (c)   the PPM Contract-Plan has been executed on behalf of the
Borrower and PPM, and is satisfactory to the Association; and
      (d)   the Borrower has enacted legislation satisfactory to the
Association to liberalize the drug import market.
      Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time
responsible for Finance is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministcre des Finances et du Commerce
            Bamako
            Republic of Mali
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  MINIFINANCES              972559 MINIFINANCE
                  Bamako
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INDEVAS                    197688 (TRT)
                  Washington, D.C.           248423 (RCA)
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                              82987 (FTCC)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
Page  9
                  REPUBLIC OF MALI
                  By /s/ Mohamed A. Toure
                                         Authorized Representative
                  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                  By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)to be Financed
(1) Civil Works                5,640,000        100%
(2) Equipment,                 3,100,000        100%
    vehicles and
    materials
(3) Medical                    1,800,000        100%
    supplies
(4) Consultants'               3,550,000        100%
    services
(5) Training                     800,000        100%
(6) Operating                  1,875,000        80%
    costs
(7) Goods and ser-               435,000        100%
    vices financed
    under Part B.2 (e)
    of the Project
(8) Unallocated                2,000,000
                              __________
         TOTAL                19,200,000
                              ==========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "operating costs"
means incremental costs for salaries, office supplies, utilities and
vehicle operating costs.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made: (a) for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and (b) out of the
proceeds of the Credit allocated to Category (7) of paragraph 1
above until the Borrower: (i) has made management and staffing
arrangements satisfactory to the Association for the establishment
and operation of a fund for the financing of the implementation of
population policies; and (ii) has established a technical secre-
tariat for CONACOP in a manner satisfactory to the Association.
Page  10
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are: (i) to improve the health
and well being of the Borrower's population and its access to health
services; (ii) to implement the Borrower's population policy; and
(iii) to improve access to safe water for the Borrower's rural
communities.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Health
      Carrying out a decentralized health development program in
favor of selected SSC and SSA in the district of Bamako and the
regions of Mopti, Kayes, Koulikoro and Segou, including:
1.    Improving the coverage and quality of primary health services
by: (a) rehabilitation of the related facilities in about 56
existing COMHC; (b) construction of the facilities for about 64 new
COMHC; (c) acquisition of information, education and communications
material; (d) acquisition of drugs and equipment; and (e) training
staff.
2.    Improving the coverage and quality of secondary health
services by: (a) rehabilitation of the related facilities in about
17 existing SSC; (b) construction of the related facilities for
about four new SSC; (c) upgrading of the related facilities in about
25 existing SSA; (d) acquisition of equipment, furniture, drugs and
supplies; (e) technical assistance; and (f) training personnel.
3.    Strengthening health management at the District level by: (a)
upgrading the offices of the District Health Teams in about 17
existing SSC; (b) construction of about four new District Health
Teams offices; (c) acquisition of drugs, vehicles, motorcycles,
workshops and the financing of operating costs; and (d) training
staff and community development agents.
4.    Strengthening health management at the regional level by:  (a)
rehabilitation of the facilities of about three existing DRSAS; (b)
construction of the facilities of about two new DRSAS; (c)
acquisition of equipment, vehicles, supplies and the financing of
operating costs; (d) technical assistance; and (e) training for
staff.
5.    Improving the efficiency of MSPAS's national directorates in
charge of health resource management by: (a) acquisition of equip-
ment, vehicles and supplies; (b) technical assistance; and (c)
training their staff.
Part B:     Population
1.    Institutional support for the implementation of a national
population and family planning policy by: (a) acquisition of
vehicles, furniture, equipment and supplies; (b) technical
assistance; and (c) training of program managers.
2.    Increasing the availability, quality and use of family
planning services by: (a) training of nurses and midwives; (b)
provision of contraceptives; (c) strengthening of five existing
AMPPF regional offices and establishment of two new ones; (d)
introduction and development of family life and health education in
the school system; and (e) establishment of a fund for the financing
of implementation of population policies.
Part C:     Rural Water Supply
1.    Support of the institutional capacity of the Borrower in: (a)
Page  11
promoting the financial and technical involvement of villagers in
investment and maintenance activities; (b) strengthening the
identification, preparation, implementation and supervision
capabilities of DNHE; and (c) establishing a village based water
point maintenance network.
2.    Increasing rural water supply in the regions of Mopti, Kayes,
Koulikoro and Segou by: (a) construction of about 385 new water
points in the Districts of Kenieba and Bafoulabe; and (b)
rehabilitation of about 500 existing water points.
3.   Reducing iodine deficiency by the supply, installation and
evaluation of iodine modules in about 1500 new and existing water
points.
                           *   *   *   *
      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1997.
                            SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the "Guidelines").
2.    Bidders for the works included Part C.2 (a) of the Project
shall be prequalified as described in paragraph 2.10 of the
Guidelines.
3.    To the extent practicable, contracts shall be grouped in bid
packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more each.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in the Borrower's
territory may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Preference for Domestic Contractors
      In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, the Borrower may grant a margin of
preference to domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Civil works and items which cannot be grouped, or groups of
items estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $200,000 per
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of
$1,600,000 for the civil works and of $1,000,000 for the other
items, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.    Operating costs estimated to cost less than the equivalent of
$20,000 per item, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the
equivalent of $1,200,000 may be procured under contracts awarded on
the basis of comparison of price quotations solicited from a list of
at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Page  12
Part E:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    With respect to the prequalification of bidders as provided in
Part A.2 hereof, the procedures set forth in paragraph 1 of Appendix
1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.    (a)   With respect to each contract for civil works and goods
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures
set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines
shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of
the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure
that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall
be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Association has
authorized withdrawals on the basis of statements of expenditure.
3.    The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
      In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying out of the
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, the Borrower
shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Association. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association on the
basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by
the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                          Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) to
(6) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to CFAF 100,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit
Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph
3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
Page  13
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                  requests for deposits into the Special Account at
                  such intervals as the Association shall specify.
           (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Association the
                  documents and other evidence required pursuant to
                  paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                  payments in respect of which replenishment is
                  requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                  Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                  withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
                  the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                  shall have requested and as shall have been shown
                  by said documents and other evidence to have been
                  paid out of the Special Account for eligible
                  expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
Page  14
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                       Eligibility Criteria
      The SSC, SSA and COMHC to be financed under Parts A and B of
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement shall meet the
following eligibility criteria:
Part A:     SSC
1.    A five-year District health development plan following a
framework satisfactory to the Association has been approved by the
Project Monitoring Committee.
2.    At least one COMHC within the District is fully operational.
3.    The District local development committee has earmarked not
less than 7% of the local development tax to the SSC development
plan.
4.    The SSC is staffed by duly qualified personnel in sufficient
number.
Part B:     SSA and COMHC
1.    The SSC in which the SSA or COMHC is included is eligible for
financing under the Credit in accordance with Part A of this
Schedule.
2.    A health committee representing no less than 5,000 persons in
a radius of 15 km has been established.
3.    A contribution of at least 50% of the cost of the civil works
to be financed has been secured from users, local governments and
NGOs (including the labor of users and NGOs).
4.    Evidence has been produced of previous local community
initiatives in the SSA or COMHC territory.
