Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C                    MK >6-*
Report No. 6300tPAK
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PAKISTAN
PUNJAB AND SIND AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT - PHASE II
(EXTENSION IV)
January 27, 1987
Regional Projects Department
South Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CUyRENCY EQUIVALENTS AT APPRAISAL
US$ 1 - Pakistan Rupees (PRs) 16
PRs 1 = US$ 0.0625
GOVERMENT OF PAIKISTAN FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilometer (km)             X     0.62 miles
1 meter (m)                        1.09 yarls
1 hectare (ha)  3                  10,000 mi  - 2.471 acres
1 cubic meter (m3)                 35.315 cu ft
1 kilogram (kg)                    2.2 pounds
1 metric ton (t)             =     1,000 kg - 2,205 pounds
ABBREVIATIONS
AARI           Ayub Agricultural Research Institute
ADA            Assistant Director of Agriculture (in Sind)
ADB        u   Asian Development Bank
ADBP           Agricultural Development Bank of Pakistan
ADP        a   Annual Development Programme, Pakistan's Development Budget
AO             Agricultural Officer
ARP            Adaptive Research Farm
ARO        -   Assistant Research Officer
ATI            Agricultural Training Institute
CGWP       -   Central Development Working Party
CINMYT     -   International Maize and Wheat Improvement Research Center
C&W        a   Communication and Works Department
DDA        -   Deputy Director Agriculture
DG         -   Director General
DOA            Department of Agriculture
EADA           Extra Assistant Director of Agriculture (in Punjab)
ECNEC          Executive Committee of the National Economic Council
FA         -   Field Assistant
FAO        -   Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
GOP        =   Government of Pakistan
GOPUNJAB       Government of Punjab
GOSIND         Government of Sind
IDA        -   International Development Association
IFAD           International Fund for Agricultural Development
NFC            National Fertilizer Corporation
PARC       -   Pakistan Agricultural Research Council
PCCC           Pakistan Central Cotton Committee
PC-1       -   Planning Commission Form No.1 (Project Document)
PEC            Planning and Evaluation Cell
PERI           Punjab Economic Research Institute
PMC            Planning and Monitoring Cell
RMP        -   Bank's Resident Mission in Pakistan
RO             Research Officer
PDWP       =   Provincial Development Working Party
SMS            Subject Matter Specialist
SSMS       -   Senior Subject Mattez Specialist
T&V            Training and Visit (Syster. of Agricultural Ext3nsion)
UNDP           United Nations Development Program
USAID      =   United States Agency for International Development



FOR OMFCIAL USE ONLY
PARI8TA-N
PUNJAB AND BIND AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT - PHASE I1
(EXTENSION IV)
Table of Contents
Page No.
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY ......................*..   ...........        i
I. INTRODUCTION ............................................                  1
II. BACKGROUND  ..........1
A.  Agriculture in Pakistan .....          ................... .........  1
B.  Government Policy and Bank Group Assistance Strategy *.....           3
C.  Bank Involvement in Agricultural Extension ........*........          4
III. THE PROJECT AREA ....................       .........................    9
A.  Agriculture in Punjab and Sind ............................    10
General Description ........... . ..........................    10
Climate and Soils ...... ..       .......... ..........  ........    10
Land Use and Tenure ...... ..... ...      .... ..............    11
Yields and Production ........... . . .     .......................    12
B.  Agricultural Administration and Institutions .....    .........    13
Agricultural Administration            ...............................    13
Agricultural Extension Service            ............................    14
Agricultural Training ....   ................    .................    15
Agricultural Research ....... ..       ............. .......o ...    16
Input Distribution             ....................    17
Credit ...............                l19
Marketing and Storage ............................. . .. .....    20
This Report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to Punjab and
Sind in February 1986. Mission members were: Harald Stier (Economist,
Mission Leader) and Rashed-Ul-Qayyum (Agriculturist) IDA, Charles Bevan
(Agronomist) FAO/CP and Hendrik Schotanus, Training and Media Consultant.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their oMcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoriation.



-li-
IV.  TU  PROJECT  .........          . .........                         21
A.  Project Objectives, Rationale and Main Components                21
Objectives .......... . ......  .................e@o.#ce*    21
Rationale                                                        22
Main Components  .......     ..ce..                              23
B.  Detailed Description.                                            23
Agricultural Extension         ................................ . .   23
Adaptive Researcb .........o......  5 ......................    26
Training                                                         28
Information and Media ..............................o...    31
Monitoring and Evaluation o.........0.0........0........e..    31
Project Staffing  o.............o0......0Be0...........  .0    32
Supporting Investments  .....34
C.  Project Costs                                                    35
De Financing                                                         36
K. Procurement *ceeece.eecee.ee.ceeee......                    ............ 37
F. Disbursements o ......                                            38
0. Accounts and Audits ....................00...000. e0...0   40
V.  ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT .. .0.0. .0.0.0......         ..**    41
A.  Project Implementation and Operation ooo....o..oo...o...    41
B.  Project Coordination ccc...... ..o ....... oo........ .. ...    42
C.  Linkages Between Extension and Research .........   ***....      43
D.  Consultancy Services o                                           44
B.  Status of Project Preparation                                    45
VI.  BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ...c.cccc.ceccce.c...e.e.c..cce          45
A.  Economic Benefits ....       .46
B.  Project Risks ooooe0c0cee.Bc0.ec.eB00ec.cc...ceee.....Bcc        46
C.  bployment and Poverty Impact  ....................... c....    48
VII.  AGREoEMET  AND RECOMKENDATIONS ..o ......  ...o.......o..o...   48



-iii-
1. Project Cost Data:
Table 1: Total Project: Summary Accounts by Year
(icel. contingencies)
Table 2: Total Project: Project Component by Year (base costs)
Table 3: Punjab: Project Cost Summary
Table 4: Punjab: Sumary Accounts by Year (incl. contingencies)
Table 5: Punjab: Project Components by Year (base costs)
Table 6: Sind: Project Cost Summary
Table 7: Sind: Sumary Accounts by Year (incl. contingencies)
Table 8: Sind: Project Components by Year (base costs)
2. Project Data:
Table 1: Punjab Project Staff Requirements
Table 2: Sind Project Staff Requirements
3. Disbursement Schedule
4.  Agreements Obtained on LCB Procedures
5. Cost Comparison for Agricultural Extension Projects
6. Economic Analysis:
Table 1: Price Build-Up for Economic Analysis
Table 2: Assumptions for Economic Sensitivity Analysis
7. List of Documents in Project File
cRA:
1. Agricultural Extension Organization in Punjab
2. Agricultural Extension Organization in Sind
MAP
IBRD No. 19721R



PAKISTAN
PUJIAB AND SIND AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH - PHASE II PROJECT
Credit and Progect Summary
Borrower:                Islamic Republic of Pakistan
Beneficiarv:             Provinces of Punjab and Sind
kmount:                  SDR 35.5 million (US$42.1 million)
Terms:                   Standard
Relending Terms:         From the Government of Pakistan to the Governments of
Punjab and Sind through budgetary allocations in
accordance with existing procedures.
Proiect Descriptio.W:    The objective of the proposed project is to achieve
sustained increases in agricultural production in the
Punjab and Sind provinces. For this purpose the
project would complete the strengthening and reor-
ganization of the extension services in Punjab and
Sind by extending the training and visit (T&V) system
to the remaining 31 districts not covered by the
two Phase-I projects (Credits 813 and 922) while at
the same time consolidating the gains made during
these projects and strengthening the adaptive
research system in the two provinces. To achieve
these objectives, the project would include:
(a) agricultural extension services (1,600 additional
staff and necessary physical components, including
offices, staff housing, vehicles and equipment);
(b) adaptive research (3 adaptive research farms);
(c) staff training; (d) information and media;
(e) project administration, monitoring and
evaluation. Technical assistance would be provided in
support of these activities. The main risks would be
administrative constraints and resistance to change and
that adaptive research fails to produce appropriate farm
technologies. The project includes measures to
minimize these risks.



-li-
Estinated Cost: /a
10calL       Forgisff         Total
---- ---(Us$ million)--
Agricultural Extension                       26.4            4.5            30.9
Adaptive Research                             2.9            2.0             4.9
Staff Training                                4.5            1.9             6.4
Information & Media                           0.5            0.2             0.7
Project Administration                        2.2                           _1,1
Base Cost                                  36.5            9.2            45.7
Physical Contingencies                        2.8            0.6             3.4
Price Contingencies                          -L2            .a
Total Project Costs                       A46,            1.A
inancinif   Plan:                                         !.caQiSA        TIoaL
---(U(s$ .illion)-
Pederal and Provincial
Governments                               16.3              -            16.3
IDA                                         i3.                             &IU 
Total                                                                     ALA
Estimated Disbursements:
*minme ml gm  mm 9 3
=--1  -----    $ million-- -
Annual                            2.0    4.0      8.0   10.0    9.0    6.0    3.1
Cumulative                        2.0    6.0    14.0   24.0   33.0   39.0   42.1
late of Return : Not Applicable
Antraisal Report:  No. 6300-PAi, dated January 27, 1987, 1987
: No. IBRD 197211
It Taxes and duties amount to U8$3.3 M.



PAKISTAN
PUNJAB AND SIND AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT - PHASE II
(EXTENSION IV)
I . INTRODUCTION
1.01      The proposed project would be the fourth IDA-assisted project
designed to reorganize and strengthen agricultural extension services in
Pakistan. 1/ Previous extension projects in Punjab and Sind covered five
districts in each of the two provinces. In 1984, preparation of a
second-phase project to cover the remaining eight districts in Sind province
was initiated. A FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program mission in November 1984
assisted the Government in completing preparation of the project.
1.02      In Punjab, project preparation followed a mid-term evaluation of the
first-phase project for which the credit, after one year's extension, closed
on June 30, 1985. Taking account of the evaluation's results, a second-phase
project covering 12 new districts was prepared by the provincial government
and submitted to the Bank in December 1985. During appraisal, the Punjab
component was modified and the project area redefined to include the entire
province. A subcompoi:ant to strengthen the Agricultural Training Institutes
in Punjab was also added.
II. BACKGROUND
A. Agriculture in Pakistan
2.01      Introduction.  Pakistan's population of about 98 million (M)
(mid-1986) is increasing at an annual rate of about 3%. Per capita income
average is estimated at about US$390, with some 30% of the population having
an annual income below the absolute poverty level, estimated gt US$140 per
capita. The geographical area of Pakistan is some 800,000 kmz. About 26% of
the land area is cultivated and the overall cropping intensity is about 98%,
varying from 46% in rainfed areas to 117% in irrigated areas. Irrigated
agriculture (15 M ha) accounts for about 75% of the total cultivated acreage.
The quality of soil is generally good, although low in organic matter and
nitrogen content. Major crops, in terms of acreage, include wheat (37%),
1/ The three previous projects are described in the following appraisal
reports:
"Punjab Extension and Agricultural Development Project"
Report No. 1909a-PAK, May 12, 1978.
"Sind Agricultural Extension and Adaptive Research Project"
Report No. 2387a-PAK, May 7, 1979.
"Baluchistan Agricultural Extension and Adaptive Research Project"
Report No. 5201-PAK, October 12, 1984.



-2-
cotton (11), rice (1O), pulses (7X), other cereals such as barley, millet,
and sorghum (61), sugarcane (4X), and maize (4X).
2.02      Role of Sector.  Agriculture continues to be the single largest
sector in Pakistan's economy, although its relative share is declining, from
321 of gross domestic product in FY76 to 24Z in Srd5. Agriculture is the
livelihood of about half of the country's total labor force and provides,
directly or indirectly, over two-thirds of export earnings.
2.03      Recent Performance.  The agricultural sector's growth rate decreased
from an annual average of 61 in the 1960s to 21 in the 1970s. A significant
upturn to 4.41 occurred between FY79 and FY83, when record output levels for
most major crops were attained and Pakistan achieved self-sufficiency in wheat
and sugar. However, in FY84, agricultural value added declined by 6.1% partly
due to untimely raina affecting the wheat crop and serious infestation of the
cotton crop. In FY85, rapid growth was renewed at 12Z but production of major
crops, except cotton, did not recover fully from the previous year's decline.
Cotton output in FY85 was almost 25X larger than the FY83 record. About 90%
of the gain was due to yield increases. Favorable weather and concerted
Government efforts to strengthen support services were contributing factors.
Government measures included effective crop surveillance, improved and timely
extension services, and increased provision of inputs, especially quality
seeds, sprayers, and pesticides. Recent increases in cotton yields clearly
demonstrate the potential for improving agricultural productivity in Pakistan
through strengthened agricultural extension and other support programs.
Preliminary data shows a growth rate of 6.51 in FY86.
2.04      Constraints.  An improved policy environment has made a major con-
tribution to increased agricultural growth since the late 1970s. However,
despite past gains, Pakistan's potential for sustained high growth remains
underutilized. Average crop yields are low by international standards and
also in comparison with those of progressive farmers within the country.
Increases in output are largely due to expanded acreage. Because of the
dwindling supply of unused cultivable land and the high cost of extending the
irrigation system, improvements in productivity will be essential to sustain-
ing future agricultural growth. This underscores the need to strengthen and
improve the quality of extension and other support services and institutions
and also for more effective water management and drainage.
2.05      Adoption of existing and known technologies to improve yields is
constrained by various factors, including weak extension services and frag-
mented institutional responsibilities for the planning and implementation of
agricultural policies and supporting programs, deficient provision of key
inputs by the public sector coupled with slow progress in allowing the private
sector to broaden its role in input distribution, and inadequate infrastruc-
tural facilities for electrification, drainage, and surface canal and public
groundwater irrigation.



-3-
B. Government Policy and Bank Group Assistance Strategy
2.06      In recent years, performance of the sector and prospects of overcom-
ing the above production constraints have been closely linked with Govern-
ment's agricultural sector policies. The Government's "National Agricultural
Policy*" announced in 1980, revised many inappropriate policies of the 1970s
and emphasized:
(a)   a progressive adjustment of prices of key agricultural inputs and
outputs to reflect real resource costs, thereby phasing out input
subsidies and releasing public resources for high priority uses
while providing adequate incentives to farmers;
(b)   a gradual transfer to the private sector of activities, such as the
distribution of key agricultural inputs and the exploitation of
groundwater; and
(c)   a reorientation of public investment expenditures, emphasizing quick
returns and complementarity to the existing irrigation system rather
than major new infrastructure or expansion of irrigated areas.
Priority investments would include extension services, research, seed cer-
tification, water management, canal rehabilitation, water course improvement,
and essential drainage.
2.07      The Government has taken action to implement the new policies.
Agricultural procurement prices for most crops have been raised to border
parity. Pesticide distribution has been privatized and subsidies eliminated.
The private sector's share of fertilizer distribution has been substantially
increased and fertilizer subsidies reduced. Public recurrent expenditure on
the operation and maintenance of irrigation facilities has increased rapidly,
and investment expenditures have shifted towards rehabilitation and improved
efficiencies and management of existing assets. However, in FY84 and FY85,
the momentum of policy change slackened, particularly in phasing out water and
fertilizer subsidies and in broadening the privatization effort.
2.08      The Bank and Government are in general agreement that sustaining
agricultural growth and realizing the potential of the sector will require
resumption of actions to implement sectoral policy reforms initiated in the
early 1980s. The Bank Group assistance program aims at assisting Government
in accelerating the pace of reform in its Sixth Five-Year Plan (FY83-88)
through additional projects in drainage, water management, extension, research
and credit that are designed to encourage agricultural production. Bank Group
financing for agriculture already provided in the Sixth Plan include the
following operations: Sixth Agricultural Development Bank (Ln. 2693/Cr.
1699-PAK), SCARP Transition Pilot (Cr. 1693-PAZ), On-Farm Water Management
(Cr. 1603-PAK), Baluchistan Agricultural Extension and Adaptive Research
(Cr. 1533-PAK) and Left Bank Outfall Drain, Stage I (Cr. 1532-PAK), Command



-4-
Water Management (Cr. 1487-PAK), and Integrated Hill Farming (Cr. 1461-PAK).
The only available agricultural Project Performance Audit Reports by the
Bank's Operations Evaluation Department (OED) do not relate directly to the
proposed project. They are: Flood Drainage Restoration (Cr. 683-PAK), Flood
Rehabilitation Program (Cr. 466-PAK), and Third Credit for Agricultural
Development Bank (Cr. 157-PAR). However, under the modified system for
project performance auditing OED has issued a Project Completion Report for
the Third Education Project (Cr. 678-PAK, Report No. 6252 dated June 16,
1986). The agricultural component of this project included support for the
strengthening of the Sind Agricultural University and the Agricultural Train-
ing Institutes (ATI) i* all the provinces of Pakistan. For the University,
the report concludes that the base from which a significant improvement in the
quality of graduates can be achieved has now been established and the benefits
should become progressively more evident. For the ATI component, the report
concludes that improvements in buildings, equipment and curriculum have not
yet resulted in major improvements in the quality of FAs. The major con-
straint quoted is the difficulty of attracting good staff who prefer to remain
in the field.
C. Bank Involvement in Agricultural Extension
2.09      Agricultural extension services are entirely within the provincial
domain and vary considerably among provinces in size, scope, and methodologies
used. Except for a few districts where previous projects were aimed at
improving the extension organization, extension services are largely ineffec-
tive, mainly due to outdated extension methods. In the absence of a clearly
defined extension work program, these efforts were often further diluted by
heavy burdens of unrelated non-extension duties. Staff numbers and facilities
for staff accommodation and mobility are generally inadequate, thereby making
effective contact with farmers difficult. Extension workers rarely receive
in-service training to keep them abreast of technological advances. The
extension-research dialogue is often limited to a discussion of annual and
seasonal work programs, and two-way exchange of technical information lacks
institutional and policy support.
2.10      In consort with Government efforts to improve the situation, the
Bank has supported first-phase projects in three provinces to reorganize and
strengthen extension services and the adaptive research system, in line with
the "Training and Visit" (T&V) methodology: "Punjab Extension and Agricul-
tural Development Project" (Cr. 813-PAK for US$12.5 M, dated June 8, 1978),
the "Sind Agricultural Extension and Adaptive Research Project" (Cr. 922-PAK
for US$9 M, dated June 12, 1979) and the "Baluchistan Agricultural Extension
and Adaptive Research Project" (Cr. 1533-PAK for US$8.3 M, dated January 30,
1985). Credits 813 and 922 both closed on June 30, 1985, the latter after one
year's extension. The undisbursed balances of US$3.7 M and US$3.2 M,



-5-
respectively were cancelled. Savings were mainly due to exchange rate adjust-
ments. No OED reports have yet been prepared. The Punjab and Sind projects
had marny problems in common, and in the Baluchistan project, efforts were made
to reduce or eliminate such problems. All three projects started slowly due
to late approval by the Executive Committee of the National Economic Council
(ECNEC). Only projects approved by ECNEC are able to draw on the federally
funded Annual Development Programme (ADP) budget (from which all costs of
development projects are financed) and recruit additional staff on a regular
basis.
2.11      The Punjab Extension and Agricultural Development Project
(Cr. 813-PAK) covered five of the province's (then) 21 districts. Though the
Credit became effective in late 1978, only upon ECNEC approval in February
1981 was the project provided the necessary Government endorsement and commit-
ment to permit appropriate implementation although "anticipatory approval" was
granted earlier permitting limited progress prior to full ECNEC sanction.
Delays were largely due to discussions within Government about national exten-
sion policies and concern about likely increases in recurrent costs, par-
ticularly for staff under the the project, and more importantly the implica-
tions of applying the T&V system nationally in future projects.
2.12      Combined with a lack of understanding and of effort in implementing
the T&V system, progress in project execution was cautious and slow and not up
to expectations. Staff vacancies remained numerous during the project period.
Failure to provide adequate salaries and allowances to field staff made
recruitment difficult, especially of Field Assistants (FA). Other posts, for
example Senior Training Officer and Senior Subject Matter Specialists (SSMS),
did not exist in the cadre of Pakistan's agricultural service and therefore
had to be created, thus delaying recruitment. The project also faced many
other problems, including: (a) failure to contract most technical assistance
services provided under the project and those which were obtained came late
during implementation; (b) rapid price escalations for civil works, prompting
a reduction in the size of staff houses; in addition, loss of a 20% housing
allowance and often isolated locations made FAs reluctant to use them until
instructed to do so; (c) shortage of ADP funding which affected the implemen-
tation rate and staff mobility due to insufficient travel allowances and
failure to provide transport to all field staff. Other problems which
directly affected the transfer of technology to the farmer were: (d) lack of
regularity of visits and poor supervision; (e) overly theoretical training of
field staff and lack of practical skill development; (f) delay in relieving
extension staff from non-extension duties; and (g) weak research-extension
linkages and lack of understanding of the adaptive research concept, often
leading to a repetition of research carried out by the research institutes,
rather than providing solutions to farmers' problems and location-specific
technology.
2.13      By the credit's extended closing date 94% of agreed staffing posi-
tions were filled, but 26 (84%) of the 31 Subject Matter Specialist (SMS)



-6-
positions were still vacant. 1/ They were only filled as a pro-condition of
the appraisal of the propoaed second-phase project. Transport vehicle pur-
chases were much less than estimated at appraisal: 381 of bicycles, 581 of
mopeds/motorcycles, and 671 of other vehicles, resulting in certain lack of
mobility among field staff. The reasons are complex, but mainly involve a
downward revision of estimated needs in the project document approved by
ECNEC. The building component was only about 801 implemented due to lack of
funds.
2.14      In early 1984, the Punjab Economic Research Institute (PERI) under-
took a mid-term evaluation of the project whien about 141 of major staff posi-
tions still remained unfilled including most Subject Matter Specialists (sMS),
who are responsible for the fortnightly training of FAs, and those in post had
been so for a relatively short period. Not surprisingly, the evaluation
report concluded that the T&V system had not yet brought about the desired
changes in production practices, levels of input usage, and yields.
2.15      The Sind Agricultural Extension and Adaptive Research Project
(Cr. 922-PA7). This first-phase project covered five of Sind's 13 districts
and faced implementation problems similar to the Punjab project. Approved by
the Bank's Board in 1979, ECKEC approval was delayed for reasons discussed
above (para 2.11) and, as for Punjab, granted only as late as February 1981.
However, no "anticipatory approval" was received, which prevented any early
project expenditures and saaff recruitment. Thus, conditions of effectiveness
were not met and dated covenants in the Credit Agreement were not complied
with. The Credit finally became effective in June 1981. Thereafter,
implementation of the project proceeded well and the Credit closed on schedule
(June 30, 1985) with all procurement and civil works fully implemented. Of
major staff, key positions of Director, Adaptive Research, and 10 of 14 Senior
Subject Matter Specialists (SSMS) were vacant at the time of credit closing,
but were filled soon afterwards. The problems experienced in Sind were very
similar to those in Punjab (para 2.12). The main difference was that Sind
availed of the technical assistance provided under the project (financed by
UNDP) and with good results.  Sind also managed finally to recruit Subject
Matter Specialists, but did have problems in recruiting Senior Subject Matter
Specialists.
2.16      Baluchistan Agricultural Extension and Adaptive Research Project
(Cr. 1533-P-A7.  Although approved by the Board in December 1984, again, ECNEC
approval was delayed and the Credit became effective only in September 1985.
Despite the project's slow start, technical assistance services for it were
contracted as a condition of effectiveness and consultants are now in the
field to assist management, which is expected to improve project implementa-
tion.
1/ However, fortnightly training was provided to FAs by other field staff.



-7-
2.17      Achievements.  It is too early to discuss any results from the
Baluchistan project. In both Punjab and Sind, the provincial governments are
now, after some initial hesitation, fully committed to the T&V system and
project staff now better understand it (para 6.03). Despite initial problems,
the headquarters, adaptive research farm and districts-level positions are now
essentially fully staffed and equipped and a sound base for an improved exten-
sion service has been established. Fortnightly training is firmly instituted
and visits to farmers are now being conducted on a regular basis. Extension
messages with latest research recommendations are now being delivered to
farmers and will become increasingly location specific and relevant to
farmers' needs, as the adaptive research is fine-tuned. In Punjab, the adap-
tive research work is already of good quality with location specific trials
being carried out on adaptive research farms and farmers' fields. In Sind,
the adaptive research organization is now ready to proceed with its own
full-fledged work program. As a result of consultants' recommendations,
adaptive research is underway and has been carried out on micronutrient
deficiencies in the soils, which has led to the recommendation for the
application of zinc to rice in the fortnightly messages and already brought
about increases in paddy yields. While considerable scope remains for improv-
ing its design and effectiveness, experience with these projects shows that
there is a lead role for a technical extension service, that the system
adopted for technology transfer is fundamentally sound and can be adapted to
Pakistan conditions and that the impact on yields and production, can be
substantial. In a "Special Review of the Agricultural Extension and Adaptive
Research Program (T&V) in the Punjab and Sind" (March 1985) by the Federal
Government's Planning and Development Division, some attempt was made to
measure the impact on crop yields. It concluded for Sind "that in the cotton
zone, the yields of wheat and cotton have showed a positive response, while in
the rice zone, the same was true for sugar and rice crops." In Punjab, the
conclusion on yield impact was that "the T&V system was apparently positive in
some major crops in some districts, but in others yield response was, however,
erratic. With the creation of all these infrastructures, benefits in the form
of better crop yield are expected to start accruing in the coming years." For
this to happen, however, it is essential that the technical and supervisory
support of the Bank be sustained.
2.18      Support to Reseach.  IDA is assisting the improvement of agricul-
tural research throughout Pakistan. The Agricultural Research Project
(Cr. 1158-PAK for US$24.0 H dated August 19, 1981) provides federal and
provincial institutes with the physical and human resources needed to plan,
coordinate, support, and conduct research programs of high priority and also
provides training and technical assistance. A particular feature of the
project is "contract research", the funding (US$4.5 M) of agricultural
research subprojects conducted by research agencies not directly controlled by
the Pakistan Agricultural Research Council (PARC). The credit became effec-
tive in June 1982. Since then progress has been satisfactory, although with
some slight delays in the building program and in the procurement of equipment



-8-
and vehicles. After initial difficulties, the overseas training program is
progressing very well. The contract research program has been slow to start,
but with improved knowledge at provincial institutes of procedural require-
ments, the number of requests has recently increased and the program is
expected to gain momentum. A technical assistance agreement (US$2.0 M) has
been concluded with FAO and most scientists provided under the program are in
place. USAID also provides considerable assistance to PARC (para 3.21).
2.19      Lessons Learned.  The lessons learned by the Bank in eight years of
experience with extension projects in three provinces of Pakistan have been
very similar across provinces. The key lessons have been taken into account
in the design of the proposed project, including:
(a)   firm commitment of Government and project management is crucial for
the establishment of effective extension services (para 6.03);
(b)   considerable savings can be made by not providing Field Assistants
with housing since this has not provided the expected incentive
(para 4.33);
(c)   provision must be made for replacement of transport for field staff,
particularly for motorcycles and bicycles for Agricultural Officers
and Field Assistants. Also, if the transport is purchased by the
user rather than provided free by Government, its useful life is
considerably extended (para 4.35);
(d)   special incentives are often necessary to retain good researchers,
trainers or advisers who do not obtain certain perquisites available
to staff in operational positions and who often perceive their
assignment to these positions as "punishment" (para 4.19);
(e)   strict monitoring and supervision of staff performance is necessary
since employment in government services including extension develop-
ment provides little incentive to do a good job (paras 4.13, 4.29
and 4.30);
(f)   staff variable allowances are exposed to budgetary cuts; the remains
are distributed somewhat arbitrarily and the lower levels tend to be
subject to the largest cuts, leaving little for field staff. Fixed
monthly allowances cannot be reduced as easily and are more likely
to reach the beneficiary (para 4.35);
(g)   specialist assistance in designing relevant formats and samples for
monitoring and evaluation units is important in order to produce
data permitting management to take direct action and resolve
problems (para 4.29);



-9-
(h)   special efforts are required to formulate adaptive research programs
which deal with location-specific problems faced by farmers with
different resource endowments, and technical assistance is required,
particularly to substitute for the lack of a good local economist
interested in working in the agricultural extension department (para
4.17); and
(i)   close Bank guidance and support have been important factors in past
achievements. Although some of the problems described in the
preceeding paragraphs (2.09 ff) have been resolved, it will take
some time to overcome all of them. Simultaneously, there are under-
currents of pressure to revert to a more traditional extension
service with a campaign approach and multi-purpose field workers.
The reorganized extension services are institutionally immature and
it is essential that the Bank's technical and supervisory support be
sustained. It must be recognized that the reorganization of the
extension service and rendering it effective and sustainable
requires a longer time-frame than the usual five-year project
period. An extension project must be seen as a time-slice of a
longer-term extension development program. The Bank should, there-
fore, continue its support through second and third-phase projects
in order securely to institutionalize efforts to produce and trans-
fer location-specific technologies which correspond to farmers'
needs.
III. THE PROJECT AREA
3.01      The project area would be the entire Punjab and Sind provinces with
a combined total population of 76 M or 80% of the country's total.  In the two
provinces, 3.3 M farming families cultivate 17.1 M ha of land, representing
84Z of Pakistan's total. Punjab is divided into 29 districts and Sind into 13
districts including the largely urban districts of Lahore and Karachi, respec-
tively. The project area would include the five districts each covered in the
Phase-I projects in Punjab and Sind wherein only minor, complementary invest-
ments would be made for the purpose of consolidating gains. The project area,
in Punjab, also includes the district of Gujranwala, which is covered by an
on-going Asian Development Bank (ADB)/International Fund for Agricultural
Development (IFAD)-assisted agricultural development project (paras 3.13 and
3.16). This district would be served by common management and supporting
activities (training, adaptive research, information) to be strengthened under
the project. The objective is to build up an integrated and effective exten-
sion service for the province from which no district would be excluded.
However, no investments would be made in Gujranwala district under the
project.



-10-
A. Agriculture in Punjab and Sind
nalDescrition
3.02      The two principal cropping seasons are: summer or 'kharif'
(mid-April to mid-October) and wipter or 'rabi' (mid-October to mid-April).
In Sind, the seasons set in about two weeks earlier than in Punjab. The main
kharif crops in both provinces are cotton, rice, sugarcane, millets and maize
(mostly in Punjab). In rabi, the main crops are wheat, other winter cereals
such as barley and oatst oilseeds (more in Sind), grams (mostly in Punjab) and
winter pulses.
Climate and Soils
3.03      Punjab.  The climate ranges from arid to semi-arid.  Average annual
rainfall varies from 100 mm in the southern areas to over 1,500 mm in the
northern sub-mountaneous tracts and highlands. Although annual variations
are wide, most rainfall (about 60%) occurs during the monsoon period,
July-August or early September, with a less marked second spell (about 301)
between January and April. In most of the province, the climate is suitable
for year-round cropping, provided that water supply is not a limiting factor.
Soils vary widely from silt and sandy loam types in the southern and central
flood plains to heavier clay types in the highlands. Lighter soils have
extremely low organic matter content and are mostly calcareous, with high salt
content and pH generally above 7.0.   A very small area in the north has
relatively acidic soils with higher organic matter content. The availability
of irrigation water in plain lands is frequently constrained, particularly for
farmers at the tail end of canals. The province has about 0.2 M tubewells
which either supplement canal irrigation in some areas or substitute for it in
others.
3.04      Sind.  The climate of Sind is even more arid than that of Punjab.
Annual rainfall varies from about 60 mm in the north to slightly above 160 m
in the south, mostly occurring between June and September (over 80Z). There-
fore, all crops must grow with irrigation water. The climate is suitable for
year-round agriculture. Temperature variations are not as extreme in the
southern parts as in Punjab, thereby offering better conditions for
sub-tropical crops. Most of the arable land lies in the Indus basin where
topography is flat, soils are alluvial (often poorly drained and subject to
waterlogging and salinity) and generally have high pH, ranging from 8.0 to
8.5. Soils vary considerably, but are predominantly silt and sandy loam types
with very low organic matter and nitrogen content. Irrigation water is often
inadequate; only about 50X of the cultivable canal command area is classified
as actually canal irrigated. Farmers at the tail end of canals suffer water
shortages. Ground water is generally not suitable for irrigation because of
high salt content. The province has about 19,000 tubewells.



-11-
Land Use and Tenure
3.05      Punjab.  While the province's land area of 17 M ha represents 30% of
Pakistan's total, its cultivated area of 11.6 M ha is 57% of the country's
total. Cropping intensity is 116%. Of the total cultivated area, 94X is
irrigated, (67% by canals and 27% by tubewells and other minor irrigation
'ources).
3.06      Punjab's population of 54 1 is predominantly rural (72%).  The labor
force is estimated at 28% of the population, of which more than half is
directly dependent on agriculture. There are about 2.5 M farms in the
province, of which 70% have less than 5 ha land (average is 2.2 ha). These
small farms have access to only 34% of the province's total cultivated area.
The land ownership pattern according to farm size is shown in Table 3.1. Of
the farms, 54% are operated exclusively by their owners, 25% by
owner-cum-tenants, and 21% exclusively by tenants.
3.07      Sind.  Total area reported on in Sind province is 12.5 M ha, repre-
senting 22% of the country's total. The province has a cultivated area of
5.5 M ha (27% of the country's total) and a cropping intensity of 74%. About
57% of the cultivated area is irrigated, mainly by canals (84%) and a few
tubewells, wells, and other minor sources. The Indus canal system commands a
total of 5.1 M ha cultivable area. There is a high incidence of salinity, of
which about 40% is classified as severely.
Table 3.1: LAND OWNERSHIP ACCORDING TO FARM SIZE
Punjab                      Sind
Z of Total    X of Culti-    % of Total  X of Culti-
Farm Size        Farms        vated Area        Farms     vated Area
(ha)
0 - 2.0             31             6             26             7
2.0 - 5.0           39            28             51            39
5.0 - 10.0          19            27             17            25
10.0 - 20.0          7            19              5            14
20.0 and above       3            18              2            14
3.08      Of Sind's total population of 22 M, about 57% is rural.  The labor
force represents 28% of the total population and the majority derives a
livelihood from agriculture. The province has about 0.8 M farms, of which 771
are 5 ha or smaller (average is 2.6 ha) and which account for 46% of the
cultivated area. About half (49X) of the farms in Sind are operated by
tenants only, 411 sre owner-operated, and the remaining 10 are classified as
owner-cum-tenant operated.



-12-
Yields and Production
3.09      Punjab.  Agricultural crops, including fruits and vegetables, con-
tribute about 68X to the total value of the agriculture sector's production,
while livestock contribute 30X and fisheries and forests about 2%. Production
and yields for principal agricultural crops are shown in Table 3.2. Average
yields in the province are lower than those in countries growing similar
crops. For example, during 1983/84 average wheat yields in India were 27%
higher, in USA 801 higher, and in Mexico 170% higher. Rice yields in the
Philippines were 28% higher, in Burma 60% higher, and in Japan about 200%
higher than those obtained in Punjab. Similar yield gaps are evident for
cotton, sugarcane, maize, and other crops. Fertilizer use, although steadily
increasing, averages about 58 kg of nutrients per ha of cropped area, which is
far below the optimal levels of 100-150 kg/ha.
Table 3.2: PUNJAB: AREA, PRODUCTION, AND YIELDS OF MAJOR CROPS (1983/84)
Z of Total
Crop                    Area    Cropped Area    Production  Yield
(000 ha)                    (000 t)  (t/ha)
Wheat                    5,248        39              7,623      1.5
Rice                     1,096         8              1,409      1.3
Cotton                   1,563        12              1,694/a   0.2 /b
Sugarcane                  614         5             22,836    37.0
Maize                      336         2                450      1.3
Sorghum, Millets and
Barley                  576         4                328     0.6
Pulses                     928         7                486      0.5
Edible Oilseeds            231         2                784/c   0.9 /d
Fruits and Vegetables      375         3              3,697      9.9
/a Thousand bales of lint.
/b Of lint.
Th Includes cotton seed.
Td Excludes cotton seed.
3.10      Sind.  The relative contribution of agricultural crops, livestock,
fisheries and forests to overall agricultural production is similar to that of
Punjab. Agricultural productivity, though, is higher in Sind. Average crop
yields range from 12% more yield for sugarcane to as much as 70% higher yield
for cotton. One notable exception is fruit and vegetable yields, which are
about 40% lower in Sind. Area, production and average yields of major crops
in Sind are shown in Table 3.3. Due to Sind's more favorable climatic condi-
tions (more sunshine, lesser temperature fluctuations, and milder winter) and



-13-
higher fertilizer consumption (83 kg nutrients application per ha in 1983/84),
better crop yields may be expected. Nevertheless, yield gaps are still evi-
dent when compared with other countries, for example, Nexico has about 100%
higher wheat yields, Japan 85% higher paddy yields, and Cuba and India have
30-35% higher sugarcane yields. However, quite a few progressive farmers in
thie pruvinre do obtain yields in this range, indicating the potential for
i    -..I3 n- overall agricultural productivity.
tabl-e 3.3: SIND: AREA, PRODUCTION, AND YIELD OF MAJOR CROPS (1983/84)
% of Total
r,))                 Area    Cropped Area    Production  Yield
(000 ha)                     (000 t)   (t7ha)
Wteat                    1,011        25              1,946       1.9
Rice                       722        18              1,479       2.0
Cotton                     656        16              1,210/a    0.3 /b
Sugarcane                  177         4              7,357      41.0
Maize                        19        -                  10      0.5
Sorghum, Millets and
Barley                  379         9                165       0.4
Pulses                     239         6                 148      0.6
Edible Oilseeds            112         3                489/c    0.6 /d
Fruits and Vegetables       98         2                675         -
/a Thousand bales of lint.
7b Of lint.
7i Includes cotton seed.
7/ Excludes cotton seed.
B. Agricultural Administration and Institutions
Agricultural Administration
3.11      Both Punjab and Sind provinces have similar administration systems.
Punjab is divided into 29 districts which, for revenue purposes each have 2-5
"'tehoils" divided into "patwars."  Sind has 13 districts divided into 5-6
"talukas" which in turn are subdividpd into "tappas."  According to a dif-
ferent political classification the basic unit in a tehsil or taluka is a
"union council" headed by an elected chairman. A union council is about twice
or thrice the size of a patwar or tappa.
3.12      In Punjab there 4re four departments, each headed by a Secretary,
responsible for the agriculrura1  sector, viz: the Departments of Agriculture
(DOA); Livestock and Dairy Development; Forestry, Wildlife and Fisheries; and
Cooperatives. Several Directors-general (DGs) report directly to the
$ecretary.qf Agriculture,,among whoip the Director General of Extension (Chart
1). The Planning and Evaluation Cell (PEC) carries out planning, coordination



-14-
and monitoring for DOA. In Sind, DOA is headed by the Secretary of Agricul-
ture, Livestock and Fisheries, to whom the DG Extension and also several
Directors report (Chart 2). A Planning and Monitoring Cell (PMC) plans and
coordinates the departmental activities but, in contrast to PEC in Punjab,
dots not monitor extension activities, which is done by a monitoring unit
under the Director General, Extension.
Agricultural Extension Service
3.13      Punjab.  The Director General (Extension) has some 3,900 profes-
sional staff excluding administrative staff). His FY86 total revenue budget
amounted to Rs 150 M (US$9.4 M), including Rs 63 M for plant protection and
Rs 54 M (US$3.4 M) for extension services, of which Rs 16 M (US$1 M) were for
the five Phase-I districts. In addition, Rs 3.7 1 were provided under the
annual development budget (ADP), including Rs 2.7 M for the Asian Development
Bank project in Gujranwala district (paras 3.01 and 3.16).
3.14      In the mid-1970s, GOPunjab introduced some programs designed to make
the extension of new agricultural technologies to the farmers more effective
and thereby increase agricultural yields and production. These schemes
include the USAID-funded Barani Agricultural Development Project, which
covered the rainfed (barani) areas in Rawalpindi division and under which 8-10
thousand one half-acre demonst tion plots were laid out during two cropping
seasons for 5-7 years and input provided free of cost. Another major scheme
was the Cotton Maximization Prt ect which covered 12 districts in the cotton
zone in southern Punjab in ord    o popularize improved agronomic and plant
protection measures for cotton or,  large scale.
3.15      Although these schemes had some success in what they were aiming
to do, they covered only a small portion of farmers and, even then, the advice
was limited to the object and contents of the particular campaign. Also, FAs
spent about two-thirds of their time in the cotton season (kharif) and
one-third in rabi (orchards) on pest control. In addition, they were engaged
in collecting various types of statistical information and therefore, time
available for advice to farmers on other aspects of crop husbandry was limited
and irregular.
3.16      Realizing that a more comprehensive approach was required to achieve
broadly based and sustained increases in agricultural production, Punjab, with
IDA assistance, in PY79 introduced the "training and visit" (T&V) system which
had been tried with success in several other countries, including on the
subcontinent. In the first phase (Cr. 813-PAK, para 2.11) five districts in
different agro-climatic zones were included and it was assumed that, if suc-
cessful, the T&V system would be extended to cover eventually the whole
province. Later, the T&V system was also introduced in a few other districts
as part of more comprehensive agricultural and rural development projects
financed by ADB and IFAD, and ADB still has one project under implementation
in Gujranwala district (paras 3.01 and 3.13).



-15-
3.17      Despite these efforts, which were limited to only a few districts,
the majority of districts which were not included in Phase-I still have exten-
sion services organized along traditional lines, with insufficient numbers of
poorly supervised field staff who spend a large part of their time on
non-extension duties which, in the extreme, serve no apparent purpose. For
example, although pesticides are now handled by the private sector
(para 2.07), FAs still have to maintain stores and records of by-now defective
pesticide stocks.
3.18      Sind.  The DC (Extension) in Sind operates the extension servi%e
with about 1,200 professional staff (excluding administrative staff) and an
operating budget of some Rs 20 M (US$1.3 M).  Until 1978, the extension serv-
ice in Sind was organized along traditional lines and, as in Punjab, FAs spent
a large part of their time on selling sprayers and pesticides and on carrying
out pest control operations for cotton and orchards. FAs also had to collect
certain statistical data and there was little time left over to provide advice
to farmers. In 1978, the Department of Agriculture changed its method of
operation in the whole province to conform to the principles of the T&V system
for which it received technical assistance from the Bank. Under the Phase-I
project (Cr. 922-PAK, para 2.15) additional staff, housing, transport, and
equipment were provided to five project districts, while the non-project
districts continued to operate with existing staff and facilities. The staff-
ing provided under the Phase-I project was similar to that in Punjab, i.e. one
Deputy Director at district level, an Assistant Director at the subdivisional
level (about three per district) who would supervise 7 Agricultural Officers
(AO), each of whom was responsible for 6 FAs. Non-project districts, on the
other hand, although reorganized, lack sufficient staff with transport to pay
reular visits to farmers and also lack in training facilities and office
accommodation to provide farmers with adequate services.
Agricultural Training
3.19      Field Assistants (FAM).  Pre-service training is done in two-year
courses at the Agricultural Training Institutes (ATIs). There are three ATIs
in Punjab at Rahimyar Khan, Sargodha, and Dagwal (see IBRD Map No. 19721R)
which graduate about 300 FAs each year. Sind has one ATI at Sakrand with 80
graduates each year, although this could be increased if necessary. These
ATIs (except Dagwal), were all supported under the Third Education Project
(IDA Cr. 678-PAK) which provided additional classrooms, laboratories, dor-
mitories, transport, and other facilities and equipment. The ATI curriculum
was revised in 1981, and ATI instructors were given training during 1981-83
either abroad, or locally under an ad hoc training program. However, nearly
all those who received teacher training have left for positions with better
incentives in terms of pay and perquisites. As a result, the training of FAs
suffers. Also, with rapid technological development and changing require-
ments, the ATI curriculum needs further up-dating.



-16 -
3.20      Agricultural Officers (AOs)  receive their graduate training at the
agricultural universities of Faisalabad (Punjab) and Tandojam (Sind). Facul-
ties at both include Agriculture, Agricultural Engineering, Veterinary
Science, Animal Husbandry and in addition Faisalabad offers Agricultural
Economics and Rural Sociology. Annual B.Sc. graduates are 250 (Faisalabad)
and 100 (Tandojam) of whom the vast majority stay for M.Sc. and some for Ph.D.
training.
Agricultural Research
3.21      The quality of the best agricultural research in Pakistan is as good
as anywhere. However, the amount of such quality research is limited. Most
agricultural research is applied or adaptive in nature but there is little
emphasis on the more fundamental aspects of the problems studied. The
research institutions have functioned well as channels through which new crop
varieties and technologies have been introduced from abroad. However, much of
the research is emipirical with routine fertilizer trials and breeding and
cross breeding experiments. Resource allocation to major areas of research is
also out of balance with excessive emphasis on plant breeding whereas problem
solving multi-disciplinary fields are neglected. Few research administrators
and even fewer scientists have a good perspective as to the relationship of
their research to national priorities, to other research or to farmers' needs.
It has been observed that they do not think in these terms and, therefore,
find it difficult to understand why farmers do not adopt the new technologies
developed by the scientists. 1/ There is no quick and easy solution to this
problem but it is addressed under the IDA-supported Agricultural Research
Project (Cr. 1158-PAK) and the USAID-financed Management of Agricultural
Research Technology Project (para 2.18) through emphasis on inter-disciplinary
research, farming systems research, farm visits by scientists, better linkages
to extension and involvement of the private sector. To bring some, much
neglected, economic considerations into agricultural research, provincial
Agricultural Economics Research Units are being established under the Agricul-
tural Research Project. However, like for extension, although good progress
is being made, long-term support is required to bring about the institutional
changes required for an effective agricultural research system.
3.22      The agricultural research infrastructure in Punjab and Sind consists
of an agricultural research institute with sub-stations in each province and
commodity-oriented institutes. The agricultural universities (para 3.20) are
involved in limited agricultural research as part of their Ph.D. and M.Sc.
programs and the linkages between the universities and agricultural research
systems are generally poor. Since much of the highly trained manpower in the
1/ Pakistan Agricultural Research Council - Agricultural Research Development
Project (Cr. 1158-PAK) - Mid-Term Review Report, Winrock International,
February 1986.



-*17-
agricultural sciences reside at the universities, their great potential in
agricultural research needs to be developed and linkages with the agricultural
research system improved. In Punjab, the Ayub Agricultural Research Institute
(AARI) has 20 substations. Six of its original sections have attained
institute status. In addition, there is a Rice Research Institute at Kala
Shah Kaku. Within the overall provincial agricultural research system, there
is a wasteful dispersal of effort, not only between the provincial institu-
tions, but also between provincial and federal institutions. There are, for
instance, four agencies involved in cotton research in Punjab and five others
in Pakistan, with little coordination among them. As a corrective measure, a
Provincial Research Coordinating Board has recently been established in Pun-
jab, under the chairmanship of the Vice Chancellor of the University of
Faisalabad. It aims at integrating the Punjab's entire research effort and at
approving all new research projects.
3.23      In Sind, the provincial Agricultural Research Institute at Tandojam
has eight substations and five research farms. In addition, the province
funds a Horticultural Research Station at Mirpurkhas and the Rice Research
Institute at Dokri. All three institutes are agencies of the provincial
Department of Agriculture. The Rice Research Institute was founded in 1938 as
a general crops research station, but gradually concentrated on rice in
response to changes in cropping patterns and an increase in area under rice.
The Institute was considerably improved in 1977 and maintains linkages with
the International Rice Research Institute (IRRI) in the Philippines. A
Research Coordinating Board has also been set up but does not operate effec-
tively.
3.24      The federal Pakistan Central Cotton Committee (PCCC) is an
autonomous body under the administrative control of the federal Ministry of
Food and Agriculture. PCCC is responsible for research and development in the
growing, manufacturing, and marketing of cotton country-wide and operates
cotton research institutes in Punjab and Sind (plus 13 stations, substations
and testing centers) and an industrial research institute in Karachi.
3.25      The Atomic Energy Agricultural Research .enter (Tandojam) and the
Nuclear Institute for Agriculture and Biology (Faisalabad) were established to
study the application of nuclear techniques to agricultural and biological
research. A third such institute is under construction in North West Frontier
Province. These institutes are under the control of the federal Atomic Energy
Commission and are gradually extending their act:vities into areas of research
not requiring the use of radio isotopes and irradiation. The terms of
reference under which these laboratories were established provide tor their
eventual transfer to the national system of agricultural research.
Input Distribution
3.26      Almost the entire distribution of fertilizers, pesticides and her-
bicides in Punjab and Sind is now handled by the private sector which also



-18-
includes an autonomous Government corporation, the National Fertilizer Cor-
poration (NFC). The distribution operations of NFC face tough but healthy
competition from three larger private companies, Fauji Fertilizer,
Dawood-Hercules, and Exxon Chemical Pakistan Limited. A well-serviced, rela-
tively efficient, and highly effective network of private dealers operates
throughout the provinces. Two public sector organizations, Punjab Agricul-
tural Development and Supplies Corporation and Sind Agricultural Supplies
Organization, also handle fertilizer distribution, but are progressively being
edged out by the competition from the private sector. Previously largely
handled by the extension service, pesticide and herbicide marketing is now
also handled by several private sector distributors, many of them representing
multinationals. A few public sector corporations also distribute plant
protection materials. The distribution of seeds for major crops is almost
exclusively handled by Punjab and Sind Seed Corporations, both autonomous
public sector agencies. Lately, the private sector has assumed a greater role
in seed distribution of minor crops. The Provincial Department of Agriculture
does not distribute any farm inputs.
3.27      Fertilizer use has been consistently increasing.  Consumption in
Punjab increased from 588,000 nutrient tons in FY79 to 786,000 nutrient tons
in FY84, growing at an average annual rate of 6.7%. The nitrogen/phusphorous
(N/P) ratio has moved from 4:1 to 3:1 and thus become more balanced. The
usage per hectare on the total cropped area has increased from 46 kg to 58 kg
of nutrients, about 5.8% annual growth. In Sind consumption rose at 9% per
annum, from 229,000 nutrient tons in FY79 to 332,000 nutrient tons in FY84,
largely due to increases in application rates from 58 kg in FY79 to 83 kg of
nutrients per ha in FY84. The availability of fertilizers in Pakistan during
1983-84 was 1.4 M nutrient tons, comprised of 80% indigenous production and
20% imports. All potash, 67% of phosphates, and 7% of nitrogenous nutrients
were imported.
3.28      Pesticides availability in both provinces generally remains satis-
factory. Plant protection measures that involve the use of chemicals are
mostly confined to cotton, paddy, sugarcane, fruits and vegetables, and to
some extent, maize. During PY84, 487,000 ha (20%) of these crops were sprayed
in Punjab and 374,000 ha (40%) in Sind. The higher coverage in Sind is
mainly attributable to the main crops as shown below:
Table 3.1: PERCENT OF CROPPED AREA SPRAYED WITH PESTICIDES (1983/84)
C rLop                    Punjab         Sind
Sugarcane                     3             41
Cotton                       20             32
Paddy                         3              9
Fruits and Vegetables        22             26



-19-
Additionally, about 165,000 ha of cotton and paddy were sprayed aerially
during FY84 in both provinces. Aerial plant protection is exclusively
provided by the federal Government. National pesticide consumption was about
2,100 tons.
3.29      Seed distribution for wheat, rice, cotton, and maize has increased
by 66Z in Puinijab and by 19Z in Sind over the past five years. However, in
FY84, the supply of 64,360 tons of certified seeds in Punjab and 7,120 tons in
Sind barely met 15Z of seed requirements for these crops. Most farmers keep
their own seeds, or buy inferior quality seeds from local dealers because of
poor distribution, untimely availability,and low supplies from the seed dis-
tribution agencies. In both provinces, promotional efforts and aggressive
marketing techniques are not fully employed to generate demand for certified
seeds. A great deal of potential demand, therefore, remains hidden and hence
unsatisfied.
Credit
3.30      Agricultural credit is delivered through the Agricultural Develop-
ment Bank of Pakistan (ADBP), the five nationalized commercial banks, and the
cooperative banking system regulated by the Federal Bank for Cooperatives.
About two-thirds of total agricultural lending is utilized for short-term
loans and the remainder for medium- and long-term loans. ADBP is the main
institution catering to the medium- and long-term credit requirements of
farmers. In FY84, it provided 92% of the agricultural development loans in
Punjab (Rs 1.7 billion) and 58Z in Sind (Rs 0.6 billion). Commercial banks
accounted for the remaining 42Z medium- and long-term loans in Sind (Rs 0.4
billion) of which the major part (66Z) was disbursed to small agroindustrial
projects and non-farming (non-crop) operations, such as poultry, dairy,
fisheries, grain shelling, and milling. Short-term credit is delivered by all
three institutions, with the notable exception of cooperatives which are
almost inactive in Sind.



-20-
Table 3.2: AGRICULTURAL CREDIT (1983-84)
Punjab                   Sind
Institution                  Amount      % Share      Amount   % Share
(Rs MY                   (Rs HM)
(a) Short-term
ADBP                       256           8          312        20
Commercial Banks         1,523          51        1,264        77
Cooperatives             1,190          40           60         3
Sub-total             2,969        100         l,636       100
(b) Medium and Lowg-term
ADBP                     1,713          92          570        58
CommercialBanks            158           8          368        42
Sub-total            1,871         100          878       100
TOTAL                        4,840                    2,514
The overall 'share of ADBP in agricultural credit is 41% in Punjab and 33% in
Sind. The iommercial banks have a 35% share in Punjab and 65% in Sind.
Cooperative~ lag behind with a 24% share in Punjab and 2% in Sind. Over time,
ADBP has es'ablished an effective credit delivery system through a core of
profession4l itobile credit officers supported by Regional Technicat Officers
who coordinate the technical support of subject matter specialists from ADBP's
Agricultural 'Technology Department with credit operations, at regional branch
levels. At present the extension services are weak and therefore it may be
justified that the ADBP has built up an organization providing technical
services to farmers in support of its credit program. In the future as the
extension services of provincial departments of agriculture are strengthened
and become more effective, ADBP's technical role should be re-evaluated in
order to avoid any unnecessary overlap. In spite of all government efforts, a
laTge proportion of farmers (60%), particularly smallholders and the landless,
stll reverts to obtaining credit from non-institutional sources, such as
relatives, friends, commission agents, and money lenders because of procedural
difficulties, unawareness of possibilities, and lack of confidence or
institutional creditworthiness.
Marketing and Storage
3.31      The tehsil and taluka centers, and quite often a few other larger
towns in an area, are usually the major marketing centers for selling farm



-21-
produce and buying farm inputs. Most of the products are handled by commis-
sion agents and the trading takes place essentially under a free market sys-
tem. Wheat, paddy, and cotton are also procured by public sector agencies
such as Pakistan Agricultural Storage and Services Corporation and provincial
food departments. Sugarcane and cotton are purchased outright by millers and
ginners.  In towns with established formal markets (lemandi"), the activities
of market committees are regulated by government. The overall marketing
system has numerous inherent weaknesses, such as weak marketing information
and dissemination, poor farm-to-market roads, inadequate transportation
facilities, and ineffective implementation of market regulations.
3.32      As of June 1984, storage facilities in the public sector consisted
of 1.7 M tons capacity for wheat in Punjab and 0.6 M tons capacity in Sind;
for rice, 0.8 M tons national storage (operated by the Rice Export Corporation
of Pakistan); and for lint, 46,000 tons capacity (maintained by the Cotton
Export Corporation of Pakistan). In addition, all wheat millers, rice
shellers, cotton ginners, oil-expelling and -refining units, and sugar mills
have intermediate storage available throughout the provinces. A large propor-
tion of the agricultural produce sold by farmers to the commission agents,
commodity dealers, and higher-level traders finds its way to private sector
storage, which ranges from concrete warehouses to improvised facilities and
rental spaces. Furthermore, all companies that market inputs have established
appropriate (in size and numbers) warehouses at strategic locations based on
their marketing plans and input storage capacity is considered adequate.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives, Rationale and Main Components
Objectives
4.01      The objectives of the project are to achieve sustained increases
in agricultural production in the project area. For this purpose the project
would complete the strengthening and reorganization of the extension services
of Punjab and Sind provinces by extending the T&V system to all districts not
covered by the Phase-I Projects (paras 2.11-2.15), while at the same time
consolidating the gains made in the districts covered by the first-phase
projects, and strengthening the adaptive research system in the two provinces.



-22-
Rationale
4.02      Experience in Pakistan and elsewhere shows that in the presence of
an entrenched bureaucracy institutional change takes time. It must be recog-
nized that "during the first five years of an extension project little more
can be achieved than the administrative framework for extension."l/ A
five-year project period alone is considered inadequate to ensure the firm
establishment and self-sustaining operation of the T&V and adaptive research
system. Technical and supervisory support for up to 15 years are required in
order to build up a professional extension service and adaptive research
systems that are effectively responsive to farmers' needs and capable of
addressing all aspects of farm improvement. An O0D report 2/ has come to the
same conclusion stating that "the T&V approach has had numerous teething
problems, has been more complex and difficult than first envisaged, and in
several states and countries has been politically contentious. Experience
therefore suggests that at least a ten to fifteen-year time horizon is needed
to get the system firmly in place and develop a more professional and
field-based system." While the administrative framework for reformed exten-
sion has now been established in part of Punjab and Sind and messages are
being delivered to farmers (para 2.17), both provincial governments are in
need of continued Bank support to overcome the problems and improve the
quality of operations and, thus, to prevent a fall-back to traditional
methods. The Bank possesses a uniqu,e world-wide and long experience with the
T&V system and its expertise is required to help provide a more sophisticated
and complete extension system and to ensure effective linkages with agricul-
tural research. The latter is supported under the ongoing national research
project, also assisted by IDA.
4.03      The first-phase projects strengthened the headquarters' functions of
the extension departments in Punjab and Sind, built up the adaptive research
system and provided a limited geographic area with improved extension serv-
ices. The proposed second phase would be a logical sequence in that it aims
at consolidating these gains and building on the established base of know-how
and infrastructure to extend the improved services to the entire two psovin-
Ces* In doing so it would make better use of acquired management experience
and headquarters and adaptive research facilities which are in common to both
1/ Staff Appraisal Report, India National Agricultural Extension
Project II, Report No. 5252-IN, March 7, 1985 (pars 2.01); see also
Staff Appraisal Report, India Third National Agricultural
Extension Project, Report No. 5794a-IN, September 6, 1985 (para 2.02)
2/ "Strengthening Agricultural Research and Extension - The World Bank
Experience" ORD, Report No. 4684, September 1, 1983 (Page xvi, para 50).



-23-
phases. The option of continuing with a small project first to consolidate
the work in Phase-I districts was considered. However, Bank experience in
other countries with similar structures and conditions show that the T&V
system does work and yields high returns (para 6.02), provided the support and
time needed for the necessary attitudinal and institutional changes is given.
There are good indications that Punjab and Sind, although initially delayed,
are now making good progress in these aspects and are no different in this
respect from other Bank experiences. Therefore, there is no particular reason
for not extending the area covered by the T&V system. Not doing so would
unnecessarily deprive farmers of much-needed improved extension services and
delay increases in agricultural productivity and output. Also, by not includ-
ing additional areas in the project, momentum would be lost, Bank and Govern-
ment use of resources would be less efficient and, the Bank's apparent hesita-
tion to support a province-wide approach would create doubts in the minds of
project staff and would be detrimental to achieving project objectives. Fur-
thermore, the proposed project clearly supports government's "National
Agricultural Policy" (para 2.06) and the Sixth Plan's strategy for agricul-
tural development, which are in harmony with Bank concerns and priorities.
The proposed project forms part of the Bank's priority investment program and
would contribute directly to the institutional goals set forth in the Bank's
agricultural sector policy.
Main Components
4.04      To achieve its objectives, the project would include the following
main components:
(a)   agricultural extension;
(b)   adaptive research;
(c)   staff training;
(d)   information and media; and
(e)   project administration, monitoring and evaluation.
They are detailed below.
B. Detailed Description
Agricultural Extension
4.05      Under the project, agricultural extension services in 23 additional
districts of Punjab and eight districts of Sind would be reorganized and
strengthened according to the 'Training and Visit' system, which has been
suitably adapted to meet local conditions. The reformed extension services,
which had already been implemented in five districts of each province under



-24-
the Phase-I projects, would be maintained and strengthened under the proposed
project. Project staffing improvements would be phased over a three-year
period. On a systematic basis, the project would provide farmers with advice
on farming practices best suited to their specific conditions, emphasizing
proven practices which would have a positive impact on their income. Exten-
sion field staff would be organized to visit farmers regularly and to receive
systematic training and technical support from the Department of Agriculture
and research institutions.
4.06      In Punjab, there would be one Field Assistant (FA) per union council
subject to a maximum of 1,100 farm households. In Sind, there would be one FA
per tappa with the number of farm households varying from 400 to 1,100 depend-
ing on local conditions. To reach farmers systematically, each FA would
divide farmers in his jurisdiction into eight groups of about 50 to 140 farm
households, out of which about eight contact farmers would be selected as the
principal channels for conveying extension messages to other farmers. Contact
farmers would be from all levels of village society and would be selected for
their potential influence and willingness to collaborate with the extension
service in following recommendations. Changes in contact farmers would be
made, especially between seasons, in order to reach more farmers over time or
if shown to be ineffective or wishing to discontinue. During their field
visits, FAs would make special efforts to visit all contact farmers' fields;
the latter, in turn, would share the responsibility of organizing and attend-
ing afternoon meetings or any other village group activity. While meeting
contact farmers, FAs would also invite neighboring farmers into their fields
and visit other farmers' fields while moving from one contact farmer to
another. PA work schedules would be advertised to all farmers to allow a
full-day visit to each of the eight groups once every fortnight on the same
day of the week. FA field visits would occur during morning hours and village
meetings or farmer discussions in the afternoon. In each session, FAs would
concentrate on a few strategically selected recommendations relevant to that
particular phase of the crop cycle.  Initial messages would be simple and
focus on a few locally important crops and the most important aspects of crop
production, with emphasis on low-cost improvements practicable by the majority
of farmers.
4.07      This visit schedule would require four days a week.  One of the two
remaining work days each week would be devoted to in-service training which is
crucial to the program. Training would be conducted by an Agricultural
Officer (AO, Training) in Punjab and a Subject Matter Specialist (SMS) in Sind
at the training center located at the ADAs headquarters (para 4.21) and on
alternate fortnights by the supervising AO. Through these training sessions,
FAs would learn what to recommend to farmers for the next period of visits and
also bring farmers problems to the attention of trainers. This close ongoing
relationship between FA and AO would relieve the former of the need for formal
reporting. Both would, however, maintain a diary of activities. On the
remaining work day each week, the FA would make visits to supervise field
demonstrations (para 4.13), arrange special extension activities, make up



-25-
visits missed because of illness or holidays, and complete whatever office
work is necessary. In Sind, the project would provide for three months of
local consultancy by an agriculturist experieueed in the operation of the T&V
system to help draw up work schedules, select contact farmers, and assist
project management in introducing the T&V system.
4.08      The next-in-line supervisor of the PA is the Agricultural Officer
(AO). In Punjab, each AO would supervise eight FAs and in Sind, six PAs. In
addition to supervisory and training duties, AOs would be required to provide
advice to large farmers who, due to land tenure and cropping patterns in the
project area, have relatively more developed farms and tend to be well edu-
cated. The AO would also monitor the timely supply of inputs and credit and
report any shortages to the supply organizations.  Like the FA, the AO would
spend eight days each fortnight in the field on farm visits. In addition,
two days would be spent at a fortnightly training session, which he attends
along with his FAs, and in meeting with FAs to review field experiences,
dealing with administrative matters, and providing additional training as
required. The remaining two workdays each.fortnight would be devoted to extra
visits, demonstrations, and other field activities.
4.09      To provide for regular training, continuous technical guidance
(particularly to large farmers), and ensure proper operation of field work,
there would be two or three administrative subdivisions in a project district,
each headed by an Assistant Director of Agriculture (ADA) 1/. The ADA would
spend at least three days a week on field visits to review both technical and
organizational aspects of the work of extension staff. During visits, the ADA
would ascertain from farmers whether visits were being held as planned, what
messages were being learned, and make adjustments as necessary. Experience
from Phase-I districts indicates that once farmers become aware of visit
schedules, they become effective monitors and detect if visits are not made
regularly and in a satisfactory manner and seek remedy for this where neces-
sary.  The ADA would also be the organizer, convenor, and the leader of fort-
nightly training sessions; the balance of ADA worktime would be devoted to
administration.
4.10      A Deputy Director of Agriculture (DDA) would be responsible for
extension services at the district level. The district of Karachi, in Sind,
which has a small agricultural area would be jointly managed under the DDA in
Thatta district which has similar cropping patterns. In Sind, the project
would provide one team of three Subject Matter Specialists (SMSs) located at
the headquarters of each district; specialities would include agronomy,
agricultural engineering, plant protection, or horticulture, depending on the
1/ Called Extra Assistant Director of Agriculture (EADA) in Punjab but equiv-
alent to ADA which latter title has been used throughout this report for
convenience to designate also EADA, as appropriate.



-26-
needs of each district.  A SMS would devote about one-third of work time to
field visits providing technical support and guidance to FAs and AOs,
one-third in building a stock of knowledge through regular dialogue with
research workers and by carrying out farm trials, and one-third on training
extension staff, principally at fortnightly training sessions. One SMS in
each diqtrict would be designated Training Coordinator and would be respon-
sible for the planning and organization (including substance and material) of
fortnightly training sessions. In Punjabt a hierarchy of one Deputy Director
of Agriculture for Training, DDA training) linked to each Adaptive Research
Farm, one ADA (training) at the district level and one AO (training) at the
sub-divisional (tehsil) level would fill essentially the same functions as
SMS.
4.11      The DDAs at district level would report to the regional Director of
Agriculture. There would be three extension regions in Punjab and two in
Sind. The Directors in turn, would report to the Director General (DGJ Exten-
sion) at the provincial headquarters of the extension service, Lahore in
Punjab and Hyderabad in Sind. The Director General would be assisted by a
Director in the planning and day-to-day operations of the extension service
(para 5.01, and Charts 1 and 2).
4.12      Effective extension services through the T&V system are based on
concentration of effort. Therefore, all extension staff must work only on
agricultural extension and not be responsible for the supply of inputs, data
collection, or other activities not directly related to extension. In Phase-I
districts, and also now in Phase II districts, with one exception, extension
staff has been relieved of permanent non-extension duties. The exception is
old mostly degraded pesticide stocks which are the responsibility of FAs until
they can be safely disposed off. Action is underway for their disposal and
assurances were obtained at negotiations that the Provinces would t&ke
measures satisfactory to IDA to relieve all extension staff in the project
areas of all responsibilities not directly related to agricultural extension
work.
Adaptive Research
4.13      The basic structure for adaptive research in the two provinces has
largely been established during Phase-I projects with 9 of the final number of
12 adaptive research farms (ARF) and the headquarters' organization already
in place and with staff who have already gained considerable experience.
However, substantial scope remains for improving the effectiveness of the
system. Most adaptive research should take place in farmers' fields. To
achieve this, each Senior Subject Matter Specialist (SSMS), and in Punjab also
the district agricultural Research Officer (RO), would be accountable for a
target, depending on circumstances, of about 10-15 field trials per season.
In addition, Field Assistants (FAs) would conduct demonstrations in farmers'
fields. To ensure that research findings are adapted to conditions prevailing



-27-
in all major agroclimatic zones of Punjab and Sind, the project would estab-
lish, equip and staff three additional ARFs, for a total of seven and five,
respectively, in the two provinces. Averaging about 20 ha, these farms would
also serve to demonstrate improved farming practices to field staff and
farmers. The proposed additional ARF sites have been identified on existing
Government farm land from which about 20 ha would be separated administra-
tively and operated by SSMSs for adaptive research purposes. In Punjab, the
research farms would be located at Karor in the arid zone serving the dis-
tricts of Layyah, Muzaffargarh, Bhakkar, and Mianwali, and at Dera Ghazi Khan
in a uniquely varied agroclimatic zone serving Dera Ghazi Khan and Rajanpur
districts. In Sind, the research farm would be located at Pangrio in the
sugarcane belt, and serve Badin and Thatta districts. Many of the new project
districts would be served by already established ARPs. Each adaptive research
farm would eventually serve an average of four districts in Punjab and two
districts in Sind. The new farms would be equipped with one 40-60 hp tractor,
and where required one 60-80 hp tractor, each with a complete set of imple-
ments and a full range of small tools and research equipment.
4.14      The project would also provide for staff and operating costs for the
three new research farms: in Punjab, four SSMSs in different disciplines,
four Assistant Research Officers (AROs), one Farm Manager, two FAs and support
staff, including about 15 permanent laborers to lay out the trials; in Sind,
three SSMSs, one Research Officer, one Farm Manager, three FAs, and support
staff, including six permanent laborers. One SSMS at each farm would be "in
charge" and "drawing and disbursing officer" i.e. with his own budget, which
is important for the smooth operations of the farm. The farms established
under Phase-I would be provided some complementary equipment and permanent
laborers to meet needs which were felt during project implementation. Certain
of these farms in Sind, due to lack of equipment or electricity were not yet
operational at the time of Phase-II appraisal. All adaptive research farms
established under Phase-I were fully operational as a condition of invitation
to negotiations.
4.15      In Sind, all trials in farmers fields would be laid out under the
supervision of a SSMS based on a research farm. In Punjab, due to longer
distances, Research Officers (ROs) would be provided for districts where
logistics do not permit the SSM8s to provide effective supervision. Each RO
would be provided with staff, office facilities, and housing accommodation, a
pick-up truck, equipment, inputs and an operating budget necessary for carry-
ing out field trials.
4.16      The staff of the research farms established in Punjab and Sind under
the Phase-I projects have proved their ability to handle a considerable number
of field trials. The project would further improve the focus and relevance of
adaptive research. Although many farmers are using improved varieties and
fertilizers, few are following research and extension recommendations in their
entirety. Reasons include that farmers lack the knowledge, the extension
services are ineffective, and that credit or inputs are lacking. Although



-28-
these explanations are valid for some times and places, experience also indi-
cates that farmers seek technologies that increase income while keeping risks
at reasonable levels. Given a set of socio-ecological circumstances, recom-
mendations are often inconsistent with these objectives and conditions.
4.17      In order to tailor messages more appropriately to farmers under the
project, systematic on-farm research would be introduced to gain knowledge
and understanding of farmers' circumstances and problems. This would be used
to plan and design adaptive research programs and, eventually, to formulate
location-specific messages. A methodology for such on-farm research has been
developed by the International Maize and Wheat Improvement Center (CIMMYT) in
Mexico. The project would include 12 man-months of consultancy each to Punjab
and Sind to assist the adaptive research program in developing systematic
on-farm research, introducing computerized data processing, and strengthening
research-extension linkages and advising on the process and procedures for
developing extension messages. The project would also provide vehicles,
equipment, including computers, staff and operating funds for the adaptive
research program. Details are given in Project File, Item 5.
Training
4.18      Regular training is considered a fundamental and important part of
the T&V extension system. Therefore, the project would include a variety of
formal and in-service training programs for extension staff. The general
scope and content of the training program have been defined, but detailed
curricula and lesson plans would be drawn up with technical assistance
provided under the project, based on a detailed assessment of training needs
for all staff categories. In order to ensure close coordination with the
On-Farm Water Management (OFWM) program special emphasis would be given to the
training of extension staff (FA, AO, SMS) regularly at the OFWM institute in
each province.
4.19      Agricultural Training Institutes (ATI).  The three ATIs in Punjab
(Rahimyar Khan, Sargodha and Dagwal) and the single ATI in Sind (Sakrand) are
mainly responsible for the two-year pre-service training of Field Assistants
(FA), but also provide in-service training for various categories of extension
staff and ad hoc training for farmers. The most recent revision in
pre-service training curricula was in 1981 under the IDA-supported Third
Education Project (Cr. 678-PAK) which was completed in 1984 (para 2.08). The
proposed project would include technical assistance to review and up-date ATI
curricula in both Punjab and Sind to meet current needs. In order to
strengthen the practical training of FAs in both provinces, each ATI would be
delegated a share of the responsibility for providing extension services in
the surrounding subdivision or area proportionate to the number of students
being trained at the ATI. Final-year students would follow the T&V system and
deliver fortnightly messages to farmers and perform other FA tasks under
strict supervision and guidance of supervisory extension staff and their ATI
trainers. At Sakrand, in Sind, where individual student plots cannot be laid



-29-                                   l
out due to lack of equipment, and inputs, the project would include additional
farm equipment, and a revolving fund would be established for the purchase of
necessary inputs and replenished through the sale of harvests. Transportation
for students' field visits would also be provided under the project.
Non-competitive salaries for ATI instructors has led to rapid staff rotation,
disinterested and poorly trained instructors, and an excessive number of
vacancies. In order to retain quality staff, assurances were obtained at
negotiations that Punjab and Sind ATI principals and instructors be given an
incentive payment satisfactory to IDA to make these positions more attractive.
4.20      Complementary to the regular training program at ATIs, special
courses would be organized for extension staff under the project. Particular
emphasis would be given to refresher courses for FAs. Higher-level staff
would also receive such training. In addition, there would be certain courses
for women extension workers and for progressive farmers. The courses would
cover technical and managerial subjects and extension methods. Course con-
tents would be worked out with training consultants provided under the project
and would be based on their assessment of training needs. Additional capacity
would be needed for the increased activities at ATIs. Existing in-service
hostels and lecture halls at Rahimyar Khan and Sargodha would be upgraded and
furnished, and new hostels would be built at Dhagwal and Sakrand. To
facilitate training, additional teaching equipment, including audio-visual
aids, would be provided and libraries would be strengthened with more books
and publications. The project would also include additional staff, vehicles,
and course operating expenditures (Details are given in Project File, Item 5).
4.21      Fortnightly Training Sessions.  Central to the T&V system are fort-
nightly training sessions for FAs in the presence of AOs. In the new project
districts, small training centers would be constructed within each subdivision
adjacent to the office of the Assistant Director of Agriculture (ADA). Each
district would be provided with training equipment and related audio-visual
aids.
4.22      Senior Staff Training.  The project would include a series of
workshops, to be conducted by consultants, for senior staff on various topics,
including operation of the adaptive research program and the T&V extension
system, general management principles, media production, farm management, and
monitoring and evaluation. Such workshops, although delivered late during
implementation, proved to be very effective during the Phase-I projects.
4.23      Crucial factors in the success of the extension effort are improving
the knowledge of Subject Matter Specialists (SMS) and trainers and estab-
lishing regular dialogue between extension and research workers. Monthly
workshops for both researchers and extension staff would provide regular
contact between them, allowing for a review of results achieved, modifying
recommendations as necessary to suit prevailing field conditions, reviewing
progress of field trials, and developing suggestions for future research



-30-                                I
topics and field trials. In Punjab under Phase-I, the meetings of the Dis-
trict Technical Committees constituted these monthly workshops. These commit-
tees would now become Zonal Technical Committees and be linked to the seven
agroclimatic zones, each served by an Adaptive Research Farm. In Sind, the
monthly workshops were held under the Research-Extension Coordinating Commit-
tees, linked to the two research institutes at Dokri and Tandojam, and this
arrangement would continue, at least initially. The organization and opera-
tion of monthly workshops would be streamlined and made more effective with
the assistance of technical experts provided for under the project.
4.24      Study Tours.  In order to learn from experience of others elsewhere
involved in the reform of extension services, study tours for extension staff
would be arranged under the project to other provinces in Pakistan and to
neighboring countries with operational T&V systems. Under the Phase-I
projects, funds were also provided for such study tours, but programs were
made too late to be implemented and staff now have more experience which would
facilitate the organization of such tours. Study tours would also be provided
for research workers to international research centers which conduct research
relevant to the project. Funds would further be provided for project staff to
attend short courses and seminars abroad that contribute towards project
objectives. (Details are given in Project File, Item 5).
4.25      Training Organization.  In order to ensure good planning and coor-
dination of the increased training activities under the project and to enhance
their effectiveness, certain modifications would be made in the training
organization established under Phase-I projects. In Punjab, a Deputy Director
of Agriculture for Training, Planning and Coordination (DDA, Training and
Coordination) would be created under the Director General (DC) at Head-
quarters. The DDA, Training and Coordination would assist the DC in the
planning and coordination of all project training activities, including ATIs,
fortnightly training workshops, study tours and other staff training. For
fortnightly training, a Deputy Director of Agriculture (DDA, Training) would
be attached to each Adaptive Research Farm 1/ in order to provide a permanent
link with research and ensure the two-way flow of information between exten-
sion and research. The DDA Training would develop the fortnightly messages
and supervise the training program in his zone's districts and subdivisions
(tehsils). In order to overcome the recruitment problem for Subject Matter
Specialists (SHSs) experienced in Phase-I, there would instead be one Extra
Assistant Director of Agriculture (EADA), Training, at the district level and
one Agricultural Officer (AO), Training, at the tehsil level to organize and
execute the fortnightly training program.
lt Except that one DDA, Training would be in assigned to Dera Ghazi Khan and
Karor (Layyah) zones, because of their small sizes.



-31-                                   I
4.26      In Sind, all training would be organized into one training section
headed by a Director (Training) at headquarters in Hyderabad. The section
would have three divisions headed by a Deputy Director level officer, one for
each extension division and based at Hyderabad and Sukkur and one for the ATI.
In order to further streamline the organization of training in Sind and Pun-
jab, the training consultant provided by the project would review and advise
on the overall coordination and organization of staff training.
Information and Media
4.27      The project would considerably strengthen the media and information
directorates of the extension service. These vehicles for diffusion of farm
information were given little attention during Phase-I. With the rapidly
increasing availability of radios, to which a large share of farmers listen
regularly, broadcasting of agriculture information is an important complement
to, not substitute for, visits to farmers. Also, the availability of TV is
becoming significant and both radio and TV is already widely used by the
private sector for agricultural commericals (e.g. fertilizers, pesticides).
Practical and relatively cheap video and other audio-visual aids provide an
attractive and efficient means of disseminating agricultural information.  In
Punjab, the relatively well-developed Directorate of Information of the exten-
sion would be strengthened with a video production unit, to be staffed and
equipped under the project. The unit would produce video tapes for media
distribution and for the training of extension staff and farmers. Video
receivers would be provided to each adaptive research farm and to head-
quarters.
4.28      In Sind, only a two-man informetion team exists.  Two fully staffed
and equipped units would be establ 3hed under the project, with offices at
divisional headquarters at Hyderabad and Sukkur. One central section for
video production would be based at Hyderabad and a section for dissemination
of information via radio and television would be set up in each division, to
serve the two radio stations at Hyderabad and Khairpur and the national
television network. Two vans for field production of video tapes and one
mobile van in each division for dissemination of video movies would be
provided under the project. Local training and five man-months of technical
assistance for the new section in Sind would also be provided, as well as
incremental operating costs for the Punjab and Sind information units. (for
details see Project File, Item 5).
Monitoring and Evaluation
4.29      In both Punjab and Sind, Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) units were
established under the Phase-I projects. Initially, both units suffered from
the failure of recruiting technical assistance but, in the case of Sind, the
performance was much improved during the last year of project implementation,
when expert advice was obtained. In order to monitor progress in the much
larger area under the proposed project and to pro'~vide more useful information



-32-                                1
for project management, both units would be strengthened with additional staff
at headquarters and with field enumerators. The units would be equipped with
additional transport, computing facilities, and other equipment and be
provided with operating funds in accordance with the increased workload. Six
man-months of technical assistance would be provided to each of the two
provinces. The consultants would (a) advise on the organization of the
units; (b) assist in developing a work program for monitoring and evaluation
during the project implementation period, including surveys and ad hoc
studies; (c) improve questionnaires to better meet management's needs;
(d) assist in sample design; and (e) advise on the purchase of computer equip-
ment and software and train staff in their use.
4.30      In addition to regular data gathering for managerial purposes on
project implementation (timely provision of staff, vehicles, equipment, fre-
quency of FA visits, etc.), data to measure the project's output, effects and
impact would be generated. Ad hoc studies would also be conducted to meet
managerial and planning needs. A base-line survey and an evaluation of the
subprojects would be carried out in both provinces. Also, GOPunjab and GOSind
would each prepare a Project Completion Report. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that GOPunjab and GOSind each for its subproject would (a) com-
plete benchmark surveys in the project area by December 31, 1987; and (b)
regularly monitor project activities in a manner acceptable to IDA and submit
quarterly progress reports in an agreed format to IDA. Project monitoring and
evaluation would follow the general methodology and principles outlined in the
Bank's "Manual on the Monitoring and Evaluation of Training and Visit Exten-
sion.
Project Staffing
4.31      The project would include incremental staff salaries and travel
allowances. The requirements of key project staff is summarized in Table 4.1
below (details in Annex 2). Assurances were obtained at negotiations that key
staff required to carry out the project would be appointed in accordance with
a timetable satisfactory to IDA.



-33-
Table 4.1: REQUIREMENTS OF KEY PROJECT STAFF
(numbers)
Incremental Requirements
BPS /a      Punjab        Sind
Director of Training                           19             -            1
Deputy Director of Agriculture (DDA)
DDA training                                18             2            1
DDA information                             18             -            1
DDA video, video engineer                   18             2            1
DDA field                                   18             9            6
Systems Analyst                                18             2            1
Senior Subject Matter Specialist (SSMS)        18             8            3
Assistant Director of Agriculture (ADA)/b
ADA (headquarters, information)             17+SP          1            2
ADA training, ATI instructor                17+SP          2            4
ADA field                                   17+SP         17            8
Subject Matter Specialist (SMS)                17+SP          -           12
Research Officer (RO)                          17+SP          6            _
Assistant Research Officer (ARO)               17             8            1
Agricultural Officer (AO)
AO training                                 17            85            -
AO field                                    17            34           40
Farm Manager                                   17             2            -
Video, Statistical Officer, Programmer         17             -            4
Field Assistant                               6/9           245          292
/a  Pakistan's Administrative Basic Pay Scale.  SP means Special Pay (Rs 150).
Th Extra Assistant Director of Agriculture (EADA) in Punjab.
Field Assistants (FAs) would be recruited among graduates of the Agricultural
Training Institutes (ATIs). During the Phase-I projects initial difficulties
in recruiting FAs were eventually largely overcome by upgrading FAs from Basic
Pay Scale (BPS)-5 to BPS-6, with one-third promoted to BPS-9 and, particularly
in the barani (rainfed) areas of the Punjab, by tying the issuing of the
diploma from the ATI to a job in the extension service. Since the supply of
graduates from ATIs now is adequate, no special problems are foreseen in
recruiting FAs.
4.32      Agricultural Officers (AOs)  would be directly recruited among
graduates of agricultural universities at Faisalabad (Punjab) and Tandojam
(Sind), and the supply of such graduates is adequate. Deputy Directors of



-34-                                1
Agriculture (DDA) and Assistant Directors of Agriculture (ADA) positions would
be filled partly through promotion and partly through direct recruitment. The
main difficulty would be to recruit Senior Subject Matter Specialists (SSMS)
and among them, particularly those with an economics background. This would
be given particular attention during project implementation. Sanctioning of
agreed project staff for the first year of the project was a condition of
Board Presentation.
Supporting Investments
4.33      Civil Works.  Whenever possible, existing structures would be used.
Additional facilities would be provided where required. Office accommodation
would be provided to FAs and supervisory staff where needed. In Hyderabad,
Sind, where existing office space is insufficient, a new headquarters building
and a training hall with dormitories would be constructed. Training
facilitiest in conjunction with the Assistant Director's office, would be
provided to serve, inter alia, the fortnightly training sessions at the sub-
divisioxal level. Three adaptive research farms (para 4.13) would be estab-
lished, including offices and housing for research staff. Housing would also
be provided for AOs and supervisory field staff. However, housing for FAs
would not be provided under the project, because experience indicates that
this contributes little towards project objectives (para 2.12). Land acquisi-
tion for project workst which constituted no problem during Phase-I, would be
made during the first three years of project implementation.
4.34      Vehicles.  Vehicles would be provided for supervisory extension
staff, for training, media and monitoring unit personnel, and for the building
unit in Sind. AOs would be provided with motorcycles and PAs with bicycles.
Vehicle requirements are detailed in Project File, Item 5. Assurance were
obtained at negotiations that project vehicles would be procured in accordance
with a timetable satisfactory to IDA.
4.35      Motorcycles and bicycles would be provided to staff on credit terms
which would be repayable through deductions from their salaries in about 40
equal installments for motorcycles and about 20 for bicycles. Since staff
would have to pay for the motorcycles and bicycles, selections would be
according to their choice. In order to ensure staff mobility in the future,
the replacement of motorcycles and bicycles would be financed through a
Government revolving fund established from loan repayments. The real value of
the fund would be maintained by including necessary funds in the operating
budget of the extension service to cover inflation. Agreement was reached at
negotiation' on the financing of motorcycles and bicycles through a revolving
fund and assurances were obtained during negotiations that such revolving
funds would be established and maintained in Punjab and Bind. In order to
permit staff to travel according to work schedulest it is essential that funds
for vehicle operating and maintenance and staff travel allowances be main-
tained at adequate levels. For motorcycles and bicycles owned by staff and
operated by them for the purpose of the project, these allowances would



-35-
include adequate provision for amortizations and day to day operating costs.
To reduce the arbitrariness in the distribution of travel allowances to FAs,
these would be fixed on a monthly basis. Assurances were obtained at nego-
tiations that each Province would: (a) pay travel/daily allowances to Project
staff at rates satisfactory to the IDA; (b) from time to time, review such
allowances with the IDA; and (c) make adequate budgetary allocations for this
purpose. Assurances were also obtained at negotiations that each Province
would make adequate annual budgetary allocations for the proper operation and
maintenance of the vehicles provided under the project.
4.36      Equipment.  In support of its activities, the project would include
equipment and furniture for the new offices, audio-visual and other equipment,
publications and materials (including inputs for ATIs) for the training
program, and farm machinery, animal power, implements, tools, instruments, and
other research equipment for the adaptive research program, as well as farm
inputs for the research trials and demonstrations on farmers' fields and
adaptive research farms. Details are given in Project File, Item 5.
C. Project Costs
4.37      Total costs of the project, including contingencies, are estimated
at Rs 995 M (US$58.4 M equivalent), of which Rs 203 M (US$11.9 M) would be
foreign exchange costs and Rs 56 M (US$3.3M) duties and taxes.  The cost
estimates are based on mid-1986 prices. Physical contingencies (averaging 7%
of base costs) have been applied to equipment, training materials and furni-
ture (72), civil works (10) and on other cost items (5Z). Price contingen-
cies are based on expected domestic and foreign price increases which are
shown belows
Table 4.2: INFLATION RATE (2)
FY87   FY88    FY89    FY90      FY91    FY92 +
Local                  7.8     7.5     7.3      7.0      5.5     4.0
International         7.0      6.8     6.9      7.1      5.5     4.0



-36-
Table 4.3: PROJECT COST SUMMARY
------Rs Million----  -----US$ Million----
Local Foreign Total Local Foreign Total %FE ZTotal
Agricultural Extension   423      72     495    26.4    4.5    30.9    15    67
Adaptive Research         47      31      78     2.9    2.0     4.9    40    11
Staff Training            72     30      102     4.5    1.9     6.4    29    14
Information & Media        8      4       12     0.5    0.2     0.7    29      2
Project Administration    35      9       44     2.2    0.6      2.8    22     6
Base Cost              585    146      731    36.5    9.2    45.7    20   100
Physical Contingencies    44     10       54     2.8    0.6     3.4    19      7
Price Contingencies      163     47      210     7.2    2.1     9.3    23    20
Total Project Cost     792    203      995    46.5   11.9    58.4    20   127
___=   _- === m==      ==   == ==              ==_==
D. Financing
4.38      The proposed IDA credit of SDR 35.5 M (US$42.1 M)would finance 80%
of total project costs excluding taxes, duties and vehicles (other than motor-
cycles and bicycles). This includes all foreign exchange costs estimated at
Rs 203 M (US$11.9 M) and Rs 513 M (US$30.2 M) of local costs.  The remaining
Rs 279 M (US$16.3 M) of local costs (including taxes, duties and vehicles)
would be financed through budget allocations by the Government of Pakistan
through the Annual Development Programs of Punjab and Sind provinces. As a
condition of Board Presentation, the Chairman, ECNEC has provided anticipatory
approval of the revised PC-1 document. ECNEC full approval of the PC-1 docu-
ment would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed credit. Funds for
the first year's project expenditures have already been released.
4.39     Retroactive financing of up to US$0.5 M would be provided to bridge
with the Phase-I projects and would cover expenditures incurred after
June 30, 1986, including staff training, purchase of training equipment,
consultancy servicest and incremental staff salaries.
4.40     In order to ensure the timely availability of funds to meet project
expenditures, Special Accounts would be established, one each for the Agricul-
ture Department (para 5.01) and the Communication and Works Department
(para 5.02) of both provinces. The four Special Accounts would be opened at
the National Bank of Pakistan and would be maintained and operated following
standard procedures agreed with the Government of Pakistan. Authorized
allocations to be deposited in the Special Accounts are respectively:



-37-
SDR Equivalents
Punjab DOA               550,000
Punjab C&W             1,180,000
Sind DOA                 470,000
Sind C&W                 340,000
Assurances were obtained at negotiations on the establishment of these
accounts on terms, conditions, and operational procedures satisfactory to IDA.
E. Procurement
4.41     Procurement arrangements would be as shown in Table 4.4 and detailed
below:
Table 4.4: PROCUREMENT TABLE
(US$ M)
Procurement Method               Total
Project Element                                  LCB      Other      N.A.     Cost
Civil  Works                                     27.9          -        _       27.9
(22.1)        -         -     (22.1)
Land Acquisition                                    -          -       0.7       0.7
_-              ( -3    (  -)
Vehicles, Motorcycles, Bicycles                     -        3.5        -        3.5
_     ( 1.0)       -      ( 1.0)
Equipment, Tools, Materials, Draught                -        5.0        -        5.0
Animals, Farm Inputs, Purniture & Books          -     ( 4.4)        -     ( 4.4)
Technical Assistance, Studies                       -        1.8        -        1.8
-     ( 1.8)        -     ( 1.8)
Training                                            -          -       1.8       1.8
-         -      ( 1.8)   ( 1.8)
Incremental Salaries and Allowances                 -          -      12.9      12.9
-         -     ( 8.6)   ( 8.6)
Incremental Operation and Maintenance               -          -       4.8       4.8
-         -      ( 2.4)   ( 2.4)
27.9        .3       20.2     58.4
(22.1)      1 t.2)    (12.8)   (42.1)
Note:  Figures in parentheses are amounts financed by IDA and
include a prorated share of unallocated funds in Table 4.5.



-38-
4.42      Civil Works (US$27.9 M). Buildings to be constructed would be small
in Bize, remote and dispersed both geographically and over time throughout
Punjab and Sind, consisting mainly of standard design housing, offices and
training facilities. These buildings would unlikely be of interest to foreign
bidders. Therefore, contracts would be let after local competitive bidding
according to Government procedures which are satisfactory to IDA subject to
the modifications listed in Annex 4. Agreement in this respect was obtained
negotiations. The local contracting industry is well developed and adequate
competition would be offered. However, if no responsive bids or no bids at
all are received, force account would be utilized. Vehicles other than motor-
cycles or bicycles (US$2.5 M) would be reserved procurement and, therefore,
not reimbursable under the credit. Motorcycles and bicycles (US$1.0 M) would
be sold to staff on credit. They would, therefore, be procured coneistent
with the choice and the level of staff concerned (para 4.35). Price quota-
tions would be invited from all local and foreign manufacturers who have a
service network in Pakistan and are from countries eligible for IDA procure-
ments. The quotations would be supplied to the applicants, choices given by
them collated, and orders placed by the Departments of Agriculture in Punjab
and Sind, respectively. Equipment, tools, materials, draught animals, farm
inputs, furniture and books (US$5.0 M) for the project would be of assorted
nature and be mostly required at different times in small lots throughout the
project area and would, therefore, not be suitable for international competi-
tive bidding. Such items would be procured following Government's local
procurement procedures. Consultants (US$1.8 M) for technical assistance would
be employed in accordance with Bank guidelines. Training, incremental staff
salaries, operating and maintenance costs and land acquisition (US$20.2 M)
would be handled following normal Government practices and would not involve
procurement. All the above figures include contingencies which amount to
US$12.7 M.
4.43      Contract Review.  About 2,000 contracts are expected for civil
works. Since they would all be procured according to standard procedures by
the Communication and Works Departments of the two provinces, prior IDA review
would only be required for the first contract and any subsequent contract
exceeding the value of US$0.1 M. The balance of contracts would be subject to
random checking in the field in the course of IDA supervision missions. Any
modifications in the procedures or bidding documents agreed during the review
of the first contract would require IDA approval before the issuing of
tenders.
F. Disbursements
4.44      Disbursements under the project would be completed by June 1993.
The seven-year disbursement period is based on a disbursement profile derived
from the experience gained from actual disbursements under the Phase-I
projects (Credit 813-PAK and Credit 922-PAK). However, since: (a) the release
of funds was condition of Board presentation; (b) project management is in



-39-
place and has gained experience in project implementation; and (c) since
Special Accounts would be established to help ensure adequate funding and
speedy disbursements, it is possible that the disbursement period could be
reduced to five years, which would result in 5% reduction in project costs.
Credit disbursements would be against:
Table 4.5: PROJECT DISBURSEMENTS
Credit Allocation   % of Expenditures
(US$ 000)        to be Financed
1. Civil Works and Associated Services                    19,700     80%
2. Motorcycles, Bicycles, Equipment, Tools, Materials,
Draught Animals, Farm Inputs, Furniture, & Books    5,000
a) Directly Imported                                              100% of foreign
b) Locally Manufactured                                           100% of ex-factory
c) Locally Procured                                                60% of local
3. Consultancy Services, Studies and Training              3,500     100%
4. Incremental Staff Salaries, Operation
and Maintenance                                      6,200      50%
5. Incremental Travel Allowances                           4,300     100%
6. Unallocated                                             3,400
42,100
4.45      It is not possible to permit the Governments of Punjab and Sind to
assume progressively the responsibility for recurrent expenditures generated
by the project, since total costs of the project as approved by ECNEC are
funded by the federal Government through its capital or Annual Development
Programme (ADP) budget. Upon project completion, the "liability" of recurrent
expenditures, including staff salaries induced by the project, are wholly and
at once transferred to the provincial governments' revenue budgets. Assuran-
ces were obtained at negotiations that after project completion Punjab and
Sind would operate and maintain the extension services provided under the
project and make adequate provisions in their respective budgets for these
purposes.
4.46      Disbursements against expenditures for the following items would be
against certified statements of expenditure:



-40-
(a)   payments under civil works contracts not exceeding US$100,000 equiv-
alent and those carried out under force account;
(b)   locally procured equipment, tools, materials, draught animals, farm
inputs, furniture and books under contracts costing US$50,000 or
less; and
(c)   local and overseas training costs, incremental staff salaries and
allowances, and operating and maintenance costs.
Supporting documents for these items would be retained by the implementing
agencies and made available to IDA review missions for their inspection.
Withdrawal applications for other items would be fully documented. All Credit
disbursements should be channelled through the Special Account except that
large expenditures which would cause it to be significantly depleted may be
submitted for payment outside this account. Applications for replenishment of
the Special Account would be submitted when the amounts withdrawn exceed about
one-third of the authorized allocatiop (initial deposit) or every three
months, whichever comes first. Disbursement applications for expenditures
financed through the Special Accounts should also be accompanied by:
(a)   a statement of transactions on the Special Accounts since the pre-
vious application, with the balance certified by the National Bank
of Pakistan; and
(b)   a reconciliation showing that the balance represents the amount
deposited in the account at the beginning of the project (or sub-
sequent years) less payment awaiting IDA reimbursement.
C. Accounts and Audits
4.47      Separate project accounts would be maintained by the implementing
agencies. Lack of trained accounting staff in the Punjab was one major factor
for delays in submission of audits to the Bank under Phase-I (Cr. 813-PAK).
To improve upon this performance and speed up the submission of project
accounts for auditing, accounting staff in the Punjab De?artment of Agricul-
ture would be provided with training by the Director for Commercial Audit in
Lahore and an assurance to this end was obtained at negotiations.
4.48      Project accounts would be audited annually by an independent auditor
acceptable to IDA and in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards
following Bank guidelines. In Sind, project accounts would be audited by a
private auditor and funds for this purpose would be provided under the
project. In Punjab, the Auditor General would be acceptable to IDA. Assuran-
ces were obtained at negotiations that separate project accounts would be
maintained by each implementing agency and that the unaudited accounts would
be submitted to IDA and for independent audit within four months of the fiscal
year's end, and audited statements made available to IDA no later than nine
months after the end of such fiscal year.



-41-
The report on the audit of project accounts would include a separate statement
verifying that funds reimbursed by IDA against Statements of Expenditure had
been used for the purpose of the project. Agreement was reached at nego-
tiations on the procedure for the auditing of Statement of Expenditures.
V.  ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Project Implementation and Operation
5.01      The provincial governments of Punjab and Sind would have the ovrall
responsibility for carrying out their respective subprojects. The subprojects
would be executed by each province's Director General of Agriculture (DG),
Extension who has the administrative, financial, and technical control of the
agricultural extension service, of adaptive research, and of the Agricultural
Training Institutes (ATIs) (Charts 1 and 2).  He would also be responsible for
the operation of one of the Special Accounts for his share of project expendi-
tures, respectively. DO Extension reports directly to the provincial
Secretary of Agriculture and would be assisted at headquarters by directors of
adaptive research, training (in Punjab, deputy director), and information, who
would be responsible for execution of such respective project components. In
Punjab, the principals of the ATIs who are at director-level and report
directly to the DG would implement the training subcomponents at their respec-
tive ATIs. In the field, the DC would be assisted by regional Directors who
would be responsible for the implementation and operation of the T&V extension
program in their respective regions, assisted by the Deputy Director of
Agriculture (DDA) heading each district who would execute the program in the
district. In order to ensure the effective implementation and operation of
the T&V system in the field, the DC would be assisted at headquarters by a
staff director (Headquarters/Operations in Punjab; Project Executive Officer
in Sind). Depending on the province, the staff director would essentially
work on project planning, coordination, day-to-day implementation, and
monitoring.
5.02      The building component would be implemented by the respective
provincial Communications and Works Department (C&W) and would be directly
executed by the Executive Engineer in each district. Since buildings are
scattered over a large number of districts, the project would include for each
province a coordinator, Project Director, Civil Works, located at headquarters
of the C&W department. He would be responsible for implementing the overall
building program and would operate the province's Special Account for project
works and make necessary payments, collect bills, and certify payments made
from field offices, and prepare and submit withdrawal applications to IDA.
For this purpose, he would be assisted by a small staff. The appointment of
the Project Director, Civil Works would be a condition of effectiveness of the
credit.



-42-
S. Project Coordination
5.03      Many government departments and agencies would be directly involved
tn or affected by the implementation of the project, and as Phase-I experience
bas shown, their collaboration would be essential to the timely and successful
implementation of the project. In order to provide a forum for
inter-departmental coordination and for the monitoring of project progress,
there would be a Project Coordinating and Monitoring Committee in each
province, chaired by the provincial Additional Chief Secretary of the Planning
and Development Department. The Secretary, Agriculture would serve as
secretary and convenor of the Committee and members would irclude the
Secretaries of Planning and Development, Finance, Services and General Admin-
stration, Communications and Works and other departments, as appropriate. The
DC, Extension would also be member of the Committee. It is specifically
proposed that the committee be convened to consider the findings of IDA super-
vision missions and decide on necessary action, but it would also meet on an
ad hoc basis.
5.04      For more specific guidance at the working level, Project Review
Committees that were established for Phase-I projects would also be maintained
under the proposed project with similar membership. The Committee would meet
on a regular basis before each main cropping season (kharif and rabi) to
review achievements in the previous season and set guidelines for future
operations. The Secretary of Agriculture would chair the meeting and the DC,
Extension would be its secretary and convenor.
5.05      At the field level, District Agricultural Advisory Committees would
be established in each project district where they do not already exist.
Comittees would review project operations, bring problems to the attention of
the Deputy Director in charge, and advise on action required to improve the
effectiveness of the extension service. The Deputy Commissioner of the Dis-
trict would chair the meeting, the Deputy Director, Extension would act as
secretary and convenor, and members would include, as appropriate in each
province, subdivisional Assistant Directors (Extension), District Engineer of
the C&W Department, District Supply Officer, Assistant Registrar Cooperatives,
District heads of ADBP, commerical banks, input supply organizations, and
selected farmers. To ensure close coordination with the On-Farm Water Manage-
ment (OPM) program, the O016 Area Coordinators in Punjab and Deputy Director
in Sind would also be members of the Committee. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that the government of Punjab and Sind, respectively, would
establish, with membership and responsibilities satisfactory to IDA, and
thereafter maintain a Project Coordinating and Monitoring Committee, and for
each district in the project area, a District Agricultural Advisory Committee.
These Committees have now been established as a condition of Board Presenta-
tiou (For details on membership and terms of reference see Project File, Item
7).



-43-
C. Linkages Between Extension and Research
5.06      As neither research nor extension can function effectively without
close cooperation, it would be necessary to formalize the responsibilities of
both agencies. The research institutes would assume full responsibility for
the development of suitable technology, while the extension service would have
responsibility for the transfer of technology to farmers, including the
widespread testing of research recommendations on farmers' fields. The
research organization would continue to identify and select improved varieties
of crops and also identify economically appropriate practices for increasing
crop production and, at the same time, lowering farmers' risk. Selected
varieties and production practices would then be tested at research substa-
tions and adaptive research farms and, finally, on farmers' fields (para
4.13). Research staff would work closely with extension staff, particularly
Subject Matter Specialists, since much of the work at research stations would
be in response to the needs of local extension staff and farmers.
5.07      Formal linkages between extension and research have been established
in both provinces and would be strengthened and adjusted to allow for the
increased coverage of the improved extension system. The adaptive research
consultancy provided under the project, in collaboration with the training
consultants, would review and advise on the streamlining of research-extension
linkages and the preparation of fortnightly messages.
5.08      In Punjab, linkage between the Extension Department and other
institutions undertaking agricultural research would be maintained by the
presence of the DC, Extension and Director, Adaptive Research at the existing
Punjab Agricultural Research Coordinating Board (para 3.22). This Board meets
once a year for each major crop, a few months before the planting season to
guide and direct research on the crop and to prevent duplication of effort.
The formal linkage between extension and research at the field level is the
District Technical Committee which is to be designated Zonal Technical Comit-
tee and serve districts within the jurisdiction of its adaptive research farm.
There are five such committees, and two more would need to be established.
The District Technical Committee meets monthly and is chaired by the
senior-ost researcher from the research institute out-stations in the area.
Members include the Deputy Directors (DDAs), Assistant Directors (ADAs) and
Senior Subject Matter Specialists (SSMSs) from the area and relevant
specialists from the research stations. Under the project, DDA (Training),
EADAs (Training) of the area would also participate. The Committee reviews
the technical aspects of extension services activities, such as the current
research program, fortnightly messages, and problems raised by farmers, and
provides workshop training for participants. The senior-most agronomist
(SSMS) is designated as secretary. In order to improve performance, par-
ticularly in planning research programs in the light of research being done
elsewhere in Punjab, the seven Zonal Technical Committees would meet jointly,



-44-
twice a year at the beginning of each cropping season, at the Ayub Agricul-
tural Research Institute, Faisalabad.
5.09      In Sind, unlike Punjab, the Research Coordinating Board (para 3.23)
has not yet found its modus operandi and this situation needs to be addressed.
The formal linkage between research and extension is achieved at the monthly
meetings of the two Agricultural Extension-Research Coordinating Committees.
One committee meeting is at the Rice Research Institute, Dokri for rice-based
cropping and the other at the Agricultural Research Institute, Tandojam, for
wheat-, cotton- and sugarcane-based cropping. The committees have met
regularly under the chairmanship of the respective research institute direc-
tors. Other participants include senior staff representing the main dis-
ciplines and crops a' the research institute, Directors of Adaptive Research
and Information, Regional Director and Deputy Directors of Extension, SSMSs
for regional adaptive research farms, and sometimes regional ADAs. At the
monthly committee meetings, recommended extension messages, largely general in
nature, for the forthcoming month are discussed and approved. With the staff-
ing of adaptive research farms complete and all SSMSs in place, the procedure
needs to be modified to include location-specific recommendations based on
adaptive research findings. The District Technical Committees constituted in
Phase-I have not functioned properly and would be reconstituted under the
project and linked with the five adaptive research farms as Zonal Technical
Committees. Their membership would be the same as in Punjab, as appropriate.
In monthly meetings, the committees would modify general recommendations
prepared by the Research-Extension Coordinating Committees to meet the
specific needs of area farmers. Assurances were obtained at negotiations, that
the governments of Punjab and Sind would establish with membership and respon-
sibilities satisfactory to IDA, and thereafter maintain for each adaptive
research farm in the project area, a Zonal Technical Committee. These Commit-
tees have now been established as a condition of Board Presentation.
D. Consultancy Services
5.10      The project would include 110 man-months of internationally
recruited consultancy services to be appointed by the respective provincial
governments. The services would cover the following specialities:
Punjab       Sind
Man-Months
Extension Methodology (Local)                 -            3
Training and Extension Planning               -           36
Training, Formal and Informal                20           10
Agricultural Information and Media            -            5
Adaptive Research                            12           12
Monitoring and Evaluation                     6            6
38          72



-45-
Terms of Reference for the above are given in Project File, Item 6, and cost
details appear in Project File, Item 5. Rapid and early introduction of this
assistance into project implementation is required. The governments of Punjab
and Sind have therefore, respectively, as a condition of invitation to nego-
tiations, invited proposals from qualified consultancy firms and selected the
most responsive firm for contract negotiations. Draft contracts for the
consultancy services would be submitted for IDA review and signing of the
contracts would be a condition of credit effectiveness.
E. Status of Project Preparation
5.11      The project is a second-phase project and would build on the
administrative and physical infrastructure created under the first phase. The
headquarters functions are in place and staff have gained experience in
operating the T & V system. Seventy-five percent of the required adaptive
research facilities are already operational. Except for the headquarters
facilities in Hyderabad of the Sind sub-project, most civil works are based on
standard government designs and were already used in Phase-I. As a result of
the appraisal, new designs have been prepared for Field Assistants' offices,
and have been found satisfactory by IDA at negotiations. Land acquisition,
for project works, which constituted no problem during Phase-I, would be made
during the first three years of project implementation (para 4.33). The firms
for project consulting services have already been selected (para 5.10). The
recruitment of staff and the start of project activities is contingent on
release of funds which has now been made as a condition of Board presentation.
VI. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
6.01      Total project costs over the seven-year period, excluding price
contingencies, amount to US$49 M (equivalent to about US$3 per ha of cropped
land or US$15 per farm family). This is well below the unit costs of the
previous three IDA-supported agricultural extension projects in Pakistan and
in line with costs of comparable extension projects in India (Annex 5).
Incremental annual costs after the project development period, to be met from
provincial budget resources would be US$3 M or US$0.2 per ha of cultivated
land.
A. Economic Benefits
6.02      Attributing a precise level of benefits to this type of project is
difficult, since it is not possible to determine what proportion of benefits
is due to extension and adaptive research efforts and what is due to addi-
tional purchased inputs and other factors. In practice, it is the combination
of a number of factors, with adaptive research and extension playing the role
of catalyst, that brings about the desired benefits. It is also difficult to
estimate acceptance rates of recommended practices. However, since the



-46-
project relies primarily on reorganization and strengthening of an existing
extension structure, the incremental cost is low. Hence, even very small and
slow production increases due to the project would generate a high rate of
return. Due to the arbitrary nature of the assumptions, no effort has been
made to calculate an economic rate of return. However, in sensitivity
analysis, certain calculations have been made on the benefits required from
improved extension services alone in order to justify the project investments.
The calculations, based on economic values, show that total cumulative yield
increases of only about 0.3X are required to justify project expenditures
(Annex 6). This would amount to increases in wheat yields of about 5 kg/ha,
or rice by 5 kg/ha, and or cotton by 1 kg/ha. Cumulative yield increases of
11 would give an economic rate of return of over 50%. If benefits were
derived only from increases in yields of major crops (wheat, rice, cotton and
sugar cane), then a cumulative yield increase due to the improved extension
services of O.51 would justify project investments and a 1Z yield increase
would give an economic rate of return of about 351. In fact, elsewhere on the
subcontinent, where the extension system is operating effectively, yield
increases have far exceeded this level. In order to get an objective empiri-
cal assessment of the impact of the T&V system, the Bank in collaboration with
Baryana Agricultural University, in India, undertook a study which showed, in
the case of wheat, a yield increase of almost 21 per year over the first four
years (81 cumulative) of the project, which was directly attributable to
extension and independent of the increased use of other farm inputs. One
significant feature of the T&V system is that the practices initially stressed
by the extension service focus on improving cultural practices (timely opera-
tions, good land preparation, proper seed rates, line sowing, and weeding) to
maintain adequate and healthy plant populations in the fields.  As these
operations usually Involve more work and little cash outlay, they are par-
ticularly well suited to the needs of many small farmers.
B. Project Risks
6.03      The major risks facing the project would be that administrative
constraints and resistance to change continue to impede the development of
effective extension work and that adaptive research fails to produce
appropriate location-specific messages that would lead to increases in
agricultural output in the project area. During the Phase-I projects,
administrative constraints caused serious delays in project implementation and
were reflections of several factors, including lack of government commitment
to and understanding of the T&V system, the complexity of creating new staff
positions in the Pakistan civil service which made recruitment difficult, and
inadequate budget allocations. Nevertheless, except for the housing component
in Pu3jab (para 2.13), the Phase-I projects were fully implemented despite
these problems and only the Punjab project needed a one-year extension. These
results are much better than those shown by the agricultural extension disbur-
ssment profiles for South Asia, which indicate an expected disbursement period
of 9.5 years compared to Punjab's and Sind's Phase-I projects' 7.5 and 6.5
years, respectively. In the proposed project, the administrative constraints



-47-
should be much less. The Sind government has been committed to the T&V system
for some time. The Punjab government is also fully committed as a result of
internal discussions of the PERI evaluation report (para 2.14). This is
indicated by the recent ADB project (para 3.13) and the request for IDA assis-
tance to extend the T&V system to the entire province. With experience
gained, government and project staff now better understand the T&V system.
New staff positions for T&V are now specifically defined and "familiar", and
should be more readily filled. Shortage of funds is a reflection of national
resource constraints and this risk cannot be eliminated. However, to the
extent that it is a matter of prioritizing expenditure among competing
demands, government's full commitment and interest is essential. In addition,
the PA housing component largely affected by previous unavailability of
funds -- in Punjab -- has been eliminated. An additional risk, after
implementation, is the continued funding and the transfer of staff salaries,
opsrating and maintenance costs from the federal government's investment
budget to the provincial governments' recurrent budget. However, this has not
been a problem in previous Bank-assisted projects, but an assurance to this
end was obtained at negotiations (para 4.45).
6.04      Failure of the adaptive research system to produce appropriate
recommendations is a risk which cannot be entirely excluded, since it is a
risk associated with all research. However, special efforts are made under
the project (para 4.15-4.17) to introduce a methodology for on-farm research
of farmers' problems, and technical assistance is also provided to this end.
6.05      Although staff continuity is not guaranteed, the current provincial
senior extension management is committed to the project. Government and the
Agriculture Department's firm support of the project is expected to be
reflected in managerial behavior. Regarding the commitments and incentives of
middle management and staff, the project is providing improved allowances and
staff, equipment, and technical assistance to strengthen the monitoring sys-
tem. Staff will be made accountable for results in their jurisdiction.
6.06      Overall, project risks appear acceptable.  A total cumulative
increase in yields due to the improved extension services of the order of only
0.3X would be sufficient to justify project expenditures. Farmers' respon-
siveness to extension recommendations has generally been good wherever visits
by extension staff are made systematically and where PAs have gained con-
fidence in their professional ability to introduce knowledge and skills. The
ability of the extension system to develop and disseminate recommendations
leading to increased yield above the level needed for a satisfactory rate of
return has been demonstrated adequately (para 6.02). Even without the results
that are expected from research generated by the project, major yield
increases are possible in the process of bringing the production level of
average farmers to that of the best farmers. To reduce the risk of tech-
nological constraints lowering anticipated project benefits, the project
supports programs for field testing research results and development of strong
working relationships between extension and agricultural research institutes.
Purthermore, the Agricultural Research Project (Cr. 1158-PAK) is a first-phase
Bank effort directed at strengthening agricultural research capabilities



-48-
throughout Pakistan to ensure a continuous flow of recommendations adapted to
specific regional needs.
C. Employment and Poverty Impact
6.07      The project's direct impact on employment would be relatively small.
Some 1,600 incremental extension and research personnel would be permanently
employed as a result of the project, and other limited employment would be
created during the period of civil works construction.
6.08    Par more important will be the project's indirect impact on employment
and income generation throughout rural areas of Punjab and Sind. The dissemi-
nation and adoption of improved agricultural production and farm management
techniques will lead to increases in on-farm productivity and farm output,
thereby generating substantial additional employment and income for farmers,
their household members, and large numbers of agricultural laborers in the
project area. In the project area, there are about 3.3 M farms with a median
holding size qf about 2.3 ha, each supporting about seven family members and
additional landless farm laborers. About half of Pakistan's labor force is in
agriculture. Based on 1980 census and statistics, value added for the median
farm family is about: US$500. This is equivalent to about US$70 per per-
son--about half of the income level judged to be absolute poverty level in
Pakistan. Given the land and income pattern of the proposed project area, the
project's indirect employment and income effects will predominantly accrue to
the rural poor.
VII. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      As a condition of invitation to negotiations the Governments of
Punjab and Sind:
(a) have all adaptive research farms established under Phase-I fully
operational, (para 4.14);
(b) have received anticipatory approval by ECUEC of the revised PC-1
document; (para 4.38); and
(c)  have invited proposals from qualified consultancy firms and have
selected the most responsive firm for contract negotiations (para
5.10).
7.02      During negotiations, assurances and agreements were obtained from
the Governments of Pakistan, Punjab and Sind that:
(a) project extension staff would be relieved of all non-extension
duties (para 4.12);
(b) ATI principals and instructors would be given an incentive payment
satisfactory to IDA (para 4.19);



-49-
(c) benchmark surveys would be completed in the project area by December
31, 1987 (para 4.30);
(d) progress of project activities would be regularly monitored in a
manner satisfactory to IDA and quarterly progress reports would be
submitted in an agreed format to IDA (para 4.30);
(e) key staff required to carry out the project would be appointed
according to a timetable acceptable to IDA (para 4.31);
(f) project vehicles would be procured according to a time schedule
acceptable to IDA (para 4.34);
(g) agreed motorcycle and bicycle revolving funds would be established
and maintained (para 4.35);
(h) travel and daily allowances would be paid to project staff at rates
satisfactory to IDA, such allowances would be reviewed from time to
time with IDA and that adequate budgetary allocations would be made
for this purpose (para 4.35);
(i) adequate annual budgetary alocations would be made for the proper
operation and maintenance of vehicles provided under the project
(para 4.35);
(j) Special Accounts would be established on terms and conditions and
operational procedures satisfactory to IDA (para 4.40);
(k) procedures listed in Annex 4 would be followed in project procure-
ments under LCB (para 4.42);
(1) after project completion, Punjab and Sind would operate and maintain
the agricultural extension services provided under the project and
would make adequate provision in their respective budgets for these
purposes (para 4.45);
(m) accounting staff in the Punjab Department of Agriculture would be
provided with training (para 4.47);
(n) separate project accounts would be maintained by each implementing
agency and the unaudited accounts would be submitted to IDA within
four months of the fiscal year's end, and audited statements and
audit report made available to IDA no later than nine months after
the end of such fiscal year (para 4.48);
(o) statements of expenditure used for withdrawal applications would
be audited following procedures satisfactory to IDA (para 4.48);



-50-
(p) Punjab and Sind, respectively, would establish according to a
timetable and with membership and responsibilities satisfactory to
IDA, and thereafter maintain a Project Coordinating and Monitoring
Committee and for each district in the project areas, a District
Agricultural Advisory Committee (para 5.05); and
(q) Punjab and Sind would establish, according to a timetable and with
membership and responsibilities satisfactory to IDA, and thereafter
maintain for each adaptive research farm in the project area, a
Zonal Technical Committee (para 5.09).
7.03      As a condition of Board presentation:  (a)  the Governments of
Punjab and Sind have sanctioned agreed staff for the first year of the
project (para 4.32);
(b) The Chairmen, ECNEC, has provided anticipatory approval of the
project PC-1 and funds for the first year of project expenditurs
have been released (para 4.38); and
(c) The Governments of Punjab and Sind have established respective
Project Coordinating and Monitoring Committees, District Agricul-
tural Advisory Committees (para 5.05) and Zonal Technical Committees
(para 5.09).
7.04      As a condition of Credit effectiveness:
(a) ECNEC would approve the project PC-1 (para 4.38); and each of Punjab
and Sind would,
(b) appoint the Project Director, Civil Works (para 5.02); and
(c) sign the contracts for the respective consulting services (para
5.10).
7.05      With the above assurances and covenants, the project would be
suitable for an IDA Credit of $DR 35.5 M (US$42.1 M) to the Government of
Pakistan.



E-4                                                                                                                                                                                                      *,        II~S
<~~~~~~~~ ...           .    .. . .    .. . .    .. . .  .. .    .  ........    ... . .  .. . .    ...,.  ..   ........   .........   . .......    . ...  -.......    .......    .........
E3'Ia           a         SW_s    s19 Ut- S       0 an6   S  eSg to   s    I n   S  oswSlt I 0SII t lo'sc    * 0hi          9U I        t S LS*W SA mu03 S3W   *,U#
5C ,^    ~ SSS*tU$SS  *Sfi-tSt  St*SSJt  flESS$ SflSSSZ SflSflS* SShhS:S S:tS: ,::,,,,.S,,.,:S:S SttSS|tt3   $*l$tSSS*SSSS l,ttS.,,,SS :,S ,, S  :S:S :
ij~~~~~~ 1, I 9   I$S 01114   S Ca *- of t&' a    l'  l 9 Ifs   I; of    a" 4001V  6 So  'I Sa    S  Sel    I NS'Sv  8  eMI   0 its    cTfn so                    s      s seX "ml     lmow    "             vb
Fs * - - - - - - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.............................. .  . .....    ....
g t * tst * ts s ses z Ks * sub * sg s st | ets s ~~~~SINN$ GM  3 iSlt-l2see   e    $   lS_:|SW  lW:Mlt ' SSItlGt 2#tP
I..    tM       t1s    *1       sm       a.   so.   oem    e  "8ss ueteU ce Smsta   U  seas   |  sa  Usss   nsus   elot"""s'ase ISIS    5
9 SN* a     f4e'. S l     Gleos's ts    t s s   Caes WI    'U Slb   s t" .9  's eee eses    t  lu t     aeou    i esaws  s 'Uti4S  I 55t't                               5s "Om ,_Wf1                   Ws
.......    ......     ......     .. ..  ........  ........   . . ..  .. . .    ......... .. ...  .........  .. . .    .   ........     .    ...   .. . . .....  ... . .
1ass'    las   wen    twa                           U NgU t         is'It c s a Sale  i is. e oWas  a tqse.     sts'S K iwa   as t i    oi i *    n   sews    sws  Sstu  m.sw3$n w   '    4 1m11 em ts  a
a es's tt te . .7 osn . 'w" '  a e                  m    ola    s V11 I m t Aa felts  essgo             isasgI    eM-i tt seast  sees                      s                $"o*tS cMs    $111tio   S
0 t &#*I'    $10   IF -   41 ttg '  gm      so    I '09  e   a    C'i  tb  av *  ml   0 uc   ^   s t't* UO It" Is  I M'   0 $0                                                   no  l     e '   A  "MMw C
.......... ... .... ... .... ... .... .............. .........  .......  ........  .......  .........  .........   ..........  ........    ..........  .........  ...........  .........  ...........  ..... .......... ...... .......  ........
*1I30   *tS * M             sof    so"*U gmt  44            *0    90'"     * 14  CM  'U 9 9t * 9  't VCT  't  % AKU *   ""'Kt V   I PSnt                            slt *nsw  0#11110 n  IN &Ilm         
tw t'  * M'  * ow   t *U   ue $c .I 0 o               as *   n.cqa *o* ,is Z mvt' 0                c at,         ma "N go is C  N  one I                             sieos lags*J "= m"S InF 
......................     .................. 
512eU015) gm seemus .
sem mumm" Is
tNC,c I a  *s*sssAase;t'   *lSt'  A 60 9 9 Z                     I a U s     ns'o  * '  a le'ss  $ s h. setC     I w  s Meue   Sul" ' 0100w                                            HSam  LcSm   *05"
...    ........ ..... .  .,  ... ,,,,.,,.,...........,,_   ........  ....... .........  .......  .........  .........    ..........  ........    ....... .....  ...... ..    .......  ....... ..... ...........  ....... ...   ........   .........  ........
s*MS'.  ast    ISu   a   Ce at sa * s    SU    IN                 seag t  tosil         11a    U         sg'   tais *  's  I  leet 5% 51 5l  3lb C*t'1K *s  I
........  .......    . ....    .......    .....    ..   . . ...    .......  .......     .I. . ..  .. . . . . . .. .. . .. .. . .. . . .. . .. . .. . . . .
I is    55 0                      0      S S      I5 ii     St e  I am      so       9S        0   ai  c           u a      ass       aw 114emm.o Insa
em              o       a       sa       sa a        t            seas        to     Si   t       a     0 Ng sCe iis  teas      s     ss                                        w      iiiiiums Olin  so
* ma      *a    as      to      os *      ec sew    se            see       em       ses       see tas            sum-    ems' Cw'                                                    5355M *IC    e  t ;X t
ata     a       a S     4s        V  isU5s uslow It  a g                                s      S a        5       ** S"t                 3                               S Kat *at    e won swamS i S
a       so       s        I$ Sow   *nt            s       sto *  s A  C"egg          ens       sa 1  gso               'S    CUlt S    Wols on's                                                        a"'3 I,b. 
Sm        a    S's t      Su*  t         6 ga's  aces        s gm     s't4  see        as   *W'ti          sem    suet    Ie' on,    *s                                                   $lo=mmi S
........  ........  ........... .......  ..... ....... ......... . ......... ........ ........... ............  .............  .........   ........... ..... ......... .........   .......... ........... ........... .......... ....
Isa ss    e    on       'su t   I s       sa e "  t11s    s        st t    'Us  tm1   swe'        m tff  a e101 a  s     tKie              ain'it                                         5         i * 5 0 *  t-
tu      a s       i     5 le t  to       Ste         S   go       gmU S 5 t                    55t5               en        S gs      I *'                                        53f383      ll53  ltm i
9W to    0                 t   a to    4   s         O       to      M^'s$     "    I S       It tU  1it'  %t gal S   ti   I a   9nu_l                                                               on    
t "U***"se  *   ' *   '  *               -.       *-         t l                                                                                                                                 55 * t     * ^t       tt"t$**Z'   l48  tf
...... Sao.... ..... OM .... _o          S ..... ..... a     see  ..... fall.... S... Sol... .... ...... ..... Sid..... ..... S.. ....... ....... ........ &...... .0' ..n I.... ......... ...... #"Nomi . .....
I8 *v fee  Ca   us- -Z  *                    toI   .tvse.   gave c                   tas    as    iN                cI '  t se  e" sJa wmpsm
Sew    sa         aI    seC  I 11           5O S *545   lest StM     OSU It          155 NO    It Sa twot 4 11              SUItE "VW     a                                              Ustat"  ' 410t  to"  ao     I
.................. .. .     .. ..... .... .... . I......                  .... . .....        . . ....... I........ .... ..............
toat e'sssm     asmeteasasmsu    smu Siv Ises               tos     e1' o f"as'    notsessewg -s. ta,  susie  es,ow                                                                   i     1am1Walle@t 
go. SW                          Om so~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ee  uesm 
Aft 451" _ 4 Lws*
to 85655 N                         *3_O5  uiNs   Mtt e S tmese m11 t 4 MMe3M s 1m  M
n_l s5w



PAKISTAN
PUNJAB AND SIED AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT - PHASE It
Project Conponents by Year
(RS '0001
Base Costs                                       tot81
86/87     87/88     88/89     89/90      90/91     91/92    92/93       RS      (US$ '000)
A. EXTENSION                   40.320.1 84.763.5 123.453.2 104. 115. 9  58.797. 6  47.925.9 35.759.9  495.136.2   30.946. 0
B. RESEARCH                    16. 815. 1  14,229.2  13.975.3   9.743.2   8.394.9   7.894.9  7. 196. 1  78.218.8    4.890.6
C. TRAINING                     6.260.2  16,575.7  25.853.4  20,S26.8  13,961.0  l.319.5  7.916.6  102.413.3    6.400.8
D. INFORMATION AND MEDIA        1.940. 1   1,928.3   2. 125.9   1.640.1   1.439.3   1.405.0  1.335.4   11.814.2      738.4
E. AD#INIStRATEON               8.832.8   8, 134. 7   ', 496. 1  4.684.2   4,734.5   4.838.2 5. 370.2   44.090.8    2. 755. 7
Total BASELINE COSTS             74. 168.3 125,631.5 172.904.0 140.710.3  87.327.4  73.383.6 57. ST5    2  731.703.3   45.731.5
Physical Contingencies         5.731.3   9,791.9  13.632.?  11.173.9   S.954.8   4.659.6  3.236.8   54.181.0    3.386.3
Price Contingencies           4.518.3  17,921.2  40.073.7  45,407.0  35.503.9  34.740.7 30.466.1  208.630.9    9.258.1
  __           _    _  _    __          _                                      ----------
Total PROJECT COSTS             84.417.9 153.344.6 226.610.4 197.291.2 128.786.2 112.783.9 91.281.1  994.515.2   58,375.9
=:222=2=  ::::=:=== :::S=:::z ::=:::::= ::::S:::: -:=:_:::a ::::=:::  ==-::::: ::= =:=
Taxes                         10. 179.4  It. 823. 9  14. 069. 6   7. 063. 6   4.802.4   4. 328. 6  3.662.9   55.930.4    3.290. 1
Foreign Exchange             23.460.5  34.051.0  47.036.0  36.433.3  25.677.8  21.322.3 14.894.6  202. 875. 6   11.915.9
--  - - -- - - - - -- -  - - -- - - - - -- - - - -- - - - -  -- - - - -- - --__ _-    - __-__ _ _ _ _-__ _   _ _ _
Decetber 3. 1986 16:47
NOTE: Discrepancies due to rounding.                                                                                           EDb



PAKISTAN
PUNJAB AND SIND AGRICUttURAt EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT - PIASE ll
PUNJAB PROVINCE
PROJECT COST SUNNARY
IRS '000)                                       fUSS '000)
2 TOtat                                        t Total
% Foreign  Base                                X Foreign  Base
Local    Foreign   Total    Exchange   Costs    local   Foreign  Total   Exchange   Costs
z==2v~=%z ~==~=_zz== ==-====--  z==:_z=S= ~=_eC:s  ---_---= --_-:-- =--:==:-=        --- -5-= 
A. EXTENSION                    278. 157. 2  49. 690. 0 327.8647.2     15      71  17, 384. 8 3. 105. 6 20.490.4       15      71
B. RESEARCH                      31,765.3  16.989.2  48.754.5          35       11   1.985.3 1.061.8  3.047.2         35       it
C. TRAINING                      46. 673. 7  16. 908. 7  63. 582. 4    27       14   2. 91?. t 1.056. 8  3. 973. 9    27       14    '
D. INFORRATION AND MEDIA          4. 123. 7   1.926. 6   6.050. 3      32        1     257.7   120.4    378.1         32        1
E. ADMINISTRATION                11.144.9   4,369.5  15.514.3          28       3      696.6   273.1    969.6         28        3
- 
Total BASEIINE COSTS              371.864.8  89.884.0 461.748.8          69      100  23.241.5 5.617.7 28.859.3          19     100
Physical Contingencies          29.347.4   6.491.6  35.839.1          18       8   1.834.2   405.7  2.239.9           18       8
Price Contingencies            100.146.4  28.249.3 128.395.8          22      28   4.353.4 1,297.2  5.650.6          23       20
Total PROJECT COSTS               SOl.358.6 124. 625.0 625.983.6         20      136  29.429.2 7.320. 7 36. 749.9       20      127
December 3. 1986 16: 05
NOTE: Discrepancies due to rounding.                                                                                                  |



we ems *1 _t
*S:ttlSt *S*.$S*  *tSflSin :fl$gSS  *:4$;$4*535 255*55* *3*4558 4*44*44.s .,:    35*55*3 4 284*35 S***5444 S* .5*33 4*I4*.S .  ;S s -sts   w84,:tss
* Gt'K        461    * Ont  S WOV   * ZPSItt '    WV   * *W I *   MS    I  *Se'  8 40SI  0  *'  9 uU   I titl                  * Ut'      * W  SOt                                                SIS03 1301        6e0
... 9 $$. .... ,,, IIIl, 09 s &".0 a$s a 9"M,4 as so"................. so 8.g $s' agm't  "st *"$S'-  t' s6o*  11val **.  M.....................s......... "Sol *1.Xmlas"3   S  sea V SIs 4 4, 1. ..............I................. , ,6 S S 'm 4 tS I.   m   $  
Sisa'tW'SI            wtSi15leWaa5 SSeSI. 18  5IW1ft t'-tsIe8e5s,gwilsssl O5- 5L1i5 eelas g  asI5S IWsI '5
........  .......  .......  .....  .  .......  .......  .......   .......    .........  .......    ........  .......    I... .   ........   .......   .     ....
*     5t. * *   U s I at   as 4a   15 a   S A    *SW  5 *i  * s        u5s  ; 41  t11I. *m       '    * *ia   t so's  0 11    9S                     _S                              fhSISSIW '$     # *0"f
_-        .    ........   ....    ......... .......    .......    .......    . ...    . .......  ... ....... .............. ... ............    ..     .......    ..  .......................  .......... ............. 
_        g         1               s             '                          *' gZ    061$ -U   to    I usl-    *  ni      a of U        to soi                                                           solet        t
A   Om t                4ttn t4o   SUw  s          te 1 em  tgsc  A a                eis "c.1I-e     s        s g ears "  =.I    
* on S as  aims  a Cs   t                   1    1     t             li        *  W t           * at a a        t  MO   *  a1t111   *  so a GU 111 4*3   55    9  3Wi                      ASU  _*8  "30SS 6)_1 5
3 0*         sa a   la   531        S i     l       si   A          s    e        S    Isues  I tI       nso-s  st* s    o* at    s t                                            1U*S         s131'   t* sI ICA  t   J   "  o ; I
s1INUS eW se s-s                                                                                                                                                                         tawe   issg Sac55   U13)  CUSi 56"5 01  CUl 11    l  tWIS5)WS t
s sw        se       s   i        g "     e *-s w ss       a ii     e   *s   ggsI"  *U           * mt *1 C           s 311t    a _*0|t U  S V .     S'at                               Su nniS    i  em     -S10
, .....................  .........   .......   .......   .......   .......   ......    .......  .....   ...I....   ........  ...........  .........   ......I..   .........  ..........
C  Sol    g*  gist.o  sii   m           s-wi" *ssa     ts             aIs *   uf          eas it i    Sae   4a S;s  s sei     gee1e  s   S_ a_                               titnSU   s O s MOM    S S310
* sel a    ta  t  OS                WCUA *$   S isa     53   *    see-i tin             s Sae -  s ests    *    ei    * 15-1   ssms     soam                           nsuin                       11a1lies"111 t
1ese,   ato     gg       VSe | e* s-   se   u1o %VU    a             s    ," s   itlaitWs   sCstlIUs                     SWIe   S 5tC     u ss                                 53515   $Si{ttS      33210     t 5
o'S  Is -           * 118 $     S 11 tt    c in I   ' 't   6t *" 4t            9I t"'    on   tpu s   "  t*tC 1     5#lo   .014 0^t      Ct49V-tt33111111o  sffgu    00t*t 3-4p
........  ....... ....... ....... ....... ....... ....... .......  ......... ........ ........ ........ ......... ......... ......... ........
ct  9sia Su      ama so    ues 9 lo         ee  s   s a" *esg    sawse   s  a     Cega as0s 4  sues tcgsaIt   5 a1ses  * a esse                                                     AI'I tl saM   3Jos           5
9~ ~ 0101  cow    cm     elt u     9o           s         to  c *$w         * a" lw   t C06    op U1 is 9 4011   t'ogt        Dl     ussSoSw                                          ol It$""tM Ztt 
-X     It* ca    I     55      *t5    t5        ue    ts         sU       1*3       e         SitK       si    t.ag        t e    s ent    t66  c't                                                         mtilHt*  ttamt *
.......  .......... .......  ......... ....   ..   .  ..   ..   ......  .......    .......... ........  ........   .. ....... ........ .... ....... I.  ............ ...... .......  .
5.*g,.  9g 5.` 1 t                    cl           9 *-u            a egg   i.O  iN               ems     ia ae      se"s        as      ee iS    l                                                            U 4 on  swssGa
an Io    to       18      85      II             tK 55Stt*gt IS g.a                     t        J tit s @5 5  IS;   5     Is   O tect    ,s"                     S_ 51165551U  31"
... ..._. ..................... .................. ..................  .......  .........  ........  ...........  ........  ..........  ........    ...........  ........  ..........  ................  .........  ...........  .........  ........
5W    I  I           i a tt       t4 I     s   a  C sIn       tst   I all   9 so        Sim U       10S  t is W         so  f     511   8 ICS.* e                         St     Swdtd           I    -ames  I
* am  a IS'*l  a tgo      a   st    a as1s: t'sa S's                J.4Os,     11iet    a wis S   tIts  a 0eese t * Weel asesim   I '1 11,                                                       5 11*33 1 *104-'S
505     as        I'm    5t       9 Oa  s *iag! .ea    g1              i-    iss1. - * s  I S-    a       C5iVA        *Sa t C  * C allS   9                         -msAm  sius  9a
ano Is    u      e4s    a se.  a   Sim ems eaesa C610    S an1 log                551    11355 5 seaias a ass-u  sP sa-se1 sIss is,&   a Ie" IshIO)I:S 335*53
S1 3031LW*3*U 3
a'     ti      a  11     nosIgIs   see's  t "e I$ Iv Su'                 1413        t *4 "  4 Ile M   W 4 o    C    Ialso 9,1  @la  1041C113   46 "
............................. ............................  ..... ....  ....... .         ........ ........ .........  .........  ....  . .      ......... ........ 
uses, te-     SI)
J.a Aqt *wo0 A        _~
g        t. S W    35t5t 3i    38t  9 sitiSt4,      551U1 311191`1  5lS   0    tit9
31183*



PAK IS IAN                          PAEI
PUNJAB AND SIIID A6RICUITURAt EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT - PHASE ll
PUNIJAB PROVINCE
Project Components by Yesr
IRS  000
Bse, Costs                                     Total
B6/87     87U/8     88/8/     89/90    90/91    91/92    22/93    . aS       IU$ '000)
A. EXTENSION                  29. 36?. 9  60. 428. 3  86. 816. I  73. 3S2. 1 31. 92. 6 25. 754. S 19. 034. 8  327. 47. 2   20. 490. 4
S. RESEARCH                   10,374. I  9.319.9   8.895.0   S, 689. 2  S. 05S. 6  4,76. 9  4,543.8   46.754.5    3.047.2
C. ItAINING                    3. 542. 1 10. 466. 0  17. 147. 2  13. 331. 1 8. 193. 3  6. 627. 5  4. 275. 2   63. 582. 4    3. 973. 9
0. INFOWTION AND  ODIA          I. 277. 1    91. 1    915. 1    t35. 7       737. 4    73. S    731. 4    6. 050. 3  378. 1
E. ADMINISTRATION              3.359. 1  2.589.6   2.387.3   1.455.0  1.593.4  1.744.4  2.385.4   15.514.3        969.6 
Total BASEtINE COSTS            47.920.4  83,713. 8 11, 161. 3 94,563. 1 46.672.3 39.747.I 30.970.7 461. 748.8   28.6S. 3
Physical Contingencies        3.887.9   6.775. 1  9.758.4   8.028.6  3.194.3  2.504.6  1.690.0   35.839. 1   2.239.9
Price Contingencies           2.897 2  11.931.1 27.356.4  30.494.5 18&981.2 19.278.4 17.456.9  #28.39S.8    5.650.6
Total PROJECT COSTS             54. 705. 6 102.420.0 155,276.1 133.086.2 68.847.8 61. 530. 2 50.11?.1 625.9U3.6   36.749.9
Taxes                         6. 505. 3   7.588. I   8. 173. 8   2. 148. 3  1.973.1 11. 771. 2  1. 463. 3   29. 623.8   t. 744. 5
Foreign Exchange             14. 59. 7 21. "44. 4  30.S13.0 22. 710. 0 13. 967. 5 12. 247. 4  8. 763. 0  124. 62S.  7 7. 320. 7
Oeceber 3. 1956 16: 05
NOTE: Discrepancies due to rounding.



PAKISTAN
PUNJAB AND SIND AGRICULTURAI EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT - PHASE 11
SIND PROVINCE
PROJECT COST SUMMARY
(RS '000)                                      (US$ '000)
S Total                                        S totat
S Foreign  Base                                8 Foreign  Base
Local   foreign   Total    Exchanee   Costs    Local   foreign  Total   Exchange   Costs
T======-= c===== = ==== ==-: :====:=:== =:==:=S=  ==-=-==: :=S==:-= =====z=: ===:=--== === ==
A. EXTENSION                    144.955.7 22.333.3 167. 289. 0        13      62   9. 059. 7 1. 395. 8 10. 455. 6     13      62
8. RESEARCH                      15. 186. 1 14.308.3  29.494.3        49       l      949.g1   894.3  1. 843. 4      49       11
C. TRAINING                      25. 624. 7 13.206.1 38.830.8         34       14   1.601. 5   825.4  2.426.9        34       14
0. INFORMATION AND MEOIA          4.227.1  1.536. 8   5.763.9         27       2      264.2    96.1    360.2         27        2
E. ADMINISTRATION                23.441.2  5.135.2  28,276.5          18       t   1,.465.1   321.0  1.786.0          18      it
Total BASELINE COSTS              213.434.7 56.519.8 269.954.5          21      100  13.339.7 3.532.5 16.872.2          21     100
Physical Contingencies          14. 707.2  3,634.8  18.342.0         20       7      919.2   227.2  1. 146.4        20        7
Price Contingencies             64.483.1 18.578.8  83.061.9          22      31   2.909. 1  863.8  3.772.9          23       22
Total PROJECT COSTS               292.625.1 78,733.3 371.358.4          2t      138  17. 168.0 4.623.5 21. 791.5        21     129
=t=_ == _  ==== ===== =_   === ===  =  _= = =_  ==   ==  _== = _S  :=     :55__=t= _= = == ==  == = =:::= -== = == =-= =: - - - 
Deceuber 3. 1986  15: 43
Ent
NOTE; Discrepancies due to rounding.                                                                                                 s-



Sisary OccowbIe by Year
tot*l is if ud4fte Conti p - tes                                lotgi alt iocIug. coat  C~1igo , I"
ats 0061                                                         WS;$ I Om8
66  41?/8"   818/89   08/3    90/31   36/3    92/33   totail    OM,8  87/US  $8881  119/90  30/6  01/92  321103  lot*t
I  woluvuto costs
a Clvii usms
I SIUVicI 681136US$                                     6.41804 IS. 124 6 20.203I 66. 4130 K6.833 S. "I76  2.253 I 87.435 I   3MS  6MS a .tgo 3  363 3  S884  008 0   1.8 S. 132 4
2 1669r UhISIUS                                         1. 01 I   3.3833  0 .294 3  3.3457  1.419 0   8736   2101SIS 1003     60ot  "1 333   30 S   1907   83 0   StS   128a   t3 4
3 tood*6fi3os6noa8m3os15:gaII                             709 4   0223  1. 1003  1. 1140  1.1836  1.2809  1.11#116  T.F1.1    4511   040S o 87    632   893I   7)8   712    40239
St&-lot*$ C11t1 3061M8203 13.431 1 M. 860 0".3934 8 19.4948 S  2.138 2  3.7M23 110. 70? 2   4309 1.147 6 1.S83 6 I,22262 1.140 7  730 3  221 9I 641187
a itUr acqUismigur                                         1. 7873 t0WO.6  2.00 14   I4480  1063    122n0    33.0  41810 I   101.1  #476   120.6    81 S        0o9    I71    1.3  406.7
o  Arn. uevuOMNITe                                            it 4    303    662       4       17       26      30    2428a    4.2    S3 I       3S     0 2    0.3I   0.2t   0.t    14.3
I I -wUiI  668W61/#i1K-UPO1 3481 S3.83. 9 S.12007 4.00 8  1.00683   8816    4605  IS.333 2   2013 218M   3009   2388    62St4   *01    to03  $.08s
2 fl38*ISC7CiS/6C?ciII                                    242.5   86.8  1. 7160*  S. 030 a 310 7   241 1 I     61    S. 211.4    it44   03 I  WA4    33u7   290 a 14 6    26    M6. 4
S.6-t.t.S VENICEII                                         3738 6 4.30M  7 63967 1.686 9  1.442 0   9267   210.?  3.U36?   221.8  271.2  461. 1  332.6   84.4   14?I  S4 2  1.383 9
I BuOmmiu,v SIqSlP6EU                                  S.443 3 2.1*1.4   3106   443 0   24741  11O0.    71 6  1.437 6   3236 a   246   36Ss         253    # 4.0S  10 S    S.2   S"8a
2  "8131661two                                            143 3   i131    13no0    123.1   M182    381    24 2  2.4664    382    42.4   488    6.1I    0 3           18     6 4    "I6.S
3 6a911816606860866351S *Sst"                             48.6    14 6      S03     01S     07       0.1s     06     623       t.4    0.9    0. 3    8.0    0.0    8.0    0.01    3.71
4 0466116686638                                            63. 6   331.1   3208    103 4    o S90            to3  0    S.W..1  47I   23.1   30.3    62       3.01     23    60.    11.0
S I  tsco *661311181666                                  0O98   41St   324 *    26.2    389    34 1          60I   .S1.62    Ss10   2654   21.        .1S    2 2    1.5    0.4     69
6 6061t66306106t8760.                      135~"S3    10    21 6      2 4     2 4     22        0     33I2     It36    4.1    1 S       .0.    0.2    0.1    0        2
slintotun                                               6696.4  3.M362.6714. 0      t166   387*    3364    its37M On.631   469.0  n2o a #M6a   43.9   337    10a6    67I   ml
t #"Ml low                                    M ~~~~~~~*33   621.6 2.441 4 4.6)2.1 3.622.3  .613S 3. 733 2  81 6I11  65.1   48.3  14.1 S2So.7I  32).I  263.0  268611 6. I2. 
total 13*8118681 COSTS                                      2002?31.24M-8. 240   6 I3. 6131i 1.45967i.' 7 43  1I.33M-9 1)-,I'm1  I.'-2436184323S"1.83S 1.6911609    84I.67
tttttStr  .SSS... tS*ttt  or. Soo nf..   ...   n..   n.. .....go      ....e t.*...... I.t. *.a.....ns.. an..t.
II 668303 06111OYNU
8 1816..1...0.auu..uas..
I IUC3I86UA taff161  161*061                          2.0116  S.626S 9.3966 #0."$ 0 It.6$421 S12.3034 12.381 6 64.133 0   I138   3322  108 6  OIl I  US 2  In83  IN84 3.728
2 S1aff 66161  US 66311 $6IolmUI                       2. 666.S 3. S30 3 4.0S240 S. 036t S.3M.4? S.634S 1,351.31 32.614.S   S"0S  248.6  26. 3  294 7  363 3   322.7  36832 6961.0
1.b-lot.tS 1.56965*0 as $386301                          4.6)2.1 9.1361.0 13.91 618 1110.80 la."9? 2 $?.943018i. ol S of.200S  210 6  S1698  868.2  320.1  6no.6 1n. 03  1.3me.? .789. I.
I O,.su WAun  tie   mess                               1,620.2 3.202   4.0327  4.624 I '4.92511 SS. 7. I S.5)2. 2  M .8666    383   M. 0  2634  2104  2M..3  336.2  32. 1  3.74.17
2  mItels mAatesmlic                                     10339   2817 Sol2   go?76  3. 3166   1.3054S S. on. 2  69376     S  62      7     33      083 276    388s   1646   666.2
3  itct VIIIIIIS   1836111301                           376.6  1.071 2 2.100 4 2.M022S 2.300 S .0332 3.M222 IS 0.341S   221S   63 2   6232  M1I39    176    in1 S*832             a33
4 63118 61331. 638203611111*6  1061615  66361. [IC       M068  1,06.0  2.301 4 2.M23.  2.423 6 2.138 9I 2.122   14.8885    4 0    33.8  1)5. 0   134.  142 2   102.0119VI.3   681 3
Sub-fatal *33A3A 11X136S                                 2.0309  6,2010 3.663 a Io,.666 I 11.6138 6It.0S" 2 63.437 0 $69.33S   670 0  366 6   63.7  6203 1  6S"     7 34.6   86.2 I3.323 6
C  688l6116 . 11013360*1 851311860  Mo3 113816
6 0615118  Iuagulus O wca $far;                          48 3   2413 446 ?   4)3.?  S33*8   3660    760  2.626t4             209   141S   27 4    oii II t        e3 sa    4.2   124 4     to
2 local 11*61*0                                         6633S 1. "I 8 1.010 2 I.39s3 3 2.0o*3 3 2.3048 a:.131110 I91.38'.  231    721 S    30o2   1646 1 II8   323 2  428 S    M82 II
2  1W63C6183111161111                                  491Ms1441    .17    .43676                         3     368,410    233   60t88     26M22    207   a)  04 2   23.19  36o 
4 168011                                               23 98   1902   #W80      S$1    1 90621 S 2624   2327   #.Ms0   64 3    II2    to06    to06       1 363   t 66   624    62 .2 
S.AbAotal 10833335. tICIIICiMAI 61131818 M US 113I3S      1.303S 4.30414 6.0970  6."692  5.87S0  4.4068  2.61  36.38306    ItS  201 0  460 4   MI  S"344    2078   3881e  1.87ll4
lot.) VICUMM..  tat..                                        6.74 8 39.116 3 30.524 632.1SO0 334.4135S 343906.6 20.23* 0 336, "2339    1296. 63 9I M.73 .9315 6 2.0170 2.042 621.0613  1I.004 3
r.. .. ;             ."...at -.. a. .    ta ... ...... .t....... It...  C..  re .....tf  ...... .......S =...... ....... ...a....
.1.606 PIOJCI CMIS                                           29.112  SO-324 6 7. 324 364.20S01St. 935 4SI.ON00083.6IO888S7t. M8   1.7691;  3.008s 24. 838a 3.70  73. SS2L04723446 1.521S 321.7its
astataa ttttata tsSts:t*55 SaS t-.nttt tfl... .....St Mo. 1 ttt- -  _ ..,.--  .~ttt  ....... ...St,at.. . .... ..
~~~~~~t  3. 3988  tO 42~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.....................  ...  .....                                                                ....   .



PWM  An 53I3 aBSCUI 1561 Elt ESlON333 MPIIVE NESEARCS PJECt - pHASE 11
Projwet Cmoments by Tee
S '00)
S.t. Costs                                 lotal
8611B   S6/t    US/       60/90   90/      93A02   92/3         Is     55 *000)
::sS:z::  x:2e:s:: *v:2:::a :vsn:::: st::g::g 23222*222 5:2:3::  S: :::.-:: :2:5:::2:
A. EXTENSION                 IO. "2.2 24. 335.3 34.636. S 30.163.1 2?. 76. 0 22. 1. 0 1t 7. 2  167. 261.0  10. 45S. S
S. KSEARCN                    S.440.9  4,901.3  5.080.4  4.054.1  3.339.3 3.01,0  2.052.3  29.494.3   1.643.4               4
C. TRAISEUO                   2.?3B.1  6.1&M.? &7K.2  7.1".8  5.767.S  4.612.0  3.641.3  38.6)0.6   2.425.9
*. IUFOATIU MD "foIA            663.0  1.@O1.2  1.210.8   004.4   701.9   661.6    64.0   S.763.9         360.2
E.  sIrisRISaTION             S. 473. 7 S. 45. I S. 16. A 3. 220.1 3. 14.1 3.0f3.8  2. SU.   26. 56 S    1. 76.0
tot  BASEItIE COStS            26.247.9 41. 9 17. t 54.742. t 46.147.2 40.6551. 33.636.4 26. 607.   M. 0545    1, 872. 2
Physical Contingncis         1843.4 3.014  06.8 3.674.3  3.145.3 2.715      115.0 1 .S46.?  16 342.0      1.146.4
Price Contiigencice          1.621.1  S.090. 1 i2.71.) 143.912.1 16.S 22.6 16.291.5 S OS06.6   3. 061. 9   3.772.9
Total PROJECT COSTS            29.712.3 50.924.6 71. 334.3 64.205.0 5W.938.4 52.08.0 43.16C.6  371.3S.4  21. 791.S
loses                        3.674.1 *.235.1 5.8S0.9 4.015.3 2.329.3  2.560.2 2.279.7  26,416.6   1.152.1
foreign Eichang              8.940.9 12. 146.S I1 s23. 0 13.723.3 11.?10.4 0.231.7 6S417.S  MS733.3   4.623.S
bcoe~sr 3. 1986  IS:43
NOTE: Discrepancies due to rounding.



33                                                                                                                                                 T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~m9b   1'.i9  - 
-  -  -  -  -  -  o  ot ol -  -  -  -  -  - -  -  -  -   -   -  o   ol  ol -  -  -  o  ol ol -  -  -   -   -   -        e  ol Ot -   -   -                                            -1
c~ ~ ~~~1 e1 i                                         tt  C  Ct   I            osIl* 0      Z          ol S  x  9    C9 tt I            o C  , 06 I       CtS 
t  o  1   1                                            IC~~~ ~~~~~8                    5          8         8      5       15        -          IZ9
0       1 C   t           0 I  0  S  1 C  0  t 198      0 015      a   1 0  9   0   t   t   0  S 8        a   9           9    0  t  * 0  C  t  0 9   V  0  S  S          I                                       Tt1
09  9  0  9   9  0          5 9 0    9  90   9          0  9  9         9   I 9       0   0   0        t  Z0 z8809     0            0  9  9  0  9   6  0  Of o             x 1
0   9t t  0          0         0      9990 n                                   0      fi I  0 11 n  o  U  B1  0  n             "l O    It  t1  000    0t        1         1a                                         
 9  S  * 9       9       5 C  S 1   C  S   I  S  9 8    C  S  0   9   9   0 a             5   0  9  b  0  9  *              099     01  S   0          i     0          9                                     3 6 
c  L  at 6  t  CT&  t  itl C             S  0  S  a  9  lp  at et  c   a   6   9   nt  O  C  C  in  I  ec                  9  Ct  S  S  at I  t  U  1  6  9t              S                                4m*O   V
Ct  It  I  S           9 I  s  t      t 1    I  s       e  t  *           5   C   c   9   0  90    9          08       I  S         I 0    S 1 1   910         9       I 9
Go It 9  St to 6  it *  0  "9 "  Al SOatt C                 ae   "  0       t.    en t9t    0  6C "  TV 60t on   n  es O t 0  as 06      "           9S , az sv t u1 nl) 3ONS  V
$  0 9  9  9    S  C  t  11          I   9      t  S  9          It  *  i    S   I        9 S  0  5  5  9    I  I    t 9       S       1 t 9     19 I  S      t  t  9   01
e   0  1  t  0   t  t  e  t  e   t  t  t  e 1           t  0  t  t   0   1   0                                          9 t   *   t  I  I  e  t    I  * 1    t  0  t  t  0  0 O  I  8 t_
0'      1      01         09  0 '  .  .  .  .  .    I -  - 1     -  -  - @   0   1   0   t   I                0 1      t  0 1       -  -  -  I 0      I 0    0    t      St
*  :  s  S  5            0  ;  1  0  9 e   0  5  3  0  8  5   0   5   5   0   5   I  0  1 S    0  1                     9    5   9  0         109  0  9                  1 CSt  O t            9S                  t
0  a  It          t           O1  I  t   9  0   1t i 0  9   Ot 0   oI 0   1   I   0    1   2  0        C S  0     1t    S   tt  t  0  1  St  0  0  1  0  n  9t           U1              (1WPP=U*IS
a   t  I  0        t I  0  1  I  0               t 9  0                 t I  0  1  8  0   1   1   0    I   I   0   1  1  0     t 0     T I 0 1  1  0  1  1    t  I       a                  t     W Swine
0  I  8  o   t                  I  I o   I  I 9    I 9   o          I a 9                  *   o t   t    O   t  t    o t a  t             9  0           0 t    I 9   flLl         (P9 S9lt ao=I1*           t38
_ w  _- _                        -  -  -  -  -  -  - -_         -  - _  -    -    -         -    -      - -   -  -  --     - --   -        -   -uiuiu- w
ON                    IVW           VOR     --v O'M tw l tPYW e=M                                           ZMT o            o It0        t 0 t t    t0t I O t ITW  -,ea  tpWa I            Ott   tt              t
WSOM  -           3: > d q I D _13 Xp"O.Itt
(Al SOY U0M3



POR32AND am 38 AW ml2g3 .       4f !,,,IZan 338808  PIOJUC  PEUM It
7b   Drector
I      I   I?, X. Iv-                                                                                          G.it18                              ktt
Deputy  stote                               i    1     012 I012  0               1 10    11  0 11  011I0    1120    1 10                                                          23       24        9
hapatwofrset.cT!r.Li4                      18 --------                                                      -1 t0  1                                     ---  -                    2        0        2
ow. a6jotltUtgs.spe.a1l.t                   to   -                                                                                                                -  ----        - ----0   -- --           le  10 
MA Vids.. Vtdeo Ms.ISystos. hAa1lyetI8z.   is   ---------- -------;- -                                                           - ---            -4  0  4   --4                            04
Utr At.Kxto ftit (i*4)178BP3I 10  4  3                   33   c0    3      0    3  30  33  0220    440    5350                                                         R6       5        17
ftm  of. irotr ste.(tai17 W)     I       1p 11I 0 1 0 1 111o Io       II0    1  10  11  01  10    1 10    2110                         34110I1o  I                     29       27        2
ks""rcb tffcfte                            I?B17891;----                                             ------                           0  1  1  0-- 1- -                       -    6        0        6
Agi-to   Of"    (oc"")17   11  011   0:1 0                            1 10    1  10  110  1  10    1 10    11t0                        ---4 04    -  --   33                    29        4
Apiultte ffeer01*4)17 15103 10 8213 132    13 11 2   77?0 6 60771 27  t1101212120                                                      -                 -- --           6     230       34
hstiPIltme tftcer Tra1n1.)                  17   30  34  0430  3                 3 0        310  33  03S2  02    4 04    3 01                    17178 0                                            65
wars,n16m2  0  2    2                                                                                                                                                           0        2
Sttitis  lvoele11, t0 11   -  -  -                                                                                                                                    I11i
80865 iaot.s. 8      -------s --                                                                                                                              40  4   -  -  -       I                4
somi"eodom                      ,23    10       10 10  -1               110-  -1011 1           0-   - -    -  110         10 1    -       --1   .I0  1    -  -  -    17                 it1
Comertjfter13                              -;              -       -- -;                       ---- -                         -  ---2  02    -  -  -               I                2
kmo"s^s                                    is A5I1     02110110                  1 10    110   1102  11    1 10    1 10                           -      --  4  04    8 0          36      14       22
Office iA4oisU                              12    31  4564132  3                 3 2       35412S332  431    6 42    7 16                         -       -   -  716    20 2    122        65       77
DOM* Psose.lang &#"*teat      -- --                      -------                                                   --- --            - -2-                     0 2     -  -  -      2       02
Field As.1.ea(PA)                           619 1012012 00880  0012 1        210107100 3 34 36304012053 47 6Ss 80396904 -                                       -404A  2075    1630          243
gooier Clark                               6    631154  1310                     130    5so     1303416              0    6460    8 71I            3038 2  6    4 04    I36                72       64
Juswi.* 3le                                     147 71IS10 313835   13 9 4 110 31310 310 73 16 10 62 21. 3                                        -  --  62  6    4 04   3so              372      1n0
Driver                                      6   63  1  63277  0                 6351    64  26  3  36  42    6800    8860                          3 03511 36    6 60    24                119       45
sce,61-------- -                                                                                             -- --- ---I0  1    2 02                                    3       0 
1MtbQsdd                                    6-------                                         -;1                    -- --- ---2  02                                               2       01        2
ftib Qastd                      2~  14 14014 14 014 140    14 14 014240114 011 11 017 17 020200                                         ---1       011L  -  -  -   327         318i
Cbowdik"                         I    9a~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 8 088 a0880    9880    S880  8   #0    66010   0 012 12 0  --- 0       -  -  -    M6      18l2
Usti                                        I  44 0  4 4 44  044   ~                       '4 04 4 03  3     350 66 0                                                                                 0                       o 9
4193    3233      860      .
mm   t otal Require
868  8 -   8.t fr.
Toc-omentaln oiecu



P933A3 *3 32M Ma%32L1IA1 =9IU1   A~ =   Vs 3ntm  13031Cr7- mm*3 XI
61.4 ftoisaa staff meavi,mate
in         iv.          x        n          xft x-           nxm                                                                        AN x x  xi ii   x x  ix xx  x 
Dv.ectotof? ajaini            it     I   0   11                                                                                                                                                         01
Dqtwz.etov(ba.tfa)         to         0   A    I   0  1                                                                                                                                      2       02
96 o7ft.ctwmd4e Md.)       is                                 1I22 0                             0    0   0 0        1   012     101          1 01         1 01                              7 
lag. l*~,t b.tey SagtaLt is                                                                                                                                      s  o I      -          3       0           2
h6.I13etot(238o)      I7 tBp I   0   I1    1   0  1                                                                                                                                     2  - - -      : -   2  ,t
Asst.Mmtieto (Hoald)          17 &o                             3 3    0    2   1   1    3   3   0    1   10            3   1 2      2  I1       3  12        31.2                    --    20         12      
"sjm6=tt.#6s.e4l.t            1799                          3 1    2    3   1   2    1   2   0    1   10                12    3  12          311 2        '  1 2            22                   10          12
or.           ADA tr.6 q16(h20)    17 SW91    0   1    1   0 1 62                                                                                                                       6       26
TraL.af ead Video Pnag. 0O6f6.. 17   3   1   *                                                                                                                                            12
StatistiA.1 Officer Sad 1to~g17ma    3   1   3                                                                                                                                                     
dstutgofitwCAOl          17     4   2   2         -       16 16        10   3   3   16 14   0    3   30    12 9                16  111    2-41-3 11   2-41-41-0            125                  83         42
wiinbtferg 0317101 --                                                                                                                                                                      1       0           1
16 3   c                                                                           i                                                                                 0          3
Astidt/Omipam                 16     2   0   2-2                                                                                                                                                        0          2
0166.la9.xintagdeot    6     - - F         - -           20           2 0 1             0   1                                                                     2    1 1 1  0   0   0  1   1             17
8too.be                       13 -is          7I
ate-typi-12                  - - I              -2       -       1I12                                                         - 1-2                         2-                                             is 1
Statztialo"Irtmoot iato       It     -   -  13-                                                                                                                                                                    13
office &sal.otm              211              6                                       2    --  --        --   23    -                     24                         I         1                                   23
Field A..L.taet               9/6793                                   4   60 21 39   96 %    0          9 9 0    7531025   96 2967  143 6679   147 72 73    3  03                           727    433          292
Senior lagk                   6      -                 -2-                                                                                                                                                         10
Va.                           3      -   -o)    3    -  -  2-3                                                                                                                                                     33
Oriwft,hV oKlpw                              it-1       -1      -       512                                                 -4                    -3           -               3        -1      -       -1
U~:  toalteoi13d



62-
(up8 ~ ~ MW 
.1 
QmtgrID  NY           Onarter      E.eLfmaz&Utr  Csu1uatLi.  ..L.
1986      Ti    .      FY87         I                 --                     -
1987                                I    I       n-
FY88     IV               2.0l           2.0
III         I"                           0.5             2.5       6
IV                     II1.0                           3.58
1988                                                1.0            4.5       it
II               ~~~~IV            1.5           6.0       14
III         FY89         I               2.0            8.0       19
IV                     II               2.0           10.0       24
1989                                                2.0           12.0       29
II.'' J                IV               2.0           14.0       33
III         FY"9                         2.5            16.5      39
IV                     II               2.5           19.0       45
1990        I                     III               2.5           21.5       51
II                     IV               2.5           24.0       57
ItI         FY91         I               2.5           26.5       63
IV                     II               2.5           29.0       69
1991        I                     III               2.0           31.0       74
II                     IV               2.0           33.0       78
III         FY92         T               2.0           35.0       83
IV                     II               1.5           36.5       87
1992        I                     III               1.5           38.0       90
II                     IV               1.0           39.0       93
III        FY93         I                1.0          40.0       95
, f''   IV             II               1.0           41.0       97
199         }                     III               0.6           41.6       99
II                     IV               0.5           42.1      100
Fipure~ gIstituteI  initial deposit of                        35.2.0 N into the
Specia.S                                                  36.5 t7



.63-
LUL
PWIJA  AD SD lI D ACICUTURhL IXTRSIOgI AND ADPIY i         M    m        - MA8S  II
Astneeets pktained oa IC  Proetgdutre
The following points have been agreed and will be taken into account
by COPunjab and 608ind in order to make their Communication and Works' Depart-
sents LCB procurement procedures acceptable to IDA for project procuremnt:
1.        All contracts shall be advertised in the local press.  for such
advertised contracts not lees than 30 days should be allowed for the submis-
sion of bids from the time of advertising.
2.        No numerical limitations will be placed on qualified fims which
may be registered and all qualified firms from Dank eumber countries and
Switzerland and Taiwan will be permitted to bid even tbougb they may not be
registered, except in cases where Goverrment can produce documentation accept-
able to IDA (copies of statutes or official regulations) that probibit commer-
cial relations with certain countries.
3.        In case of prequalification, prior Bank agreent on selection
criteria and the final selection, is required.
4.        Bidding documents should specify all factors to be used in bid
evaluation.
S.        Awards should be made to lowest evaluated bidder and this should be
indicated in the bid documents.
6.      No preference of any kind (i.e. waiver of bid bond, free tender docu-
ments, local goods or labor restrictions, price preference, etc.) will be
given to any bidder under LCS procurement for the reason that the bidder
promotes ecoaomic development, e.g. poverty alleviation, unemploymeot relief,
greater use of local products, small scale industries, public prastatals,
ete.



644-
AMNE 5
PUNJAB AMD 8IND AGRICULTUEAL EZTEISON ANp DAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT - PHASE II
Cost Comparison for AkricultRa  Y Axtension Projects
Project
Costs J$N)
No. of    No. of
ProSect                         Per LAR  1986 I  Farms        ha    $Lfarm  $/ha
N.        M
Pakistag
Proposed Extension IV                 -    49.0      3.3     17.1    15      3
Extension IV less Phase I Dist.       -    49.0      2.4     12.8     20     4
Baluchistan Ag. Extension           9.9    10.7      0.069    0.37   155    29
Sind Ag. Extension                 11.4    12.9      0.40     1.7     32     8
Punjab Ag. Extension               16.2    20.7      0.5      2.6     41     8
Inia/ 
Third National Ag. Extension       77.7   83.8       7.2     10.2    12      8
National Ag. Extension II          68.9    74.3       ..    24.8      ..     3
National Ag. Extension I           56.1    60.9    13.8      41.5      4     1
L  Indian projects cover districts, to varying degrees, already
covered by previous Bank extension projects, which explains the
somewhat lower cost.



-65-
ANNEX 6
Table 1
PAKISTAN
PUNJAB AND SIND AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT - PHASE II
LEXTENSION IV)
Price Build-Up for Economic Analysis
(mid-1986 constant Prices)
Rice/
Item                               Paddy        Wheat   Cotton  Sugarcane  Urea    TSP         Mn.
1.  Project World Market Price (US$/t) LI              348          158   1,870        288         223    159    104
2.  Adjusted for quality differentials and
bags (factor of US$)                               0.70 /2      1        0.9       1          -   + 30   + 30
3.  Adjusted Projected Price (US$/t)                   244          158   1,680        288         223    189    134
4.  Freight to Karachi Port (US$/t 13                 - 25         - 25    -125       - 25          15      40     40
5.  CIF/FOB Price at Port (US$/t)                      219          133   1,555        263         238    229    174
6. Handling and transport between port and
local store                                    - 15         - 15    - 60       -15           15      15      15
7.  Price in local store (US$/t)                       204          118   1,495        248         253    244    189
8.  Processing, handling and transport
between store and farmgate (US$/t)             - 23          - 10    - 60      -110          10      10      10
9.    Subtotal (US$/t)                                 181          108   1,435        138         243    234    179
10.  Processing Ratio                                     0.65       1.0       /4         0.08        1       1      1
11.  Farmgate Price (US$/t)                             118          108      590        11         243    234    179
12.  Farmgate Price (PRs/t)Jl5                        2,010        1,640  10,000        190       4,130  3,980  3,040
/i Source: IBRD Price Forecasts dated January 1986.
Pricing Basis Rice: Thai milled 5X broken, fob Bangkok
Wheat: Canadian No. I Western Red spring, in store,
Thunder Bay.
Cotton Lint: 1-3/32" cif Europe
Urea: Bagged, fob Europe
MP: In bulk, fob Vancouver.
TSP: In bulk, Fob US Gulf.
12 For 30-35X broken.
/3  Export parity price basis for rice, wheat cotton and sugar
cane; import parity price basis for fertilizers.
/4 331 for lint, the remaining 67% is cotton seed valued at $110.
IS Exchange rate used PRs 17 u US$1.



-66-
AMNe 6
Table 2
BALUCHISTAN AGRICULTUKAL EXTEMNION AND hMP7I Y RE8EARCH PROJECT
Assumutions for econouic Sensitivity Analgsis
(1)          (2)               (3)               (4)            (5)                (6)
Total     Present Level      Benefits as      Incremental     Incremental   Incremental Benefits
Project      of Crop         Z of Ultimate   Gross Benefit      Production    Net of Incremental
Cost fl    Production /2      Benefits      of 12 Yield /t      Costs /4      Production Cost /3
Year     Rsa RMM                          x.   .    Irlaell             .LLe..                Rs M
1       101.0         75,300              -                  -                -                  -
2       130.9         75,300             10               75.3             22.6               52.7
3       146.6         75,300             20              150.6             45.2              105.4
4       106.0         75,300             30              225.9             67.8              158.1
5        76.4        75,300              50              376.5            113.0             263.5
6        65.8         75,300             70              527.1            158.1              369.0
7        60.8         75,300             90              677.7            203.3             474.4
8-25      50.0         75,300            100              753.0            226.0              527.0
8ENSITIVITY ANALYSIS Ij
Yield         Economic                        Switching Values
lIcrease X   Rate of Retura X      Benefits. Prices. Yields X         Costs X
Base Case                     1.0             55                        -74                      +290
0.5            29                        -49                      + 95
0.3            14                        -14                      * 17
Benefit on Rice, Wheat,
Cotton and Sugar Only (622)  1.0             35                         -59                      +142
0.5            16                        -17                      + 20
Benefit from Contract
Farmers Only (12)            30.0             14                        -14                      + 17
/L Converted to economic costs using a sCF = 0.9.
It Using economic prices from Table 1 for rice, wheat, cotton and sugarcane (622 of total value)
and a SCF - 0.9 for other crops.
/^ 1X of columns (2) x (3).
i Taken as 30X of gross value bases on relationship for rice assuming 10 mondays of labor at
Rs 24/day plus 50 kg fertilizer nutrient (NPf 4:2:1) at Rs 8.3/kg (from Table 1).
/t  Colunn (4) - (5).
/6 Discounting columns (1) ant (6).



-47-
UNIJAR AN ID 8     II                   ND  AAPLTTIVE R    C l PR CT-8S  II
LI8T OF DoCUomTs IN nuOJCT FILE
1. PunJab Preparation Reports
(a) PC-1 profosa undated          1985
(b) PC-1 profoma dated Muach 6, 1986
(c) PC-1 profoma dated October  1986
2. Sind Preparation Reports
(a)  "Project Brief" prepared by FAO/CP, February 11, 1985
(b) PC-1 proforma, undated Autumn 1985
(c) PC-1 profoma, dated October 1986
3. Training, Information and Media and MNoitoring and Evaluation,
Consultants Implementation Report from Appraisal, April 1985.
(a) Punjab
(b) Bind
4. Adaptive Researeb, Consultants Implementation Report from Appraisal, April 1986.
(a) Punjab
(b) Bind
5. Cost Tables
(a) Punjab
(b) Bind
6. Terms of Reference for Consultancy Services.
(a) Punjab
(b) Sind
7. Project Comittees: amberebip and terms of reference.



PAKISTAN
PUNJAB AND SIND AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT-PHASE 1
IE4ensIon IV
Agricultural Extenson Orgonization In Punjab Provino
____  Director  Director                       Otrector  ~~~~~~~~ D"ofr6t                     Drco
Generat  esnerat                    Generof~ ~~~~~~~~~~~IGeeoGoar
GeneralM.EtO                                                                   AMa
Reld  QF.W.M.                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Fdofsalb  Kolo Shoh Koku
oweekx  Dkeetor        Director~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ieoo
mdtn               conevoto                   :O                                                                                                Peg Scounlk
opera"" ~ ~ ~     ~       ~       ~ ~ ~ ~ es 
DIrectors                      AdL1p.we 
|  M   |     tCAbxe~ ofionsusC4                                                                                                           [      e
OFWM - On Form Water Man                      .....gement
A RRic    Rice                                                   DDAorch                                                       r stite
Abrevi adtioens orh ar
EQ   - Deu_ Dieco a grcltr
Aom  - Agnctu wow ficer
MEADA"- Ex ftra    eerc  a      AssistantDictroAgcutr
o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i sw -o81
A'n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ AEADAlva Trk   |Wf        Ie R 
Aw  Adp -^^*^    rch umuoRhIAi
DDA  -De"ut DitectordAofkA l                         l  2- Per
SSWMSeniorSubjetMMatter Specj                        |23e  gZ   
AO -  Aoulk  oMm                                        DrcerII 
EADA -Extra Assancto Dld b of rWct                               An 
!of ner A)t                   |a    6
3- 8Per AOA|



PAKISTAN
PUNJAB AND SIND AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT-PHASE It
(Extension 1V
Agricultural Extension Organizatlon In Sind Province
D-recton                               Die Wtor
Directorr                                                                                                 Aptv A-.4
Agricultu_ e                           InfOrTation          REeniona
Ii ~                            _ I I
. Ex~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~iecutors (2)                              Tmar 
units (2)               urft M~~~~~~~~~~~Fams(5
Deputv                            ~~~~~~~~~3 SSNM
|rt FIm   |   On Form WatePrincip  A              AR.
Abbreviations:
AM   Agricultural Resweah instt
RRI   Rice Research institute                                 ikr
ARF -Adaptive Research Form(AA
ATI  -Agricuttural Training institute                       SbDvso
SSWS - Senior Subject Mattet Specialist                   23PrDro
1M subject matter Speali
AO   Agriculture Ofie
Officer (AO) _
World Sanlc-305i4:2



NAP SECTION



PAKISTAN                                          6                                             U.   S.    S.    R
PUNJAB AND SIND AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND                                                                                           )                                       L"-HINA
ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT - PHASE 11                                                                                        \  .#'_
(EXTENSION IV)                                                                              2
Pb3n Ihe sProjee D;rkh                          EXISTNGM                                                         . f
Disticts Added Tn Phase n                  U   Agultual Reearch Insiutes                                               (                                                     3 d 
::;.:: .: ADB Proqe  (Non-Bank Projed)              0   Rice Research Institutes                                                 N    i'1         > i
Adptive Resarch Farm:                       &   Agrkultual Training Insitutes 2
*       Existing, Built under Phae I Proec       A   Aricultual Unverities /
O       BBuilt under Phae H Project              0   Pakistan Cotton Research Intutes
*     Provincal Project Headquarters                  Agriulural Machinemy ntitute                                                  O
40    National Capital                                                                                    N. -,     F  1            ,
*     Province Cpitels                                                                                  -AO ,  -              (v  U
o     Other Cities and Towns                                                   o  =, i_                 -            ;          MUZAFFARABAD
Rivers
District Boundaries                                                                                                                            J w   m 
Province Boundaries                                                                      .   .;- zKAS IVD
International Boundaries?                                                             -'          '
0     50  100  150  200250  300  350400                                      ~x                           '~s\f            Y2
9                    190 K      150       200        2!p-                                               d         ~      **~
Milte 



r'   -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.0
-321                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 ',
1-4                          V~~~~~~~~~
A  F  G   H  A  N  I S  T  A  N ~  ~      I 
/                                                       Q~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LOmW6
o 
I                      A  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                               
-. -c'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  -  *1~~~~~~~                            Wisdo&A*frd
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~fa s rn  a  w
- t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-  /  / ~~~~~~  ~      ~     ~      ~     O    t     kwo
ISLAMIC   I  - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AA%nw                                                SA 
C                                                                                                                  Of~~~~~~~~~ 
'----SS  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- aym ra
--I"    (~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h,,o
13~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~sc



