Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-4445-PAK
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT OF SDR 35.5 MILLION (US$42.1 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
FOR A
PUNJAB AND SIND AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH - PHASE II PROJECT
February 4, 1987
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1              =  Pakistan Rupees (PRs) 16
PRs  I            =  US$0.0625
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS
ADA      -  Assistant Director of Agriculture
AO       -  Agricultural Officer
ARF      -  Adaptive Research Farm
ARO      -  Assistant Research Officer
ATI      -  Agricultural Training Institute
C&W      -  Communication and Works Department
DDA      -  Deputy Director Agriculture
DC       -  Director General
EADA     -  Extra Assistant Director of Agriculture
ECNEC    -  Executive Committee of the National Economic Council
FA       -  Field Assistant
RO       -  Research Officer
SMS      -  Subject Matter Specialist
SSMS     -  Senior Subject Matter Specialist
T&V      -  Training and Visit (System of Agricultural Extension)



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
PAKISTAN
PUNJAB AND SIND AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH - PHASE II PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:                Islamic Republic of Pakistan
Beneficiary:             Provinces of Punjab and Sind
Amount:                  SDR 35.5 million (US$42.1 million)
Terms:                   Standard
Relending Terms:         From the Government of Pakistan to the Covernments of
Punjab and Sind through budgetary allocations in
accordance with existing procedures.
Project Description:    The objective of the proposed project is to achieve
sustained increases in agricultural production in the
Punjab and Sind provinces. For this purpose the
project would complete the strengthening and reor-
ganization of the extension services in Punjab and
Sind by extending the training and visit (T&V) system
to the remaining 31 districts not covered by the
two Phase-I projects (Credits 813 and 922) while at
the same time consolidating the gains made during
these projects and strengthening the adaptive
research system in the two provinces. To achieve
these objectives, the project would include:
(a) agricultural extension services (1,600 additional
staff and necessary physical components, including
offices, staff housing, vehicles and equipment);
(b) adaptive research (3 adaptive research farms);
(c) staff training; (d) information and media;
(e) project administration, monitoring and
evaluation. Technical assistance would be provided in
support of these activities. The main risks would be
administrative constraints and resistance to change and
that adaptive research fails to produce appropriate farm
technologies. The project includes measures to
minimize these risks.
| This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance I
of their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-iv-
Estimated Cost: /a
Local        Foreign         Total
---…(1$ million)…------
Agricultural Extension                       26.4            4.5            30.9
Adaptive Research                             2.9            2.0             4.9
Staff Training                                4.5            1.9             6.4
Information & Media                           0.5            0.2             0.7
Project Administration                        2.2            0.6             2.8
Base Cost                                  36.5            9.2            45.7
Physical Contingencies                        2.8            0.6             3.4
Price Contingencies                           7.2            2.1             9.3
Total Project Costs                        46.5           11.9            58.4
Financing Plan:                             Local         Foreign         Total
--- ---'US$ million)- ---
Federal and Provincial
Governments                               16.3              -            16.3
IDA                                          30.2           11.9            42.1
Total                                      46.5           11.9            58.4
Estimated Disbursements:
FY87   FY88    FY89   FY90   FY91   FY92   FY93
=--- - --   ------- - US$ million - ----- -     --
Annual                            2.0    4.0      8.0   10.0    9.0    6.0    3.1
Cumulative                        2.0    6.0    14.0   24.0   33.0   39.0   42.1
Rate of Return : Not Applicable
Appraisal Report: No. 6300-PAK, dated January 27, 1987
Map              : No. IBRD 19721R
/a Taxes and duties amount to US$3.3 M.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELWPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN FOR A
PUNJAB AND SIND AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH - PHASE II PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed credit
of SDR 35.5 million (US$42.1 million equivalent) to the Islamic Republic of
Pakistan on standard IDA tenrs to help finance a Punjab and Sind Agricultural
Extension and Adaptive Researc.. - Phase II Project. The proceeds of the
credit would be passed on to the Governments of Punjab and Sind through
existing budgetary procedures.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.      The most recent economic report, "Pakistan:  Economic and Social
Development Prospects" (No. 5962-PAK, dated February 18, 1986), was dis-
tributed to the Executive Directors on March 3, 1986.
3.      Economic growth rebounded strongly in FY85 after the slowdown in the
previous year. Assisted by a strong recovery in the agricultural sector,
real GDP increased by 8.4%, compared to 3.5% in FY84. Value added in agricul-
ture grew by 12.0% and in manufacturing by 8.6%. Both fixed investment and
private investment rose by about 12%. Improved availability of agricultural
commodities helped to reduce the rate of inflation to 7.5% from 8.4Z in FY84.
On the other hand, the budget deteriorated markedly, national savings
decreased, and the balance of payments came under pressure. Government
current revenues fell short of the budgeted amount while expenditures sub-
stantially exceeded the budgeted amounts. As a result, government borrowing
from the domestic banking system increased from 1.9% of GDP in FY84 to 3.92
of GDP. Reflecting largely the sharp drop in public savings, national
savings fell from 12.8% to 11.2% of GNP. Although the immediate growth
prospects are good, budgetary and balance of payments developments will need
to be carefully watched.
4.      The balance of payments deteriorated in FY85.  The current account
deficit stood at US$1.6 billion, compared to US$1 billion in FY84. Lower
exports and remittances were the main contributing factors. Exports declined
by 7.3% as the country's major exports, cotton and rice, suffered the effects
of lower prices and lower volumes, respectively. Furthermore, remittances
declined for the second successive year, falling by 10.6Z in FY85. According
1/ Parts I and II are substantially the same as Parts I and II of the Presi-
dent's Report No. P-4428-PAK (Third Technical Assistance Project), dated
December 22, 1986.



-2-
to recent projections, net migration is expected to decline and thus remit-
tances wilL be lower over the medium term. As a result of the higher current
deficit and low net capital flows, the reserve drawdown reached US$960 mil-
lion. Gross official gold and foreign exchange reserves were US$1.2 billion
at the end of FY85, which was equivalent to 2 months of imports of goods and
services.
5.      The process of gradually eliminating interest rates from the economy,
initiated in 1980, was completed in July 1985. All transactions are now
based on new financing modes consistent with Islamic principles. Existing
interest-based commitments have been honored and transactions with foreign
governments and financial institutions are not affected. It is too early to
determine with any certainty the potential costs of Islamization. Undoub-
tedly, the operation of the new system will initially involve some costs, but
whether long-run efficiency will be affected will depend on how the system is
applied. To date, the Government has proceeded cautiously, and new financing
modes have been applied flexibly and developments monitored closely.
6.      The strong recovery in GDP growth in FY85 meant that the overall
growth rates achieved in the first two years of the Sixth Plan were consis-
tent with the improved performance achieved during the Fifth Plan period
(FY79-83). Growth in national output (6.5%), agriculture (4.2%), manufactur-
ing (10.4Z), exports (11), and private investment (6.7%), though below Sixth
Plan targets, was well above the rates achieved during FY70-78 and very
respectable compared with the growth rates of other developing countries.
Growth during this period--coupled with increased remittances--benefited
large segments of the population. Performance improved despite a number of
adverse factors: (a) a world recession; (b) a 30% decline in the external
terms of trade after 1979; and (c) the Afghanistan crisis with its attendant
expenditures for increased defense and refugee assistance.
7.      Fiscal performance and the balance of payments improved significantly
during the Fifth Plan. The overall budget deficit and Government bank bor-
rowing, which in FY79 stood at 848% and 4.3% of GDP respectively, fell to
6.4% and 1.7% by FY83. As the levels of Government borrowing from banks
dropped and overall credit expansion was restrained, the growth of the money
supply slowed down and inflationary pressures lessened; inflation dropped
from 8% to 5% by the end of the Plan period. The improved fiscal performance
was largely the result of expenditure restraint rather than better revenue
performance. Real expansion in current expenditures on economic and social
services barely kept pace with population growth, and development expendi-
tures declined relative to GDP. Government revenues remained constant at 16%
of GDP, and public savings, having risen in the first half of the Plan period
from 1% to 3.8% of CNP, dropped to 1.6% by FY83. Assisted by remittances,
but also strong export growth, the current account deficit fell from 5% of
GNP to 2% by the end of the Plan Period. Gross reserves increased from 3.5
to 4.5 months of imports of goods and services.
8.      In addition to improving economic management through fiscal and
monetary policies, the Government took measures to improve performance in
the commodity-producing sectors. In agriculture, all major crops reached
record output levels, with wheat and sugar achieving self-sufficiency. Sub-
sidies on pesticides were virtually eliminated, while fertilizer prices were
raised to reduce the subsidy burden. Crop procurement prices were adjusted



-3-
to bring them closer to world prices. Provincial allocations for operations
and maintenance in irrigation were increased, along with water charges.
Encouraged by improved policies and incentives, private manufacturing invest-
ment grew by 10.9% per annum. Areas open to the private sector were widened,
most agricultural processing units were denationalized, and sanctioning
limits increased. A flexible exchange rate policy adapted in 1982 was
instrumental in stimulating manufactured exports, whiLe import liberalization
increased the availability of raw materials and capital goods. In energy,
measures were taken to accelerate the development of domestic resources,
rationalize prices, and improve policy formulation and energy planning
capabilities.
9.      The developments in Pakistan's economy since FY78 represent welcome
steps toward the solution of problems that are essentially structural and
long-term in nature. Nevertheless, further wide-ranging measures must be
introduced to address structural issues. Pakistan's long-term growth
prospects depend on the resolution of two such issues: (a) the need to
increase the level and efficiency of public investment; and (b) the need to
encourage export expansion and efficient import substitution. If Pakistan
is tn sustain high economic growth, it must make major infrastructure invest-
ments, upgrade existing facilities, and strengthen its neglected social base.
The last has fared badly as a result of resource constraints, as is reflected
in Pakistan's social indicators, which lag seriously behind those of other
developing countries at comparable levels of development. It will not be
possible to increase public investment and recurrent allocations without a
major domestic resource mobilization effort. Although Pakistan should give
priority to reforming indirect taxation through a broad-based sales tax, it
should also rely more on user charges, should curtail subsidies, and increase
self-financing by public enterprises. Given the continuing constrained
outlook for official assistance and the likelihood of lower remittance flows,
sustained improvements in both export expansion and efficient import sub-
stitution will be necessary to support high growth with sustainable external
capital requirements. If trade performance is to be improved, structural
adjustment must be continued and strengthened in the key sectors of agricul-
ture, industry, and energy. Both agriculture and industry have considerable
potential for increased exports and some degree of efficiernt import substitu-
tion. In energy, the accelerated development of Pakistan's under-exploited
resources can contribute considerably to the reduction of energy imports.
10.     In agriculture, high growth has been largely the result of increased
acreage. Before agricultural productivity and diversification can be
increased, institutional support must be strengthened, appropriate pricing
policies must be put in place, and the core investment program identified and
implemented. More effective institutional support should be sought through
improvements in the quality and quantity of services to farmers. In par-
ticular, strengthening the seed program requires more efficient seed multi-
plication and dissemination, increased efficiency in public sector plants,
and a greater role for the private sector. The delivery of agricultural
credit also needs to be improved to ensure that it reaches small farmers and
tenants, whose credit needs are greatest. Furthermore, marketing costs need
to be reduced and research and extension services strengthened. Agricultural
pricing policies should create appropriate incentives to farmers, while
minimizing subsidies. Multicrop approaches to pricing should complement the
single-crop, cost-of-production approach currently used. Finally, a core



-4-
investment program in agriculture and water is needed to reduce the pos-
sibility of distortions in investment priorities. Low cost programs that
yield quick returns should be emphasized along with critical infrastructure
investments that raise farm productivity. Creater emphasis on the complemen-
tarity of investment programs, especially between agriculture and water,
would ensure that priority is accorded to programs that increase agricultural
productivity rather than merely augment the supply of physical infrastruc-
ture.
11.     Despite fairly rapid industrial growth accompanied at times by rapid
expansion of manufactured exports in recent years, there are a number of
issues the Government must address if this performance is to be sustained.
High levels of protection have led to high cost, low quality domestic produc-
tion both by raising input prices and by reducing the demand for new technol-
ogy to raise productivity and improve product quality. If Pakistan is to
increase and diversify its manufactured export base and encourage efficient
import substitution, industrial incentives must be rationalized to reduce
both the level and dispersion of effective protection rates. The objective
here is to increase the efficiency of the industrial sectpr by exposing
protected producers to greater foreign competition and to reduce the
anti-export bias inherent in the present incentives. In addition, the
Government should reform the regulations affecting investment sanctioning
and cost-plus pricing in order to improve competition among domestic firms.
It should limit sanctioning to a few cases of strategic importance, leaving
most investment decisions to the private sector, which is better able to
assess investment opportunities. Cost-plus pricing arrangements with a
number of key private and public manufacturing enterprises, which provide
insufficient incentives to minimize costs or allocate capital efficiently,
should be replaced by market-oriented approaches, which better reflect
supply/demand conditions and provide adequate incentives for reinvestment
and operational efficiency.
12.     Issues that needed to be and are being addressed in the energy sector
pertain to three broad areas: (a) investment and development; (b) pricing;
5c) institutional strengthening. In the power subsector, the Government has
formulated a least-cost development plan for the period 1986-2005 and has
outlined a core investment program of Rs 30 billion consisting of high
priority projects to be implemented during FY86 to FY88. Given the
likelihood of domestic resource constraints and persistent power shortages,
the Government is also undertaking a number of measures including tariff
increases to ensure that a large portion of this investment program would be
financed from WAPDA's self-generated resources. The gas producer pricing
formula for new discoveries has been adjusted to provide adequate incentives
to attract private sector exploration. Because consumer gas prices were kept
artificially low to encourage the substitution of gas for imported oil,
relative prices became distorted and the use of gas uneconomic. Since 1982,
the Government policy has been to progressively increase consumer prices of
gas in order to reach two-thirds of fuel oil parity by 1988; the FY86 budget
increased the average gas price by over 50%. Assisted by domestic price
increases and lower international prices for fuel oil, the Government's
target has been realized. The Government should continue the policy of
gradually adjusting gas prices with a view to reaching full parity as early
as possible. Electricity tariffs, which are currently below the long-run
marginal cost, should be adjusted to reflect this cost, not only to ensure



-5-
the efficient use of electricity and encourage energy conservation, but also
to mobilize the substantial additional funds required by the power investment
progra-. Finally, the Government should consider increasing the autonomy of
public enterprises in the energy sector to improve their efficiency and
should continue to strengthen energy planning and policy coordination.
13.     The Sixth Five-Year Plan (FY83-88) articulates a pragmatic strategy
for Pakistan's continued rapid development that includes an expanded role
for the private sector, increased public development expenditures, and
increased allocations for energy, agriculture, irrigation, and the social
sectors. Although the size and composition of the Plan are appropriate,
development expenditures during the first two years of the Plan have been
8.5Z lower than the amounts projected because of insufficient domestic
resources. Although this would not appear overly large, the way in which
sectoral shortfalls have been distributed contradicts Plan priorities.
Education, energy, health, and agriculture have received considerably lower
allocations than called for in the Plan. Furthermore, without a predefined
core investment program, there is a tendency to distribute shortfalls evenly
over a large number of projects within a sector; thus too many projects have
been initiated, and projects that should receive priority are underfunded.
To address this issue, the Government has re-introduced a Three-Year Priority
Investment Program (FY86-88). The Government has emphasized that the adap-
tion of a rolling medium-term program does not mean that plan strategies and
priorities are being revised, or that shortfalls are considered inevitable.
The program will mereLy identify sectoral core investment programs to be
given priority in annual plans. If priority investments, especially in key
areas, could be protected, the public investment program would become more
effective and its priorities would be sharpened.
14.     The improved performance and policy framework of the Fifth Plan,
which the Government intends to continue during the Sixth Plan, have improved
Pakistan's creditworthiness for a blend of Bank and IDA borrowing and commer-
cial borrowing. At the end of 1984, Pakistan's external public debt (exclud-
ing the undisbursed pipeline) stood at US$9.9 billion, of which US$4.6 bil-
lion was owed to bilateral members of the Pakistan consortium, US$1.2 billion
to OPEC, US$2.3 billion to multilateral agencies, and the balance to other
bilateral and private lenders. At the same time, the Bank Group's share in
Pakistan's external public indebtedness was 16.2%, and in external debt
service it was 8.0Z. According to Bank projections, if recent policy
improvements are sustained and structural issues addressed, Pakistan's debt
service will remain about 20% during the remainder of the 1980s, even with
somewhat higher levels of commercial borrowing.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PAKISTAN
15.     As of September 30, 1986, the cumulative total of Bank/IDA comuit-
ments to Pakistan (exclusive of Loans and Credits or portions thereof that
were disbursed in the former East Pakistan) amounted to approximately US$4.5
billion, and IFC's investments totalled US$243.0 million. (Annex I contains
a summary Statement of Bank loans, IDA credits, and IFC investments.)
16.     During its long association with Pakistan, the Bank Group has been
involved in most sectors of the economy. For example, it has participated
with other donors, over a 25-year period, in a major program of works to



-6-
develop the water resources of the Indus Basin. Approximately 30% of total
Bank/IDA commitments to Pakistan have been for agriculture and irrigation;
28% for industry, including import program credits; 18% for transport,
telecommunications, and public utility services; 14% for energy, including
power, gas pipelines, and petroleum; 5% for social programs in education,
population, and urban development; and 5Z for structural adjustment lending
and technical assistance.
17.     Currently, the Bank's assistance strategy is primarily to support the
Government of Pakistan's efforts to formulate and implement policy reforms
in key sectors--energy, industry, transport, and agriculture--which shape the
structural adjustment of the economy. To ensure that the gains from adjust-
ment are sustained in the Long term and shared more broadly, the strategy
also includes investments in physical infrastructure and the sociaL sectors
(education, population, etc.) that have been neglected in Pakistan's develop-
ment efforts. If this strategy is to succeed, the full range of traditional
instruments of Bank support must be flexibly deployed--from sector work and
active policy dialogue, to policy- and project-based lending, technical
assistance and aid coordination. The Bank Group's lending program comprises
two components, the larger of which supports specific high-priority invest-
ments in productive sectors and physical and social infrastructure. The
smaller but nonetheless strategic component focuses on policy reforms in key
sectors and relies heavily on high-quality economic and sector work. The
program includes a series of technical assistance credits to finance studies
and formulate action programs for policy reform. In addition, through its
annual Country Economic Memorandum, the Bank Group tries to foster greater
understanding on the part of Consortium members of the Government's struc-
tural adjustment program and aid requirements. This effort, coupled with
increased cofinancing, should enhance the policy relevance and effectiveness
of other official aid and help attract additional resources to Pakistan from
nonconcessional sources.
18.     Historically, the Bank Group has placed special emphasis on lending
for agriculture, which is the mainstay of Pakistan's economy. The Bank and
the Government have agreed that the main objective of the agricultural
strategy and, consequently, lending to the sector should be to increase
agricultural productivity through improvements in the efficiency of the
irrigation system and supporting agricultural services. Among the issues
being addressed are: the balance between short-gestation projects and
projects with a longer-term focus, rationalization of input and output
prices, marketing, improvements in operation and maintenance, cost recovery,
and a wider role for the private sector. Projects in the sector have ranged
from irrigation/drainage to agricultural inputs, research, and extension and
have included institution-building compoinents. Overall, progress in agricul-
ture has been satisfactory.
19.     In industry, tne strategy has two complementary aspects:  to
strengthen and broaden the structural adjustment in Pakistan's industrial
sector and to support the Government's efforts to revitalize the private
sector through industrial financing. The industrial reform program has been
designed to improve the competitiveness of the sector with a view to promot-
ing export expansion and import substitution. Issues being addressed
incLude trade and industrial incentives, dereguLation, efficiency of public
enterprises, pricing decontrol, and improvements in the credit delivery
system. Lines of credit extended to development finance institutions and
otber financial intermediaries have been mainly for the private sector.



-7-
Direct lending for industry has also included assistance to three large
fertiliser plants and a refinery engineering loan. IFC's investments in 18
Pakistan enterprises were by way of loans (US$231.7 million) and equity
participation (US$11.3 million). Although individual operations have
generally achieved their objectives, the agenda for overall industrial reform
remains formidable.
20.     As a result of the progress under the Structural Adjustment Loan
(SAL) in 1981/82 and the Energy Sector Loan in 1985, our lending program in
energy is expanding rapidly. The overall objective here is to expand the
domestic supply from all energy subsectors and simultaneously increase the
efficiency of energy use through appropriate pricing, conservation, and other
methods of managing demand. No less central have been the efforts to
strengthen key institutions in the sector. In power, the Bank has helped
both the Karachi Electric Supply Corporation (KESCF-and the Water and Power
Development Authority (WAPDA) to finance their power generation and transmis-
sion programs. The construction of the Mangla and Tarbela dams under the
Indus Basin Development Program, in which the Bank played a leadership role,
has also assisted in achieving the objectives, of the sector strategy. In
oil and gas the Bank has financed a sound exploration and development program
and has assisted in developing the extensive gas transmifision system.
Smaller efforts, invoLving mainly engineering studies and technical assis-
tance, have been undertaken tc support coal exploration, energy audits, and
oil refining. Despite much progress, however, the Bank will need to continue
participating in institution building and help the Government mobilize ade-
quate funds for energy investments through tariffs, co-financing, and greater
private sector participation.
21.     Bank Group lending for transport and communications has focused both
on new capital investments and on improving the efficiency of existing
assets. Efforts have also been made to strengthen the institutions respon-
sible for these services, especially the Karachi Port Trust, Pakistan Rail-
ways, the Telephone and Telegraph Department and federal and provincial
highway agencies. However, inadequate transport infrastructure is now con-
sidered to be critical constraint to overall growth, in large measure because
infrastructure stock has run down. Thus, the balance between new investments
and the efficient operation and maintenance of existing investments needs
greater attention.
22.     With an overall literacy rate of only 24X, a population growth rate
of about 3.1Z, and rapid urbanization, Pakistan faces an equally formidable
deveLopment agenda in the social sector. The Bank has supported the Govern-
ment's programs in education through five credits designed to upgrade
primary, post-secondary, and higher technical and agricultural education as
well as middle-level training of primary teachers and agricultural extension
agents. The focus has been and will continue to be on the lower end of the
education spectrum (primary, technical, and nonformal education). A first
population proje-t designed to expand the demand for population control
services was approved in FY83. Furthermore, the Bank has financed four
projects in the urban and water supply sector. Besides providing urban
services, these operations are designed to improve local resource mobi-
lization and cost recovery; planning and efficiency of resource utilization;
and urban management, especially at the provincial and municipal levels.



-8-
23.     In addition to the above, policy-based lending was pursued through
the SAL and an Energy Sector Loan (ESL) (paragraph 20). The SAL program
introduced a number of significant reforms in government development planning
and in policies and programs in the agricuLture, energy, and industrial
sectors; by the time the loan was fully disbursed at the end of FY83, sig-
nificant progress had been achieved in the above areas.  The ESL supports the
Government reform program for the energy sector and assists in the implemen-
tation of a core investment program for the sector. Continuing support for
the structural adjustment process is envisioned under other sector loans in
the next few years.
24.     In general, disbursements have been satisfactory.  Some projects have
experienced initial delays owing to protracted government procedures for
project approval (but these problems are now being addressed), and the.
procurement of goods and services. Rapid turnover of managerial and techni-
cal staff, partly due to migration to the Middle East and partly to budgetary
constraints, has also been a probLem in some projects.
25.     A number of operations are currently being prepared or appraised.
These include projects for power transmission, generation, and conservation;
oil and gas exploration and development; coal development; lines of credit
for industriaL financing for the privaLe sector, and for industrial subsector
restructuring, balancing, and modernization; irrigation/drainage, and
agriculturaL inputs and services; highway construction and maintenance;
primfry and informal education; urban development and water supply. Sector
loans that would support further structural adjustment in energy, industry,
agriculture and transportation are being discussed with the Government,
Where successful, such loans would provide a policy umbrella for projects in
those sectors. To help the Government finance agricultural and other
high-priority projects having low foreign exchange component, the Bank Group
is financing some local expenditures on a case-by-case basis.
26.     Economic and sector work provides the basis for the continuing
dialogue between the Bank Group and the Government of Pakistan on development
strategy, the sector and project lending strategy and operations, and the
coordination of external assistance within the Pakistan Consortium. The work
program emphasizes resource mobilization, structural adjustment in the key
sectors, and the development of the physical and social infrastructure.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Agriculture
27.     Agriculture continues to be the single largest sector in Pakistan's
economy, although its relative share is declining, from 32% of gross domest.c
product in FY76 to 24% in FY85, employing about half of the total labor force
and providing about two-thirds of export earnings. The agriculture sector's
growth rate decreased from an annual average of 6% in the 1960s to 2% ir the
1970s. A significant upturn to 4.4% occurred between FY19 and FY83, when
record output levels for most major crops were attained and Pakistan achieved
self-sufficiency in wheat and sugar. However, in FY84, agricultural value
added declined by 6.1% partly due to untimely rains affecting the wheat crop
and serious infestation of the cotton crop. In FY85, rapid growth of 12Z



-9-
was achieved. While lower than the previous year, a high growth rate of 6.5%
was achieved in FY86.
28.     An improved policy environment has made a major contribution to
increased agricultural growth since the late 1970s. Favorable weather and
concerted Government efforts to strengthen support services including
improved and timely extension services and increased provision of inputs were
contributing factors. However, despite past gains, Pakistan's potential for
sustained high growth remains underutilized. Due to the dwindling supply of
unused cultivable land and the high costs of extending the irrigation system,
improvements in productivity will be essential to sustaining future agricul-
tural growth, underscoring the need to strengthen and improve the quality of
extension and other support services and institutions combined with more
effective water management and drainage. The adoption of existing and known
technologies to improve yields is constrained by various factors, including
weak extension services and fragmented institutional responsibilities for the
formulation and implementation of agricultural policies and programs, defi-
cient provision and distribution of key inputs by the public sector with slow
progress in allowing the private sector a broader role, and inadequate
infrastructural facilities for electrification, drainage, and surface canal
and public groundwater irrigation.
29.     Punjab Province, with a total land area of 17 million hectares (ha)
represents 302 of Pakistan's total land.  Seventy-two percent of the
province's population of 54 million is rural. The labor force constitutes
282 of the population, of which more than half is directly dependent on
agriculture. There are about 2.5 million farms in the province with an
average size of t.a ha and 70% of the farms have 5 ha of land or less,
accounting for 34Z of the cultivated area. The predominant tenure pattern is
owner-operated (54%), with owner-tenant and tenant operated farms accounting
for 25% and 21%, respectively.
30.     Sind Province, with a total land area of 12.5 million ha represents
722 of the country's total. Fifty-seven percent of Sind's population of 22
million is rural. The majority of the labor force (28% of total population)
derives a livelihood from agriculture. The province has about 800,000 farms
with an average size of 2.6 ha of which 77% are 5 ha or smaller, accounting
for 46% of the cultivated area. About half (49%) of the farms are tenant
operated, 41% owner-operated and the remaining 10% owner-tenant operated.
Agricultural Extension
*31.    Agricu;tural extension services are entirely within the provincial
domain and vary considerably among provinces in size, scope and methodologies
used. Except for a few districts covered by previous IDA projects (paragraph
34) aimed at improving the extension organization in each province, the
services are largely ineffective, generally employing outdated extensio.i
methods, and these efforts are further diluted by responsibility for unre-
lated non-extension duties. Staff numbers are for the most part inadequate,
and facilities with respect to staff accommodation and mobility are such as
to make wide and effective farmer contact difficult. Extension workers
rarely receive in-service training to keep them abreast of technological
advances. The research-extension dialogue is often limited to a discussion



-10-
of annual and seasonal work programs; two-way exchange of technical informa-
tion lacks institutional and policy support.
Government Policy and Bank Group Strategy
32.     Pakistan's Sixth Five-Year Plan (FY83-88) places emphasis in the
agriculture sector on the need to increase yields with a view to moving from
self-sufficiency towards exports, especiaLly of high-value crops. The
Government's agricultural reform program has begun to address many of the
issues constraining rapid agricultural growth. It emphasizes: (a) progres-
sive price adjustments of key agricultural inputs and outputs, thereby phas-
ing out input subsidies while providing adequate incentives to farmers; (b)
gradual transfer to the private sector of activities such as the distribution
of key agricultural inputs and the exploitation of groundwater; and (c)
reorienting public investment to emphasize quick returns and complementing
the existing irrigation system. Priority investments planned include exten-
sion services, research, seed certification, water management, canal
re4abilitation, water course improvement and essential drainage. To ensure
that the increased provision of public services and infrastructure leads to
an efficient utilization of resources, input and output pricing policies and
producer incentives are being reviewed with Bank Group support. The Govern-
ment has taken action to implement its agricultural reform program through
new policies including raising procurement prices to border parity and shift-
ing investment expenditures towards rehabilitation, and improved efficiency
and management of existing assets. However, much remains to be done par-
ticularly with regard to investment priorities and improvements in physical
and institutional infrastructure.
33.     The Government and Bank are in general agreement that sustaining
agricultural growth and realizing the potential of the sector will require
continued action to implement sectoral poLicy reforms initiated by Govern-
ment. The Bank Group assistance strategy in agriculture comprises two com-
plementary approaches. First, the Bank's ongoing sector work and dialogue
focusses on achievement of a satisfactory policy framework and priority
investment program to be supported with a proposed agricultural sector loan.
Second, project loans would assist in implementation of the investment
program with special emphasis on institution building at the federal and
provincial levels. Projects underway and planned address water management,
irrigation systems rehabilitation, input supply and provision of credit and
agricultural services.
Role of the Bank in Agricultural Extension
34.     In support of Government efforts to improve the effectiveness of the
extension services, IDA has financed three Phase-I projects in the provinces
to reorganize and strengthen extension services and the adaptive research
system through the introduction of the Training and Visit (T&V) system:
(i) "Punjab Extension and Agricultural Development Project" (Cr. 813-PAK of
June 8, 1978); (ii) "Sind Agricultural Extension and Adaptive Research
Project (Cr. 922-PAK of June 12, 1979); and (iii) "Baluchistan AgriculturaL
Extension and Adaptive Research Project (Cr. 1533-PAK of January 30, 1985).
Credits 813 and 922 closed on June 30, 1985. The Punjab and Sind projects
covered five districts in each of the provinces and the Baluchistan project



-11-
covers four districts 1/. The Punjab and Sind projects started late due
primarily to: (i) poor understanding of the T&V system; (ii) delays in
relieving extension staff from non-extension duties and in the appointment
of technical assistance personnel; (iii) difficulty in recruitment of staff
due to low pay; (iv) inadequate travel allowances reducing staff mobility;
(v) week research - extension linkages; (vi) insufficient funding in the
Annual Development Program (ADP); and (vii) poor monitoring and evaluation.
However, corrective measures were taken to address the main problems which
have been resolved.
35.     IDA is also financing the improvement of agricultural research
throughout Pakistan. The Agricultural Research Project (Cr. 1158-PAK of
August 19, 1981) provides federal and provincial institutions with the physi-
cal and human resources needed to plan, coordinate, support and conduct
priority research programs and provides training and technical assistance.
36.     It is too early yet to discuss any results from the Baluchistan
project. In both Punjab and Sind, the headquarters, adaptive research farm
and district-level positions are now fully staffed and equipped and a sound
base for an improved extension service has been established. In the five
project districts of each Province, fortnightly training is firmly instituted
and visits to farmers are now being conducted on a regular basis. Extension
messages with the latest research recommendations are now being delivered to
farmers and will become increasingly location specific and relevant to
farmers' needs as the adaptive research is fine-tuned. In Punjab, the adap-
tive research work is already of good quality with location specific trials
being carried out on adaptive research farms and farmers' fields. In Sind,
adaptive research is also underway. Research on micronutrient deficiencies
in the soils has led to the recommendation for the application of zinc to
rice in the fortnightly messages and already brought about increases in paddy
yields. While considerable scope remains for improving its design and effec-
tiveness, experience with these projects demonstrate that there is a lead
role for a technical extension service, that the system adopted for technol-
ogy transfer is fundamentally sound and can be adapted to conditions in
Pakistan and that the impact on yields and production could be substantial.
In a special review by the Government of the extension program in the two
provinces, some attempt was made to measure the impact on crop yields. In
Sind it concluded "that in the cotton zone, the yields of wheat and cotton
have showed a positive response, while in the rice zone, the same was true
for sugar and rice crops." In Punjab, the conclusion on yield impact was
that "the T&V system was apparently positive in some major crops in some
districts, but in others yield response was, however, erratic. With the
creation of all these infrastructures, benefits in the form of better crop
yield are expected to start accruing in the coming years." For this to be
realized, it is essential that an IDA role of technical, supervisory and
financial support be sustained.
37.     The proposed project has been designed to build on the experience
gained from the Phase-I projects in Punjab and Sind and the preliminary
experience with the Baluchistan project, as well as on the emerging extension
I/ Punjab has a total of 29 districts, Sind 13 and Baluchistan 17.



-12-
strategy in Pakistan. The implementation problems faced by the Punjab and
Sind projects have been taken into account in the design of the proposed
project.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
38.     The project would be the fourth IDA-assisted operation designed to
reorganize and strengthen agricultural extension services in Pakistan follow-
ing the Training and Visit system (TMV). The Covernment of Sind initiated
preparation in 1984 of a Phase-II project and an FAO/World Bank Cooperative
Program mission in November 1984 assisted in completing preparation. In
Punjab, project preparation by the Government of Punjab began in 1983 and a
preparation document was presented to the Bank in December 1985.
39.     The project was appraised in February 1986.  Negotiations were held
in Washington, D.C. from November 24 - December 1, 1986; the Pakistan delega-
tion was led by Mr. KhaLid Jawed, Chairman, Planning and Development Board,
Covernment of Punjab. A Staff Appraisal Report entitled "Pakistan - Punjab
and Sind Agricultural Extension and Adaptive Research - Phase II Project"
(Report No. 6300-PAK, dated January 27, 1987) is being circulated separately
to the Executive Directors. A supplementary project data sheet is attached
as Annex II. As conditions of credit effectiveness the Governments of Punjab
and Sind would each appoint the Project Director, Civil Works and sign the
contracts for the consulting services, and the Government of Pakistan's
Executive Committee of the National Economic Council (ECNEC) would approve
the PC-i 1/ document for the project.
Rationale for IDA Involvement
40.     While the administrative framework for a reformed extension service
has been established in parts of Punjab and Sind Provinces and messages are
being delivered to farmers under the two Phase-I projects (Cr. 813-PAK and
Cr. 922-PAK), both provincial governments are in need of and have requested
continued IDA support to overcome outstanding problems, improve the quality
of operations, and prevent a reversion to traditional methods.  The Bank
possesses a unique world-wide and lengthy experience with the T&V system and
its expertise is required to assist in providing a more sophisticated and
complete extension system and to ensure effective linkages to agricultural
research.
41.     Experience in Pakistan and elsewhere demonstrates that in the
presence of an entrenched bureaucracy, institutional change takes time. Bank
experience points to the need for recognizing that in the first five years
of an extension project little more than the administrative framework neces-
sary fdr extonsion can be achieved.  Therefore, a five-year project (like
the two Phase-I projects) is considered inadequate to ensure the firm estab-
lishment and self-sustaining operation of the T&V and adaptive research
system. Technical and supervisory support for at least a 10 to 15 year
It A PC-1 (Planning Commission Proforma No. 1) is an internal government
project appraisal document necessary for the Government of Pakistan's
approval procedures.



-13-
period is required to build up and fully establish a professional extension
service and adaptive research system that are responsive to farmers' needs
and capable of addressing all aspects of farm improvement.
42.     The Phase-I projects strengthened the headquarters function of the
extension departments in Punjab and Sind, built up the adaptive research
system and provided a limited geographic area (paragraph 34) with improved
extension services. The proposed Phase-II project aims at consolidating
these gains and building on the established base of know-how and infrastruc-
ture to extend the improved services throughout both provinces. In doing so
it would make better use of acquired management experience and headquarters
and adaptive research facilities which are in common to both phases. The
option of continuing with a small project first to consolidate the work in
the Phase-I districts was considered. However, experience in other countries
with similar structures and conditions show that the T&V system does work and
yields high returns, provided the support and time needed for the necessary
attitudinal and institutional changes is given. There are strong indications
that Panjab and Sind are now making good progress in these aspects and are no
different in this respect from other Bank experiences. Therefore, a basis
for extAnding the area covered by the T&V system exists. By not including
additional areas in the project, momentum would be lost, Government and IDA
use of resources would be less efEicient and, hesitation by IDA to support a
province-wide approach wouLd create doubts in the minds of project staff and
would be detrimental to achieving project objectives. Furthermore, the
proposed project supports the Government's agricultural policy and the Sixth
Plan's strategy for agricultural development, which are in harmony with Bank
strategy and priorities. The proposed project forms part of the Government's
priority investment program and contributes directly to the institutional
goals set forth,in the Bank's agricultural sector strategy.
I 
Project Objectives
43.     The objective of the project would be to achieve sustained increases
in agricultural production in the Punjab and Sind Provinces through comple-
tion of the strengthening and reorganization of the extension services in the
two provinces and by extending the T&V system to all districts not covered by
the two Phase-I projects, while consolidating the gains made in the districts
covered by the Phase-I projects and strengthening the adaptive research
system in both provinces.
i
Project Area Characteristics
44.     The project area comprises the entire Punjab and Sind Provinces with
a combined total population of 76 million or 80% of Pakistan's total with
3.3 million farming families cultivating 17.1 miLlion ha of land, repre-
senting 84% of the country's total. Punjab is divided into 29 districts and
Sind into 13. The project area would include the five districts in each
province covered in the Phase-I projects, wherein only minor complementary
investments would be made for the purpose of consolidating gains.
Project Components
45.       The project would include:  (a) agricultural extension services
(1,600 additional staff and necessary physical components, including offices,



-14-
staff housing, vehicles and equipment), (b) adaptive research (3 adaptive
research farms), (c) staff training, td) information and media, and (e)
project administration, monitoring and evaluation. Technical assistance
would be provided in support of these activities.
46.     Agricultural Extension.  Under the project, agricultural extension
services in 23 additional districts of Punjab and 8 additional districts of
Sind would be reorganized and strengthened following the T&V system, which
has been suitably adapted to meet local conditions. The reformed extension
services, in five districts of each province under the Phase-I projects would
be maintained and strengthened under the project. The project would provide
farmers, on a regular and systematic basis, with advice on Earming practices
best suited to their specific conditions, with the emphasis on proven prac-
tices which would have a positive impact on their income.  This would be
brought about by organizing extension field staff to visit farmers regularly
and receive systematic training and technical support from the Department of
Agriculture and research institutions.
47.     In Punjab, there would be one Field Assistant (FA) per union
council I/ subject to a maximum of 1,100 farm households.  In Sind, there
would be one FA per tappa 1/ with the number of farm households varying from
400 to 1,100 depending on Local conditions. To reach farmers systematically,
each FA would divide farmers in his jurisdiction into eight groups of about
50 to 140 farm households, out of which about eight contr.t farmers would be
selected as the principal channels for conveying extens on messages to other
farmers. The FA would visit each such group once every fortnight on the same
day of the week and his schedule would be advertised to all farmers. One of
the two remaining workdays each week would be devoted to in-service training
which is crucial to the program. The FA would spend the other remaining
workday each week on field demonstrations, extra visits or other field
activities and complete whatever office work is necessary.
48.     The next-in-line supervisor of the FA is the Agricultural Officer
(AO). In Punjab, each AO would supervise eight FAs and in Sind, six FAs. In
addition to supervisory and training duties, AOs would be required to provide
advice to large farmers who have relatively more developed farms and tend to
be well educated. It would also be the responsibility of the AO to monitor
the timely supply of inputs and credit and report any shortages to the supply
organizations.
49.     To ensure proper operation of field work, there would be two or three
administrative subdivisions in a project district, each headed by an Assis-
tant Director of Agriculture (ADA). The ADA would spend at least three days
a week on field visits to review both technical and organizational aspects of
the work of extension staff.
50.     A Deputy Director of Agriculture (DDA) would be responsible for
extension services at the district level. In Punjab, a hierarchy of one
Deputy Director of Agriculture for Training, DDA (Training) linked to each
Adaptive Research Farm, one ADA (Training) at the district level and one AO
1/ Local Administrative Unit.
a



-15-
(Training) at the sub-divisional (tehsil) level would fill essentially the
same functions as SHS. In Sind, the project would provide one team of three
Subject Hatter Specialists (SMSs) located at the headquarters of each dis-
trict. One SMS ini each district would be designated Training Coordinator and
would be responsible for the planning and organization of fortnightly train-
ing sessions. The project would staff and equip the improved extension
service and provide transport and incremental operating funds.
51.     Effective extension services through the T&V system are based on
concentration of effort. Therefore, it is essential that all extension staff
work only on agricultural extension and not be responsibLe for the supply of
inputs, data collection, or other activities not directly related to exten-
sion. In the Phase-I districts, and in the districts to be covered by the
project, with one exception, extension staff have been relieved oE permanent
non-extension duties. The exception is old, mostly degraded pesticide stocks
which are the responsibility of FAs until they can be saEely disposed.
Action is underway for their disposal. The Governments of Punjab and Sind
would take appropriate measures to relieve all extension staff in the project
areas of all responsibilities not directly related to agricultural extension
work.
52.     Adaptive Research.  The basic structure for adaptive research in the
two provinces has largely been established during the Phase-I projects with
nine adaptive research farms (ARF) and headquarters' organization already in
place with staff who have already gained considerable experience. Further-
more, improvements in agricultural research throughout Pakistan are being
implemented under Credit 1158-PAK (paragraph 35). The proposed project would
establish, equip and staff three additional ARFs (two in Punjab and one in
Sind). These farms would also serve to demonstrate improved farming prac-
tices to field staff, and farmers. The project would also provide for staff,
equipment and operating costs for the three new ARFs. The ARFs established
under the Phase-I projects would be provided some complementary equipment and
staff. In Punjab, due to longer distances, Research Officers (ROs) would be
provided for districts where logistics do not permit the SSMSs to provide
effective supervision. Each RO would be provided with staff, office
facilities, and housing accommodation, a pick-up truck, equipment, inputs and
an operating budget necessary for carrying out field trials. In Sind, all
trials in farmers' fields would be laid out under the supervision of a Senior
Subject Matter Specialist (SSMS) based on a research farm.
53.     Training.  Regular training is considered a fundamental and important
part of the T&V extension system, and a variety of formal and in-service
training programs for extension staff would be provided under the project.
The general scope and content of the training programs have already been
defined and detailed curricula and lesson plans would be drawn up with tech-
nical assistance provided under the project, based on a detailed assessment
of training needs of all staff categories. In order to ensure close coor-
dination with the On-Farm Water Management (OFWM) programs special emphasis
would be given to the training of extension staff (FA, AO, SMS) regularly at
the OFWM institute in each province. The three Agricultural Training
Institutes (ATIs) in Punjab and the single ATI in Sind, where all FAs receive
two-year pre-service training, would be strengthened. As a complement to
this regular training program at ATIs, special courses would be organized



-16-
under the project for FAs and higher-level staEf and courses covering techni-
cal and managerial subjects and extension methods would be conducted for
women extension workers and progressive farmers. The project would include
training consultants to up-date ATI curricula and to work out the content of
the special courses based on an assessment of training needs. Additional
capacity needed for increased activities at ATIs would be provided under the
project by upgrading existing facilities and building some new faciLities.
Additional teaching equipment and library materials would be provided. The
project would also include additional staff, vehicles, and course operating
expenditures. Non-competitive salaries for ATI instructors have in the past
caused problems. In order to retain quality staff, Punjab and Sind ATI
principals and instructors would be given an incentive payment of a magnitude
and frequency satisfactory to IDA.
54.     Fcrtnightly training sessions for FAs in the presence of AOs are
central tD the T&V system. In the new project districts, small training
centers would be constructed and equipped. The project would also include a
series of renior staff training workshops to be conducted by consultants on
various topics including operation of the adaptive research program and the
T&V extension system, general management principles, media production, farm
management and monitoring and evaluation. Crucial to the success of the
extension effort are improving the knowledge of SMSs and trainers and estab-
lisking regular dialogue between extension and research workers. Monthly
workshops-for both researchers and extension staff would provide regular
contact between them. The project would include technical experts to assist
in streamlining and making more effective the operation and management of the
monthly workshops. Study tours in Pakistan and abroad for extension and
adaptive research staff would also be arranged under the project.
55.     Information and Media.  With the rapidly increasing availability of
radios, to which a large share of farmers listen regularly, broadcasting of
agricultural information is an important complement to visits to farmers.
The availability of TV is also becoming significant and both radio and TV are
already widely used by the private sector for agriculture conmercials (e.g.
fertilizers, pesticides). Practical video and audio-visual aids also provide
a means of disseminating agricultural information. The project would con-
siderably strengthen the media and information directorates of the extension
service. In Punjab the Directorate of Information would be strengthened with
a video production unit to be staffed and equipped under the project ard
video receivers provided to each ARF and to headquarters. The unit would
produce video tapes for media distribution and for the training and extension
staff and farmers. In Sind where only a two-man information team exists, two
fully staffed and equipped units would be established. Video production and
dissemination would be provided with necessary equipment, including vehicles
for field production and dissemination. Local training and technical assis-
tance for Sind would be provided as well as incremental operating costs for
the Punjab and Sind information units.
56.     Monitoring and Evaluation.  Monitorirg and Evaluation (M&E) units
established in each province under the Phase-! projects are fully operational
and would be strengthened with additional staff at headquarters and with
field enumerators to monitor progress and loo-t into effect:. on yields in a
much larger project area. The units would be provided with additional tran-
sport, computing facilities, and other equipment, and with operating funds in



-17-
accordance with the increased workload. Technical assistance would be
provided to each of the two provinces to strengthen M&E. The Governments of
Punjab and Sind would: (a) complete benchmark surveys in the respective
project areas by December 31, 1987; (b) regularly monitor project activities;
and (c) prepare and furnish quarterly progress reports to IDA.
57.     Technical Assistance.  To assist in carrying out the project, som,e
110 man-months of consulting services would be provided, covering such areas
as extension methodology, training and extension planning, formal and infor-
mal training, agricultural information and media, adaptive research and
monitoring and evaluation. The Governments of Punjab and Sind would employ
consultants on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA and the signature of
consultants' contracts would be a condition of credit effectiveness.
Staffing
58.     Incremental project staff requirements total about 960 in Punjab and
about 641 in Sind. The increase of 537 FAs (Punjab - 245 and Sind - 292),
required under the project would be recruited among the adequate supply of
graduates of the Agricultural Training Institutes in Punjab (Rahimyar Khan,
Sargoda, Dagwal) and Sind (Sakrand). The incremental 119 AOs in Punjab and
40 AOs in Sind would be directly recruited among graduates of agricultural
universities at Faisalabad (Punjab) and Tandojam (Sind) where the supply of
such graduates is adequate. The 13 Deputy Directors of Agriculture (DDA) and
20 Assistant Directors of Agriculture (ADA) in Punjab and 9 DDAs and 14 ADAs
in Sind would be filled partly through promotion and partly through direct
recruitment. Key staff required to carry out the project would be appointed
by the provincial governments in accordance with a timetable satisfactory to
the Association.
Supporting Investments
59.     Civil Works.  Whenever possible, existing structures would be used
with additional facilities provided only where required. Office accommoda-
tLijn would be provided to FAs and supervisory staff where needed. In Sind,
where existing office space is insufficient, a new headquarters building and
a training hall with dormitories would be constructed. Training facilities
would be provided to serve the fortnightly training sessions at the
sub-divisional level in Punjab and Sind. Three adaptive research farms would
be established, including offices and housing for research staff. Housing
would also be provided for AOs and supervisory field staff. Land acquisition
which was not a problem during the Phase-I projects, would be carried-out
during the first three years of project implementation.
60.     Vehicles.  Vehicles would be provided for supervisory extension
staff, for training, media and monitoring unit personnel, and for the build-
ing unit in Sind. AOs would be provided with motorcycles and FAs with
bicycles. Motorcycles and bicycles would be provided to staff on credit
terms which would be repayable through deductions from their salaries. In
order to ensure staff mobility in the future, replacement of motorcycles and
bicycles would be financed through a revolving fund established and main-
tained by the Governments of Punjab and Sind. The Governments of Punjab and
Sind would: (a) pay travel(daily allowances to project staff at rates satis-
factory to IDA; (b) review such allowances with IDA; and Cc) make adequate



-18-
budgetary allocations for this purpose. Furthermore, the Governments of
Punjab and Sind would make adequate budgetary allocations for the proper
operation and maintenance of vehicles financed under the project. Project
vehicles would be procured according to a timetable satisfactory to the
Association.
61.     Equipment.  The project includes equipment and furniture for the new
offices, audio-visuaL and other equipment, publications and materials for the
training program, and farm machinery, draught animals, implements, tools,
instruments, and other research equipment for the adaptive research program,
as well as farm inputs for the research trials and demonstrations on farmers'
fields and adaptive research farms.
Project Implementation and Organization
62.     The Provincial Governments of Punjab and Sind wouLd have overall
responsibility for carrying out the project in each province. The project
would be executed by each province's Director General of Agriculture (DG),
Extension who has the administrative, financial, and technical control of the
agricultural extension service, of adaptive research, and of the Agricultural
Training Institutes.
63.     The building component would be implemented by the respective provin-
cial Communications and Works Department (C&W) and would be directly executed
by the Executive Engineer in each district. Since buildings are scattered
over a large number of districts, the project would include for each province
a coordinator, Project Director, Civil Works, located at headquarters of the
C&W Department. He would be assisted by a small staff and be responsible for
implementing the overall building program and would operate the province's
Special Account for project works. The Governments of Punjab and Sind would
each appoint the respective Project Director, Civil Works as a condition of
effectiveness of the credit.
Project Coordination
64.     A Project Coordination and Monitoring Committee CPCMC) in each
province, chaired by the provincial Additional Chief Secretary of the Plan-
ning and Development Department would be responsible for inter-departmental
coordination and for the monitoring of project progress. The Secretary,
Agriculture would serve as secretary and convenor of the PCMC and members
would include the Secretaries of Planning and Development, Finance, Services
and General Administration, Communications and Works and other departments,
as appropriate. The DC, Extension would also be a member of the Committee.
For more specific guidance at the working level, Project Review Committees
(PRCs) established for the Phase-I projects in each Province would be
retained under the proposed project. The PRCs would meet on a regular basis
before each main cropping season to review achievements in the previous
season and set guidelines for future operations. The Secretary of Agricul-
ture would chair the meeting and the DC, Extension would be iL- secretary and
convenor. At the field level, District Agricultural Advisory Committees
(DAACs) in each prcject district would review project operations, bring
problems to the attention of the Deputy Director in charge, and advise on
action required to improve the effectiveness of the extension service. The
Deputy Commissioner of the District would chair the meeting, the Deputy



-19-
Director, Extension would act as secretary and convenor, and members would
include, as appropriate in each province, subdivisional Assistant Directors
(Extension), OFWM Area Coordinators and Deputy Directors, District Engineer
of the C&W Department, District Supply Officer, Assistant Registrar Coopera-
tives, District heads of the Agricultural Development Bank of Pakistan
(ADBP), commercial banks, input supply organizations, and selected farmers.
The Governments of Punjab and Sind would maintain, with membership and
responsibilities satisfactory to the Association, the respective Project
Coordination and Monitoring, Project Review and District Agricultural
Advisory Committees.
Research - Extension Linkages
65.     Since neither research nor extension can function effectively without
close cooperation, it would be necessary to formalize the responsibilities of
both agencies. The research institutes would assume full responsibility for
the development of suitable technology, while the extension service would
have responsibility for the transfer of technology to farmers, including the
widespread testing of recommendations on farmers' fieLds. Research staff
would work closely with extension staff, particularly SHSs, since much of the
work at research stations would be in response to the needs of local exten-
sion staff and farmers. Formal linkages between research and extension have
been established in both provinces and would be strengthened and adjusLed to
allow for the increased coverage of the improved extension system. At the
field level in Phase-I districts this formal linkage is the District Techni-
cal Committee which under the Phase-Il project is designated the Zonal Tech-
nical Committee, and serve districts within the jurisdiction of the Adaptive
Research Farm to which it is attached. The ada?tive research technical
assistance provided under the project, in coordination with that for train-
ing, would review and advise on the streamlining of research-extension
linkages and the preparation of fortnightly messages. The Governments of
Punjab and Sind would maintain a Zonal Technical Committee for each adaptive
research farm in the project area with membership and responsibilities satis-
factory to the Association.
Project Costs and Financing
66.     Total project costs, over the seven-year period, are estimated at
Rs 995 million (US$58.4 million equivalent), with a foreign exchange com-
ponent of US$11.9 million and including duties and taxes amounting to US$3.3
million. Physical contingencies (7% of base costs) have been applied to
equipment, training materials and furniture (7%), civil works (10%) and on
other cost items (5%). Costs have been calculated in mid-1986 prices, with
price contingencies on foreign costs of 7% for 1987, decreasing to 4% in
1991/92, and 7.8% on local costs for 1987, decreasing to 4X in 1991/92.
Costs of the proposed project compare favorably to those of other T&V
projects in both Pakistan and the Region.
67.     The proposed credit of US$42.1 million equivalent would finance the
foreign exchange costs of US$11.9 million and US$30.2 million equivalent of
local costs. The remaining costs (including taxes and duties) would be
financed by the Government of Pakistan through budget allocations contained



-20-
in the Annual Development Programs of Punjab and Sind Provinces. Retroactive
financing of up to US$500,000 would be provided to bridge with the Phase-I
projects and would cover expenditures incurred after June 30, 1986, including
training and procurement of equipment, consultancy services and incremental
staff salaries.
Special Accounts
68.     To ensure that project activities are carried out expeditiously, four
Special Accounts would be opened and maintained by the Governments of Punjab
and Sind, one each for the respective provincial Departments of Agriculture
and Communications and Works in the National Bank of Pakistan, in accordance
with existing Government of Pakistan procedures, which are acceptable to the
Association.
Procurement _/
69.     Since civil works (US$27.9 million) associated with the project would
be small in size, remote and dispersed both geographically and over time
throughout Punjab and Sind, international competitive bidding (ICB) would not
be practical. Accordingly, contracts would be let following local competi-
tive bidding (LCB) procedures wnich, subject to modifications agreed to
between the Provincial Governments and IDA, are satisfactory to the Associa-
tion. The local contracting industry is well developed and adequate competi-
tion can be expected. Where no responsive bids, or any bids aL alL, are
received for individual contracts, they would be carried out through force
account. Equipment, tooLs, materials, draught animals, farm inputs, furimi-
ture and books (US$5 million) would be procured following local procedures
satisfactory to the Association. Motorcycles and bicycles (US$1 million),
to be sold to staff on credit, would be procured consistent with the choice
of and size allowed to the level of staff concerned, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Association, including, inter alia, price
quotations from local and international sources. Prior review by the
Association would only be required for the first civil works concract and all
subsequent contracts of US$100,000 or more. The appointment of consultants
(US$1.8 million) would be in accordance with the Bank's guidelines. Train-
ing, incremental staff salaries, operation and maintenance costs, and land
acquisition (US$20.2 million) would be handled in accordance with normal
Government praccices.
70.     The Government is reluctant to allow the import of vehicles (and
certain other goods) in favor of those locally produced or assembled, and has
prepared a list of goods which may not be imported without a special "No
Objection Certificate" (NOC) from the Ministry of Production. Given previous
difficulties experienced in obtaining NOCs for the import of goods awarded to
foreign suppliers under ICB, vehicles (excluding motorcycles) required for
the project (US$2.5 million) would be treated as reserve procurement and
would not be reimbursable out of the proceeds of the credit. Procurement
procedures are summarized below:
1/ All figures include contingencies.



-21-
Procurement Method 1/
(US$ fTlToWnT
Total
Component                      LCB          Other           N.A.           Cost
Civil Works                    27.9           -                             27.9
(22.1)                                       (22.1)
Land Acquisition                 -            -             0.7              0.7
(-)              (-)
Vehicles, Motorcycles,
Bicycles                       -           3.5                             3.5
(1.0)           -              (1.0)
Equipment, Tools, Materials,   -              5.0                             5.0
Draught Animals, Farm                     (4.4)                           (4.4)
Inputs, Furniture and Books
Technical Assistance,            -            1.8             -               1.8
Studies                                   (1.8)                           (1.8)
Training, incremental            -             -            19.5             19.5
salaries and allowances;                                (12.8)           (12.8)
operation and maintenance
Total                          27.9          10.3          20.2              58.4
(22.1)         (7.2)        (12.8)           (42.1)
1/  Figures in parentheses are amounts to bfe financed from credit proceeds.
Disbursements
71.     Disbursements from the credit would be made against 80% of expendi-
tures for civil works; 100% of foreign expenditures on directly imported,
100Z of the ex-factory price of locally manufactured, and 60% of local expen-
ditures (off-the-shelf) for motorcycLes and bicycles, equipment, tools,
materials, draught animals, farm inputs, furniture and books; 100% of expen-
ditures for studies, consultants, training and incremental travel allowances;
and 50% of incremental staff salaries and other incremental operating costs.
72.     Disburs-ments for:  (i) civil works contracts not exceeding
US$ 100,000 and those through force account; (ii) locally procured equipment,
tools, materials, draught animals, farm inputs, furniture and books under
contracts costing US$ 50,000 or less; and (iii) traiining, staff salaries and
allowances and other operating costs, would be made against certified state-
ments of expenditures; supporting documents wouLd be retained by the
implementing agencies for review by the Association. Disbursements for other
items would be fully documented. The final disbursement for the project
would be expected to be completed by June 1993. The seven-year disbursement
period, about two years shorter than that for a typical agricultural project
in the Region, is based on a disbursement profile derived from actual disbur-
sements under the Phase-I projects.



-22-
Accounts and Audit
73.     Each implementing agency would maintain separate project accounts
in accordance with sound accounting practices, which would be audited
annually according to appropriate auditing principLes. A lack of ndequately
trained accounting staff in Punjab was a major factor contributing to the
delay in submission of nudit reports to the Association under the Phase-I
Project (Credit 813-PAK). Therefore, provision of accounting training under
the proposed project would strengthen and speed-up the auditing process in
the Punjab and address the cause of delay. The accounting staff of the
Department of Agriculture would be provided with training by the Director for
Commercial Audit in Lahore. Separate project accounts would be maintained by
each implementing agency and the unaudited account would be submitted for
independent audit within four months of the end of the fiscal year. The
audited statements would be made available to the Association no later than
nine months after the end of the fiscal year, including a separate opinion by
the auditors as to wiether the Statements of Expenditure (SOE) submitted
during the fiscal yeir, together with the procedures and internal controls
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related
withdrawals.
Project Benefits and Risks
74.     Benefits.  Attributing a precise level of benefits to this type of
project is difficult, since it is not possible to determine what proportion
of benefits is due to extension and adaptive research efforts and what is due
to additional purchased inputs and other factors. In practice, it is the
combination of a number of factors, with adaptive research and extension
playing the role of catalyst, that brings about the desired benefits. It is
also difficult to estimate acceptance rates of recommended practices.
However, since the project relies primarily on reorganization and strengthen-
ing of an existing extension structure, the incremental cost would be Low.
Hence, even very small and gradual production increases due to the project
would generate a high rate of return. Due to the speculative nature of the
results, no economic rate of return has been calculated. However, in sen-
sitivity analysis, certain calculations have been made on the benefits
required from improved extension services alone in order to justify the
project investment. The calculations, based on economic values, show that
total cumulative yield increases of only about 0.3% are required to justify
project expenditures. This would amount to increases in wheat yields by
about 5 kg/ha, or rice by 5 kg/ha, and or cotton by 1 kg/ha. Cumulative
yield increases of 1% would give an econonic rate of return of over 50%.  If
benefits were derived only from increases in yields of major crops (wheat,
rice, cotton, and sugar cane), then a cumulative yield increase due to the
improved extension services of 0.5% would justify project investments and a
1% yield increase would give an economic rate of return of about 35%. In
fact, elsewhere in the Region, where the extension system is operating effec-
tively, yield increases have far exceedeC this level. One significant fea-
ture of the T&V system is that the practice initialLy stressed by the exten-
sion service focus on imnroving cultural practices (timely operations, good
land preparation, proper seed rates, line :5owing, and weeding) to maintain
adequate and healthy plant populations in the fields. As these operations



-23-
uwually involve more work and little cash outlay, they are particularly well
suited to the needs of many small farmers.
75.     Risks.  The two major risks facing the project would be that
administrative constraints and resistance to change continue to impede the
development of ecfective extension work and that adaptive research fails to
produce appror.iate location-specific messages that would lead to increases
in agricultural output in the project area. During the Phase-I projects,
administrative constraints caused serious delays in project implementation
and were reflections of several factors, including lack of government commit-
ment to and understanding of the T&V system, the complexity of creating new
staff positions in the Pakistan civil service which made recruitment dif-
ficult, and inadequate budget allocations. Nevertheless, except for the
housing component in Punjab, the Phase-I projects were fully implemented
despite these problems and only the Punjab project (Cr. 813-PAK) needed a
one-year extension. These results are much better than those shown by the
agricultural extension disbursement profiles for South Asia. In the proposed
project, the administrative constraints should be much less. The Government
of Sind has been committed to the T&V system for some time.  The Government
of Punjab too is fully committed as a result of internal discussions of a
Punjab Economic Research Institute (PERI) evaluation report. This is indi-
cated by the recent Asian Development Bank (ADE) project in one district of
the province and the request for IDA assistance to extend the T&V system to
the entire province. With experience gained, government and project staff
now better understand the T&V system. New staff positions for T&V are now
specifically defined and "familiar", and should be more readily filled.
Shortage of funds is a reflection of national resource constraints and this
risk cannot be eliminated. However, to the extent that it is a matter of
prioritizing expenditure among competing demands, government's full commit-
ment and interest is essential. In addition, the FA housing component lar-
gely affected by previous unavailability of funds (in Punjab) has been
eliminated.
16.       An additional risk after implementation, is the continued funding
and the transfer of staff salaries, operating and maintenance costs from the
federal government's investment budget to the provincial governments' recur-
rent budget, although this has not been a problem in other Bank-assisted
projects. The Provinces would, upon completion of the project operate and
maintain the extension services provided under the project and make adequate
budgetary allocations 'or these purposes.
77.     Failure of the adaptive research system to produce appropriate recom-
mendations is a risk which cannot be entirely excluded, since it is a risk
associated with all research. However, special efforts are made under the
project to introduce a methodology for on-farm research of farmers' problems,
and technical assistance is also provided to this end. Although staff con-
tinuity is not guaranteed, the current provincial senior extension management
is committed to the project. Provincial government and the respective
Agriculture Department's firm support of the project is expected to be
reflected in managerial behavior and performance.
78.     Overall, project risks appear acceptable.  A very small increase in
yields due to the improved extension services would be sufficient to justify



-24-
project expenditures (paragraph 74). Farmers' responsiveness to the exten-
sion recomendations has generally been good wherever visits by extension
staff are made systematically and where FAs have gained confidence in their
professional ability to introduce knowledge and skills. The ability of the
extension system to develop and disseminate recommendations leading to
increased yield above the level needed for a satisfactory rate of return has
been demonstrated adequately. Even without the results that are expected
from research generated by the project, major yield increases are possible in
the process of bringing the production level of average farmers to that of
the best farmers. To reduce the risk of technological constraints lowering
anticipated project benefits, the project supports programs for field testing
research results and development of strong working relationships between
extension and agricultural research institutes. Furthermore, the Agricul-
tural Research Project (Cr. 1158-PAK) is a first-phase effort directed at
strengthening agricultural research capabilities throughout Pakistan to
ensure a continuous flow of recommendations adapted to specific regional
needs.
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
79.     I am satisfied that the .proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association, and I recoonend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed credit.
Barber B. Conable
President
Attachments
February 4, 1987



-25-
AUZ 
Page 1
STATUS OP DANK GROiUrP OATIlows IN PAIIKI
A.  STATgMPT OF MMPK LOANS AD IDA CDITS la. of Seutember 30. 1956) L/a & Lk
(B38 million)
Lont                                                     (Amount net of cancellational
Credit    Fiscal                                                                Undis-
I  bn r     JULr    lnr w e                              iank        iD         burned
108 loans and credits fully disbursed                   821.7    1,265.6
754       1978   Salinity Control A Reclamation           -          70.0         65.0
877       1979   Salinity Control & R-c. (Harden)    -              60.0         45.2
974       1980   Third Highway                           -           50.0          7.2
1109/e    1981   Vocational Training                     --          25.0          7.0
115714    1981   Grain Storage                                       32.0         14.7
11581     1981   Agricultural Research                               24.0         13.4
116LS    1982   Industrial Developmnt (IDE  II)         -           30.0          2.1
2122      1982   Fourth Telecomnication                  40.0        -             3.0
2172      1982   Fertilizer Industry Rehbbilitation   35.5           -            16.1
2247      1983   Reservoir Kaintenanee Facilities        10.2        -             9.8
23D5      1983   A4ricultural Dev. (ADS? V)              10.0        -             2.1
2324      1983   Fifth Bui Worthern Gas Pipelinee        43.0        -            29.6
12391c  1982   Irrigation Systemo Rehabilitation    -                40.0         17.0
1243/C    1982   Baluchiatan Kinor Irrig. 6 Agr.         -           14.0         11.8
12561c    1982   Technical Assistance                    -            7.0          1.6
1348k    1983   Labors Orban Development                 -           16.0         16.3
13501c    1983   Population                              -           18.0         14.3
1355ke   1983   Coal Engineering                         --           7.0          6.3
13741c    1983   Karachi Water Supply                                25.0         18.7
13753k    1983   Fourth Drainsae                         --          65.0         68.6
138OL1    1983   AgricuLtural Development (ADDP v)    -              47.8          2.5
2218      1983   Refinery Engineering Project            12.0        -             7.9
2351      1984   Petrolesu Explorstion                   51.5        -            32.0
2374      1984   Second Toot Oil ad Cas Development  30.0            -            15.2
2350      1984   Industrial Investmet Credit             50.0        -            32.0
14391     19S4   Induetrial Inveastmt Credit             -           50.0         26.9
14611c    1984   Integrated Kill Farming Developmet  -               21.0         21.7
14BOc    1984   Second Technical Assistance             -            7.0          5.7
148714    1984   Command Water Management                -           46.5         4Z.2
149914    1984   Second Small Industries                 -           50.0         35.1
1532/c    1985   Left Sank Outfall Drain - Stage 1    -             150.0        175.3
1533k&   1985   Saluchistan Agricultural Extensiom    --              8.3          9.0
2499      1985   Fourth UAPD  Power                     100.0        -           100.0
1602k    1985   Second Primary Education                 -           52.5         60.5
1603kc   1985   Second On-Farm Meter Managemt            -           34.5         35.2
2552      1985   Energy Sector loa                      178.0        -           164.1
2553      1985   Petroleis Resources Joint Venture    55.0           -            31.7
2556      1965   Fifth VAPD  Poer                       100.0        -           100.0
2A481L    1986   Industrial laneetment Credit           148.0                    148.0
1646k1   1986   Industrial Investment Credit                          2.0          2.4
1652k    1986   Karacbi Special Developmeat                          70.0         7f.5
167014    1986   Second Vocational Treining              -           40.2         44.4
169314    1986   SCARP Transition PiLot                   -          10.0         10.6
16994    1966   Agric. 0ev. DBok of Pakistan  TX         -           55.0         57.8
2693      1986   Agric. Dev. lack of Pakistan VI        165.0        -           165.0
26981U    1966   Eat Addu Combined Cycle                 90.0        -            90.0
2701      1986   Export Development                      70.0        -            70.0
27431d    1987   Telecommnnications V                                --        ....ID0D
Total                                                 2,112.9    2,393.4       2.040.4
of which has been repaid                              531 0      _22A
Total onu  outatanding                                1.580.9    2.336.4
Amount sold                   30.0
of which bha  been repaid    258                      4.  
Total now held by Sank and IDA:                       1,576.7    2J334
Total undisbursed                                     1f!16.5      923.9 2j0404 
14  The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a eeprate report
on all SankIlDA financial projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly
and circulated to the Executive Dizectore on April 30 and October 31.
Lk  Excludes the disbursed portion of loans ad credits wholly or partly for pro-
jects in the former East Pakistan wbicb have sow been taken over by Bangladesb.
/C  IDA Credits under the 6th  nd 7th Replenielbente are denowinted in SDRe.  lhe
principal and non-effective Credits are shown in USS equivalent at the time of
negotiations. Disbursed maounts are caoputed at the exchange rate applicable
on the transaction dates.  Uodisbursed a_untc are valned at th  exchange rate
applicable - the date of this statemnt.
Li Not yet effective.



-26-
ANNEX I
Page 2
B.  STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of September 30. 1986)
Fiscal                                             Amount  In U1$  Million
Year    Oblipor               Type of Business      Loan   Equity    Total
1958     Steel Corp of        Rolled Steel
Pakistan Ltd.        Products              0.63     -         0.63
1959     Adazjee Industries
Ltd.                 Textiles              0.75     --        0.75
1962-    Charibwal Cement
1965     Industries Ltd.       Cement               5.25    0.42       5.67
1963-    PICIC                 Development
1969-                          Financing             -       0.52      0.52
1975
1965     Crescent Jute
Products             Textiles              1.84    0.11       1.95
1965-
1980-    Packages Ltd.         Paper Products      19.25    0.84      20.09
1982
1967-    Pakistan Paper
1976     Corp Ltd.             Paper                5.38    2.02       7.40
1969     Davood Hercules
Chemicals Ltd.       Fertilizers           1.00    2.92       3.92
1979     Milkpak Ltd.          Food and Food
Processing           2.40    0.36       2.76
1979     Pakistan Oilfields
Ltd. and Attock      Chemicals and
Refinery Ltd.        Petrochemicals       29.00    2.04      31.04
1980     Fauji Foundation     Woven Polypropy-
lene bags            1.78     -         1.78
1980     Premier Board
Mills Ltd.           Particle Board        2.70     -         2.70
1981     Habib Arkady          Food and Food
Processing           3.15    0.16       3.31
1982     Asbestos              Cement               4.02      -        4.02
1983     Pakistan Petroleum   Chemical and
Ltd.                 Petrochemicals      103.31    1.56    104.87
1985     National Dev.         Honey and
Leasing Corp.        Capital Market.       5.49    0.37       5.86
1986     Mari Gas              Chemicals and
Petrochemicals      45.77      --      45.77
Total Gross Comuitments                  231.72   11.32    243.04
Less: Cancellations, Terminations,
Repayments and Sales              163.46    0.38    163.84
Total Comitments Nov Held by IFC          68.26   10.94      79.20
Vndisbursed (including participants)      41.98    0.32      42.30



-27-
ANNEX II
Page 1
PAKISTAN
PUNJAB AND SIND AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH - PHASE II PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I:    Timetable of Key Events:
(a) Time taken to prepare project:
Punjab: 24 months
Sind: 11 months
(b) Agency which prepared the project:
Governments of Punjab and Sind, the latter assisted by
FAO/CP.
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank, and date of the
first Bank mission to consider the project:
Punjab: November 1983
Sind: November 1984
(d) Date of departure of Appraisal Mission:
January 22, 1986
(e) Date of completion of negotiations:
December 1, 1986
(f) Planned date of effectiveness:
April 1987
Section II:   Special Bank Implementation Actions:
None



-28-
ANNEX II
Page 2
Section III: Special Conditions:
(a) Extension staff to be relieved of all non-extension
duties (paragraph 51);
(b) Incentive payments to be made to ATI principals and
instructors (paragraph 53);
(c) Revolving fund to be established and maintained for the
replacement of staff motorcycles and bicycles
(paragraph 60);
(d) Vehicle O&M and staff travel/daily allowances to be
paid to project staff, reviewed from time-to-time
and adequate budget allocations made available
(paragraph 60);
Ce) Accounting staff of Punjab Department of Agriculture to
be provided with training (paragraph 73); and
Cf) Upon project completion, the extens.:on service provided
under the project to be operated and maintained,
extension service staff to be maintained at satisfactory
levels and adequate budgetary allocations to be
made (paragraph 76).
The following would be additional conditions of effectiveness: (a)
the Governments of Punjab and Sind would: (i) sign contracts for respective
consulting services (paragraph 57); and (ii) appoint the Project Director,
Civil Works (paragraph 63); and (b) ECNEC approval of the PC-1 document
(paragraph 39).



HAP SECTION



r                                      ,,~~~~~                                                        ~~                    ~        ~~~~4-   ir  w)
PAKISTAN                                                                                              U.    S.    S.    R.            .-*        S
PUNJAB AND SIND AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND                                                                                                                                                   CHINA
ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT - PHASE 111\fCtflNA
(EXTENSION IV)                                                                                    .              r              r
I*   i  1Phase I Project Districts                           EXISTING                                                           N
Districts Added In Phase II                   K   Agricultural Research Institutes                                            (
72;5  i ADB Project (Non-Bonk Project)                  0   Rice Research Institutes                                                     N    0CM;rra  ,'
LaRtive Research Farms:                       A   Agricultural Training Institutes                                                            /
*       Existing, Built under Phase I Project        A   Agricultural Universities                                                                       I                       - 
C       Built under Phase II Project                 0   Pakistn Cotton Research Institutes                                              4 ,              , I        (
*     Provincial Project Headquarters                O   Agricultural Machinery Institutes                                                tOi .
*@     Naoional Capital                                                                                   '    5                J         -
o      Province Capitals                                                                               r       ,                       r
o      Other Cities and Towns                                                                                                           MU \F $  r,;,  i, 'MUZA!ARABAD
- Rivers                                                                                                                    .... r  . -   
; ------ District Boundaries                                                        '4,                                                    I })EIHAWA</%/¶"  JA MMU
Province Baundaries                                                               O \,cr-acN   A                                                 ANDR
International Boundaries                                                           *       -                                                 K--A S   MR
K.ha?         %       .                     KASHMI_
.4~~~~~~~~~~~~~



' | °~~~~ 50         O  155    ; w    i y0  3w  50  40
I~~~~~~ ,J                       )'>.: 2tl=sv 250                                                           <,
|    z/  ~~A  FG  H  A  N  I S  T A  N                _,,, , j    LLlAH                                SIA                          -
| <- -._ / C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~u gi;          A                           / p  -  ,  o o , , 0
|  \.                  s~~~~~~~~~~ A   L - -'U L/ C /'}V  /--5~rFA  /VN// v{ 7:
9 ~~~~ r-------~b~~i''° ,,/  ''            /     /i> " .., * /W t1
2r              ;,         ''                                r      OL,J,A,Ci,tf,;, BADN  9
REP. OF IRAN                                           I  id° J'   SUKKUlt j             ,
|  ~~~~r"_~~~~~ <t   S '           \t                 t_.)             I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N    D   I   A|
KrrtO.5 ^-fs S   t* " '' t5'7    t s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Th map tos tw 1rarw epy
t>,,tXvm,.O.SX~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~F .O G017AnrK4 O NO 
¢ -U  i!   S   z    !'/   o    i    .1     ;~~~~~~~~~KAACf",,,     ,'tHAAATKA                           F"d   AV tv  amAv  AV - 4
|~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~W use of Th Wo >                          rA 
"-~ ~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a 4,w Wa'b F  *'ww 






