Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
Report No. 14886
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
PUNJAB AND SIND AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION
AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCR - PHASE II PROJECT
(CREDIT 1762-PAK)
JULY 20, 1995
Agriculture and Natural Resources
Operations Division
Country Department I
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their ofricial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Pakistan Rupees (Rs)
Appraisal Year (1986)    Rs 16.65 = US$1.00
Completion Year (1994)      Rs 30.57 = US$1.00
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
(Metric System)
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
July I - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AO            Agricultural Officer
ATI           Agricultural Training Institute
ARF           Adaptive Research Farm
ARP-II        Agricultural Research Project - Phase II
CWD           Communications and Works Department
DA            Department of Agriculture
DCA           Development Credit Agreement
ECNEC         Executive Conmmittee of National Economic Council
FA            Field Assistant
GOP           Government of Pakistan
GOPun         Government of Punjab
GOS           Government of Sindh
IDA           International Development Association
M&E           Monitoring and Evaluation
PAR           Performance Audit Report
PC-l           Planning Commission Form-1
PCR            Project Completion Report
PERI           Punjab Economic Research Institute
SA             Stock Assistant
SAR           Staff Appraisal Report
SMS           Subject Matter Specialist
SSMS           Senior Subject Matter Specialist
T&V           Training and Visit System of Extension
WEW           Women Extension Workers
GLOSSARY
Kharif (Monsoon Season)      Mid-April to Mid-October
Rabi (Dry Season)            Mid-October to Mid-April



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Preface
Evaluation Summary    ...............................................
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT.1
A. Statement/Evaluation of Objectives .....................................                                1
B. Achievement of Objectives ...........................................                                   1
C. Project Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project ..............    4
D. Project Sustainability  .....................                                                           7
E. Bank Performance.                                                                                       7
F. Borrower Performance.                                                                                   8
G. Assessment of Outcome.                                                                                  9
H. Future Development ...............................................   9
I. Key Lessons Learned  .............................................   10
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES  .....................................  13
Table 1.        Summary of Assessments  ...................................   13
Table 2.        Related Bank Loans/Credits ..................................   15
Table 3.        Project Timetable  ........................................   16
Table 4.        Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual  ....              .......    17
Table 5.        Key Indicators for Project Implementation  .........................   18
Table 6.        Key Indicators for Project Operation .............................   19
Table 7.        Studies Included in Project ...................................   19
Table 8A.       Project Costs  ...........................................   20
Table 8B.       Project Financing  ........................................   20
Table 9.        Economic Costs and Benefits  .................................   21
Table 10.       Status of Legal Covenants  .................              I      ...............   22
Table 11.       Bank Resources: Staff Inputs  .................................   24
Table 12.       Bank Resources: Missions ...................................   25
APPENDICES
Appendix A:  Mission's Aide Memoire
Appendix B:  Project Completion Report, Pakistan: Punjab Agricultural Extension and Adaptive
Research Project Phase-II
Appendix C:  Implementation Completion Report (ICR) of Sindh Agricultural Extension and Adaptive
Research Project Phase-II
Appendix D:  Comments from Government of Sindh on Final Draft ICR
Appendix E:  Comments from Government of Punjab on Final Draft ICR
This document ha a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of thuir
official dudes. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wihout World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
PUNJAB AND SIND AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION
AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH - PHASE II PROJECT
(Cr. 1762-PAK)
PREFACE
1.         This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Punjab and Sind Agricultural
Extension and Adaptive Research Project for which Credit 1762-PAK in the amount of SDR 35.5 million
(US$42.1 million) was approved on February 24, 1987 and made effective on November 6, 1987. The
credit closing date was extended once, by one year, to June 30, 1994. The credit account was kept open
for four months beyond the closing date to allow submission of final withdrawal applications. Total
disbursements amounted to SDR 28.88 million (81 % of original credit; equivalent to US$39.74 million)
and the unspent credit balance of SDR 6.62 million was cancelled effective December 7, 1994.
2.         This ICR was prepared by an FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program" mission which
visited Pakistan in October 1994, and reviewed by the Agriculture and Natural Resources Operations
Division, Country Department I, South Asia Region. Preparation was based on material in the project
files, field visits, and discussions with officials of the Punjab and Sindh Provincial Governments and Bank
staff associated with the project. Both provincial governments contributed to the preparation of the ICR
by commenting on the mission's aide-memoires, arranging all field visits and meetings, and providing
separate completion reports on the project.
"  Messrs. D.A. Ivory (mission leader, agronomist) and B.J. Gorddard (agricultural extension specialist,
consultant).






- iii -
PAKISTAN
PUNJAB AND SIND AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION
AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH - PHASE II PROJECT
(Cr. 1762-PAK)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.         Agricultural extension services in Pakistan are entirely within the provincial domain and
vary considerably among provinces. The IDA supported first-phase projects in three provinces (Punjab,
Sindh and Balochistan) to reorganize and strengthen extension services and the adaptive research system
in selected districts, in line with the "Training and Visit" (T&V) methodology. These were the Punjab
Extension and Agricultural Development Project (Cr. 813-PAK), Sind Agricultural Extension and
Adaptive Research Project (Cr. 922-PAK), and Baluchistan Agricultural Extension and Adaptive Research
Project (Cr. 1533-PAK). Second phase projects were proposed for Punjab and Sindh to extend the T&V
system to all districts. A joint project - the subject of this report - was therefore developed for these two
provinces.
Project Objectives
2.         The overall project objective was to achieve sustained increases in agricultural production
in the project areas through effective transfer of technologies most suited to local agroclimatic conditions,
and creating a sense of dedication and commitment in the provincial extension services by making all staff
more accountable to specific assigned duties and objectives. For this purpose, the project was to
complete the strengthening and reorganization of extension services in Punjab and Sindh by extending the
T&V system to the districts not covered by the first-phase projects, while consolidating the gains made
in the districts covered by these projects and strengthening the adaptive research system. The specific
project objectives were clear and achievable, and the general objective was important to country,
provincial and sector objectives and complemented the Bank's country assistance strategy.
3.         Covenants. Both the governments of Punjab (GOPun) and Sindh (GOS) had, by project
closure, complied with all covenants of the Project Agreement, except for the transfer of all incremental
staff positions to the non-development budget, and in the case of GOPun, payment of attendant salaries.
[See GOPun comment in Appendix E, item 3.]
Implementation Experience and Results
4.         The project is judged to have partially achieved its overall objective in both provinces.
Production and yield of most of the important crops increased significantly (para. 5)". The extent to
which these increases were attributable to the project could not be determined, but the project
undoubtedly played a role in promoting new improved technologies. Notwithstanding initial delays, the
project achieved or exceeded the majority of the physical targets set in the SAR (PC-1), except for civil
works and technical assistance (paras. 12, 17 and 11, 18). [See GOPun comment in Appendix E, item
4.]
"  References throughout the Evaluation Summary are to paragraphs of Part I.



- iv -
5.         Project Cost. Of the total IDA Credit (SDR 35.5 million), SDR 6.62 million remained
unspent on December 7, 1994 and were cancelled, due mainly to the depreciation of the Rupee against
the SDR, and in the Punjab component, due to the deletion of 248 buildings from the civil works program
and the underutilization of funds allocated for technical assistance (paras. 16, 17 and 18). Total actual
project cost was Rs 1,247.77 million (about US$51.12 million), 25% more than estimated at appraisal
in Rupee terms, but 12% less in Dollar terms. [See GOPun comment in Appendix E, item 5.]
Key Factors Relating to Achievement of Objectives
6.         T&V System.  The institution building objective of the T&V system was satisfactorily
achieved in all districts in both provinces, although Punjab consultancies were limited and delayed. A
significant impact of the project has been the improvement of staff and contact farmer skills and
knowledge. However, Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) reports indicate that regular contacts with
farmers had been at an undesirably low level, with only about 30% of contact farmers being reached
regularly. With contact farmers only representing 7% of all farmers, these regular contacts were thus
with only about 2% of all farmers. Farmer interviews suggest that contact farmers had significantly
higher crop yields than district averages and crop yields of farmers in the majority of villages not visited
by Field Assistants (FAs). The project has experienced most of the well documented problems of the
T&V system including high recurrent costs, poor staff qualifications and skills, weak linkages with
research, lack of new messages, inequitable contact patterns with farmers, heavy management loads, poor
supervision of FAs by Agricultural Officers (AOs), poor farmer contact by AOs and inflexibility (paras.
6, 7, 10, 19, 20, 21, 25 and 26). [See GOPun comment in Appendix E, item 6.]
7.         Training Institutes. Agricultural Training Institutes have been strengthened and training
halls established and equipped as scheduled. These are operating satisfactorily with several encouraging
signs of innovation and responsiveness to emerging demands such as training programs for women
farmers and women extensionists (paras. 8 and 22).
8.         Training.  A large amount of training has been provided for selected staff through
participation in pre-service and in-service training, refresher courses, workshops, seminars and foreign
training. Generally, regular training programs were repetitive and lacking in substance and therefore
need to be upgraded to meet current demands for improved knowledge and skills, but it is doubtful
whether the present intensity of training for FAs and AOs is sustainable or essential (paras. 9 and 22).
Some training was delayed, particularly overseas training and workshop and seminar programs, and some
not undertaken because of the cancelled technical assistance, such as M&E training, all of which affected
project benefit and impact assessment. [See GOPun comment in Appendix E, item 8.1
9.         Adaptive Research. The Adaptive Research Farms (ARFs) have been established in both
provinces, despite shortfalls in adaptive research staffing. However, the on-station focus of much of the
research and the failure to develop essential linkages with extension and other research institutions are
a cause for concern (paras. 10 and 20). [See GOPun comment in Appendix E, item 9.]
10.        Technical Assistance. While the quality of consultancy inputs ranged from satisfactory to
excellent, the level of inputs was well below targets in Punjab, and in both provinces inputs were
seriously delayed and disrupted due to disputes between Government and consultants regarding liability
to taxation (paras. 11 and 18). Technical assistance was discontinued in Puniab, resulting in only 47%
of planned inputs. [See GOPun comment in Appendix E, item 10.]
11.        Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E). Project monitoring and evaluation was carried out
regularly and documented in bi-annual reports. These reports would have been of greater value to



- v -
management if there had been more focus on evaluation, a problem which might have been overcome by
appropriate technical assistance (paras. 11 and 18).
12.        Civil Works and Vehicles. Civil works implementation was seriously delayed in both
provinces (paras. 12 and 17), and several buildings are still not completed or handed over to the
Departments of Agriculture (DAs; para. 27). These delays had adverse effects on the operations of the
ARFs, extension programs and training programs.  Despite procurement of vehicles, mobility of
extension staff was identified as a continuing major constraint (paras. 13 and 21). [See GOPun comment
in Appendix E, item 12.]
13.        Communications. Excellent progress was made in developing mass media support for
extension, and monitoring reveals a high level of penetration and satisfaction with these outputs, which
are notable for their timing and targeting (para. 14).
14.        External Constraints. A number of external factors affected the impact of the project
including a lack of production inputs (para. 23) plus problems associated with irrigation, drainage, and
adulteration of fertilizers and pesticides. Security problems in Sindh also adversely affected the project
for a period of more than three years (para. 24).
Performance of Association and Borrower
15.        Association Performance. Supervision missions were reasonably regular and provided
sound guidance and support to implementation. The Resident Mission staff provided additional support
between supervision missions, which was appreciated by both provincial governments (para. 29).
16.        Borrower Performance. Both provincial governments tried hard to complete the project
on target, but problems arose due to some limitations in management, inter-departmental coordination
and civil disturbances in Sindh. Problems in both provinces also included: serious delays in the civil
works program, procurement of replacement vehicles, and overseas training; shortfall in appointment of
adaptive research staff; slow start of technical assistance; poor supervision of FAs by AOs; and poor
farmer contact by AOs. In Sindh, additional constraints were imposed by inadequate availability of
counterpart funds and a lack of funds for operation and maintenance in Phase I areas (paras. 30, 31, 32
and 33).
Project Outcome Assessment
17.        Project outcome is assessed as satisfactory, since the project achieved most of its specific
objectives. In Punjab it is expected that further worthwhile development will be achieved without
additional investment. However, if modifications to the T&V system are not made, sustainability and
impact on agricultural development would ultimately be affected. In Sindh, there is some doubt that
further worthwhile development will occur, unless sufficient budget is provided for operations,
maintenance and replacement of capital items, and there is further investment in reorienting and
developing the extension service (para. 34). [See GOPun comment in Appendix E, item 17.]
Summary of Findings, Key Lessons Learned and Future Operations
18.        Important Findings: (a) The T&V extension system has been set up as planned, but has
exhibited a number of serious deficiencies in operation. (b) The low education level of FAs limits their
capacity to provide comprehensive services which are responsive to farmers' needs. [See GOPun
comment in Appendix E, item 18.ii.] (c) Adaptive research has not been as effective as intended,



- vi -
especially in linking with and supporting extension. [See GOPun comment in Appendix E, item 18.iii.]
(d) Serious civil works implementation delays occurred in both provinces. [See GOPun comment in
Appendix E, item 18.iv.] (e) Good progress was made in both provinces in developing mass media
materials for radio, television and print, to support extension.
19.        Lessons Learned: (a) Project success is dependent on managerial capacity. Management
training early in the project can be a critical input. (b) The T&V system must be substantially modified
to make it more cost effective, more flexible and targeted, more equitable, less top-down, more
participatory and responsive to its clientele. Consideration should be given to prioritizing target groups
and areas of investment, and to the role of the private sector and NGOs. (c) The availability of trained
human resources should determine the rate at which a program is developed. Training methods and
curricula need to be upgraded, and education programs for farmers should be expanded, including the
recent, innovative courses for women farmers and extensionists. (d) Within the extension system there
should be more incentives and merit-based promotional opportunities for the front-line extension workers,
and their basic knowledge and skills should be steadily upgraded. (e) Proposed programs of civil works
must be within the financial and managerial capacity of the implementing agency and the government
must remain fully committed to implementing (completing) such a program within the proposed time-
frame.  (f) Adaptive research should not duplicate research done by Research Institutes, should be
demand-driven and emphasize the financial and economic viability of new technologies compared with
current farmer practices. (g) The importance of M&E, especially evaluation, in justifying budget support
for extension has been reinforced.
20.         Future Development: Both provincial DAs recognize the need to modify their extension
services and have prepared extension strategy papers, which propose more sustainable extension systems,
wider interaction with farmers, use of more modern communication systems and extension methodologies,
more flexible allocation of staff resources, and a more participatory approach to defining problems and
technological solutions (para. 35). These have yet to be considered by the provincial governments. [See
GOPun comment in Appendix E, item 19.]



- 1 -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
PUNJAB AND SIND AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION
AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH - PHASE II PROJECT
(Cr. 1762-PAK)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Statement/Evaluation of Objectives
1.          The overall project objective was to achieve sustained increases in agricultural production
in the project areas through effective transfer of technologies most suited to local agroclimatic conditions,
and creating a sense of dedication and commitment in the provincial extension services by making all staff
more accountable to specific assigned duties and objectives. For this purpose, the project was to
complete the strengthening and reorganization of extension services in Punjab and Sindh provinces by
extending the T&V system to all districts not covered by preceding IDA assisted projects (Punjab
Extension and Agricultural Development Project, Cr. 813-PAK; and Sind Agricultural Extension and
Adaptive Research Project, Cr. 922-PAK), while consolidating gains made in districts covered by the
first-phase projects and strengthening the adaptive research system.
2.          The specific project objectives included:  (i) reorganization and strengthening of the
agricultural extension and adaptive research activities in the 23 districts of Punjab and 8 districts of Sindh
provinces not covered by the Phase I projects; (ii) maintaining and strengthening the agricultural extension
and adaptive research activities in the five districts of Punjab and five districts of Sindh covered by the
Phase I projects; (iii) strengthening the Agricultural Training Institutes; (iv) strengthening in-service and
on-the-job training of extension staff; (v) establishing new Adaptive Research Farms and supplying
appropriate equipment; (vi) establishing Demonstration Centers/Plots; (vii) providing offices, residences,
and furniture for technical staff of Adaptive Research Farms, office and residential buildings for extension
staff at district and tehsil/taluka levels, and training halls for extension staff and farmers; (viii) providing
transport to improve staff mobility; and (ix) providing audio-visual equipment to improve communication
capacity.
3.          These specific project objectives were clear and achievable, and the overall project objective
was important to country, provincial and sector objectives and complemented the Bank's country
assistance strategy. However, the project did not capture the role and needs of women farmers. It also
failed to involve various farming groups in the extension communication process.
B. Achievement of Objectives
4.          Project design continued the emphasis of the first-phase projects (Cr. 813-PAK and Cr. 922-
PAK) on physical and institutional changes to the extension and adaptive research systems. The criteria
adopted for judging project achievements were generally satisfactory for institutional and physical targets
but not for quality and impact of extension on crop production and family incomes. This restricted the



effectiveness of the process and extent of transfer of relevant technologies to farmers and therefore the
impact of the project.
5.           In Punjab, annual average production increases were 5.3% for wheat, 5.0% for cotton and
3.7% for sugarcane, but average rice production declined by 1.2% per year. For Sindh, annual average
production increases for the Phase II districts were 1.1%  for wheat, 3.6%  for paddy and 14.5%  for
sugarcane, while cotton production decreased by 4.6% per year, due to significant area replacement by
sugarcane. Yield per unit area increased for all crops except rice in Punjab, which suffered an average
annual decline of 3.0%. The decline in rice yield and production cannot be explained, but may be
associated with increasing salinity. The extent to which these increases in crop production and yields
were attributable to the project cannot be determined precisely. However, it is unlikelv that T&V had
a significant impact on production as only about 2% of the farmers achieved production increases due
to extension advice (see para. 7). Notwithstanding initial delays, the project reached or exceeded the
majority of the physical targets set in the SAR (PC-I) by the closing date, except for civil works and
technical assistance (see paras. 11 and 12).
6.           T&V System. The T&V system was satisfactorily institutionalized in all districts in both
provinces. Progress in Sindh was slow prior to 1993, but thereafter improvement of the security
situation, a change in senior management and high quality technical assistance inputs revitalized the
project. In Puniab, the increase in staff numbers exceeded project targets whilst in Sindh it was as
scheduled. Unfortunately, however, in Sindh a number of Senior Subject Matter Specialists (SSMSs)
have recently transferred to Research Institutes of the Research Wing of the Department of Agriculture
(DA) due to more attractive conditions provided under the Second Agricultural Research Project (ARP-II;
Cr. 2154-PAK). Significant vacancies are now also reported for Agricultural Officer (AO) positions in
some districts of Sindh. [See GOS comment in Appendix D.]
7.           Internal and external reports on the project' suggest that the T&V system did not achieve
widespread benefits to farmers in general. M&E reports for both provinces indicated that the project had
an impact on staff and "contact" farmer skills and knowledge, that "contact" farmers had achieved
increases in production and income as a direct result of extension advice, and that there was some
spillover of information to a limited number of "non-contact" farmers in the same villages. Nevertheless,
the M&E reports showed that while regular contacts with farmers and adoption of technology had
occurred, this had been at an undesirably low level, with only about 30% of contact farmers being
reached regularly by extension. With contact farmers representing only 7% of all farmers, these regular
contacts were thus with only about 2% of all farmers. In addition, contact farmers were found to be
unrepresentative with respect to area coverage and farmer categories. Further, M&E surveys, including
the final project evaluation study by the Punjab Economic Research Institute (PERI), have been unable
to discern differences between "contact" and "non-contact" farmers in adoption of new technologies, with
the possible exception of yield improvements for wheat and sugarcane by contact farmers. This result
is not surprising, however, as the sampling procedures used seemingly compared "contact" and "non-
contact" farmers in villages where FAs were active, where it was clear that "non-contact" farmers often
met with FAs on their own initiative. While PERI found increases in fertilizer use, seeding rates and
pesticide use, only a small proportion of farmers were found to be using recommended rates. By
contrast, ICR mission interviews with farmers in villages where FAs were not active (the majority of
Evaluation Study of Punjab Agricultural Extension and Adaptive Research Project - II, Punjab Economic
Research Institute, 1994; Extension Strategy Review Final Report, Department of Agricultural Extension,
Sindh, December 1993; Future Agricultural Extension Strategy, Agriculture Department, Government of the
Punjab, 1994; M&E Annual Reports for Governments of Punjab and Sindh.



villages) suggest that their crop yields and production techniques are inferior to those in contact villages.
This is supported by the fact that crop yields of contact farmers appear to be much higher than district
averages.
8.          Training Institutes. Agricultural Training Institutes (ATI) have been strengthened and
equipped as scheduled and are operating satisfactorily with several encouraging signs of innovation and
responsiveness to emerging demands.  Problems with staff turnover have been corrected in both
provinces. The ATI at Dahgal, Punjab, is producing around 60 two-year-certificate holders per year.
Curricula for the Punjab ATIs were developed with technical assistance provided under the project and
were generally appropriate and of good quality, but will need further inputs for the new women's courses,
which will begin with a 12-month course for women FAs in 1995 (48 students). At Dahgal ATI, an
inaugural course in nutrition has recently been completed for 72 women extension workers. In Sindh,
the ATIs, especially the one at Sakrand, have been very active in running short courses for farmers, and
recently women farmers, in addition to routine in-service training for FAs, AOs and Subject Matter
Specialists (SMSs). At Sakrand, about 80 FAs and 40 Stock Assistants (SAs) have been trained each
year, and a further 60 FAs and 20 SAs at Gharichand ATI. The excellent training resource that has been
developed at Sakrand needs further strengthening to consolidate the ATI's position as the key provincial
center for pre-service and in-service extension training. The development of training programs for
women extensionists and the construction of new training facilities for women under separate funding also
bolster its potential as a major center for women's development.
9.          Training. Additional training halls were built and equipped as part of the civil works
program to establish new district offices. A large amount of staff training has been achieved in Puniab,
including in-service and refresher courses (9,529 persons), workshops and seminars (244 persons) and
foreign training (97 persons), and a small amount of farmer training. In addition, regular fortnightly
training was held for FAs and AOs. A reasonable amount of staff training has been achieved in Sindh,
including in-service and refresher courses (501 persons), workshops and seminars (780 persons, including
110 women) and foreign training (26 persons), plus regular fortnightly training for FAs and AOs.
However, some training was delayed in both provinces, particularly overseas training and workshop and
seminar programs, thereby not achieving the full benefit to project implementation and management. The
training schedule for FAs in Phase I project areas in Sindh has already been changed to a monthly basis,
and Phase II areas are expected to follow now that the project has been completed.
10.         Adaptive Research. The Adaptive Research Farms (ARFs) in Puniab are well organized,
managed and maintained. In Sindh, their management has been more problematic because they were
established within a portion of large government farms mostly concerned with seed production and large
areas given to tenant farming and managed by a Farm Superintendent. The construction of buildings at
Karror and D.G. Khan (Punjab) and at Pangrio (Sindh) has been completed, but at Pangrio the buildings
have not been handed over to DA because they were not constructed according to specifications. [See
GOS comment in Appendix D.] A considerable number of trials and demonstrations have been set up
under the project. The majority of trials, however, have been undertaken on ARFs, not in farmers'
fields. In general, trials and demonstrations have not been useful for fine-tuning new technologies and
promoting proven technologies. In Sindh, the adaptive research program was reorganized during the one-
year extension of the project to include, for the first time, large numbers of trials in farmers' fields, and
the relocation of many SSMSs to district locations.
11.         Technical Assistance. In Puniab, consultancy inputs were well below planned targets
(47%), whereas in Sindh they exceeded planned targets (131 %), even though there was a suspension of
about two years. The Sindh consultancies (94 staff months) were beneficial to the development of project



-4 -
activities and included assistance to improve extension planning, adaptive research, information and
communications, diagnostic surveys, monitoring and evaluation and development of future strategies for
extension development. The Puniab consultancies, although limited and delayed, appear to have been
highly effective in management training, curriculum development, in-service training and extension
planning. Technical assistance was critically required to improve M&E activities, particularly evaluation,
to support management decision making, better assess efficiency and effectiveness of the extension system
and impact on agricultural production, and to improve feedback to adaptive research.
12.         Civil Works. The planned schedule was to complete all construction within the first two
years of the project. Serious implementation delays occurred in Punjab, with only 44% of the originally
scheduled buildings completed by June 30, 1994, and another 40% near completion at that time. During
the project period, the number of buildings to be constructed in Punjab was reduced from 2,418 to 2,170.
In Sindh, civil works construction (819 units) was still not fully completed by the closing date (see Part
II, Table 5). The delays in both provinces adversely affected project implementation and impact.
13.         Vehicles.  Procurement of motorcycles and bicycles in Punjab was as scheduled, but
procurement of 4-WD vehicles and pick-ups greatly exceeded targets (180%). In Sindh, procurement
of 4-WD vehicles, cars, pick-ups, vans and motorcycles exceeded targets, while bicycle procurement was
as scheduled. Small 4-WD vehicles were preferred as they were cheaper, but their life expectancy is less
and maintenance costs are higher. The lack of mobility of extension staff, with the exception of field
staff, continued to be a major problem due to insufficient maintenance.
14.         Communications. Excellent progress was made in both provinces in developing mass-
media support for extension. Communication capability has been improved by the purchase of
professional equipment to produce audio-visual materials for farmers, extension and, in Puniab, research
workers. A wide range of materials for radio, television and print media has been produced, with about
40% cost recovery for periodicals. Monitoring reveals a very high level of penetration and satisfaction
with these programs, which are notable for their timing and targeting. In Puniab, films and audio-visual
aids were farmers' second preference among extension techniques, after regular extension meetings.
Production quality and content of the electronic and print materials have steadily improved, and are now
of a high standard, with the use of simple, concise messages and clear impact points. Both provinces are
keen to extend the use of media vans.
C. Project Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project
15.         The project partially achieved its overall objective in both provinces.  A number of
factors"' contributed to delays in achieving physical targets, resulting in the need for a one-year
extension of the project, which allowed physical targets to be met, with the exception of civil works, and
technical assistance in Puniab.
16.         Project Costs. Of the total IDA credit of SDR 35.5 million, SDR 6.62 million remained
unspent and were cancelled effective December 7, 1994. This was due mainly to the depreciation of the
Rupee against the SDR; and in Puniab, the deletion of 248 residential and service buildings from the civil
works program and the underutilization of the funds allocated for technical assistance. Total actual
project cost was Rs 1,247.77 million (about US$51.117 million), which is 25% above the appraisal
estimate in Rupee terms, but 12% below in Dollar terms. The breakdown of costs and expenditures by
" Mostly subject to government/implementing agencies control.



- 5 -
province, as of June 30, 1994, was as follows: (a) Puniab. Of the IDA credit allocated to GOPun (SDR
20.92 million), SDR 5.83 million were unspent. Total project cost for the province was Rs 669.73
million (US$27.24 million), which exceeded the SAR estimate of Rs 625.98 million (US$36.75 million)
by 7 % in Rupee terms, but was 26 % below in Dollar terms. (b) Sin&. Sindh had fully utilized its SDR
11.73 million credit allocation, plus a part (SDR 0.46 million) of the SDR 2.85 million left unallocated
in the DCA (Schedule 1). Total project cost for the province was Rs 578.07 million (US$23.88 million),
which exceeded the SAR estimate of Rs 371.36 million (US$21.79 million) by 58% in Rupee terms and
10% in Dollar terms.
17.         Civil Works. The serious delays in the civil works program in Puniab, which ultimately
led to a downward revision of targets, were due to a combination of factors. These included:
government procedural problems in preparation and approval of contracts; disbursement problems, even
though special accounts had been established; rising building costs due to long delays in contract
processing; and construction delays by contractors. These delays had adverse effects on the operations
of the adaptive research farms, extension and training programs. In Sindh, security problems (para. 24)
and rising prices also adversely affected contractors' construction schedules, even though the civil works
program was accelerated through appointment of a special project director within the Communications
and Works Department (CWD) in 1991 to monitor and coordinate civil works. There are still a number
of buildings which are not completed according to original specifications and have not been handed over
to DA due to factors beyond the control of the project. Completing these civil works could be a problem
as the group responsible for the civil works program under the project has been disbanded and
presumably no further budget funds will be allocated this financial year. The quality of construction of
buildings in both provinces is only fair, as there was inadequate supervision during construction, and
allocation of budget for maintenance of completed buildings already appears to be a problem.
18.         Technical Assistance. The underutilization of technical assistance was due to disagreements
on payment of taxes between the Government of Pakistan (GOP) and the contracting agents which led
to suspension of activities in both provinces. In Punjab, the contract was suspended in January 1989 and
finally cancelled in March 1993, with only one year of consultancy inputs achieved. Technical inputs
were planned to assist extension, training, adaptive research, information and communications, monitoring
and evaluation, surveys and management activities. Only limited technical assistance actually occurred
in Punjab (47% of planned) for some of these components, with - notably - no assistance for the
Monitoring and Evaluation units. All the above activities would have benefitted from greater assistance
than was achieved. In Sindh, the consultants suspended work in September 1990, but resumed in April
1992. The quality of their input was high and all parties have expressed their satisfaction with this work.
Of critical importance was the production of excellent reports on diagnostic surveys", adaptive research
reorganization and strategy2', and extension strategy review3", which has set a clear direction for the
future development of extension and adaptive research in Sindh.
19.         Research-Extension Linkages. The committees set up under the project (Agricultural
Extension-Research Coordinating Conmmittees, Zonal Technical Committees, District Technical
Committees) to improve coordination generally functioned as intended, but were clearly insufficient per
Diagnostic Surveys Summary Report, Department of Agricultural Extension, Hyderabad, Sindh, February
1994.
2/   Adaptive Research Reorganisation and Strategy Report, Department of Agriculture Extension, Hyderabad,
Sindh, March 1994.
3/   Extension Strategy Review Final Report, Department of Agriculture Extehsion, Hyderabad, Sindh,
December 1993.



-6 -
se to ensure close working relationships. Linkages between agricultural extension, agricultural and
livestock research, and soil and water research remain weak or non-existent. Lack of strong involvement
of the on-farm water management program was especially noticeable.
20.         Adaptive Research.  The adaptive research system is not fully effective. Trials and
demonstrations are not planned, conducted and interpreted with the participation of farmers, and do not
always compare new technologies with existing farmer practices. Appropriate economic analyses have
not yet been undertaken in Punjab, and economic analyses are totally absent in Sindh, and there has been
little problem definition and analysis in a systems context. In Sindh, the linkage between the ARFs and
extension has failed to develop, and the quality and relevance of the trials is often poor. Both ARFs in
Sindh visited by the ICR mission (Pangrio, Phase II; and Oderolal, Phase I) were established as a small
part of large existing government farms involved in seed production and farmed by tenants. At these
farms the effectiveness of the adaptive research programs appears compromised by budget funds being
controlled by the Farm Superintendent and the competing needs of research and input supply for tenant
farmers.
21.         Extension. The problems associated with implementation of the T&V system included:
high recurrent costs; poor staff qualifications, skills and credibility, limiting their capacity to provide
comprehensive services responsive to farmers' needs; weak linkages with research; lack of new messages
tailored to local needs and circumstances, and insufficient emphasis on minor crops; inequitable contact
pattern with farmers; heavy management loads; poor supervision; poor farmer contact by AOs; and
inflexibility. In Sindh, Phase I districts were severely disadvantaged compared to Phase II districts by
lack of funding, which affected operation and management of both extension and adaptive research
activities. Lack of mobility of extension staff, except field staff, was a continuing major constraint,
which is worsening as vehicles are not adequately repaired and replaced. Present availability of transport
is inadequate to sustain the T&V system, even at reduced intensity. Program reviews in both provinces
suggest that in order to reduce the high extension agent/farmer ratio and associated recurrent cost
consideration be given to prioritizing target groups and areas for extension investment, and to the role
of the private sector and NGOs.
22.         Training. Both provinces have maintained an intensive program of regular training under
the T&V system, which was especially important because of the relatively low level of education and
basic agricultural training of FAs. But while 72% of FAs in Punjab considered training as relevant, 55%
of AOs found it inadequate. The programs are very costly to maintain, and their cost-effectiveness
requires close monitoring as it is doubtful that the present intensity is sustainable or essential. Training
programs also tended to be repetitive. Program reviews in both provinces" concluded that consideration
should be given to (i) substantially improving education levels of extension workers and farmers,
including women farmers; and (ii) monthly training which was more focused on technologies relevant to
seasonal campaigns for local farmer groups. Special in-service and overseas training also improved
human resource development, although the training schedules were often delayed and too short.
23.         Input Supplies. There were a number of external factors which affected the impact of the
project on agricultural production. Farmers interviewed in all districts indicated that a chronic lack of
sufficient and timely inputs, such as credit, fertilizers and good -quality seeds, were restricting their
" Extension Strategy Review Final Report, Department of Agriculture Extension, Sindh, December 1993; and
Future Agricultural Extension Strategy, Agriculture Department, Government of the Punjab, 1994.



adoption of recommended practices. In addition, problems associated with irrigation, drainage, salinity
and adulteration of fertilizers and pesticides affected production.
24.         Civil Disturbances. A law and order problem existed in Sindh from 1990 to 1993, which
adversely affected the project as it was difficult for staff in a number of districts to carry out their duties.
Also, the Local Security Enforcement Agency commandeered project vehicles and buildings during this
period.
D. Project Sustainability
25.         In the short-term, it seems likely that GOPun will be able to maintain project achievements,
in respect to major objectives and strategies, and the plans currently being formulated to ensure further
improvements to extension services and adaptive research, but the situation in Sindh is more problematic
(para. 34). In both provinces DAs are experiencing temporary delays in the transfer of recurrent project
costs to their non-development budgets. [See GOS comment in Appendix D.]
26.         More important is the long-term ability and willingness of GOPun and GOS to meet salary
and other recurrent costs of a large extension service, the lack of which would seriously affect the
sustainability of the T&V system as established, in both provinces. Proposals to include women as AOs
and Women Extension Workers (WEWs) will place further pressure on financial sustainability in the long
term. The consequences of budget constraints on extension activities are already becoming apparent:
reduced farm visits and contact with farmers, fewer field demonstrations of new technologies and reduced
number of adaptive research trials to test new technologies. Limitations in mobility were the problem
most often cited by extension staff. In Sindh, high rates of staff transfer, apparently as policy, are
leading to inefficiency in management and operations. [See GOS comment in Appendix D.]
27.         GOPun is committed to complete the buildings for which construction was commenced prior
to the credit closing date. There remains a building-deficit in Sindh, as a number of buildings have not
yet been handed over to the DA, because they were not constructed according to the original
specifications, or are in need of extensive renovation due to deterioration while occupied by the Security
Forces. [See GOS comment in Appendix D.]
E. Association Performance
28.         The need for a follow-on to the Phase I projects was identified early. However, preparation
of the second-phase projects was prolonged. While FAO/CP assisted GOS in project preparation, no
external assistance was given to GOPun. Ultimately, a joint project for both provinces was appraised.
There was thus a 2.5 year gap between completion of the Phase I projects and effectiveness of the Phase
II project. During appraisal it was decided to cover all provincial districts in the project, including the
districts supported by the Phase I projects. However, continuation in a Phase II project of the concepts
of (i) extension based on the standard T&V model, and (ii) ARFs as the centerpiece for adaptive research
trials and technology testing, fine-tuning and promotion were serious design faults which should have
been readdressed at appraisal. By 1987 there was evidence from the Phase I projects and the T&V
experience of other countries in Asia suggesting the need to modify the traditional T&V model. In
addition, it must have been apparent in setting up special farms (ARFs) for adaptive research that: most
of the research would continue to be done on these farms; such research would be more applied than
adaptive, and duplicate work at agricultural research institutes; most research would have no involvement
of farmers; and research would be insufficiently relevant to the farm situation. Also, input supply, which
continues to be a problem, was not identified as a risk in the SAR.



29.         IDA supervision missions were reasonably regular and provided sound guidance and support
to implementation. The Resident Mission staff provided additional support between supervision missions,
which was appreciated by both provincial governments. The project benefitted from the continuity of
Resident Mission staff assigned to the project. The Association actively supported GOS in its plan to
revitalize the project after earlier disruptions.
F. Borrower Performance
30.         Both GOPun and GOS were also not active enough in preparation of Phase 11, thus
contributing to an unnecessarily long hiatus between this project and the two preceding projects. The
long delay between credit signing and effectiveness was due to delays in review and approval of the
project by the Executive Committee of National Economic Council (ECNEC), and in the signing of
consultants agreements. In both provinces, the project was constrained by a shortfall in counterpart funds
and usage of credit funds in the first year. In Puniab, the Extension Wing of DA did a meritorious job
in project implementation. Problems cited by supervision missions which concerned performance in
Punjab were: serious delays in the civil works program and procurement of replacement vehicles; slow
start of technical assistance followed by cessation of inputs in January 1989; poor supervision of FAs by
AOs; poor farmer contact by AOs; shortfall in appointment of adaptive research staff; and delayed
overseas training. In Sindh, the Extension Wing of DA did a fair job in project implementation, but its
task had at times been seriously constrained by other departments of government. Problems cited by
supervision missions included: serious delays in the civil works program; slow initial appointment of new
staff; severe constraints imposed by inadequate availability of counterpart funds; delays in procurement
of vehicles; largely inefficient and ineffective extension and adaptive research activities; lack of funds for
operation and maintenance in Phase I districts; delays in overseas training; and the civil unrest during
1990-93. The project made much better progress from 1993 onwards, due in part to more dynamic
leadership and managerial capacity.
31.         The one-year extension of the credit closing date (from June 30, 1993 to June 30, 1994)
was conditional on remedying the above implementation problems. Subsequently, there was a rapid
increase in activity and achievement of physical targets, indicating that the problems had been mostly
managerial in both provinces, but also due to civil unrest in Sindh. A request for a second extension was
not approved by IDA because all components, except civil works, were expected to be substantially
completed by end of first extension period. The Association's request that emphasis be given to women
in development issues and introduction of a private sector pilot extension program during the one-year
credit extension was only minimally addressed, but women's involvement is lately receiving considerable
attention.
32.         Both provinces have conducted and published regular M&E studies for the past six years.
These reports were comprehensive and according to guidelines. In Puniab, a number of project M&E
studies was carried out by the M&E cell, while more formal studies were contracted out to PERI (para.
7). Published internal reports, covering assessments of the T&V system and impact of the project on
farmer practices were of fair quality, given the lack of experience and training of the officers involved
and the absence of the planned technical assistance for M&E (which would have been very beneficial in
addressing some of the shortcomings in evaluation analysis). In Sindh, it appears that management made
much greater use of the M&E reports than in Puniab. In both provinces, the reports would have been
of greater value if there had been more focus on evaluation, with reports specifically aimed at: assisting
management decisions on the effectiveness of the T&V system; assessing project impact on farm
production practices; and providing guidance for adaptive research programs.



- 9 -
33.         During project implementation, both GOPun and GOS recognized some limitations in the
T&V system but appeared constrained in making any changes. During the one-year extension period,
GOS prepared several key documents - Comprehensive Diagnostic Survey; Extension Strategy Review;
Adaptive Research Reorganisation; and Training Course for Women - as guides to improve the extension
system and to plan future projects. An innovative measure of GOS to improve the relevance and value
of the adaptive research program was to introduce the concept of Village Participatory Research Groups,
but since this is a recent step it is too early to judge its impact. Subsequent to project completion,
GOPun prepared an agricultural extension strategy paper which proposes a number of modifications to
improve the extension system.
G. Assessment of Outcome
34.         The project's outcome in both Puniab and Sindh, in terms of the specific project objectives,
is assessed as satisfactory. In Puniab, it is expected that as a result of the project further worthwhile
development will be achieved without additional investment. However, if modifications to the T&V
system are not made, budget constraints, lack of breadth of extension coverage, and lack of relevance
of adaptive research would ultimately affect sustainability and impact on agricultural development.
Further project assistance in modifying the T&V system would obviously accelerate the move towards
a more cost-effective, efficient and appropriately focused extension service. In Sindh, there is some doubt
that further worthwhile development will occur, unless sufficient budget is provided for operations,
maintenance and replacement of capital items, and there is further investment in reorienting and
developing the extension services.
H. Future Development
35.         The Extension Wings of the DA in both provinces have had excellent task-force reviews
of the present functioning of the T&V system, and a series of modifications have been proposed to
improve working efficiency, effectiveness and approach of the extension services. In both provinces,
extensive modifications will need to be made to the original T&V methodology in the light of lessons
learned under the project. Strategy papers for development of extension services have been prepared for
both provinces but have yet to be discussed by the provincial governments. The Extension Wing in Sindh
is presently preparing a PC-I proposal for a follow-on project. The Bank has developed a Strategy for
Sustainable Agricultural Growth in Pakistan" and identified the need for revising the notion of extension
as a top-down supply-driven process. The strategy report suggests that the service needs to be reduced
in size and improved in quality. Extension should concentrate more on participatory problem solving
with farmers -- which means substantially improving education levels of farmers and extension agents.
The use of mass media should be expanded and the private sector and NGOs encouraged to increase their
provision of extension services. Regarding agricultural research, publicly funded research needs to stress
growth-enhancing public goods, especially research on crop and resource management, where the major
product is information (e.g., Integrated Pest Management), and poverty reduction. Joint public-private
research ventures should also be encouraged.
"  Pakistan - A Strategy for Sustainable Agricultural Growth, Report No. 13092-PAK, November 3, 1994.



- 10 -
I. Key Lessons Learned
36.         The following lessons can be drawn from the implementation and outcome of the project
in the two provinces:
(a)       Project success is dependent on management's commitment, leadership, vision, technical
expertise, managerial and organizational skills. Management training early in the project
can be a critical input (paras. 6 and 11).
(b)       The low education level of FAs limits their capacity to provide comprehensive services
which are responsive to farmers' needs (para. 21).
(c)       The large number of personnel with limited capabilities was the result of adopting a staff-
intensive program for a large area (para. 6). In the future, an improved extension program
(with its associated cost per operating unit) should only be expanded at the rate at which
suitably trained staff become available to implement it efficiently.
(d)       The T&V extension system must be modified to make it more cost effective, more flexible
and targeted, more equitable to all farmers, less top-down, more participatory in the
definition, testing and refinement of new technologies/on-farm practices, more rigorous in
the diagnosis of constraints within the farming system and in the quantification of these
issues and their feedback to management and research, more strongly linked with research,
and more focused on farmer groups rather than on individual contact farmers (paras. 7, 19
and 21). Consideration should also be given to prioritizing target groups and areas for
extension investment, and to the role of the private sector and NGOs (para. 21).
(e)       Within the extension system, there should be more incentives and merit-based promotional
opportunities for front-line extension workers. Their knowledge and skills should be
steadily upgraded to meet future demand for a more analytical and responsive service.
More emphasis should be given to appointing women extension officers to ensure direct
interaction and more specific advice for women farmers (paras. 8 and 22).
(f)       Proposed civil works programs must be within the financial and managerial capacity of the
implementing agency, and the government must be fully committed to such a program. A
specially appointed Director for project civil works is highly desirable where responsibility
for civil works is outside the control of the implementing agency (para. 17).
(g)       Adaptive research should: be concentrated on farmers' fields rather than on stations; not
duplicate research done by Research Institutes; be demand-driven; and be designed to
permit valid economic comparisons of new technologies with current farmer practices.
Close cooperation of farmers in all on-farm trials is important for effective adaptive
research and extension-farmer-research linkages (paras. 10 and 20).
(h)       Training programs and methods need to be upgraded, both technically and in the use of
modern adult-learning methodologies. Curricula for FAs and AOs need revision to include:
a three-year pre-service diploma course rather than the current two-year certificate level
training for FAs; training in extension methods, including group and communication skills
and participatory methods; and training which places more emphasis on problem definition,



- 11 -
problem analysis, survey techniques, and M&E, including informal and self-reflective
methods (para. 22).
(i)      Farmer education programs should be expanded, including special programs for women
farmers, emphasizing improved knowledge of basic principles and use of information in
decision making, rather than providing general recipes (paras. 9 and 22).
(j)      Locally produced, low-cost audio-visual materials used on radio and television, and use of
print media, media vans and information centers have proved to be very effective in both
provinces. Media services require ongoing monitoring to ensure that they are reaching the
target audience and that content remains relevant (para. 14).
(k)      The importance of M&E, especially the use of appropriate evaluation procedures, to ensure
efficient, effective and relevant extension services (and thereby justify budget support) has
been reinforced. It is clear that both provincial governments are demanding evidence of
project impact, managerial competence and effectiveness, and sustainability of services as
a condition of continued funding for extension (paras. 11 and 32).






- 13 -
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of obiectives         Substantial     Partial    NeEligible  Not ADDlicable
Macro policies                                     i i7 El
Sector policies                     E             O (         F
Financial objectives                                                         7 K]  El
Institutional development             ]                       [E] n]
Physical objectives                 K]            OI]                       E
Poverty reduction                   El            O7                        K]
Gender issues                       K]           EO            o]           K
Other social objectives             El           E             0             3
Environmental objectives            K]           K]           Eo            E7
Public sector management            El            7O           K]           K]
Private sector development           n           K]                           ]  
Other (human resources dev.)        [I                        E]            F]
B. Proiect sustainability             Likelv       Unlikelv    Uncertain
(d)          ()           (/)
Highly
C. Bank Rerformance 'l              satisfactory   Satisfactory   Deficient
(/)          (d)         (V)
Identification                                                L K]
Preparation assistance               O            [I 
Appraisal                            O           K]
Supervision                                      K            K]1



- 14 -
Hi2hlv
D. Borrower Performance               satisfactory   Satisfactory   Deficient
(d)          ()0          (e)
Preparation                          O           :           F
Implementation                     FI           [7]          EO
Covenant compliance                  71          0           E
Operation (if applicable)           K]          [I]           OI
Highiv                                     Highlv
E. Assessment of outcome           satisfactory   Satisfactory   Unsatisfactorv  unsatisfactory
(11         (WI            (V              (
K]   [71                   K]              O
"   For the purposes of Part II, "Bank" includes IDA; see World Bank Operational Manual,
OP 13.55 1 BP 13.55.



- 15 -
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title                    Purpose                Year of                Status
approval
Preceding operations
1. Punjab Ext. & Agric.        To introduce "Training & Visit"         1978          Closing date June
Development                 (T&V) system of agricultural                          1985; PAR
(Cr. 813-PAK)               extension in five core districts of                   issued June 1988
Punjab Province.
2. Sind Agric. Ext. & Adap.    To introduce T&V system in five         1979          Closing date June
Res.                        core districts of Sind Province by                    1985; PAR
(Cr. 922-PAK)               increasing extension staff, providing                issued June 1988
regular training and relevant
production of messages for farmers
and establishing research farms, two
soil testing laboratories and pest
scouting service in one district.
3. Agric. Res. I               To strengthen Pakistan's agricultural   1981          Closing date
(Cr. 1158-PAK)              research system by (a) supporting                     Dec. 1987; PAR
establishment of PARC (b) providing                  issued Dec. 1990
technical assistance (c) staff training
(d) research on crops, livestock,
agricultural engineering and
economics at NARC (e) contract
research system for provincial
institutes and (f) improving support
services.
4. Baluchistan Agric. Ext. &   To achieve increases in sustainable      1984         Closing date June
Adap. Res. III              agricultural production in four                       1992; PCR
(Cr. 1533-PAK)              districts of Baluchistan Province                     issued Apr. 1994
through strengthening T&V system
and widespread adoption of improved
farming practices by farmers.
Following operations
1. Agric. Res. II              To improve and strengthen research      1990          On-going;
(Cr. 2154-PAK)              capabilities in provinces; consolidate               expected closing
achievements under Agric. Res.I;                     date June 1998
support high priority research
programs; and improve and
strengthen research/extension
linkages.



- 16 -
Table 3: Project Timetable
I                     ~~~~~~~Date actual/
Steps In project cycle                 Date planned             latest estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)                              October 1983"
June/July 1984 21
Preparation                                                             November 1984 31
July 19854/
Appraisal                                         Jan./Feb. 1986        Jan./Feb. 1986
Negotiations                                      October 1986          November 1986
Letter of development policy (if applicable)      n.a.                  n.a.
Board presentation                                Jan. 1987             Feb. 24, 1987
Signing                                                                 March 20, 1987
Effectiveness                                     May 1987              Nov. 6, 1987
First tranche release (if applicable)             n.a.                  n.a.
Midterm review (if applicable)                    n.a.                  n.a.
Second (and third) tranche release (if applicable)  n.a.                n.a.
Project completion                                December 31, 1992     n.a.
Credit closing                                    June 30, 1993         June 30, 1994 5/
)Originally considered as a Second Extension Services Project to cover Punjab, N.W. Frontier and
Balochistan provinces, not Sindh Province. IDA mission reviewed progress on preparation of
Phase 11 project for Punjab during October 22-30, 1983.
2/       Review of progress on concept clearance for Phase II projects for Punjab and Sindh.
3/       FAO/CP produced Project Brief on Sind Agricultural Extension and Adaptive Research Project
in February 1985.
4/       Government of Punjab completed preparation.
51       Requests for one year extension of closing date to June 30, 1994 were received from GOP on
January 30, 1993 (Punjab component) and February 25, 1993 (Sind component) and agreed by
IDA on June 28, 1993. Subsequently, it was agreed to keep the credit account open for four
months beyond the closing date to accommodate final disbursements.



- 17 -
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(SDR million)
FY87      FY88       FY89       FY90        FY91      FY92       FY93       FY94       FY95
Appraisal estimate          1.69      5.06       11.81      20.24       27.83     32.89      35.50
Actual - Punjab                       2.61        3.49       5.77        8.07     10.86      12.32      15.09
- Sindh                           -          0.70       2.31        3.41      6.15       9.30      11.88
- Total                 -        2.61        4.19       8.08       11.49     17.01      21.62      26.97      28.88
Actual as % of estimate      -       52         35          40         41         52         61         76         81
Date of final                        December 7, 1994
disbursement
Comment: The final closing date was June 30, 1994. The credit account was kept open until October 31, 1994, and
the last disbursement was made on December 7, 1994. The remaining credit balance of SDR 6.62 million was
cancelled as of that date.



- 18 -
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Item                         Unit        Appraisal Target at            Actual              Percent
Project Completion     Achievement (06/94)
A. PUNJAB
Staff Additions
Management (grade 16 and above)                  No                        179                       174'              97
Field Assistants                                 No                        245                        289             118
Staff Training 2                                 No                                                  9,870
Buildings (offices, residences, service bldgs.)  No                     2,4183                      1,066'            444
Vehicles Procurement
4-WD, Cars, Pick-ups                             No                         88                         158            180
Motorcycles                                      No                        371                        371             100
Bicycles                                         No                       1,934                      1,934            100
Tractors                                         No                          5                          5             100
Consultancy                                   staff-month                   38                         18              47
B. SINDH
Staff Additions
Management (grade 16 and above)                  No                         85                        132             155
Field Assistants                                 No                        292                        292             100
Staff Training 2                                 No                                                  1,307
Buildings (offices, residences, service bldgs.)  No                        819                       819'             100
Vehicles Procurement
4-WD, Cars, Pick-ups                             No                         61                         89             146
Motorcycles                                      No                        141                        976             274
Bicycles                                         No                       1,053                      1,053            100
Consultancy                                   staff-month                   72                         94             131
While 174 new positions were sanctioned, 45 old positions were abolished, leaving a net gain of 129
sanctioned positions of grade 16 and above.
2          No specific staff-month targets were set. Number includes in-service and refresher courses (Punjab
9,529 persons; Sindh 501 persons), training in workshops/seminars (Punjab 244; Sindh 708); and
foreign training (Punjab 97; Sindh 26).
3          Total number of buildings to be constructed was revised downwards to 2,170 during implementation.
4          An additional 961 buildings in Punjab were near completion by June 30, 1994.  Their full
completion raises the completion rate from 44% to over 80%.
5          Construction of 84 boundary walls and 2 approach roads, and renovation of 5 buildings at ATI
Sakrand were approved and completed by June 30, 1994, which is additional to the 819 buildings
constructed. On the other hand, a number of the 819 buildings were not completed according to the
original specifications nor have they been handed over to DA (see Part I, para. 27).



- 19 -
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
(This table is not applicable to this project)
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as defined
Study              at appraisal/redefined           Status              Impact of study
Scheduled Studies
1. Benchmark Survey of   Pre-project analysis of the  Studies completed      Provided basis for
Punjab Agricultural    extension system, farmers                          comparison with final
Extension & Adaptive   knowledge and practices and                        PERI study
Research Project-1l   agricultural production in
(1987-88) (SAR para.   project area in order to
4.30)                 establish baseline indicators
for project impact
2. Evaluation study of   Post-project analysis of    Studies completed       Useful for monitoring
Punjab Agricultural    impact on project inflows,                         performance and impact
Extension and Adap-    effectiveness of T&V                               of extension system
tive Research Pro-    extension system, knowledge                         under project
ject-1l (1994) (SAR   and performance of field
para. 4.30)           staff, farner knowledge and
practices, agricultural
production, etc.
Ad Hoc Studies
3. Diagnostic Survey     To define agroecological    Studies completed       Excellent basis for
Report, Sindh         zones within Sindh province                         planning future research
Province              to provide framework and                            and extension activities
basis for all future research
and extension activities
4. Extension Strategy    Taskforce used to review    Studies completed       Useful for planning
Review, Sindh         performance of Extension                            future development of
Province              Wing of DA and provide                              extension and project
proposals for future                                assistance
development
5. Adaptive Research     Taskforce used to review    Studies completed       A number of proposals
Reorganisation and    performance of adaptive                             for reorganization have
Strategy Report, Sindh  research activities in Sindh                      already been
Province              Province and provide                                implemented
proposals for revitalising this
section



- 20 -
Table 8A: Project Costs */
Appraisal estimate (US$M)                  Actual/latest estimate (USSM)
Item                   Local       Foreign                         Local         Foreign
costs        costs          Total           costs          costs         Total
Civil Works                                                   26.06          15.79              -         15.79
Land Acquisition &                                            0.67            0.32              -          0.32
Development
Vehicles                                                       3.50           5.24              -          5.24
Equipment & Fumiture                                          3.01            2.33              -          2.33
Technical Assistance                                           1.82           0.08           1.27          1.35
Training                                                       1.78           2.42           0.45          2.87
Recurrent Costs                                               21.52          23.22              -         23.22
Total Project Costs             46.5          11.9          58.38           49.32           1.80         51.12
Comments:
1. GOS did not maintain records of project expenditure by component and therefore expenditure is presented by line
item.
2. Breakdown of project costs by line item into foreign and local costs is not available from the SAR.
3. Taxes and duties estimated to be US$3.3 million in the SAR; actual taxes and duties not available.
4. Total actual project costs in Rupees as of June 30, 1994, were Rs 1,247.77, or 125% of the appraisal estimate of
Rs 994.5 1million. Due to devaluation of the Pakistan Rupee against the US dollar, actual project costs in US dollars
were US$51.12 million, or 88% of the appraisal estimate of US$58.4 million. Actual project costs for Punjab Province
as of June 30, 1994 were Rs 669.7 million, or 107% of the appraisal estimate of Rs 625.98million - US$27.24 million
or 74% of the appraisal estimate of US$36.75 million. Actual project costs for Sindh Province as of June 30,1994 were
Rs 578.07million or 156% of the appraisal estimate of Rs 371.36 million - US$23.88million or 110% of the appraisal
estimate of US$21.79 million.
Table SB: Project Financing */
Appraisal estimate (US$M1             Actual/latest estimate (US$M) I/
Source                Local         Foreign                   Local         Foreign
costs           costs     Total         costs           costs           Total
IDA                              30.2            11.9      42.1         37.94            1.80           39.74
Federal/Provincial               16.3               -      16.3         11.38               -            11.38
Governments
TOTAL                          46.5            11.9       58.4        49.32             1.80           51.12
1/ Estimated actual project financing in US$ at credit closure (December 7, 1994).
*/ See GOPun comment in Appendix E, part C.



- 21 -
Tabb 9: Ecsxomk Cods ad BeImus
No net present value or economic rate of return was estmated, as such meases are not relevant for this
type of project.



- 22 -
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Agmt    Section   Covenant    Status  Original        Revised      Description of Covenant      Comments
Type                 FulfMment  FulfIllment
Date        Date
DCA     2.02 (b)         F         OK                               Open Special Accounts.
DCA     3.01 (a)         F         OK                               Provision of funds, etc.
DCA    4.01 (a)          F         OK                               Maintain records and accounts
for each implementing agency.
DCA     4.01 (b)         F         OK                               Furnish to IDA audit reports
within nine months from end of
each fiscal year.
DCA     6.01 (a)         E         OK    Condition of               ECNEC approval of project.
effectiveness
DCA     6.01 (b)         M         OK    Condition of               Appoint Project Director (Civil
effectiveness             Works) for each Province.
DCA     6.01 (c)         M         OK    Condition of               Sign contracts for consultancy
effectiveness            services.
PROJ   2.01 (a)        E/F/M       OK           -           -       Provinces declare their
conmmitment to project
objectives (Schedule 2 DCA).
PROJ   2.01 (b)        E/FIM       OK           -            -      Provinces to carry out the
Project in accordance with
implementation program set
forth in Schedule 2 PROJ.
PROJ   2.05              M         OK           -            -      Relieve extension staff of non-
extension duties.
PROJ   2.06             F/M        OK          -            -       Give incentive payments to
instructors of ATIs.
PROJ   2.07              M         OK          -            -       Punjab to train DOA accounting
staff.
PROJ   2.08             M/F       ACT                               On project completion (a)    Not fully complied with at
operate and maintain the    time of mission visit in
extension services provided,    October 1994.
and (b) make adequate
budgetary allocations.
PROJ
-Sch2    B.5             M         OK           -                   Establish Project Coordinating
and Monitoring Committees.
-Sch2    B.6            M/T        OK          -                    Maintain existing Project
Review Committees.
-Sch2    B.7            M/T        OK           -                   Establish District Agricultural
Advisory Committees.
-Sch2    C.8            M/T        OK           -           -       Establish Zonal Technical
Committees.
-Sch2    D.9             M         ACT          -            -      Provinces to provide staff and   Mobility hampered in Sindh
vehicles according to an agreed  Province as vehicles have
schedule.                   been taken by the law
enforcement agencies.



- 23 -
Agmt    Section   Covenant    Status  Original         Revised      Description of Covenant      Comments
Type                  Fulfillment   Fulfillment
Date         Date
-Sch2    D.10             F         OK          -             -      Establish revolving funds for
replacement of motorcycles and
bicyles.
-Sch2    D. II            F         OK          -             -      Provinves to provide for and
pay adequate travel/daily
allowances to Project staff.
-Sch2    D.12             F         OK          -             -      Provinces to provide adequate
O&M funds for Project
vehicles.
-Sch2    D.13 (a)        M          OK    12/31/87                   Provinces to undertake
benchmark surveys.
-Sch2    D.13 (b)        M          OK    Beginning                  Provinces to furnish quarterly
with quarter              progress reports to IDA.
ending 09/87
Legend
Covenant Type                        Status
E - Economic                         ACT - Needs use of formal remedies to bnng about compliance
F - Financial                        NYD - Not yet due
M - Managerial                       OK - Covenant complied with
T - Technical                        RVS - Needs to be revised



- 24 -
Table 11: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned                   Revised                  Actual '
project cycle        Weeks          US$          Weeks                    Weeks        US$
Through appraisal          n.a.          n.a.          n.a.         n.a.        29.2        n.a.
Appraisal - Board          n.a.          n.a.          n.a.         n.a.        55.2        n.a.
Board - effectiveness      n.a.          n.a.          n.a.         n.a.        n.a.        n.a.
Supervision                n.a.          n.a.          n.a.         n.a.       124.1        n.a.
Completion                 n.a.          n.a.          n.a.         n.a.        17.3        n.a.
TOTAL                                                                         225.8
Data from COS.
Dollar budgeting was only introduced in FY94 and therefore costs are not available.



- 25 -
Table 12: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance rating
Number                      Specialized      hmplemen-      Develop-
Stage of                Month/               of         Days in       staff skills       tatlon         ment        Types of
project cycle               year            persons        field       represented         status       objectives    problems
Through appraisal              October 1983          7              8             n.a.              -              -            -
June/July 1984         1             4             n.a.               -              -
November 1984           2            27            A,EC
Jan./Feb. 1986         3             16           A,EC,T
Appraisal through Board         June 1986             1            3              EC
approval                                              1            6             EC,A
November 1986
Board approval through
effectiveness
Supervision                   February 1988           2            26            EC,A               I              I            F
January 1989          2             10             A,E               3              2           T,F
(Sind)
March 1989            2             9             A,E               2              2            M
(Punjab)
June 1989            2             5             AXE               3              2             F
(Sind)
March 1990            4            16          A,E(2),EC            3              3            T,F
Nov./Dec. 1990          2            18             A,E               3              2          M,F,T
Oct./Nov. 1991          2            14             A(2)              2              2          M,F,T
July 1992            2            26             A,E               3              3          M,F,T
February 1993          2            20             A,E               3              2           M,T
June 1993            1             10             A                2              2           M,T
Jan./Feb. 1994         2             20             A,E               2             2             M
Completion                    October 1994           2             18             A,E               2              2            -
A = Agriculturist; E = Extension Specialist; EC = Economist; T = Training Specialist.






Appendix A
PAKISTAN: Punjab and Sind Agricultural Extension and Adaptive Research
Project (Phase II)
Mission's Aide-Memoire
A. INTRODUCTION
1.         At the request of the World Bank, an FAO/CP Mission " visited Punjab and Sindh
Provinces from 3-20 October 1994 to meet with officials of the Governments of Punjab (GOPun) and
Sindh (GOS) concerned with the implementation of the above project and to obtain relevant information
for the preparation of the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for this project. Meetings were held
with the Secretaries of Agriculture, Directors General of Extension, staff of the Extension Wings,
Planning and Development Departments, and other government officials. Field visits were made to
several districts in three project areas in both provinces. New facilities constructed under the project
were inspected and meetings were held with government officials and farmers in these districts.
2.         The mission wishes to thank all GOPun and GOS staff involved in the meetings and field
visits for giving generously of their time, information and assistance with the preparation of the ICR for
this project. Preliminary findings were presented and discussed at separate wrap-up meetings with
GOPun and GOS on 12 and 19 October, 1994, respectively. The views presented in this Aide-Memoire
reflect those of the mission and have been amended to take into account points raised in wrap-up meetings
with the GOPun, GOS and final wrap-up meeting with the Government of Pakistan in Islamabad on 21
October, 1994. In the following sections, project implementation is reviewed separately for each
province.
B. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
Statement/Evaluation of Objectives
3.         The project is the second IDA-assisted project designed to reorganize and strengthen
agricultural extension services in both Punjab and Sindh Provinces. The objective was to achieve
sustained increases in agricultural production in project areas through effective transfer of technologies
most suited to local agroclimatic conditions and creating a sense of dedication and commitment in the
Extension services, by making all staff more accountable to specific assigned duties and objectives. For
this purpose the project was to complete the strengthening and reorganisation of Extension Services of
Punjab and Sindh Provinces by extending the T&V system to all districts not covered by the Phase I
projects in each province, while consolidating gains made in districts covered by the first-phase project
and strengthening the adaptive research system.
4.         The specific project objectives included:
-       reorganisation and strengthening of the Agricultural Extension and Adaptive Research
Activities in the remaining 23 districts of Punjab and 8 districts of Sindh Provinces not
covered by the Phase I project;
" Messrs. D.A. Ivory (mission leader) and B.J. Gorddard (extension specialist, consultant).



PAKISTAN: Punjab and Sind Agricultural Extension and Adaptive Research Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix A: Mission's Aide-Memoire
-        strengthening the Agricultural Training Institutes;
-        strengthening in-service and on-job training of extension staff;
-        establishing new Adaptive Research Farms and supplying appropriate equipment;
-        establishing Demonstration Centres/Plots;
-        providing offices and residences, and furniture, for technical staff of Adaptive Research
Farms, offices and residential buildings for extension staff at district and tehsil/taluka levels
and training halls for in-service training of extension staff and for farmners;
-        providing transport to improve staff mobility; and
-        providing audio-visual equipment to improve communication capacity.
5.          The objectives were clear and achievable, important to country, provincial and sector
objectives and complemented the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy.
Achievement of Objectives
Punjab Province
6.          Most of the above objectives were realised in Punjab Province. During the course of the
project, significant increases in crop production occurred. Production increases for the major crops for
the period 1986-89 compared to 1991-94, were 23 % for wheat, 25 % for cotton, 21% for paddy and 13%
for sugarcane. The extent to which this was attributable to the project cannot be determined, but
discussions with selected farmers indicated that they had all benefitted from extension advice in increasing
farm production and family incomes.
7.          The T&V system was satisfactorily institutionalised and became operational in all districts
and the project achieved or exceeded the majority of the physical targets set in the SAR (PC-1) by the
end of the one-year extension to the project, but not by the original project completion date. A
significant impact of the project has been on staff and contact farmer skills and knowledge.
8.          The increase in staff numbers under the project exceeded target increases, with staff
increases resulting from the creation of new positions for adaptive research, training, extension
supervision and field assistant staff.
9.          Both the regular M&E reports and the surveys conducted by Punjab Economic Research
Institute (PERI) indicated that while regular contacts with farmers and adoption of technologies had
occurred, this had been at an undesirably low level. This was not evidenced by the field mission,
possibly due to the shortness of the field visits. The inability of the survey to discern differences between
contact and non-contact farmers in adoption of new technologies was not consistent with the observations
of the mission and were possibly due to sampling difficulties.
10.         A high level of staff training has been achieved, including in-service and refresher courses
(9,529 persons), workshops and seminars (244 persons) and foreign training (97 persons). Some of this
training was, however, considerably delayed, particularly overseas training, thereby not realising the full
2



PAKISTAN: Punjab and Sind Agricultural Extension and Adaptive Research Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix A: Mission's Aide-Memoire
benefit of this training to project implementation and management. In addition, regular fortnightly
training was held for Field Assistants (FAs). The cost-effectiveness of this training should be examined
as it is doubtful that the present intensity of training is sustainable or essential.
11.        The Adaptive Research Farms established under the two project phases are very well
organized, managed and maintained. A considerable number of on-farm trials and demonstrations have
been set up under the project. In general, trials and demonstrations have been beneficial for fine-tuning
new technologies and promoting proven technologies. These would be improved if trials and
demonstrations always compared new technologies with existing farmer practices and appropriate
economic analyses were undertaken.
12.         Serious implementation delays occurred with civil works, with only 44% of buildings finally
being completed by 30 June, 1994, with another 36% near completion at that time. Consultancy inputs
were also well below planned targets (47%).
13.         Procurement of motorcycles and bicycles was as scheduled, but procurement of 4-WD
vehicles and pick-ups greatly exceeded targets (180%). Problems of mobility of field staff (FAs), was
identified as a continuing major constraint and consideration must be given by the GOPun to providing
credit for hire purchase of motorcycles by FAs.
14.         Communication capability has been improved by the purchase of equipment to produce
audio-visual materials for farmers and extension workers. A wide range of materials for radio and
television has been produced. The production quality and content of printed materials for farmers has
steadily improved with the use of clear impact points.
Sindh Province
15.         Most of the above objectives were also realised for Sindh Province. During the course of
the project, overall crop production increased for most of the important crops. Production increases for
the major crops for the period 1985-88 compared to 1991-94 for the Phase II districts, were 5% for
wheat, 16% for paddy and 73% for sugarcane, while cotton production decreased by 8%. The changes
in production for sugarcane and cotton were strongly affected by increased area of sugarcane and
consequent decreased area of cotton. However, yield per unit area was increased for all crops. The
extent to which these increases in production were attributable to the project cannot be determined, but
discussions with contact and associated farmers in villages where Field Assistants (FAs) were active,
indicated that they had all benefitted from extension advice in increasing farm production and family
incomes.
16.        The project achieved or exceeded the majority of the physical targets set in the SAR (PC-1)
by the scheduled project completion date, except for civil works, which were 89% completed. However,
the majority of these civil works were considerably delayed compared with project target of completing
civil works within the first three years of the project.  These delays adversely affected project
implementation and impact. All civil works (819 units) were 'completed' (refer para. 34) by the end of
the one-year extension to the project.
3



PAKISTAN: Punjab and Sind Agricultural Extension and Adaptive Research Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix A: Mission's Aide-Memoire
17.         Incremental staff positions were filled as scheduled. However, a number of Senior Subject
Matter Specialists (SSMSs) have transferred to Research Institutes of the Research Wing of the
Department of Agriculture (DA) due to more attractive conditions provided under the World bank
sponsored Agricultural Research Project. Significant staff vacancies were also reported for Agricultural
Officer (AO) positions in some districts. However, the situation is not clear because of the recent
approval by the Federal Government to sanction a further 250 AO positions in Sindh Province.
18.         The T&V system was satisfactorily institutionalised and became operational in all districts.
The regular M&E reports indicated that while regular contacts with farmers and adoption of technologies
had occurred, this had been at an undesirably low level and only about 30% of farmers were being
reached by extension. Evidence from the Diagnostic Survey indicated that many of the extension
messages were not sufficiently focused on problems and constraints experienced by farmers.
19.         A reasonable level of staff training has been achieved, including in-service and refresher
courses (501 persons), workshops and seminars (780 persons) and foreign training (26 persons). Some
of this training was, however, considerably delayed, particularly overseas training and workshop and
seminar programs, thereby not realising the full benefit of this training to project implementation and
management. In addition, regular fortnightly training was held for Field Assistants (FAs). It is noted
that the training schedule for FAs in Phases I project areas has already changed to monthly training and
Phase II areas would be expected to follow suit now that the project has finished.
20.         The excellent training resource that has been developed at Sakrand needs to be further
consolidated and strengthened, with the (possible) development of Sakrand as the key provincial centre
for pre-service and in-service extension training. The development of training programs for women
extensionists is commended and has potential for expansion as a major centre for women's development.
21.         The construction of buildings at the Pangrio Adaptive Research Farm (ARF) has been
completed, but has not been handed over to the Department of Agriculture (DA) because the buildings
have not been completed according to specifications. No research staff are now located at this ARF.
The early project policy was only to conduct research trials on the ARFs. Throughout Sindh Province,
about 150 adaptive research trials were conducted each year on the ARFs during the latter years of the
project. This number was considerably increased during the 1993-94 rabi season with the reorganisation
of adaptive research programs to include large numbers of trials in farmer fields with the relocation of
many Senior Subject Matter Specialists (SSMSs) to district locations. A total of 7,262 demonstrations
were set up during the project. The number of demonstrations during the last two years and on-farm
trials in the last kharif season, however, have declined due to budget restrictions on operational expenses.
22.         Consultancy inputs exceeded planned targets (131 %), even though consultancy inputs were
suspended for about two years, due to problems associated with liability of consultants to taxes in
Pakistan. These consultancies (a total of 94 person months) were beneficial to the development of project
activities and included assistance to improve extension planning, adaptive research, information and
communications, diagnostic survey, monitoring and evaluation and development of future strategies for
extension development.
4



PAKISTAN: Punjab and Sind Agricultural Extension and Adaptive Research Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix A: Mission's Aide-Memoire
23.         Procurement of 4-WD vehicles, cars, pick-ups, vans and bicycles was as scheduled. Small
4-WD vehicles were preferred as they were cheaper, but their life is less and maintenance costs are
higher. Procurement of motorcycles, however, greatly exceeded targets. This was a result of the
identification of lack of mobility of field staff (FAs) being a continuing major constraint, even though
many had received bicycles under the project, and the agreement of the GOS to provide hire purchase
agreements for FAs to purchase 835 motorcycles during the one-year extension to the project.
24.         Communication capability has been improved by the purchase of equipment to produce
audio-visual materials for farmers and extension workers. A wide range of materials for radio and
television has been produced. An excellent studio has been established for the production of audiovisual
materials. The production quality and content of printed and audio-visual materials for farmers has been
very good.
Overall
25.         The design of the project is considered appropriate for achieving the desired objectives at
the time of project planning and the criteria set for judging project achievements were found to be
generally satisfactory.
Major Factors Affecting the Project
Punjab Province
26.         Overall, the project was judged to have partially achieved its objectives in Punjab Province.
A number of factors contributed to delays in achieving physical targets during implementation, thus
resulting in the need for a one-year extension to the project. It was only due to this extension that most
physical targets were met, with the notable exceptions of civil works and technical assistance.
27.         Of the total IDA Credit (US$26.53), US$6.496 million remained unspent at 30 June, 1994,
due to: the depreciation of the Rupee against the US dollar; the deletion of 480 residential and service
buildings from the civil works program; and the under-utilization of the funds allocated for technical
assistance. Total project costs were Rs 669.7 million (US$27.242 million), which exceeded project
estimates by only 7% in Rupee terms but was only 74% of estimated costs in Dollar terms. A four-
month extension has been given to 31 October, 1994 to complete disbursements of expenditure incurred
before project closure.
28.         The serious delays in the civil works program, which ultimately led to a downward revision
of building targets, was due to a combination of factors, including: government procedural problems in
preparation and approval of contracts; problems in disbursements of monies, even though special funds
were established; rises in building costs due to inordinately long delays in contract processing; and delays
in construction schedules by contractors. These delays had adverse effects on the operations of the
adaptive research farms, extension programs in local areas and on training programs.
5



PAKISTAN: Punjab and Sind Agricultural Extension and Adaptive Research Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix A: Mission's Aide-Memoire
29.         The under-utilization of technical assistance was due to disagreements on payment of taxes
between the GOPun and the contracting agent which led to suspension of activities and then unilateral
cancellation of the assistance contract, with only one year of consultancy inputs achieved. While the
consultancy inputs that did occur were beneficial to the training, and to a lesser extent the adaptive
research programs, no technical assistance was provided to the Monitoring and Evaluation unit. All three
areas of assistance would have benefitted more from further follow-up assistance.
30.         While the committees set up under the project to improve coordination generally functioned
satisfactorily, linkages between agricultural extension, agricultural and livestock research and soil and
water research and extension were not sufficiently strong.
31.         There were a number of external factors which affected the impact of the project on
increasing agricultural production.  Farmers interviewed in all districts indicated that lack of input
resources, such as credit, fertilizers and good quality seeds, were restricting their adoption of
recommended practices. In addition, problems associated with irrigation, drainage, and adulteration of
fertilizers and pesticides also affected production.
Sindh Province
32.         Overall, the project was judged to also have partially achieved its objectives in Sindh
Province. A number of factors contributed to delays in achieving physical targets during implementation,
thus resulting in the need for a one-year extension to the project. It was only due to this extension that
all physical targets were met. While the project has impacted favourably on farm production the degree
of this impact has been constrained by a number of factors.
33.         Of the total IDA Credit (US$15.57), US$3.526 million remained unspent at 30 June, 1994,
due mainly to the depreciation of the Rupee against the US dollar. Total project costs were Rs578.066
million (estimated at US$23.875 million), which was 58% above the original estimated base project costs
of Rs366.063 million (although two revisions of project costs were made during project implementation),
but only 10% above total estimated costs in Dollar terms. A four-month extension has been given to 31
October, 1994 to complete disbursements of expenditure incurred before project closure.
34.         The serious delays in the civil works program were due to a combination of factors,
including problems associated with site selection and government procedural problems in preparation,
processing and approval of contract documents. Security problems (see para. 38) and rising prices also
adversely affected contractors in constructing buildings. These delays had adverse effects on the
operations of the newly established adaptive research farm and extension programs in local areas. The
civil works program was accelerated through the establishment of a special project director within the
Communications and Works Department (CWD) in 1991 to monitor the processing of civil works for this
project. At this time there are several buildings which are not completed according to the original
specifications (for example, the Pangrio ARF and the district buildings at Dadu) and have not been
handed over to the Department of Agriculture due to factors beyond the control of the Project. A critical
problem now exists in completing these civil works as the group responsible for the civil works program
under the project has been disbanded and presumably no further appropriate budget has been allocated
6



PAKISTAN: Punjab and Sind Agricultural Extension and Adaptive Research Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix A: Mission's Aide-Memoire
in this financial year. The quality of construction of buildings could only be considered fair, as there was
inadequate supervision during construction, and maintenance of buildings already appears a problem (this
is the responsibility of the CWD).
35.          Both Adaptive Research Farms (ARFs) visited by the mission (Pangrio, Phase II and
Oderolal, Phase I) were established as a small part of large existing government farms involved in seed
production and tenant farming. The effectiveness of the adaptive research programs appears compromised
by budget control being administered by the Farm Superintendent and the competing needs for funds for
research and input supply for tenant farmers.
36.          While the commnittees set up under the project to improve coordination generally functioned
satisfactorily, linkages between agricultural extension, agricultural and livestock research and soil and
water research and extension were not sufficiently strong.
37.          There were a number of factors external to project interventions which affected the impact
of the project on increasing agricultural production. Farmers interviewed in all districts indicated that
lack of input resources, such as credit, fertilizers and good quality seeds, were restricting their adoption
of recommended practices. In addition, problems associated with irrigation, drainage, and adulteration
of fertilizers and pesticides also affected production.
38.          A local law and order problem  occurred in Sindh Province from  1991 to 1993 which
adversely affected the project as it was difficult for staff in a number of districts to carry out their
extension duties and additionally the Local Security Enforcement Agency commandeered project vehicles
and buildings during this period.
Total Project Costs
39.          Of the total IDA Credit (US$42.1 million), US$10.022 million remained unspent at 30 June,
1994, due mainly to the depreciation of the Rupee against the US dollar, the deletion of 480 residential
and service buildings from the civil works program; and the under-utilization of the funds allocated for
technical assistance for the Punjab component. Total project costs were Rs1,247.766 million (estimated
at US$51.117 million), which was the same as the original estimated total project cost in Rupee terms,
but only 88 % in Dollar terms. A four-month extension has been given to 31 October, 1994 to complete
disbursements of expenditure incurred before project closure.
Project Sustainability
Punjab Province
40.          It is likely that the GOPun will be able to maintain the achievements generated, in relation
to its major objectives and strategies and the plans currently being formulated to ensure further
improvements to extension services and adaptive research. The T&V system requires a substantial
number of field staff. To date incremental staff under the project have not been paid salaries for this
7



PAKISTAN: Punjab and Sind Agricultural Extension and Adaptive Research Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix A: Mission's Aide-Memoire
financial year, as they have not been transferred to the non-development budget, as required by the
covenants of agreement of the project. This places some uncertainty on the financial sustainability of the
T&V system. Proposals to include women as AOs and Women Extension Workers (WEWs) will place
further pressure on financial sustainability. Other sustainability issues relate to the apparent failure to
include funding for maintenance and replacement of equipment in departmental budgets.
41.         The GOPun is committed to complete the civil works program for those building units for
which construction was commenced prior to the Credit closing date. It would appear, however, that the
GOPun is not generally convinced of the value of government investment in staff housing. Where
considerable budget constraints exist, it would seem more important to ensure an adequate level of
vehicles and motorcycles, so that staff are able to carry out their duties adequately, than to invest in staff
housing. Limitations in staff mobility were the most often cited problems by extension staff, particularly
in respect to FAs.
Sindh Province
42.         There is some doubt that the GOS will be able to maintain the level of achievements
generated under the project. The T&V system requires a substantial number of field staff. While
incremental staff employed under the project have been paid salaries for this financial year, they have not
been transferred to the non-development budget, as required by the covenants of agreement of the project.
The more important aspect is, however, is the ability of the GOS to meet salary costs in the future. In
addition, operation and maintenance funds for extension activities are extremely limited and there is no
funding for maintenance and replacement of capital items, such as vehicles and equipment, in
departmental budgets. This places considerable uncertainty on the financial sustainability of the T&V
system. Proposals to include additional women extension staff will place further pressure on financial
sustainability.
43.         The consequences of budget constraints on extension activities are already becoming
apparent; reduced farm visits and contact with farmers, less field demonstrations of new technologies and
reduced numbers of adaptive research trials to test new technologies.
Bank Performance
44.         There was an early identification of the need for a follow-on to the Phase I extension
projects. Preparation of second-phase projects were, however, very prolonged and little assistance was
given by the Bank to this process; the FAO/CP ultimately assisted Sindh Province in project preparation
but no external assistance was given to Punjab Province. The Bank could have been more pro-active in
accelerating preparation activities. Ultimately, the project was appraised as a joint project for both Sindh
and Punjab provinces. There was thus a 2.5 year lacuna between the completion of the Phase I projects
and the effectiveness of the Phase 11 project. During appraisal it was wisely decided to include all
provincial districts in the project, including the districts supported by the Phase I project in each province.
8



PAKISTAN: Punjab and Sind Agricultural Extension and Adaptive Research Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix A: Mission's Aide-Memoire
45.         During implementation the Bank supervisory missions were reasonably regular and provided
good guidance and support to implementation. The local resident Bank staff also provided additional
support between implementation missions, which was appreciated by the GOS. The project was further
advantaged by the continuity of resident Bank staff assigned to the project.
Borrower Performance
Punjab Province
46.        The period of time associated with preparation, appraisal and effectiveness of the project
was unnecessarily long, leaving a lacuna between the two extension projects. The implementing agency
did a meritorious job in project implementation. However, some deficiencies in Borrower performance
were apparent. The long delay between credit negotiations and project effectiveness was due to 8 month
delays in the review and approval of the project by the Executive Committee of National Economic
Council (ECNEC) and in the signing of consultant agreements. The project was constrained by a
shortfall (26%) in provision of counterpart funds and usage of Credit (56%) in the first year. Common
problems cited by Bank supervision missions which concerned Borrower performance during
implementation were: serious delays in civil works program, procurement of replacement vehicles; slow
start with technical assistance followed by cessation of inputs beyond 1989; poor supervision of FAs by
AOs; poor farmer contact by AOs; shortfall in appointment of adaptive research staff; and overseas
training very delayed.
47.        The request for extension of the project by one year was conditional on remedying the above
implementation problems. Subsequently, there was a rapid increase in activity and achievement of
physical targets, indicating that the problems were mostly managerially based. A request for a further
(second) extension of the project was not supported because all components, except for civil works, were
expected to be substantially completed by end of first extension. The request by the Bank for emphasis
to be given to women in development issues and introduction of a private sector pilot extension program
during the one-year project extension was only minimally addressed.
48.         Project monitoring and evaluation was carried out regularly, with two reports produced each
year, covering assessments of the T&V system and impact of the project on farmer practices,
respectively. These reports were comprehensive and according to guidelines given. Greater value would
have been obtained from these reports if there had been a greater focus on evaluation, with report output
being more specifically aimed at: assisting managerial decisions on the effectiveness of the T&V system;
the impact of the project on changing farm production practices; and providing guidance for adaptive
research programs. Although technical assistance was scheduled to assist in the development of the M&E
unit, this did not occur, but would have been very beneficial in assisting with overcoming some of the
above shortcomings in evaluation analysis.
49.        The design of the project was based on the T&V system advocated by the Bank at that time.
Since then, there has been considerable debate given to the modification of this design to ensure more
sustainable financial viability, wider interaction with farmers, use of more modern communication
9



PAKISTAN: Punjab and Sind Agncultural Extension and Adaptive Research Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix A: Mission's Aide-Memoire
systems and extension methodologies, more flexible allocation of staff resources, and less top-down
technology training which is more responsive to individual farmer needs. During project implementation,
the GOPun recognised some of these limitations in the T&V system but appeared constrained in making
any changes. However, subsequent to the completion of the project, the GOPun has prepared a future
agricultural extension strategy which proposes a number of modifications to improve the extension system
in any further project.
50.        The GOPun had by project closure complied with all covenants of the Development Credit
Agreement, except for the conversion of all incremental staff positions and attendant salaries to the non-
development budget, which is implicit in Section 2.08 of the Project Agreement.
Sindh Province
51.        The implementing agency (DA) has done a fair job in project implementation, but their task
has at times been seriously constrained by other departments of government. Some deficiencies in
Borrower performance during project implementation are apparent from project documents. Problems
cited by Bank supervision missions which concerned Borrower performance during implementation were:
serious delays in civil works program; slow initial appointment of new staff; severe constraints imposed
by inadequate availability of counterpart funds; delays in procurement of vehicles; extension and adaptive
research activities were often indicated to be largely inefficient and effective; poor supervision of FAs
and AOs early in project; lack of funds for operation and maintenance in Phase I areas; and overseas
training delayed.
52.        The project made much better progress from 1993 onwards, due in part to more dynamic
leadership and managerial capacity. The request for extension of the project by one year was conditional
on remedying many of the above implementation problems. Subsequently, there was a rapid increase in
activity and achievement of physical targets, indicating that the problems were mostly managerially based.
A request for a further (second) extension of the project was not supported because all components,
except for civil works, were expected to be substantially completed by end of first extension.
53.        Project monitoring and evaluation was carried out regularly, with two reports produced each
year, covering assessments of the T&V system and impact of the project on farmer practices,
respectively. These reports were comprehensive and according to guidelines given. Greater value would
have been obtained from these reports if there had been a greater focus on evaluation, with report output
being more specifically aimed at: assisting managerial decisions on the effectiveness of the T&V system;
the impact of the project on changing farm production practices; and providing guidance for adaptive
research programs.
54.        The design of the project was based on the T&V system advocated by the Bank at that time.
Since then, there has been considerable debate given to the modification of this design to ensure more
sustainable financial viability, wider interaction with farmers, use of more modern communication
systems and extension methodologies, more flexible allocation of staff resources, and less top-down
technology training which is more responsive to individual farmer needs. During project implementation,
the GOS recognised some of these limitations in the T&V system but appeared constrained in making any
10



PAKISTAN: Punjab and Sind Agricultural Extension and Adaptive Research Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix A: Mission's Aide-Memoire
changes.  However, during the one-year project extension phase, the GOS prepared several key
documents, including a Comprehensive Diagnostic Survey, Extension Strategy Review, Adaptive
Research Reorganisation and Training Course for Women, as guides to improve the extension system.
The GOS also introduced the concept of Village Participatory Research Groups to improve the relevance
and value of new technologies, but as this is a recent innovation it is too early to judge its effectiveness.
55.        The GOS furnished quarterly reports on project progress and provided the necessary project
audits as required. By project closure, the GOS had complied with all covenants of the Development
Credit Agreement, except for the conversion of all incremental staff positions to the non-development
budget, which is implicit in Section 2.08 of the Project Agreement.
Assessment of Outcome
56.        The project's outcome in both Punjab and Sindh Provinces is assessed as satisfactory as the
project achieved most of its major objectives. In Punjab Province it is expected that as a result of the
project, further worthwhile development results will be achieved without further investment. In Sindh
province, however, there is some doubt (refer para. 41) that further worthwhile development results will
occur, unless sufficient budget is provided for operations, maintenance and capital item replacement and
that there is further investment in developing the extension services.
Future Development
57.        Consideration has been given by the Extension Wings of the Department of Agriculture in
both provinces to the present functioning of the T&V system and a series of modifications have been
proposed to improve the working efficiency, effectiveness and approach to extension services. The World
Bank has a concurrent mission in Pakistan which is considering the future Strategy for Sustainable
Agricultural Growth in Pakistan. Clearly this will have important implications to the design of future
projects concerned with agricultural development. Strategy papers for development of extension services
under new projects have been prepared separately by the Extension Wings of the Agricultural
Departments for both provinces but these have yet to be considered by the respective provincial
governments. The proposed modifications to the present extension systems include the following:
Punjab Province
-        changing the focus of extension to farm families rather than individual farmers, with an
increased coverage;
-        reducing the frequency of the training and visit schedule to allow better message preparation
and more time for farmers to visit the extension agent;
-        placing more emphasis for M&E on evaluation and information generation for management;
-        inducting women into the extension service;
11



PAKISTAN: Punjab and Sind Agricultural Extension and Adaptive Research Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix A: Mission's Aide-Memoire
developing technologies for specific target farmer groups to ensure more direct applicability
and adoption;
appointing staff specialized in horticulture and soils adaptive research and development;
enhancing and involving farmer organisation and Non-Government Organisations in
agricultural development;
increasing farmer training;
establishing contract research grants to universities for post-graduate studies to enhance
research-extension linkages;
increasing organisational decentralisation to develop autonomy and more comprehensive
coverage within regions;
promotion of commercialisation in agricultural extension services; and
rationalisation of the administrative structure in the Agricultural Department.
Sindh Province
-        changing the focus of extension to target groups in defined agro-ecological zones;
-        ensuring routine farmer contact for SMSs and AOs in addition to their training and
supervisory roles;
-        develop a field service executed by a reduced number of better qualified and more
technically competent field staff that could produce substantial savings
-        inducting women into the extension service;
-        improve effectiveness of Zonal Technical Committee pre-season and in-season workshops
to ensure better research-extension linkages;
-        use farmer groups, mass media and mobile vans to increase coverage and cost-effectiveness;
-        use seasonal campaigns to disseminate the most important "key messages" through on-farm
adoption plots, demonstrations and mass media services;
-        enhancing and involving farmer organisations, the private sector and Non-Government
Organisations in agricultural development;
Key Lessons Learnt
58.         There are a number of lessons to be drawn from the implementation and outcome of this
project in the two provinces, including:
project success is very dependent on management which has leadership, vision, technical
expertise, managerial and organisational skills;
the T&V extension system should be modified to make it more cost effective, more flexible,
more equitable to all farmers, less top-down, more participatory in the definition, testing
and refinement of new technologies/practices on-farm, more rigorous in the diagnosis of
constraints within the farming system and in the quantification of these issues and their
feedback to management and research, have stronger linkages with research, and be more
targeted to farmer groups (landlords, foremen, tenants, owner-operators and women);
12



PAKISTAN: Punjab and Sind Agricultural Extension and Adaptive Research Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix A: Mission's Aide-Memoire
within the T&V system there should be more incentives and promotional opportunities for
the front-line extension workers and their base knowledge and skills should be
comprehensive and of a reasonably high standard to meet the demand for more site specific
advice and recommendations to farmers;
adequate mobility of front-line extension workers to enable widespread interaction with
farmers is an imperative to ensure viability of extension programs and previous investments
in improvement of extension services;
proposed programs of civil works must be within the financial and managerial capacity of
the implementing agency and the government must be fully committed to such a program
at appraisal;
the present setup of the ARFs in Sindh Province is unsatisfactory and they should be
separated financially and administratively from the seed production and tenant farms and
the recent move to more on-farm adaptive research is supported; in both provinces adaptive
research should be concentrated more on farmers' fields, should not duplicate research done
by Research Institutes, should be demand-driven and should make valid economic
comparisons of new technologies with current farmer practices;
training programs need to be modified to upgrade teaching methods, using adult-learning
principles, curricula require revision to include training in extension methods, including
group and communication skills and participatory methods, and training for FAs should
provide more emphasis on problem definition, problem analysis, survey techniques,
monitoring and evaluation, including informal and self-reflective methods;
training programs for farmers should be increased and their curricula should emphasize
improve farmers' knowledge of basic production principles and decision making ability; and
the capacity to produce locally a range of low-cost audio-visual materials, to utilize regular
time-slots on radio and television for programs of interest to farmers and to set-up media
vans and information centres for farmers, all provide very effective pathways of technology
transfer to farmers; media services require ongoing monitoring to ensure that they are
reaching the desired target audience and that content is relevant.
13






Appendix B
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
PUNJAB AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND
ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT PHASE-IH
CREDIT NO. 1762-PAK
[ Punjab Component ]
2-10-1994



I



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
PUNJAB AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND
ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT PHASE-II
(Credit 1762-Pak)
PREFACE
1.    This is the Project Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the PAE&AR Project in Pakistan
for which Credit 1762-Pak amounting to SDR 22.53 million (US$ 26.53 million) was approved on 20-3-
1987 and was made effective on 31-12-1987. The Credit closing date was extended by one year i.e. from
30-6-1993 to 30-6-1994. Total credit disbursement was 20.03 million against the appraisal estimate of
26.53 million US$.
2.    The Evaluation Summary and Parts I and III of the ICR have been prepared on the basis of the
data supplied by the Agriculture Department or available in the P&D Department." This report
primarily covers the Project Components/objectives and the targets viz-a-viz actual achievements. The
impact evaluation of the project is being prepared and would be released by the Punjab Economic
Research Institute (PERI) shortly.
EVALUATION SUMMARY
3.    This project is the fourth Bank Group loan and credit for the Agricultural Sector in Pakistan. It
is in line with Government objectives to re-organize and strengthen Agriculture Extension Service to
increase agricultural production in Punjab Province.
1. Implementation Experience:
4.    The objectives of strengthening and re-organization of Extension Services have largely been
accomplished. However, difficulties were encountered in getting the construction of buildings completed
according to schedule because of frequent revisions in construction rates and in some cases the site/land
acquisitionproblems. Difficulties in establishing Adaptive Farm at D.G Khan were faced because suitable
land was not available. Furthermore works at 480 sites could not be taken in hand due to aforementioned
problems. The Foreign consultants engaged under the project unilaterally stopped consultancy service
and it ultimately resulted cancellation of the agreement w .e. 20-3-1993. The consultants achievement was
46 percent.
2. Results:
5.    The physical and financial targets of the project were fully achieved for all the project component,
except the building and consultancy components. Perusal of the Table. 1 reveals a net increase in
production of major crops, when compared with the production figures of the base period. Although
Agricultural production is a function of a number of factors which interact and overlaps to help giving
output. However this increase in the production in the project area during the post project period (1986-
1994) can be attributed to the improvement in the diffusion of proved crop production technology. More
'/ Since the full report is 30 pages long, only the Preface, Evaluation Summary, and Summary of Assessments
are attached. The full report is available from Asia ISC. SAIAN.



2
precise inferences regarding the socio-economic impact of the project could, however be drawn on the
basis the evaluation study being conducted by PERI.
3. Sustainabilitv:
6.    Sustainability of Agricultural Extension and Adaptive Research net work with huge recurring
liabilities throughout the Punjab (keeping in view the increasing burden on the non-development side of
the budget for Agriculture sector) would very much depend on the efficient/effective utilization of the
existing staff and the other resources. It would be imperative to delete the undesirable componnent and
reduction of expenditures whereas possible. We will have to find the ways and means to make the project
sustainable. It would become difficult to afford a dense net work of public sector. Possibilities will have
to be explored to mobilize the masses, NGOs, and the provision of the extension services on cost sharing
between extensionists and farmers.
4. Findings and Lessons Learnt:
7.    Although the project has achieved its most of the physical/financial targets set for the
strengthening and reorganization of extension and Adaptive Research Activities, yet desired results could
not be accomplished in the areas of adoption rate of better technology and the linkages between extension
and research. The progress on the major component i.e. construction of civil works has been lagging
behind the schedule and resulted in delay in completion of the project. For the future projects, there is
a need for improvement in the phasing of the project in such a way that during the initial phase of one
two years, only nucleolus staff should be provided for arranging the infrastructure, machinery and
equipment and other project activities be undertaken under the subsequent phases.
8.    Due to the increasing number of development projects being transferred to the non-development
side every year, it has become necessary to take in to account the recurring liabilities of the projects at
the time of the formulation of the project. There is a need for more active contribution of the farmers
and N.G.Os in providing extension services.
9.    The role of the World Bank authorities/missions in identification, formulation, financing,
appraisal and supervision has been quite satisfactory. However the client Department did not have had
a good experience of foreign consultants in the present project.



3
Sunnmary of Assessments
A. Achievement of obiectives         Substantial    Partial    Neglieible  Not Applicable
Macro policies                                   [7]
Sector policies                      7           E i                         o
Financial objectives               [O] G                      O 
Institutional development           [7]                       Z ]D
Physical objectives                 [7[                        [j ]7
Poverty reduction                   []                         I            [IO
Gender issues                        D            7           E             E
Other social objectives             En]          [7]                        [ O
Environmental objectives             n                           ] u         o
Public sector management            7            E] 0 
Private sector development          [n           Eo            o ]
Other (human resources dev.)        En           [7]          ED            Ei]
B. Proiect sustainabilitv             Likely       Unlikely    Uncertain
(1)          (el          (/)
Highlv
C. Bank performance                  satisfactory   Satisfactory   Deficient
(I)          (/           (/)
Identification                     [O                         li2
Preparation assistance              EO           EO
Appraisal                           F3                        L  ]
Supervision                          O           EO            Ol



4
HiRhlv
D. Borrower performance               satisfactory   Satisfactory   Deficient
(d)          ('/         (/)
Preparation                        [                         [ I
Implementation                       D           7            i
Covenant compliance                [D           [7           ED
Operation (if applicable)             l                      1 O
HighlY                                     Highlv
E. Assessment of outcome           satisfactory   Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory  unsatisfactory
(4         (El              (I             (
ED          I V I



Appendix C
GOVERNMENT OF SINDH
AGRICULTURE & WILDLIFE DEPARTMENT
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT (ICR)
OF
SINDH AGRICULTURE EXTENSION & ADAPTIVE RESEARCH
PROJECT PHASE-IT (CREDIT-1762 PAK)
[Sind Component 1
FOR
WB/FAO ICR PREPARATION MISSION
OCTOBER 13-20, 1994
DIRECTORATE GENERAL
AGRICULTURE EXTENSION SINDH
EHYDERABAD
1994






SINDH AGRICULTURE EXTENSION & ADAPTIVE RESEARCH
PROJECT PHASE-II.
Sindh Agriculture Extension & Adaptive Research Project Phase-II was conceived as an extension
of earlier project "Sindh Agriculture Extension & Adaptive Research Project" to remaining areas of the
province. World Bank assisted Sindh Agriculture Extension & Adaptive Research Project (Cr. 922-Pak)
was under implementation from July 1980 to June 1985 in five districts namely Hyderabad, Sanghar,
Nawabshah, Sukkur and Larkana of Sindh Province.
Following were the main objectives of the project.
-   Increasing production of agricultural crops, particularly of major crops by improving their unit
area yield.
-   Dissemination of improved production technology in small farmers so as to narrow down gap of
knowledge between innovative progressive farmers and common farmers.
-   Strengthening of Agriculture Extension Services and introduction of Training and Visit system to
remaining districts of the province.
-   Establishment of Directorate of Agriculture Training and strengthening of Agriculture Training
Institute Sakrand for improved training facilities.
-   Strengthening of Adaptive Research, Infornation, Monitoring and Evaluation components.
Project commenced from January, 1988 (1987-88) at a total cost of Rs.366.063 million (GOS
Rs. 105.936 & IDA Rs.260.127 million, equivalent to 13.155 million SDRs) for the period of 54 months.
Later in May 1991, project Pc-I was modified, extending project life upto June 30, 1993 with revised cost
of Rs.419.970 million (GOS Rs. 139.483 and IDA Rs.280.487 equivalent to previously allocated 13.155
million SDRs). During last year (1993) project Pc-I was again revised, extending project life upto June
30, 1994. The revised estimated cost was 563.632 million (GOS Rs. 120.956 million and IDA
Rs.442.676 million equivalent to previously allocated 13.155 million SDRs).
Project successfully completed its scheduled development life on June 30, 1994. Project Pc-IV
has been prepared and submitted to govermnent for allowing to continue project activities on the non
development side. An estimated requirement of funds will be Rs.82.691 million annually, including
59.867 million on O&M.
There have been significant progress in achievement of project objectives. Training and Visit
System of Agriculture Extension have been successfully introduced in whole of the province of Sindh.
The lowest level extension field staff i.e. Field Assistant has a fixed fortnightly schedule of field activities
comprising of two days for training at training centres and six days for visit to contact farmers groups
during a fortnight. During training sessions, he receives training on the fortnightly messages and then
he delivers and demonstrates it to contact farmers groups during his visit to them.
Besides this direct contact approach, agricultural information on seasonal and day to day issues is
disseminated regularly through monthly Sindh Zarat, weekly Ahgd= progranmme of Pakistan Television
Centre Karachi and daily Zari Pro rammes of Radio Pakistan Hyderabad and Khairpur Stations.
Further, agriculture extension information is also spread through sign & publicity boards, wall
chalking along main roads & highways and through leaflets, posters, pamphlets etc.



Apart from above, demonstration plots are kept on farmer's fields to demonstrate impact of
improved production technologies, crop varieties and cultural practices to farmers on their fields. Special
crop grow more campaigns, seminars and field days are arranged to make grower more and more aware
of current issues and their solutions.
Research programmes addressing farners problems are basic requirement for effective extension
services, realizing this fact. Adaptive Research farms were established and adaptive research is being
conducted to solve growers site specific problems.
Staff and farmer's training facilities have been strengthened considerably through the establishunent
of Directorate of Agriculture Training and enhancement of facilities at Agriculture Training Institute
Sakrand. Similarly working of Information and Monitoring and Evaluation components have improved
through the additional of project facilities to these components.
Project activities have produced its impact on over all agricultural production of the province as
can be seen from following provincial area and production figures of major crops.
TABLE- I
Area, Production & Yield per ha: of major crops in Sindh before and during the project.
Year           Area             Production             Yield kg/Ha
'noo'ha          '000 ' MT/Bales
COTTON
1986-87 (BM)   638.30             1304.60               348.00
1987-88         629.60            1374.50               371.00
1988-89         564.00            1108.00               334.00
1989-90         561.30            1104.00               334.00
1990-91         536.60            1125.20               356.00
1991-92         547.60            1404.00               436.00
1992-93*        397.30             815.90               349.00
1993-94         594.90            1517.90               434.00
Average.        547.33             1207.07              373.42
Change %      (-)14.25           (1 7.48                  7.305
over BM.
SUGARCANE
1986-87 (BM)    182.70            7906.10                43.30
1987-88         207.10            9574.80                46.20
1988-89         247.90           13110.50                52.90
1989-90         250.70           12360.00                49.30
1990-91         253.00           11155.50                64.68
1991-92         255.20           14240.40                55.78
1992-93*        247.90           13556.80                54.67
1993-94         265.70           15421.00                58.04
Average         246.78            12774.14               54.51
Change X         35.07              61.57                25.89
over BM.
RICE
1986-87 (SM)   721.00             1548.50              2148.00
1987-88         722.00            1537.00              2129.00
1988-89         686.00            1436.00              2093.00
1989-90         685.00            1340.00              2046.00
1990-91         679.80            1433.40              2108.00
1991-92         692.30            1487.50              2148.00
1992-93*        568.70            1272.80              2238.00
1993-94         702.80            1954.80              2781.00



-3 -
Year         Area            Production           Yield kg/Ha
'OOO'ha        '000' MT/Bales
Average        676.65          1494.50            2220.42
Change %     (-) 6.15         t-) 3.49               3.37
over SM.
WHEAT
1986-87 (BM)   1036.00         2211.50            2135.00
1987-88        1025.00         2180.00            2127.00
1988-89       1045.00          2361.00            2259.00
1989-90       1045.00          2131.00            2039.00
1990-91       1053.50          2274.50            2159.00
1991-92        1058.40         2365.30            2235.00
1992-93       1103.70          2417.90            2191.00
1993-94*       1105.50         2116.60            1915.00
Average        1062.30         2263.43            2132.14
Change X         2.54             2.36           (-) 0.13
over BM.
Year 1992-93 was not a normal year for kharif crop due to devastating torrential rains.
Considering 1986-87 as a bench mark (BM) year, it will be observed that area under cotton has
continuously declined and so has production. But now trend has changed and there have been increase
in production to the tune of 100 and 200 bales during the year 1991-92 and 1993-94 respectively.
Similarly, yield per hectare has also increased from 348 Kg. to 373.42 Kg., an increase of about 7.31
percent. Main cause for the decrease of area of cotton crop is heavy attack of pest to this crop. Other
important reason is establishment of sugar mills in cotton growing areas. Thus, growers are shifting to
sugarcane crop. There have been a 35 percent increase in area of sugarcane crop since 1986-87.
Correspondingly, production has registered an increase of about 61.57 percent and yield per hectare has
grown to about 26 percent.
Area under rice crop has decreased to the extent of 6.15% compared to year 1986-87. This is
again due to shifting to sugarcane crop particularly in lower Sindh. However, production has declined
to 3.49 percent only; mainly because of improvement in yield per hectare, which has increased from 2148
Kg/h in 1986-87 to 2220.42 Kg/h, an increase of about 3.37 percent.
Wheat area is continuously increasing since 1987-88. Increase being about 2.54 percent over
bench mark (1986-87). Similarly production has also increased to the extent of 2.36 percent. Production
has been increasing since 1990-91. Year 1993-94 was a exceptional year for wheat crop due to acute
shortage of irrigation water during late growth and maturity period, which resulted in reduction in yield
per hectare of the crop and over all decrease in production. Other wise yield per hectare of wheat crop
have also increased (1.56%) over the bench mark year.
There has been improvement in the production of other crops also. This clearly indicate that
project has made impact on the agricultural productivity of the province.
Other physical achievements of the project are as follow:
Staff Addition.
Through the project, following staff positions have been added in the provincial Agriculture
Extension Services.



- 4 -
TABLE-2
Staff Position.
Sr:   Position.               PS    Number      Filled      Vacant     Total
No:
1. Director Trg:            19        1           1           -         1
2. DD Information            18       1           1           -          1
3. DD Training.              18       1           1           -          1
4. Vid:Prod:Officer          18       1           1           -          1
5. System AnaLyst.           18       1           1           -          1
6. DD Agr:Ext.               18       6           6           -          6
7. SSMS.                     18       3           3           -         3
8. ADA Ext.                  17S      8           8           -         8
9. SMS.                      17S     14          14           -         14
10. Sr:Instructor.            17S      4           4           -         4
11. AD (Radio Prog)           17S      2           2           -         2
12. Asstt:Stat:Officer.       17S      1           1           -          1
13. Asstt:Dir:Trg:            17S      2           2           -         2
14. Agri:Officer.             17      42          42           -        42
15. Information Officer.    17         1           1           -          1
16. Radio Prog:Officer.       17       1           1           -         1
17. Programmer.               17       1           1           -         1
18. Asstt:Trg:Officer.        17       2           2           -         2
19. Video Prog:Officer.       17       1           1           -          1
20. Research Officer.         17       1           1           -          1
21. Video Camera Man.         16       2           2           -          2
22. Video Technician.         16       3           3           -         3
23. Enumerators.              16       3           3           -         3
24. Office Supdt.             16      17          17                     17
25. Statistical Investg:    16        13          13                     13
26. Stenographer.             15       7           7           -          7
27. Artist/Designer.          13       2           2           -          2
28. Stenotypist.              12      15          15           -         15
29. Photographer.             12       2           2           -         2
30. Office Assistant.         11      24          24           -         24
31. ELectrician.               7       1           1           -          1
32. Plumber.                   7       1           1           -          1
33. Senior Clerk.              7      10          10           -         10
34. Inform:Van Operator.       7       1           1           -          1
35. Van Driver.                6       2           2           -          2
36. Van Operator.              6       2           2           -          2
37. Field Assistant.           6     292         292           -       292
38. Jr:Clerk/Pf:Rd:            5      22          22           -        22
39. Jr:Clerk/typist.           5       2           2           -          2
40. Computing Clerk.           5       3           3           -         3
41. Inform:Van Driver.         4       2           2           -          2
42. Driver.                    4      41          41           -        41
43. Tractor Driver.            4       1           1                      1
44. Cook/Gardener.             3       4           4           -         4
45. Kitchen Helper.            1       3           3           -         3
46. NQ/HeLper/Watchman.        1      43          43           -        43
47. Beldar.                    1      44          44           -        44
Total:                  -     656         656           -        656
Civil Works.
Through this project 819 building units have been constructed all over the province. The details
are as follow:



TABLE-3
Position of Civil WorIss.
Sr:   BuiLding                          Completion year.                           Total
No:   type.         ---------------------------------------------------    Units.
87     88      89      90      91      92      93
88      89      90     91      92      93      94
1. DG Office.           -       -       -      -       -       -       -             1
2. Trg:Unit.            -       -       -       -       -       1       -            1
3. Trg:Centre.          -       2       3      10      3        -      2            20
4. ADA Office.          -       2      4       8       3        -      3            20
5. AO Office.           3       2       3      11     15       9       3            U
6. FA Office.           -       3       7     47    366    228        72           723
7. ARF Complex.         -       -       -       -       -       1       -            1
8. DDAE Resid:          -       1       1       3       -              2             7
9. Renov:of             -       -       -       -       -       -      5             5
build:2 ATI
Sakrand.
10. Bound:Wall.          -       -       -       -       -      -      84            84
11. Approach             -       -       -       -       -       -      2             2
Roads.
Total:            3      10      18      79    387    239      174           910
Transgort
Transport as listed below have been procured through the project:
TABLE-4
Procurement of Trnsport.
Sr:   Transport                             Year of Procurement.                       Total
No:   type.                        ------------
86     87      88      89      90      91      92      93
87      88     89      90      91      92      93      94
1. Car.                    -      04      01       -       -       -       -       -       05
2. Jeeps.                         12      15      11      03       -       -       -       41
3. Pickups.               09       -       -       -          -   28       -       -       37
4. Micro Bus.              -      01       -              01       -       -       -       02
5. Trg: Van.               -       -      01       -      01       -       -       -       02
6. Inform.Van.             -       -      01       -      01               -       -       02
7. Motorcycles.           25      30       -      86       -       -    835        -      976
S. Sicyles.              146    342        -             565       -       -       -    1053
Total:             180    389       18      97    571       28    835        -    2118
Maclbinar & Eaiu]ents.
Following machinary and equipment items for various project component have been procured:



- 6 -
TABLE-5
Procurement of Machinary and Equipment.
Sr:    I t e m s:                            Year of Procurement.                        Total
No:                       --------------------
86      87      88      89      90      91      92      93
87      88      89      90      91      92      93      94
1. ATI Equip:             02      03      01      01      01       13    258       07      286
2. ARF Equip:             17        -      18      01      03    529       04       -      572
3. Trg:Equip:             90      37       16      38      06    203       57       -      447
4. Media Equip:             -      12      04      04      08      41     129      23      221
5. Office Equip:          54      11       12      17      10      11      09       -      134
6. Other Equip:             -       -       -       -      01      09      02       -       12
Total:             163      63      61       61      29    806    463        34     1672
Furmiture
TABLE-6
Funiture procured.
Sr:  Particulars                       Year wise procurement of Sets.                    TotaL
No:                       --------------------------
86      87      88      89      90      91      92      93
87      88      89      90      91      92      93      94
1. DG Office:             01       2.5              -       -       -       -              3.5
2. Trg:Centre:              -     03        -      02       -      06      05       -    16
3. DDA&ADA Office           -     02        -       -       -      05      10       -    17
4. AO Offices:              -       5.5     -       -       -      15.5   15        -    36
5. FA Offices:              -     93      40      41       06      80    324        -   584
6. ARF & PD (C&W)           -       -       -       -       -      01      01       -    02
Total:              01     106       40      43      06    107.5  355         -   658.5
Technical Assistance
Project provided service of foreign and local experts/ consultants on the discipline & period as
given in the table.
TABLE-7
Procurement of Technical Assistance.
Sr:   Subject:                                Man-Month Procurement
No:
1.  Extension PLanning.                               38.50
2.  Formal & informal training.                       13.00
3.  Adaptive Research.                                19.65
4.   Information.                                      5.00
5.  Monitoring and Evaluation.                         4.00
6.  Survey.                                            3.50
7.  Farming system.                                    3.00
8.  Extension Strategy.                                0.35
9.  Supervisory.                                       3.00
10.  Local.                                             3.00
Total:                                           94.35



7a-
Besides fortnight training of field staff, following trainings were conducted locally and overseas.
TABLE-8
Trainigs
Sr:   Subject:                                    Number
No:
1.   Overseas.                                       26
2.   Inland:
a) Short Courses:                                 205
b) Special:                                       167
c) ATI Sakrand:                                   120
3.   Consultants:                                    09
4.   Seminars/Workshops.
a) Lady Extension Workers & Farmers.              110
b) Post Harvest Techniques.                       365
c) Water User's Associations.                     102
d) Demonstration & Exhibitions.                   203
Totat:            1307






Appendix D
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
PUNJAB AND SIND AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION
AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH - PHASE II PROJECT
(Cr. 1762-PAK)
COMMENTS FROM GOVERNMENT OF SINDH
ON FINAL DRAFT ICR






DIRECTORATE GENERAL, AGRICULTURE EXTENSION SINDH, HYDERABAD.
No. DGAES.T.IV(161)/95/720
Hyderabad, dated: 6/6/95
To:
The Section Officer (Ext),
Agriculture & Wildlife Department,
Government of Sindh,
Karachi.
SUBJECT:  PUNJAB & SINDH AGRICULTURE EXTENSION & ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
(CR. 1762 PAK)   IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT (ICR)
Ref'nce:  Letter dated May 24, 1995.
Dr. Rashed-ul-Qayyum, Project Advisor, World Bank Resident Mission
in Pakistan through his letter dated May 24, 1995 (copy enclosed) has desired
comments on the final draft "Implementation Completion Report".
The final draft copy of "Implementation Completion Report" has been
thoroughly reviewed and concluded that it does not require any comment.
However, clarification with regard to certain paras is submitted as under:
Para-6    ..... .Unfortunately, however, in Sindh a number of Senior Subject
Matter Specialists (SSMSs) have recently transferred to Research
Institutes of the Research Wing of the Department of Agriculture
(DA) due to more attractive conditions provided under the Second
Agricultural Research Project (ARP-II; Cr. 2154-PAK). Significant
vacancies are now also reported for Agricultural Officer (AO)
positions in some districts of Sindh.
Senior Subject Matter Specialists (SSMSs) belonging to Research
Services have been taken back by the Research Wing to fill the existing
vacancies under Research Services and not due to more attractive conditions
provided and ARP-II Project. Most vacant posts of SSMSs have been filled.
Para-10 ..... The  construction  of  buildings  at  Karror  and  D.G.  Khan
(Punjab) and at Pangrio (Sindh) has been completed, but at Pangrio
the buildings have not been handed over to DA because they were
not constructed according to specifications. A considerable number
of trials and demonstrations have been set up under the project.
The majority of trials, however, have been undertaken on ARFs, not
in farmers' fields. In general, trials and demonstrations have not
been useful for fine-tuning new technologies and promoting proven
technologies. In Sindh, the adaptive research program was
reorganized during the one-year extension of the project to
include, for the first time, large numbers of trials in farmers'
fields, and the relocation of many SSMSs to district locations.



The possession of buildings of Adaptive Research Farm Pangrio has
been taken over by the Department. All buildings are now in possession of
Adaptive Research staff posted on the farm.
Para-25   In the short term, it seems likely that GOPun will be able to
maintain project achievements, in respect to major objectives and
strategies, and the plans currently being formulated to ensure
further improvements to extension services and adaptive research,
but the situation in Sindh is more problematic (para-34). In both
provinces DAs are experiencing temporary delays in the transfer of
recurrent project costs to their non-development budgets.
Project costs have been transferred to non development budget in
Sindh.
Para-26 ..... In Sindh, high rates of staff transfer, apparently as policy,
are leading to inefficiency in management and operations.
Transfers of officials/officers are made whenever it becomes
necessary in the interest of government work. Recently, Government has
imposed restriction on transfer of officers/officials prior to three years
of service on a station.
Para-27 ..... There remains a building-deficit in Sindh, as a number of
buildings have not yet been handed over to the DA, because they
were not constructed according to the original specifications, or
are in need of extensive renovation due to deterioration while
occupied by the Security Forces.
Matter regarding completion of under construction building/
renovation of buildings was taken up with C&W Department and they have
promised for their completion.
You are requested that above clarifications may kindly be
communicated to Dr. Rashed-ul-Qayyum, Projects Advisor, World Bank Resident
Mission in Pakistan at Islamabad latest by June 10, 1995 as desired by him.
DIRECTOR GENERAL
AGRICULTURE EXTENSION SINDH
HYDERABAD
CC to:
Dr. Rashed-ul-Qayyum, Project Advisor, World Bank Resident Mission
in Pakistan, PO Box No. 1025, Islamabad.



Appendix E
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
PUNJAB AND SIND AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION
AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH - PHASE II PROJECT
(Cr. 1762-PAK)
COMMENTS FROM GOVERNMENT OF PUNJAB
ON FINAL DRAFT ICR






No. 1015)IDA-I/85-
GOVERNMENT OF PAKISTAN
,      S        nii MINISTRY OF FINANCE. REVENUE &
4 m   S  S4,-A-12 jX l,&<  ECONOMIC AFFAIRS
MIC AFFAIRS & STATISTICS DIVISION
i*   (ECONOMIC AFFAIRS WING)
_ _  ,/   |s/411[kIwnahad, the 28th.. 4 .*  . .. i9
Telearam: ECONOMIC
Telex   ECDIV: 05-634
SECTI O OFFICER
PHONE: 826556:
Subject:- PUNJAB AGRECULTURE EXTEN-SION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH
PREJECT(IDA CREDIT NO.1762-PAK).
IMPLfliTATIErN CC%PLETIrN REPORT(ICR).
Dear Mr. Rashidul Qayyum,
Please refer to the World Bank',Iq letter dated
18th May91995 on the above subject.
2.        Please find enclosed a copy of the comments/views
of Gnvt. of Punjab mn the evaluation  summary and project
iMpla.entatinn awsessment(implenentation completion report)
for further necee-Pry action at your end.
With regards.
Yours sincerely,
A4R  MUNIR)
Mr. R-ghidul-Qayyum,
Pr'oject -Adviver,
World-B Bnk Resident Mission,
I slamabad.






PARAWISE COMMENT/VIEWS ON EVALUATION SUMMARY
AND PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. EVALUATION SUMMARY.
Item No.                                 Comments
1.  Introduction                         1.  Noted.
2.  Project Objectives                  2.  Noted.
3.  Covenants.                           3.  The Government of Punjab has now
The Government of Punjab had        agreed and transferred all
complied with all covenants of           incremental staff positions to non-
development credit agreement except    development budget w.e. from
for transfer of all incremental staff  1.7.1994.
positions to non-development budget.
4.  Implementation Experience and        a>  Buildings:  The C&W Department in
Results.                            view of initial implementation delays
(funding problems) and subsequently
The project undoubtedly played a   because of frequent increase in
role in promoting new improved           construction rates remained behind
technology.  Notwithstanding initial   the schedule envisaged in PC-I.  On
delays the project achieved and          30.6.1994 the position about
exceeded the majority of physical        buildings stood as under:
targets set in SAR(PC-I) except for
civil works and technical assistance.  Completed =                 1066
Near completion =          874
Total                     1940
To be constructed =       2170
b> Consultants: The consultants
unilaterally stopped the consultancy
due to income tax payment problem.
Later on in pursuit of the decision
of Consultant Selection Committee,
the contract was cancelled.
5.  Proiect Cost.                        5.  The total IDA credit and the
amount remained unspent as shown,
Of the total IDA credit of 35.5    covers both the Punjab and Sindh
million SDR 6.52 million remained        province.  It does not specifically
unspent on December 7, 1995 and were   mention the amount of credit and
cancelled due to depreciation of         amount remained unspent for the
rupee against the SDR.                   Punjab component.  It needs
clarification from the author of the
report.
Contd ...    P/2.



-: 2
6. Key Factors Relating to
Achievement of Obiectives.
T&V system:  Objectives of T&V       6.  The author of the project report
system satisfactorily achieved,          has based upon the reports prepared
consultancies were limited and           by Monitoring and Evaluation unit.
delayed, regular contacts with           The accuracy of data of M&E reports
farmers undesirably low level,           requires a careful examination of
contact farmers have significantly       sampling methodology.
higher crop yields than district
average.
7.  Traininq Institutes.                 7.  Noted.
ATIs strengthened, ttaining hall
established and equipped. These are
operating satisfactorily.
8.  Training.                            8.  The pre-service training to FAs
is imparted in ATI. A prescribed
Regular training programmes were   syllabus is followed.  The in-service
repetitive and lacking in substance,   training is disseminated according to
need to be upgraded for meeting          need of agricultural situation (Rabi
current demands.                         & Kharif).
Overseas Training.
There was some administrative
delay in finalizing the list of
trainees. However, officers approved
by Government of Punjab/ Government
of Pakistan for overseas training,
received training in different
educational institutes in U.K., USA,
China, Philippines and Netherland.
9.  Adaptive Research.                   9.  Research trials are laid out
according to approved plan at A.R.
A.R. Farms established.  Failure   Farm and farmers field.  The A.R.
to develop essential linkages with       Staff maintains rapport with the
Extension and other Research             extension and other Institutes
Institutions are a cause of concern.   regularly.  The Research Staff is
also participating in preparing
fortnightly technical messages for
the training/refreshing the knowledge
of field staff.
Contd ...     P/3.



-: 3 :-
10. Technical Assistance.                10. A foreign consultancy firm was
engaged which deployed its
Quality of consultancy inputs       consultants according to schedule of
ranged from satisfactory to              the agreement.  But due to income tax
excellent.  The level of inputs was    problem the firm unilaterally stopped
well below the target.                   consultancy service after completing
only 17.5 man-months out of 38 man-
months. Therefore the target was not
achieved.
11. Monitoring & Evaluation (M&E).       11. Noted.
Monitoring & Evaluation of the
project regular and documented by bi-
annual reports.
12. Civil Works & Vehicles.              a>  Civil Works:  In view of frequent
increase in construction rate the
Civil works seriously delayed.      construction of buildings remained
Several buildings were still not         behind the schedule.  On the close of
completed.  Despite procurement of       the project (30.6.1994) the following
vehicles mobility of extension staff   situation regarding buildings
was identified a major constraint.       emerged.
Total Buildings        = 2170
Buildings Completed   = 1066
Near Completion        =  874
For the completion of buildings
categorised as near completion (874),
the C&W Department is determining the
amount required. After which
G.O.Punjab will be approached to
release the required funds and the
buildings will be completed in due
course of time.
b> Vehicles: During the last year
of the project 70 vehicles were
procured and supplied to Extension
Staff.
13. Communication.                       13. Noted.
Excellent progress made in
developing mass-media.......
Contd ....  P/4.



4 :4
14. External Constraints.                14. Noted.
Number of external factors
affected the impact of the project.
15. Bank Performance.                    15. Noted.
Bank supervision missions were
reasonably regular.......
16. Borrower Performance.                16. Noted.
The implementation agencies tried
hard to complete the project on
target. Problems like serious delay
in civil works programme, procurement
of replacement vehicles, overseas
training, slow start of technical
assistance.
17. Project Outcome Assessment.          17. Noted.  A future strategy
suggesting improvement in present T&V
Project outcome assessed as          system for agriculture has been
satisfactory.  Project achieved most   prepared and is under process of
of its specific objectives.  Further   approval with the Government of the
worthwhile development is expected to  Punjab.
be achieved without additional
investment. If modifications to T&V
system are not gained sustainability
and impact on agriculture development
would ultimately be affected.
18. Summary of Findings, Key Lessons
Learned and Future Operation.
Important Findings:-
i> Deficiencies in operation.            i> Noted.
ii> Low level of education of FAs        ii> The A.O. who supervises the FAs
limits their capacity to provide         is a Graduate/Master Graduate in
comprehensive services to farmers.       Agriculture.  He always guides the
FAs in technical matters to meet the
requirements of farmers. The FAs are
also having two years diploma in
Agriculture.
Contd ...     P/5.



- : 5 :
iii> Weak linkage between Extension    iii> The A.R. is maintaining liaison
and A.R.                                with Extension staff to achieve
the objectives successfully.
iv> Civil works implementation          iv> The implementation delays in
delays.                                 civil works were due to
frequent increase in construc-
tion rates of buildings.
v> Good progress was made in            v> Noted.
developing mass-media to
support extension.
Lessons Learned:-
-  Project success depends on
managerial capacity,
- Modification of T&V system to
make it more cost effective,
more flexible, more equitable,
less top-down, more
participatory,
-  Prioritizing role of private
sector and NGOs,
-  Determining of availability of
human resources,
-  Upgradation of training method
and curricula,
-  Expansion of education               ) Noted.
programme for farmers,
- More incentives and promotional
opportunities for frontline
Extension worker,
-  Civil works programme must be
within financial and managerial
capacity,
- A.R. should not duplicate
research done by Research
Institutes,
-  The importance of M&E,
specially evaluation be
reinforced.
19.  Future Development.                19.  A document of future Agriculture
Strategy in Punjab is under process
A need to modify extension         of approval with the Government of
services recognized and extension       the Punjab.
strategy paper prepared. This has
yet to be considered by the Punjab
Government.
Contd ...    P/6.



-: 6
B. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT (PART-I).
All the items under project implementation assessment have already been
discussed under the aforementioned, Evaluation Summary.
C. STATISTICAL TABLES (PART-II).
Table No.           Title of Table                         Comments
I>        Summary of Assessments.               Agreed.
II>       Related Bank Loans/Credits.           Agreed.
III>      Project Timetable.                    Agreed.
IV>       Loan/Credit Disbursements:            Agreed.
Cumulative Estimated and
Actual (SDR millions).
V.7>      Key Indicators for Project            Agreed.
Implementation.
VI>       Key Indicators for Project            Agreed.
Operation.
VII>      Studies Included in Project.          Agreed.
VIII>     Al: Project Cost.                    [ The figures reflected
B]: Project Financing.              E in the table pertain
Cto the Punjab & Sindh
Provinces.  These need)
a Province wise break
(up.
IX>       Economic Costs & Benefits.            Agreed.
X>        Status of Legal Covenants.            Agreed.
XI>       Bank Resources : Staff Inputs.        Agreed.
XII>      Bank Resources : Missions.            Agreed.












- i t 
* _ ' 7 t ' 4 | , _,, , ,, ;
!::: - t; ::: 7--



