OFFICu"IA L
nOCUMFNTS
CREDIT NUMBER 1762 PAK
Project Agreement
(Punjab and Sind Agricultural Extension
and Adaptive Research - Phase II Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
PROVINCE OF PUNJAB
and
PROVINCE OF SIND
Dated                              ,1987


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1762 PAK
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                              , 1987, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and
PROVINCES OF PUNJAB AND SIND acting by their respective Governors
(the Provinces).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the Islamic Republic of Pakistan (the Borrower)
and the Association, the Association has agreed to make available
to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to
thirty-five million five hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 35,500,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that the
Provinces agree to undertake such obligations toward the Associa-
tion as are set forth in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Provinces, in consideration of the Association's
entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower,
have agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agree-
ment;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement, the
Preamble to this Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) The Provinces declare their commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the
Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with  appropriate   administrative,  financial, engineering   and
agricultural practices, and shall provide, or cause to be
provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.


﻿-2-
(b) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, the Provinces shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Sched-
ule 2 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Association and the
Provinces.
(c) Punjab shall, for the purposes of the parts of the
Project for which they are respectively responsible, cause the
Punjab DOA and the Punjab C&WD, and Sind shall, for the parts of
the Project for which they are respectively responsible, cause
the Sind DOA and the Sind C&WD, to open and maintain in Dollars
special accounts in the National Bank of Pakistan on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and
payments out of, the Special Accounts shall be made in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit
Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Provinces shall carry out the obligations
set forth in Sections 9,03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of
the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance
and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the parts of
the Project for which they are respectively responsible.
Section 2.04. (a) The Provinces shall, at the request of the
Association, exchange views with the Association with regard to
the progress of the Project, the performance of their obligations
under this Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes
of the Credit.
(b) The Provinces shall promptly inform the Association of
any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit, or the performance by the Provinces of their obliga-
tions under this Agreement.


﻿-3-
Section 2.05. The Provinces shall take measures satisfactory
to the Association to relieve all extension staff in the Project
Areas of all responsibilities not directly related to agricul-
tural extension work.
Section 2.06. The Provinces shall arrange for the principals
and instructors at the Agricultural Training Institutes (ATIs) to
be given incentive payments of a magnitude and frequency satis-
factory to the Association.
Section  2.07.   Punjab  shall  make  arrangements   for  the
accounting staff of Punjab DOA to receive suitable training under
the Director of Commercial Audit.
Section 2.08. The Provinces shall, upon completion of the
Project: (a) operate and maintain the extension services provided
under the Project; and (b) make adequate budgetary allocations
for these purposes.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Provinces shall maintain records and
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting
practices their operations and financial condition in respect of
the Project.
(b) The Provinces shall:
(i) have    their  records,   accounts   and  financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of    income
and expenses and related statements) for each
fiscal   year    audited,   in   accordance    with
appropriate   auditing   principles    consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to
the Association;
(ii)  furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than nine months after
the end of each such year: (A) certified copies of
their financial statements for such year as so
audited; and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested;


﻿-4-
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records, accounts and financial
statements as well as the audit thereof, as the
Association shall from time to time reasonably
request; and
(iv) without   limitation   to  the  foregoing, furnish
to the Association, not later than four months
after the end of each fiscal year, unaudited
accounts of   the nature   referred to   in para-
graph (a) of this Section.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of the Provinces thereunder shall terminate on
the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)  the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) the date 20 years after the date of this Agree-
ment.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
the Provinces of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For Punjab:
The Chairman
Planning and Development Board
Government of Punjab
Lahore, Pakistan
Cable address:                    Telex:
DEVELOPMENT                     82-04-4868
Lahore                          Punjab Secretariat
Pakistan                        Lahore, Pakistan


﻿-6-
For Sind:
Additional Chief Secretary (Development)
Planning and Development Department
Government of Sind
Karachi, Pakistan
Cable address:
DEVELOPMENT SIND
Karachi, Pakistan
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of a Province, or by a Province on behalf of
the Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement, may be taken
or executed by the Chairman, Planning and Development Board, in
the case of Punjab, and by the Additional Chief Secretary (Devel-
opment), in the case of Sind, or such other person or persons as
said Chairman or Additional Chief Secretary, as the case may be,
shall designate in writing, and he shall furnish to the Associa-
tion sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated
specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.


﻿-7-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By              /CAf~
Regional Vice President
South Asia
PROVINCE OF PUNJAB
By
' / Authorized Representative
PROVINCE OF SIND
Byideen                                      v
7,            Authorized  </presentative


﻿-8-
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I: Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   Procurement Procedures
1.   Civil works may be procured under contracts awarded on   the
basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance
with the standard procedures of the Provinces satisfactory to the
Association; provided, however, that such works may be carried
out by force account if no responsive bids or no bids at all are
received therefor.
2.   Equipment, tools, materials, farm inputs, draught animals,
furniture and books may be procured in accordance with the
standard  procedures   of  the  Provinces   satisfactory  to  the
Association.
3.    Motorcycles and bicycles may be procured, consistent with
the choice of staff for whom they are required, on the basis of
comparison of price quotations solicited from       all suppliers
eligible under the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans
and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1985 (the
Guidelines) who have a service network in Pakistan, in accordance
with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part B:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
(a) With respect to the first civil works contract, and
each subsequent contract for civil works estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of a Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished
to the Association prior to the making of the first payment out
of such Special Account in respect of such contract.


﻿-9-
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding sub-paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3
and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments
for such contract are to be made out of a Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 3 to
the Development Credit Agreement.
(c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on the
basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be
retained in   accordance with Section    3.01 (b) (ii) of this
Agreement.
2.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II: Employment of Consultants
In order to assist the Provinces in carrying out the
Project, the Provinces shall employ consultants whose qualifica-
tions, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfac-
tory to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the
Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
A.   Project Implementation
1.   Each Province shall have overall responsibility for imple-
mentation of its part of the Project.
2.     Each Province shall assign specific responsibility for
implementation of its part of the Project as follows:
(a) as to the building component, to its Communication and
Works Department (C&WD); and
(b) as to the other components, to its Department of Agri-
culture (DOA).
3.    The DOA of each Province shall make the following arrange-
ments for Project implementation:
(a) the Director General of Agriculture (Extension) (DGE)
shall be given overall charge;
(b) at headquarters, the DGE shall be assisted by the
Directors of Adaptive Research, Training (in Punjab, the Deputy
Director) and Information, who shall have charge of their respec-
tive components;
(c) with respect to the training component to be carried
out at ATIs in Punjab, the DGE shall be assisted by the Prin-
cipals of such ATIs; and
(d) with respect to the T&V program to be carried out under
the Project, the DGE shall be assisted as follows:
(i) at headquarters, by a Staff Director, who shall
have charge of project planning, coordination,
day-to-day implementation, and monitoring; and
(ii) in   the field, by Regional Directors, each in
charge  of  the  program  in  his Region, to     be
assisted,   in  turn,   by  Deputy   Directors   of
Agriculture, each in charge of the program in a
District.


﻿- 11 -
4.   The C&WD of each Province shall make the following arrange-
ments for Project implementation:
(a) a Project Director (Civil Works), assisted by suitable
staff, shall coordinate the works and shall be responsible, inter
alia, for operating the Department's Special Account, collecting
bills, certifying payments made by field offices, and preparing
and submitting withdrawal applications;
(b) the Executive Engineer in each District shall be given
charge in the field; and
(c) the DGE shall be kept fully informed of the progress of
Project works.
B.   Project Coordination
5.   Project Coordination and Monitoring Committees
For coordination and monitoring of the Project at the
Provincial level, a Project Coordination and Monitoring Committee
(PCMC) shall be established, within a time-frame and with member-
ship and responsibilities satisfactory to the Association, and
thereafter maintained by each Province. The PCMC shall meet on an
ad hoc basis as often as necessary.
6.   Project Review Committees
For more specific guidance at the working level, the exist-
ing Project Review Committee (PRC) shall be retained with member-
ship and responsibilities satisfactory to the Association in each
Province. The PRC shall meet on a regular basis before each main
cropping season (kharif and rabi).
7.   District Agricultural Advisory Committees
For coordination and monitoring of the Project at the field
level, a District Agricultural Advisory Committee (DAAC) shall
be established (if not already existing), within a time-frame
and with membership and responsibilities satisfactory to the
Association, and thereafter maintained in each District. The DAAC
shall meet as frequently as necessary.


﻿- 12 -
C.   Linking of Extension and Research
8.   Zonal Technical Committees
For linking extension and research at the field level, a
Zonal Technical Committee (ZTC) shall be established (or
redesignated as such if existing as a District Technical
Committee), within a time-frame and with membership and respon-
sibilities satisfactory to the Association, and thereafter
maintained within the jurisdiction of each adaptive research farm
established or to be established under the Project. Each ZTC
shall meet once a month, and all ZTCs in Punjab shall meet
jointly at the beginning of each main cropping season (rabi and
kharif).
D.   Other Matters
9.   Project Staff and Vehicles. The Provinces shall ensure  that
the staff and vehicles required for carrying out the Project,
including the key incremental staff and vehicles referred to in
the Annex to this Schedule, will be appointed or provided in
accordance with a program and schedule satisfactory to the
Association.
10. Project   Vehicle   Revolving  Funds.  Earh   Province  shall
establish, or cause to be established, a vehicle revolving fund,
for the replacement of motorcycles and bicycles provided under
the Project, such fund   to be established within such time, and
on such terms and conditions, as shall be satisfactory to the
Association.
11. Travel/Daily Allowances. Each Province shall: (a) pay
travel/daily allowances to Project staff at rates satisfactory to
the Association; (b) from time to time, review such allowances
with the Association; and (c) make adequate budgetary allocations
for this purpose.
12. Operation and Maintenance. Each Province shall make adequate
annual  budgetary   allocations  for  the  proper  operation  and
maintenance (0&M) of the vehicles provided under the Project.
13. Project Monitoring and Evaluation. The Provinces shall cause
the Project to be monitored and evaluated in accordance with
institutional arrangements, principles and procedures, satisfac-
tory to the Association. To this end, each Province shall: (a) by


﻿- 13 -
December 31, 1987, carry out, or cause to be carried out,
benchmark surveys in the areas covered by the Project; (b)
monitor, or cause to be monitored, activities and progress under
the Project in a manner satisfactory to the Association; and (c)
beginning with the quarter ending September 30, 1987, prepare, or
cause to be prepared, and furnish to the Association, quarterly
progress reports on the Project, in form and detail satisfactory
to the Association.


﻿- 14 -
Schedule 2, Annex
Project Incremental Staff
and Vehicles
PUNJAB                        SIND
A. Incremental                                  Fiscal                       Fiscal
Staff                                      Year                         Year
BPS 1/  86/87   87/88  88/89  Total    86/87  87/88  88/89  Total
Director of
Training                     19       -       -      -      -        -       1     -        1
Deputy Director of
Agriculture (DDA)
DDA Training               18        -       2      -       2      -       1     -        1
DA Information             18        -      -      -      -        -       1     -        1
DDA Video, Video
Engineer                 18       -        2     -       2       -       1     -        1
DDA Field                   18        1      4      4       9      -       3      3       6
Systens Analyst                18       -        2     -       2       -       1     -        I
Senior Subject Matter
Specialist (SSMS)            18       -        4      4      8       -       2      1       3
Assistant Director of
Agriculture (ADA) 2/         SP
ADA (HQ, Information)       17+SP    -       1     -        1      -       1       1      2
AM Training,
ATI Instructor           17+SP    -        2     -       2       -       2      2       4
ADA Field                  17+SP      1      8      8      17       1      3      4       8
Subject atter
Specialist (SMS)             17+SP    -       -      -      -         1      5      6      12
Research Officer (RO)           17+SP    -       3      3       6      -      -      -       -
Assistant Research
Officer (ARO)                17        -       4      4       8      -       1     -        1
Agricultural Officers (AO)
AD Training                  17         8     35     42      85      -      -      -       -
AD Field                     17         4     15     16      35       4     14     22      40
Farm Manager               17       -        2     -       2       -      -      -       -
Video, Statistical Officer,
Programer                    17        -      -             -        -       2       2      4
Field Assistants               6/9       24     99    122     245      30    102     160    292
1/ Pakistan's Administrative Basic Pay Scale.
/ Fxtra Assistant Director of Agriculture (EADA) in Punjab.


﻿- 15 -
Schedule 2, Amwx
Project Incremental Staff and Vehicles
PUNJAB                         SIND
B. Project                             Fiscal                        Fiscal
Vehicles                          Year                           Year
86/87  87/88   88/89  Total  86/87   87/88  88/89  Tbtal
Four Uheel Drive            26     30      30     86      9      20     17     46
Pick-up Trucks               4       4     -       8     -        7      2      9
Vans, Microbuses                   -       -          -           4      2      6
Saloon cars                  2     -       -       2     -       2      -       2
Motorcycles                121     125    125    371     25      56     56    137
Bicycles                   688    689     689   2066    146     450    457   1053


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


