Report No. 486a-IVC
Appraisal of                                                               FILE COP!
Second Cocoa Project
Ivory Coast
November 18, 1974
Agricuiture Project Departrnent
Westem Africa Regional Office
Not for Public Use
Document of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Croup. It may not be published,
quoted or cited without Bank Croup authorization. The Bank Croup does not accept responsibility
for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$ 1                              CFAF 2h0
CFAF 1                             US$ 0.004
CFAF 1 million       =             US$ 4,167
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 heactare (ha)      =             2.47 acres
1 kilogram            =            2.2 lbs
1 metric ton         -             2,204.6 lbs
ABBREVIATIONS
AVB         - Autorité de la VaUée du Bandama (Bandama Valley Authority)
BNDA        - Banque Nationale pour le Développement Agricole
(National Bank for Agricultural Development)
CENAPEC     - Centre National pour la Promotion des Entreprises Coopératives
(National Center for the Promotion of Coopérative Entreprises)
CFAF        - Communauté Financiare Africaine Franc ( the common currency of
the Monotary Union)
CSSPPA      - Caisse de Stabïlisation et de Soutien des Prix des Produits
Agricoles (Agricultural Price Stabilization Agency)
FED         - Fonds Européen de Développement (the Aid Fund of the European
Economic Community)
ICCO        - International Cocoa Organization
IFCC        - Institut Français du Café, du Cacao et Autzm Plantes Stimulantes
(French Coffee and Cocoa Institute, responsible for cocoa
research in the Ivory Coast under joint financing oî the
Ivorian and French governments)
SATMACI     - Société d Assistance Technique pour la Modernisation Agricole
de la Cfte d'Ivoire (executing agency for cocoa and coffee
projects in the Ivory Coast)
SATMACI fiscal year corresponds to agricultural year from
1 October to 30, September.t



IVORY COAST
SECOND COCOA PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  .....................i-v
I.    INTRODUCTION  .......           .........................1
II.    BACKGROUND  ........           ..........................1
A.    General  .         ...............................
B.    Agricultural Sector  .....             ...............          2
C.    Institutions  .................. .                              3
D.    Cocoa Industry  .            ........................           4
E.    Development Strategy  .....             ..............          5
III.    THE FIRST COCOA PROJECT  .....................                         6
IV.    TIUE PROJECT  .................................                        7
A.    Project Areas  ......            ....................           7
B.    Project Definition  .....             ................          8
C.    Detailed Features  .....             .................          9
Field Development  .....            .................          9
Infrastructure  ......          ...................i
D.    Organization and Management  ............
SATMACI.il
Strengthening SATMACI Senior Management                       12
Strengthening SATMACI Field Operations                        13
Ivorization  ............................                     13
Training Program  .....            ..................         14
Consultant Services and Studies               ........        14
Marketing  ..............................                     14
V.    COST ESTIMATES AND PROPOSED FINXNCING                 .......        15
A.    Cost Estimates  .........................                      15
B.    Proposed Financing  .....             ................         17
C.    Farmers'  Credit Terms  .....             .............        19
D.   Procurement  ............................                       19
E.  Disbursements .................                                  20
F.    Accounts and Audit  .....             ................         20



Table of Contents (Cont'd)
Page No.
VI.   PRODUCTION, MARKETS, FARMER AND GOVERNMENT BENEFITS 21
A.   Yields and Output .......................              21
B.   Markets and Prices .....          .................    21
C.   Producer Prices and Farmer Benefits   .....            22
D.   Government Revenues .....          ................    22
VII.    BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION .           ..................   23
VIII.    RECOMMENDATIONS ..............................              23



Table of Contents (Cont'd)
ANEXES
1.   Progress of Agricultural Projects Financed by the Bank
2.   Societe d'Assistance Technique pour la Modernisation Agricole de la
Cote d'Ivoire (SATMACl)
Table 1 - Regions and Zones of SATMACI
3.   Caisse de Stabilisation et de Soutien des Prix des Produits
Agricoles (CSSPPA) and Cocoa Marketing in the Ivory Coast
Table 1 - Cocoa Price Calculations
Table 2 - Financial Results of the CSSPPA (1963-1973)
4.   Cooperatives
5.   Financial Implications to the Borrower of Cancelling the First Loan
6.   Planting Program
Table 1 - Total Planting Program
Table 2 - Block Planting Program
Table 3 - Area Planted under the First Project
7.   Studies - Terms of Reference
8.   Project Costs
Table 1 - Summary by Year
Table 2 - Coripletion of First Project
Table 3 - On Farm Costs
Table 4 - Credit to Block Farners and Cooperativec;
Table 5 - Extension Services and Project Staff
Table 6 - Training, Survey and Mapping, Cooperative Services
Infrastructure Development and Studies
9.   Table 1   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Table 2 - Summary of IBRD Loati
10.  Farn Budgets
Table 1 - One Hectare Individual Plant1ng
Table 2 - Three Hectare Block Planting



Table of Contents (Cont'd)
tl. Projected Cash Flows
Table I - Government Cash Flow
Table 2 - BNDA Cash Flow
12. Economic Rate of Return
Table l Economic Rate of Return
MAP



IVORY COAST
SECOND COCOA PROJECT
SUMIARY AND CONCLUSIONS
Background
i.        The Government of the Ivory Coast has requested Bank assistance in
the financing of cocoa development. The proposed project would continue a
program begun in 1971, with Bank assistance, to improve cocoa production
through the introduction of new high yielding varieties. Thie objectives of
the project are to further disseminate modern methods of cocoa farming, to
raise farmers' incomes and to increase the country's foreign exchange earnings.
ii.       The project was prepared by a consultant from the French Bureau
pour le Developpement de la Production Agricole, under the supervision of
the Societe d'Assistance Technique pour la Modernisation Agricole de la Cote
d'Ivoire (SAT.MACI), which is responsible for all cocoa development in Ivory
Coast. The project was appraised by a Banik mission which visited the Ivory
Coast in October/November 1973.
First Cocoa Project
iii.      On June 5, 1970, the Ivory Coast and the Bank signed a US$7.5 mil-
lion Loan Agreement (686 IVC) for the planting of about 18,800 ha of new cocoa
and the rehabilitation of 38,000 ha (subsequently amended to 15,500 ha) of
cocoa not yet in full production.  The revised rehabilitation program has been
completed while the planting program, originally scheduled for completion in
1974 but delayed by a slow start and the 1972/73 drought, will require the
planting of 3,200 ha in 1975 to reach the original target. Preliminary
indications are that yields will meet appraisal estimates, while recent pro-
jections indicate higher prices than those previously forecast, so that
returns from the project should meet or exceed those projected.
iv.       At the signing date of the proposed loan (assumed to be December,
1974), approximately US$2.5 million of the first loan would be uncommitted.
This consists of net savings from the reductions in the fertilizer and re-
habilitation programs (US$1.2 million) and the costs, including capitalized
interest, of completing the first project through September, 1977 (US$1.3
million). In order to simplify the administration of the two projects, it
is proposed that this balance be cancelled on the signing of the second loan.
The Bank's share of costs for the completion of the first project would be
included in the proposed loan of US$20.0 million.
Prolect Description
v.        The proposed project would involve:
a)   establishinc 26,500 ha of high yielding cocoa plantations,
9,500 ha of which would be planted in 76 blocks composed



- ii -
of individual plots. This would be achieved by providing
some 17,000 farmers with improved planting material and
with credit for equipment, hired labor, fertilizers, and
insecticides under the close supervision of SATMACI staff.
The project would also include maintenance until entry
into production of trees planted under the first project;
b)   providing technical assistance and credit for cooperatives
in conjuction with the blocks;
c)   rehabilitating and constructing 330 km of access roads,
clearing land for the creation of 76 block centers, and
constructing 146 wells;
d)   strengthening SATMACI management; providing and equipping
additional extension, credit and survey services and
training SATIIACI staff in technical and administrative
matters; and
e)   hiring consultants to recommend improvements in the organi-
zation of credit administration and to evaluate the results
of the first project.
The project was included in the list of future Bank activities in cocoa
which has been supported by the FAO, and the project has been specifically
accepted by the staff of the ICCO.
Project Execution
vi.       The project would be carried out over a seven year development
period (four years of planting and three years of maintenance until produc-
tion), as part of the overall activities of SATMACI, which has been the
executing agency for the first cocoa project and has performed well. SATMACI
is a statutory corporation under the Ministry of Agriculture, but is completely
dependent on the Government budget for its financing. Its technical and
administrative management is basically sound.  The expansion of its activities
under the proposed project, however, and the need to coordinate planning
and budgeting with the Ministries of Agriculture and Finance, would require
some strengthening of senior management. The proposed project would provide
for a Financial Director, who would take over responsibility for financial
planning and control from the present Director of Administration, and for
a Planning Advisor to develop, in conjunction with the Ministry of Agriculture,
medium and long-term plans for SATMACI activities.   In addition, a Project
Inspector would be appointed to assist the Director of the Cocoa Department
and carry out regular field supervision of the project while a Credit Inspector
would be assigned to deal exclusively with the project area.
vii.      The project would cover the costs of all necessary extension and
credit services at the regional, zonal, and field levels, including staff
salaries, vehicles, and operating expenses.   a' '                     î



- iii -
area asi the fir.-;t project, and some repettio:  of particip:tnts, would i1lov
:a lower den lty of fic.ld staff- Trainlng woiltI1 lie provkle1J For field 1evvI
extension workers, credit officers and surveyors, and a program for the recruit-
ment and training of replacements for expatriate staff would be instituted,
beginning with the appointment of deputies to the two expatriate Regional
Directors in the project area.
viii.     For field development, the farmers would receive planting materials
at a subsidized price of CFAF 1,250 per ha (the subsidy of CFAF 6,550 per ha
has been applied throughout the country's cocoa growing area to encourage the
use of improved varieties). Credit per ha would consist of CFAF 11,000 in
the form of insecticides and sprayers, and in specific areas, fertilizer worth
CFAF 8,800/ha. Participants in block cooperatives would receive additional
credits of approximately CFAF 3,400/ha for transportation services and CFAF
9,200/ha for joint storage facilities, depending on the particular block.
Cost Estimates, Financial Arrangements and Credit Terms
ix.       Project costs are estimated at US$34.7 million, including duties
and taxes (US$4.9 million) and capitalized interest (US$3.2 million) on the
Bank loan; the foreign exchange component is US$17.9 million or 52% of total
costs. Cost estimates are based on February 1974 prices. Physical contin-
gencies and expected price increases amount to 48% of basic cost estimates.
x.        The proposed Bank loan of US$20.0 million would be for 20 years,
with a grace period of 5 years during which interest would be capitalized.
It would be disbursed over the first five years of the seven year develop-
ment period when over 85% of total costs would be incurred. Revenues from
production would cover project costs in the remaining years. Total Bank
financing of US$20.4 million (including US$0.4 million from the first loat)
would finance about 67% of costs net of duties and taxes or 59% of total
project costs.  The BNDA and the farmers themselves would finance 7% (USS2. 3
million) and 12% (US$4.3 million) respectively, of total project costs, while
the remaining 22% (US$7.7 million) would be financed from Government budgetary
allocations.
xi.       Funds to cover the cost of project staff and infrastructure would
be passed on to SATMACI by Government in the form of a grant.  Funds intended
for farmers credit would be onlent to BNDA, to be further transmitted to
SATMACI, at the same interest rate as the Bank loan, with repayments tied
to those of farmers loans. The latter would have a term of eight years, with
four years grace, and carry an interest rate of 8%.
Procurement
xii.      All contracts over US$50,000 for the procurement of fertilizers,
insecticides, spravers, vehicles and equipment (totaling about Us$3.6 million)
would be through international competitive bidding in accordance with IBRD
guidelines. Domestically manufactured goods would be allowed a preference of
15% (or level of import duty, whichever is lower) when comparing domestic bids



- iv -
with those of foreign manufacturers. Contracts for buildings valued at US$1.3
million, involving several operations scattered across the project area, are
not large enough to attract foreign interest and would be awarded after
locally advertised bidd'n-. It is proposed that the roads (US$4.4 million)
and the wells (US$1.0 million) be constructed by force account through other
government agencies, SODEPALM and the Autorite de la Vallee du Bandama (AVB)
respectively. SODEPALM has created a road construction unit to operate in
oil palm development areas (in conjunction with the Bank supported projects)
while AVB is responsible for a major water development program in the area
of the Kossou dam. Both agencies have demonstrated the ability to carry out
their tasks efficiently and economically and would find themselves with
temporary excess capacity at the time their services would be required for
the project. The major part of project costs, US$21.2 million, would be for
on-farm hired labor and materials to be procured by the farmers themselves,
planting materials, staff salaries and operating costs; none of these would
be suitable for competitive bidding.
Disbursements
xiii.     Proceeds of the Bank Loan would be disbursed to cover:
a)   100% of the CIF cost, or 80% of total cost (representing the
estimated foreign exchange component) if procured locally,
of vehicles and equipment, fertilizers, sprayers and insecticides
(US$1.8 million);
b)   90% of the total costs of staff salaries for training, survey,
road maintenance, administration, and extension services
and of training grants for the replacement of expatriate
staff (US$5.3 million);
c)   80% of the cost of studies and of survey and mapping of
project plantings (US$0.9 million):
d)   70% of the cost of civil works construction (TJS$2.9 million;
and
e)   40% of the operating costs of project staff and offices as
outlined in Annex 9 (US$0.6 million).
xiv.      Disbursement for (b), (c) and (e) would be on the basis of a statement
of expenditures the documents for which would not be submitted for review
but would be retained by the borrower and available for inspection during the
course of project supervision. All other disbursements would be fully
documented. Of the balance, US$3.2 million would finance the interest on
the Bank loan during the grace period while US$5.3 million would be held as
a contingency reserve. Any funds remaining upon completion of the project
would be cancelled.



v 
Benefits and Justification
xv.       Principal benefit of the project would be increased cocoa output
which would generate increases in farmer incomes, foreign exchange earnings,
and government revenues. Returns to the farmer have been estimated for an
individual farmer planting the minimum of 1 ha of new cocoa and for a par-
ticipant in block planting with a maximum of 3 ha spread over four years:
Annual net revenues expected at full development would, therefore, range
from about CFAF 106,000 (US$440) to abogt CFAF 350,000 (US$1,460); net
revenues per manday are expected to be about CFAF 1,300, as compared to the
going agriculture wage rate of CFAF 250 per day. Based on projected world
market prices, net annual foreign exchange earnings by 1985 would be about
US$23 million while net Government revenues would be about CFAF 2.8 billion
(US$11.6 million). The economic rate of return is estimated at 36%.
Recommendations
xvi.      The project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$20 million.






I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of the Ivory Coast has requested Bank assistance in
the financing of a second cocoa project. The objectives of the project are
to further disseminate modern methods of cocoa production, to improve farmers'
living conditions by raising incomes, and to increase the country's foreign
exchange earnings.
1.02      On June 5, 1970, the Ivory Coast and the Bank signed a US$7.5 mil-
lion Loan Agreement (686-IVC) for cocoa planting and rehabilitation. The
project, as amended in 1973 (para 3.02), is progressing satisfactorily.
The reduced rehabilitation program has been completed while the new planting
program is expected to reach 83% of appraisal estimates by the end of the
1974 planting season. The proposed project would extend the planting program
by some 26,500 ha through credit and technical assistance to farmers; it would
also assist cooperative development, rehabilitate access roads and provide
water points in the project area.
1.03      This report is based on the findings of a Bank appraisal mission
consisting of Messrs. C. Bourgin and S. Weed (Bank), J. Braudeau, P. Chardayre
and J. Rouchy (Consultants) which visited the Ivory Coast in October/November
1973, and a follow-up mission by Mr. Bourgin in February 1974. Preparation
was in the hands of a consultant from the French Bureau pour le Developpement
de la Production Agricole.
1.04      The Bank has made eight loans for agricultural development in the
Ivory Coast: three totaling US$17.1 million in 1969 for oil palm and coconut
development; a loan of US$7.5 million in 1970 for smallholder cocoa produc-
tion; two loans totaling US$7 million for oil palm and coconut in 1971; a loan
of US$8.4 million for a rubber project in late 1973; and a loan of US$2.6 mil-
lion for smallholder and estate oil palm development in 1974. Notwithstanding
some initial difficulties, all these projects have been completed or are pro-
gressing satisfactorily (Annex 1).
Il. BACKGROUND
A. General
2.01      The Ivory Coast has a land area of about 324,000 km2, broadly
divided into two ecological zones. Tropical rain forest stretches across
the country in a belt reaching about 200 km inland from the Atlantic Ocean;
further Nortli, the forest is replaced by savannah which covers the remainder
of the country.
2.02      Population is estimated at about 5.4 million (1972), growing at
about 3.3% annually (including 1% growth from immigration). The real rate
of growth of GDP was about 7.5% per annum between 1960 and 1970, and per
capita GDP had reached the equivalent of US$340 in 1972.



-2-
2.03      Due partly to income disparities, there is considerable rural-urban
migration and migration within the rural areas, from the savannah to the
forest zone. Over the next decade, population in cities is expected to grow
at around 6% per annum, that of the forest zone at about 4%, and that of the
savannah to decline by about 1% per year.
B.  Agricultural Sector
2.04      Agriculture and forestry account for about 90% of the Ivory Coast's
exports and 27% of its GDP. They are the mainspring of the country's growth
and should remain so for many years to come.  In 1970-72, the Ivory Coast's
exports were valued at CFAF 132.1 billion (US$516 million at 1972 exchange
rates) and three commodities - coffee (32%), timber (25%) and cocoa (22%) -
accounted for about 80% of the value of total exports. Three-quarters of
the population depend directly or indirectly on activity in this sector.
Average per capita income earned in agriculture, including the value of sub-
sistence production, was equivalent to approximately US$100 in 1970. Regional
disparities are, however, very large, with the poorest areas being in the
North of the country.
2.05      Abundant land, good labor supply (including immigrant workers mostly
from Upper Volta) and generally favorable world markets for its principal
products have assured rapid growth of this sector. Through diversification,
the Government has sought ta reduce the country's dependence on coffee and
cocoa; efforts to increase the production of oil palm, bananas, pineapples,
coconuts, rice and rubber and to increase the exploitation of its forest
resources have been highly successful. For example, 13,000 ha of rubber
trees have been planted since the mid-1950's and in 1971 rubber production
amounted to about 13,000 tons. The new plan calls for continued diversifi-
cation, modernization of both coffee and cocoa cultivation, more careful manage-
ment of forest resources and domestic processing of wood.
2.06      Until recently efforts to improve agricultural productivity have
been focused on variaus individual export crops. Promotion of these by
specialized autonomous, public companies has been quite successful. One of
these, SODEPALM, has been the primary agency for investments in oil palm and
coconut development totaling US$130 million since the early 1960's with finan-
cial support of the Bank and other co-lenders. The palm oil sector has now
evolved into a highly successful integrated agribusiness.
2.07      Food crop production did not generally benefit from this intensive
promotional effort and has begun to lag.  The Governnent has now turned its
attention to this situation and the inter-related problems of rural poverty
and regional income disparities. Projects currently under preparation
support the Government's planning.  The Government has undertaken ambitious
development programs for cottan, rice and sugar as part of its plan for
regional development. As a result, cotton production has risen from 20,000
tons of seed cotton in 1965 to about 50,000 tons in 1972. Rice production
reached 380,000 tons of paddy in 1971 and plans call for an increase of



-3-
170,000 tons by 1977. A sugar project in the North of the country is under
implementation and is expected to produce 60,000 tons of sugar and provide
over two million dollars in income to the population of the region.
C. Institutions
2.08      Overall development planning is in the hands of the Planning
Ministry while detailed agricultural development programs are the responsibi-
lity of the Ministry of Agriculture. Execution of these programs is entrusted
to a number of agencies and state corporations, such as SODEPALM for oil palm
and coconut development, SOCATCI for rubber, SODEFEL for fruit and vegetables,
CIDT for cotton, and SATMACI for cocoa and coffee. SATMACI (para 4.19 to
4.21 and Annex 2) is the executing agency for the first project and would
also implement the proposed project.
2.09      Agricultural research is undertaken by various French organizations
under a technical assistance agreement with France, the costs being shared
èqually between the two countries.  Coffee, cocoa and cola nut research is
the responsibility of the Institut Francais du Cafe, du Cacao et Autres
Plantes Stimulantes (IFCC), which has developed the high-yielding hybrids
and the cropping methods currently used to improve cocoa planting in the
Ivory Coast.
2.10      The Banque Nationale pour le Developpement Agricole (BNDA) was
formed in January 1968, to be the main instrument for financing agricultural
development. BNDA has not been staffed to evaluate credit applications from
small scale farmers, hence most production credit has been provided by the
specialized agencies such as SATMACI and SODEPALM, while BNDA has continued
to provide social credit (such as short term loans to meet school fees).
Credit Funds under the first cocoa project are channelled through BNDA,
although their distribution and administration have remained in the hands
of SATMACI. Under the proposed project, BNDA would, in addition, contribute
to the financing of credit to farmers.
2.11      The Caisse de Stabilisation et de Soutien des Prix des Produits
Agricoles (CSSPPA), the Government's price stabilization fund, controls the
marketing of cocoa, coffee and cotton in the Ivory Coast, guaranteeing both
producer and exporter prices. The CSSPPA has been able to dampen the impact
on the farmer of wide variations in the world market price of cocoa (para
6.06). As a resuit of generally high prices in the late 1960's, CSSPPA has
accumulated surpluses which totaled CFAF 13.2 billion (US$52.8 million) in
1973. Surpluses not required for building reserves are used to promote export
crop production and processing, and other goverrnment investment programs (Annex
3). Cocoa marketing has been traditionally in the hands of private traders
under CSSPPA regulation. However, marketing cooperatives are becoming pro-
gressively more important in primary collection, and are able to capture for
the farmers part of the fee othenrise paid to private intermediary for that
operation (para 4.33).



2.12      Cooperative development (Annex 4) is the responsibility of the
Centre National pour la Promotion des Entreprises Cooperatives (CENAPEC) which
became operational in October 1969, with 51% UNDP financing.  CENAPEC has an
extension service to assist the cooperative groups and a training center at
Bingerville. CENAPEC achievements have been encouraging with 1,600 pre-coopera-
tive groups already established. These groups will become full cooperatives
with marketing and production functions when the members obtain sufficient
training and experience. Pre-cooperatives have recently been entrusted with
responsibility for cocoa rehabilitation with technical support from SATMACI,
and would play an important role in the proposed project (para 4.12).
D. Cocoa Industry
2.13      In 1954, the total cocoa area was estimated at 172,000 ha; in the
1972/73 season some 422,000 ha were harvested by some 235,000 farmers. Cocoa
production has increased correspondingly, from about 58,000 tons in 1954 to
a high of 225,000 tons in 1971/72 and declined, due to less favorable conditions,
to 185,000 tons in 1972/73. Average yields are estimated to be between 450
kg/ha and 500 kg/ha. In 1971-73, the Ivory Coast was the third largest
producer (behind Ghana and Nigeria) with about 14% of the world total.
Cocoa ranks as the third most important Ivorian export crop (after coffee
and timber) and accounts for about 22% of total exports.
2.14      The Ivory Coast still has available extensive areas of land suited
to cocoa production. In 1970, SATMACI began a program of introducing high
yielding planting material, coupled witl improved establishment and mainten-
ance techniques. By mid-1974, 35,000 ha will have been planted under this
program: 15,600 ha under the ongoing Bank project and 18,400 ha under go-
vernment financing. By 1980, the total is expected to reach 120,000 ha: an
additional 26,500 ha under the proposed Bank project, 9,600 ha of new plantings
in the West financed by FED, and a further 48,900 ha under governnent financ-
ing.
2.15      Bank projections estimate total world production at 1.8 and 2.1
million metric tons in 1980 and 1985 respectively; and that equilibrium be-
tween supply and demand will be reached in 1980 at a current price of
US$0.83/lb, or US$0.52/lb in 1974 prices. Demand and supply are expected
to grow at around 3% annually, taking account as far as possible of all
planned and ongoing projects, including that described in this report.
2.16      The Bank's projections include Ivory Coast production totaling
290,000 tons by 1980 and 335,000 tons by 1985, including some 43,000 tons
from the ongoing and proposed Bank projects at maturity in 1984. If these
projections are realized, the Ivory Coast production will increase at about
the same rate as world demand.
2.17      About 80% of cocoa production is exported as beans; local processing
for export is currently linited to some 40,000 tons of beans (about half of



-5-
which are inferior grade). Another plant with an annual processing capacity
of 30,000 tons is expected to begin operation by 1976, but further significant
increases are unlikely. This is because the export of processed cocoa (in
the form of butter or powder) is not significantly more profitable than the
export of beans.
E. Development Strategy
2.18      General.  Government would like to maintain the high real rate of
growth in the economy which has averaged about 7.5% per annum in the last
decade (para 2.02). Government is aware that the economy is very dependent
on foreign exchange and, thus, it has no alternative but to encourage the
production of exports crops as a source of such foreign exchange. On the
other hand, to reduce the vulnerability of the country's dependence on the
major export commodities, (cocoa, coffee and wood), which constitute 80% of
total exports, efforts to diversify agriculture have been intensified. This
has led to the development or expansion of oil palm, coconut, pineapple, rice,
rubber and sugar cultivation. In addition, increased emphasis has been
placed on other sectors, such as industry and tourism. Until recently,
efforts to improve agricultural productivity have taken the single crop
approach and have generally been successful (para 2.06). Iiowever, increas-
ing urbanization has begun to threaten the goal of achieving self-sufficiency
in food production.
2.19      Within Agriculture, Government's development strategy is to (a)
increase both the output and productivity of commodities so as to increase
foreign exchange earnings and maintain their competitive position in the
export markets; (b) diversify the expansion of output (principally among
cocoa, coffee, cotton and oil palm) to spread the risks of price fluctuations;
and (c) develop regional package programs involving food crops and physical
and social infrastructure. Projects currently under preparation for Bank
financing, such as cotton and rice projects, support these objectives (para 2.07).
2.20      Cocoa.  Excellent ecological conditions, coupled with a favorable
world market outlook and a relatively high quota under the International
Cocoa Agreement (para 6.05), justify the Government's emPhasis on cocoa in
its policy of increasing the production of export crops.
2.21      The strategy selected by Government is, on the one liand, to relia-
bilitate existing trees to achieve a quick increase in production and, on
the other hand, to expand the acreage under cocoa, using new high yielding
varieties. The new planting program helps balanced regional development by
concentrating on the relatively open areas in the western part of the country
where income-earning cash crops have been much less developed than in the
east.   At the same time, where land is available in the east, the new
varieties are being used to expand older plantations, thereby facilitating
the eventual transition from the new planting to replanting by providing a
source of income while the farmers replace their old trees. In order to



- 6 -
encourage the adoption of proper techniques of cocoa planting and maintenance,
the Government recently established a quality premium, payable in two annual
installments of CFAF 30,000 per hectare, for those farmers meeting strict
criteria under SATMACI planting programs.
2.22      The proposed project would be one of the main instruments of Govern-
ment's plans to increase cocoa production through new plantings. As Most of
the project is in the western and central areas, it would meet the needs of
balanced regional growth while the plantings in the east would support Govern-
ment efforts to facilitate future replanting programs.  In addition, it would
help develop the cooperatives through which the rehabilitation program would
be carried out.
III.  THE FIRST COCOA PROJECT
3.01      The first cocoa project originally provided for the planting of
somne 18,800 ha of cocoa and the rehabilitation of 38,000 ha of young cocoa
during the period 1971 through 1974. Total costs were estimated at US$13.6
million and a loan of US$7.5 million was made including US$1.1 million in
local costs.
3.02      In 1973 (see Memorandum to the Executive Directors, R 73-74, April
13, 1973), the rehabilitation program was reduced to 15,500 ha as it was
found that the demand for rehabilitating young trees was less than anticipated.
The reduced program has now been completed; future rehabilitation will be
carried out through the cooperatives, with SATMACI technical support and
short-term credit provided by BNDA.
3.03      The planting program was delayed slightly by a slow start and by
the 1972/73 drought. In order to complete the project, 3,200 ha must be
planted in 1975. The following table shows the revised planting schedule:
1971    1972    1973    1974    1975    Total
-------------------hectares------------------
Appraisal Estimate        3,790   4,820   4,900   5,320       -      18,830
Actual and Revised
Estimate                1,365   4,006   4,104   6,126   3,200   18,801
3.04      In spite of the drought, the quality of the plantations is generally
good.  Preliminary indications are that yields will meet appraisal estimates
while prices are now expected to be higher with the result that benefits should
exceed appraisal estimates. The proposed project provides funds for a detailed
evaluation of the first project (para 4.32).



-7-
3.05      Tle first project provided for annual applications of fertilizer
during the four-year period of plantation establishment. However, research
and farm experience have revealed that these early applications have little
or no lasting impact and, consequently, the fertilizer program for young
plantations was discontinued in 1973. Subsequent loans to farmers have been
modified accordingly.
3.06      By the end of the 1974 planting period, the new planting program
will have involved about 11,000 farmers and the rehabilitation program about
5,000. Repayments of rehabilitation loans were voluntarily begun some seven
months early (in November, 1973) and continue to run ahead of schedule;
repaynients of new planting loans do not begin until 1975.
3.07      Rising costs for personnel and insecticides, and the effects of
the dollar devaluation, have been offset by reductions in the fertilizer and
rehabilitation programs so that project costs to date approximately equal
appraisal estimates. However, the shift in relative costs has reduced the
Bank's share of total project financing, and approximately US$1.2 million
of the Bank loan would remain unused by September 30, 1977, the scheduled
closing date of the loan. For this reason and in order to simplify adminis-
tration of the two Bank projects, it is proposed that the balance of the first
loan (IVC-686) be cancelled on the signing of the proposed second loan, except
for the amount required to cover capitalized interest on the disbursed loan
through April, 1977. Costs of completing the first project, involving the
total costs of the 3,200 ha to be planted in 1975 and the remaining years of
maintenance until production of the area which will have been planted through
1974, would be transferred to the second project. Thus, assuming that the
proposed loan would be signed in December, 1974, a total of US$2.5 million would
be cancelled (Annex 5).
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Project Areas
4.01      The second project would be concentrated in the central and western
portions of the country where soils and rainfall conditions are suitable for
cocoa growing and land is available for expansion. The zones to be included
are basically those of the first project area (Map) except that areas of
Bouafle and Yamoussoukro which have proven to be marginal for cocoa production
would be excluded while the southern part of Abengourou and a small resettlement
area near Agboville, which have good cocoa growing potential, would be added.
4.02      Estimated population of the project area is just over one million;
population density ranges from 13/km2 in Abengourou to almost 49/km2 in Man,
for an overall average of 28/km2. In the Man region, average farm size is
between 2 and 3 ha with just under 1 ha of coffee and the rest in food crops
(mainly rice); farmers participating in the ongoing cocoa project have added



-8-
an average of 1 ha of cocoa to their holdings. In the Daloa-Gagnoa region
average farm size is just under 4 ha, with about 2 ha of coffee, 1 ha of
cocoa, and the rest in food crops (mainly rice and yam). In the southeast
region (which includes Abengourou) where tree crops have been established for
a much longer period of time, farms average about 7 ha, with 4 ha of coffee
and 2 to 3 ha of cocoa; root crops and plantains occupy the remaining area.
4.03       Village boundaries are clearly defined and land within community
boundaries is allocated to farmers by the chiefs according to each farm
family's labor potential.  Hence land tenure is not a problem.
4.04       Main roads in the project area are generally satisfactory, although
individual cocoa plantings are sometimes difficult to reach. The introduc-
tion of block plantings under the proposed project will make improvement of
access roads feasible.
B. Project Definition
4.05       The proposed project would be the continuation of a program begun
in 1971 with Bank assistance to improve cocoa production in the Ivory Coast;
it would involve:
a)   establishing 26,500 ha of high yielding cocoa plantations,
9,500 ha of which would be planted in 76 blocks composed
of individual plots. This would be achieved by providing
some 17,000 farmers with improved planting materials
and with credit for equipment, hired labor, fertilizers, and
insecticides under the close supervision of SATMACI staff.
The project would also include maintenance until entry into
production of trees planted under the first project;
b)   providing technical assistance and credit for cooperatives
in conjunction with the blocks;
c)   rehabilitating and constructing 330 km of access roads,
clearing land for the creation of 76 block centers, and
constructing 146 wells;
l)   strengtlhening SATMACI nanage:nent; providing and equipping
additional extension, credit and survey services, and
training SAI4ACI staff in tecnnical and administrative
matters; and
e)   hiiring consultants to recomnend improvements in the organiza-
tion of credit administration and to evaluate the results of
tihe first project.



-9-
4.06      The project would be executed by SATMACI over a seven year develop-
ment period (four years of planting and three years of maintenance until
production) from agricultural year 1974/75 to 1980/81. Farmers' credits
would be channelled through BNDA. IFCC would supply seeds and provide tech-
nical support for the training of extension workers.
C. Detailed Features
Field Development
4.07      Planting Program.  The main innovation in the proposed project
would be the grouping of individual plantings into large blocks. This would
facilitate the supervision of field work and credit and the creation of
cooperatives, and make feasible the improvement of access roads and the
provision of water points which in turn would be attractive to farmers.
Blocks would be on available land in existing cocoa growing areas and would
be open to farmers in nearby villages under traditional procedures of land
allocation. However, due to the increased planning required, and the limited
availability of large blocks of land, it would not be possible to plant the
entire 26,500 ha of the proposed project in blocks; some 17,000 ha would be
planted in individual plots along the lines of the first project.
4.08      Under the proposed project, 76 blocks would be created, with an
average size of about 200 ha. Depending on the size, each block would take
from two to four years to complete planting, with each farmer expected to
plant two to three hectares. When completed, the 76 blocks would total some
14,900 ha of cocoa to be planted over the period 1974 to 1980 (680 ha would
be planted in 1974 under the first project), with the last trees entering
production in 1983. The proposed project would cover the 9,500 ha to be planted
in the period 1975-1978, and subsequent maintenance to 1981; the remaining
planting would be carried out under a subsequent development phase. However,
all infrastructure development would be completed during the project period.
4.09      The planting program is summarized in the table below:
Year of planting           1975      1976     1977      1978      Total
----------------hectares-----------------
Individual Planting        6,425    4,525    3,425    2,625   17,000
Block                      1,900    1,800    2,600    3,200    9,500
TOTAL                      8,325    6,325    6,025    5j825   26 500
Individual plantings for 1975 include 3,200 ha to complete the program for
the first project (details at Annex 6, tables 1 and 2).



- 10 -
4.10      Cocoa Establishment.  The methods of cocoa establishment would be
basically the same as those of the first project, except for the use of
fertilizers (para 3.05) which would be restricted to a single application
of rock phosphates at the time of planting in the western part of the project
area. Planting would only be made on soils approved by SATMACI. Soil
surveys would continue to be made the year before planting for individual
plantations and for those blocks which require only rehabilitation of exist-
ing access roads; for those blocks requiring the construction of new roads,
surveys would be completed two years before planting. Farmers would establish
nurseries, for which they would receive seeds, materials and technical
support from SATMACI. Block nurseries would be centrally located on land
cleared by SATMACI; individual planters would also be encouraged to group
their nurseries whenever plantations are close enough to make this practical.
4.11      Land clearing for plantations would be the responsibility of the
farmers.  About half of the individual farmers are ëxpected to follow the
traditional pattern of planting cocoa on land previously used for food crops,
and clearing new land for food production.  On these farms, rice would be
cultivated the year before cocoa planting and plantains would be planted as
shade. All other plantings would be made on land cleared from secondary
forest, where sufficient shade would be left during the clearing process.
4.12      Selection of Farmers.  Due to the success of the first project,
there would be no shortage of farmers wanting to participate in the proposed
project. A condition of participation would continue to be willingness to
join, and acceptance by, a group of farmers who would be mutually responsible
for debts incurred under the project. Groups would be based on blocks or on
one or more villages, depending on size, and would have about 50 members.
For block plantings, these groups would take the form of pre-cooperatives
which would eventually add marketing and production support functions to that
of guaranteeing credit (para 2.12). Farmers accepted by the block pre-
cooperative would receive land which would be jointly allocated by local
government and traditional authorities immediately after the block has been
surveyed and mapped; individual farmers would already have suitable land.
4.13      In order to assist the development of the block cooperatives, the
,-oject would provide technical assistance and training for key members.  In
addition, the block cooperatives would be eligible for special credits to
cover the costs of constructing storage facilities on the block centers and
of transporting seedlings and other inputs from the centralized nurseries
to the individual plots within the block.
4.14      Input Supply and Distribution.  The varieties planted would be
Amelonado-Amazon hybrids for which seeds would be obtained from IFCC seed
gardens. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the project
would be supplied with the seeds required. Seeds and the plastic bags re-
quired for growing seedlings would be delivered by SATMACI to the farmers
for a subsidized price of CFAF 1,250/ha (the government subsidy amounts to
CFAF 6,550/ha; this subsidy has been applied throughout the country's cocoa
growing areas to encourage the use of improved planting material). Nursery



materials, such as wire netting and watering cans, would be available at
SATMACI zonal stores and paid for in cash by the farmers. Fertilizer,
insecticides, and spraying equipment would be purchased in bulk by SATMACI
and distributed from its central warehouse in Abidjan to zonal warehouses
(and eventually to farmers on credit). Coverage of the project area by
these warehouses is almost complete, with new construction only required
(and provided under the project) at Man and Danane.
4.15      The farmers themselves would supply all other inputs, încluding
hand tools, bamboo and palm leaves for nursery shelters, plantain suckers
and labor -- most of which would be family labor. Hired labor requirements
are estimated at 60 mandays in the year of planting, at a cost of CFAF 250
per day.
Infrastructure
4.16      Roads and Block Centers.  Under the project, about 270 km of roads
would be constructed, and another 60 km rehabilitated, to permit access to
block plantings. At the same time, about 3 ha at the center of each block
would be cleared for group nurseries, wells, workers camps and future storage
facilities. This program would be implemented by the SODEPALM road unit,
which is well-equipped and managed by experienced personnel and has suf-
ficient capacity to carry out the SATMACI program (para 5.09).
4.17      The roads to be constructed or rehabilitated under the project
would not be classified and, therefore, would not fall under the jurisdiction
of the Ministry of Public Works. Accordingly, SATMACI would establish a
maintenance unit, equipped with graders and trucks provided by the project.
This unit would be part of SATMACI Special Projects Division, which is headed
bv a competent rural works engineer.
4.18      Well Construction.  The project would finance some 146 wells, or
about one per 100 ha of block planting. These wells would serve to supply
water (i) for farmers and workers, (ii) for nurseries, which would be grouped
near the wells, and (iii) for the spraying of the trees with insecticides.
This program would be implemented by the Bandama Valley Authority (AVB) which
has an adequately equipped and staffed well unit with sufficient capacity to
carry out the SATMACI program in addition to its own (para 5.09).
D. Organization and Management
SATMACI
4.19      The proposed project would be carried out as part of the overall
activities of SATMACI, which has been the executing agency for the first
cocoa project and has performed well. SATMACI (Annex 2) was formed in April
1958 as a statutory corporation under the Ministry of Agriculture. It is
governed by a Board of Administration composed of nine members, including the



- 12 -
Ministers of Agriculture, and of Finance and Economics; it is managed by a
General Manager appointed by the Board. Its main activities are cocoa and
coffee rehabilitation and planting. These are executed by an extension
service which also distributes inputs and supervises credit.
4.20      SATMACI's head office in Abidjan has three main divisions:
Administration and Finance, Commercial Activities, and Technical Operations.
Field operations are distributed among seven regions, headed by regional
directors and 23 zones headed by chiefs of zone; the latter receive their
instructions from headquarters, whilst the regional directors play a role of
coordination between headquarters and zones. Chiefs of zone are assisted
by an administrative officer, one or two credit officers, and extension staff.
SATXACI was reorganized in 1971 with assistance from OOFROR (Compagnie Francaise
d'Organisation); its technical and administrative management is sound and
its accounting system is satisfactory.
4.21      SATMACI is financed by the Government under annual agreements
(Conventions) which determine the nature, scope, and budgets of the programs
to be carried out. SATMACI, although legally autonomous, is thus dependent
upon the Ministry of Finance for its budget and functions like a Department
of the Ministry of Agriculture. Recently, SATMACI has experienced some dif-
ficulty in obtaining timely funding of its budget. This has been partly due
to the fact that, with the growth of SATMACI, the Director of Finance and
Administration has been overburdened with general administrative matters and
has been unable to maintain the necessary close coordination with the Ministry
of Finance. SATMACI has agreed to take the corrective actions outlined below.
Strengthening SATMACI Senior Management
4.22      The management of SATMACI would need to be strengthened in order to
(a) enable it to cope with the considerable expansion of its activities, and
(b) overcome problens with planning and financial management which have
arisen because of SATMACI's dependency on the Ministry of Agriculture for
determination of its program and on the Ministry of Finance for its budget.
4.23      The additional senior management of SATMACI would comprise:  (a)
a Financial Director, responsible for all aspects of financial planning and
control; these functions would be taken over from the present Director of
Finance and Administration, whose duties would then cover administration and
personnel; (b) a Planning Advisor, who would be an agricultural economist
and would develop, in conjunction with the Ministry of Agriculture, medium
and long-term plans for SATMACI activities; and (c) a Project Inspector,
responsible to the Director of the Cocoa Department, who would carry out
regular field supervision of the proposed project, which, because of the
progressively heavier workload, the Director himself finds increasingly
difficult to do. Terms of reference for the new Planning Advisor and new
Financial Director are at Annex 2.



- 13 -
4. 24     The General Manager would designate one of his senior staff to act
as his deputv and would delegate to him adequate authority to avoid administra-
tive delays during any temporary absence of the General Manager. During
negotiations assurances were obtained that a deputy would be designated
within three months from the signing date.
4.25      During negotiations assurances were be obtained that the positions
of Financial Director and Planning Advisor would be filled with qualified
personnel, and under terms of reference, acceptable to the Bank; appointment
of the Financial Director would be a condition of effectiveness.
4.26      All other project matters would be handled by existing structures,
as outlined in para 4.20, at the headquarters, regional and zonal level,
except for cooperative services and training (para 4.13) which would be
provided by CENAPEC. The project would cover the costs of all necessary
extension and credit services, including staff salaries, vehicles, and
operating expenses. Construction of zonal offices (at Divo, Danane, Man
and Abengourou) and housing (Danane and Man), and of regional offices (Man)
and housing (Man and Daloa) would also be included.
Strengthening SATMACI Field Operations                                  t
4.27      As in the first project, each zone chief would be assisted by one
cocoa officer, and one or more credit officers (guidelines for zonal credit
staff would be provided by the credit study, para 4.31). In addition, a
credit inspector would be appointed to deal exclusively with the project area.
Under the first project, one field worker was assigned for every 100 ha in
the preparation and planting years; for the following four years, each worker
was to supervise 200 ha; density would then be further reduced to one worker
for every 400 ha until the eiglit year after planting when the field workers
would be removed and all supervision left to the Agrîcultural Assistants. The
extending of planting activities in the same areas under the second project, and
tlhe repetition of some of the same farmers in subsequent planting years (preli-
minary estimates of the first project have shown an average of about 1.5 ha
planted per participant), will allow the same number of farmers to be super-
vised, in a smaller geographical area, with a lower density expressed in terms
of number of hectares per extension worker.  Thus one field worker would be
assigtned for every 150 ha in the preparation and planting years, with the
density reduced to one worker for every 300 ha in the following three years.
The development of the cooperatives should allow all further supervision to be
carried out by tfle Agricultural Assistants who would be assigned on the basis
of one for every seven field workers or one for every 2,500 ha after the field
workers hiave been removed.
Ivorization
4.28      Although serious efforts at Ivorization have been made (the previous
expatriate director of the Cocoa Department, who was also Project Manager for
the first Bank project, has been replaced by an Ivorian), SATMACI has experi-
enced difficulty in recruiting qualified Ivorians and a large number of expat-
riates remain in key positions. The project would provide for the appointment



- 14 -
of deputies to the two expatriate regional directors in the project area and,
during negotiations, assurances were obtained that SATMACI would propose,
within six months of effectiveness, a satisfactory program of recruitment and
training of replacements for other expatriate personnel.
Training Program-
4.29      Under the first project, the training program for field workers
consisted of two four-week sessions: training in the technical aspects of
cocoa growing was conducted by IFCC at Divo while SATMACI covered the exten-
sion aspects at its Gagnoa Training Center. The proposed project would con-
centrate all training at the Gagnoa Center, with IFCC providing some instructors
and technical support; the consolidation would allow the training period to be
reduced to one six-week session. Training would also be provided for new soil
survey and mapping personnel required by the project and for credit officers
following a curriculum to be developed in connection with the credit reorgani-
zation study (para 4.31).
4.30      The project would provide for instructors for extension, credit
and surveyors training; supporting staff and operating costs for the training
center; investments in vehicles, electrical, teaching, and audiovisual equip-
ment to assist the extension staff in instructing farmers; and perdiem for
trainees. A provision has also been made to cover the training costs of the
program for replacing expatriate personnel (para 4.28).
Consultant Services and Studies
4.31      The system of credit accounting under the first project has imposed
a heavy work load on the zonal credit officers and needs to be reorganized
to deal with the additional activity under the proposed project. The project
would provide for the services of a consultant to study and help implement
such reorganization, and to prepare a curriculum for the training of credit
officers. The study would be conducted in 1975, with implementation involving
periodic interventions through 1977.
4.32      The project would also provide for an evaluation of the first
project, to be carried out in 1975. It would include a survey of plantings
and yields, information on farm budgets and family income and expenditure,
and assessment of the effectiveness of services. This information would
assist the development of future projects in the Forest area. During negotia-
tions, assurances were obtained that the terms and conditions of the contracts
for both the first project evaluation and the credit reorganization study
would be acceptable to the Bank. Draft terms of reference are attached at
Annex 7.
Marketing
4.33      The purchase from producers and export of cocoa in the Ivory Coast
is mainly in the hands of the private sector under conditions set by the
CSSPPA, which itself exports about 10% of the annual crop. Farmers sell



- 15 -
cocoa to local buying agents who in turn work for private licensed exporters.
The buying agent pays the farmer the guaranteed farmgate price and is himself
allowed a fixed commission.  The proposed project would assist the development
of cooperatives to assume the role of the first intermediary in the marketing
chain (para 2.11), thereby earning the buying agent's commission which is
currently about CFAF 6/kg.
V. COST ESTIMATES AND PROPOSED FINANCING
A. Cost Estimates
5.01      Project cost estimates are based on February, 1974, prices.  Physical
contingencies of 10% have been applied to buildings, roads and wells and cer-
tain on-farm costs; a 5% physical contingency has been applied to vehicles and
equipment. Expected price increases average 10.5%Z per annum and amount to
about 434' of base costs plus physical contingencies.
5.02      Costs include US$1.1 million for the completion of the first project
(para 3.07) and direct taxes and import duties amounting to about 14% of total
costs. The following table summarizes project costs; further details are
given in Annex 8.



-16-
SUMMARY PROJECT COSTS
CFAF million                       US$ million                Foreign
Local    Foreign   Total           Local    Foreign   Total         Exchange
1.  COMPLETION OF FIRST PROJECT             113.7     117.8    231.5            .47        0.49     0.96          51
2.  ON FARM COSTS                           479.8     731.3  1,211.1           2.00        3.05      5.05          60
3. CREDIT TO BLOCK FARMERS AND
COOPERATIVES                             84.2     143.4    227.6           0.35        0.60     0.95          63
4.  REGIONAL STAFF                          157.0     117.6    274.6           0.65        0.49      1.14         43
35  ZONAL STAFF                             559.1     286.7    845.8           2.33        1.19     3.52          34
6.  FIELD STAFF                             353.3      88.3    441.6           1.47        0.37     1.84          20
7.  PROJECT STAFF                            52.5      35.3      87.8          0.22        0.15     0.37          40
8.  GENERAL ADMINISTRATION 1/               202.1     134.7    336.8           0.84        0.56      1.40         40
9.  TRAINING                                 99.7      97.2    196.9           0.42        0.40     0.82          49
10.  SURVEY AND MAPPING                      141.4      94.3    235.7           0.59        0.39     0.98          40
11.  COOPERATIVE SERVICES                     74.5      30.0    104.5           0.31        0.13     0.44          29
12. = FRASTRUCTURE
(Roads, Wells, Block Centers)          345.3      508.3    853.6           1.44       2.12      3.56          60
13.  STUDIES                                  26.2      38.6      64.8          0.11        0.16     0.27          60
TOTAL                           2,688.8   2,423,5  5,112.3          11.20       10.10    21.30           47
Contingencies:  Physical              76.2      108.9    185.1            .32         .45      .77          59
Price 2/          1,264.9      994.0  2.258.9          5.27        4.14      9.41          44
TOTAL PROJECT                   4,029.9   3,526.4  7,556.3          16.79       14.69    31.48           47
Interest on Bank Loan                 -         768.0    768.0            -         3.2       3.2          100
GRAND TOTAL                     4.029.9   4.294.4  8S324.3           16.79      17.89    34.68           52
1/  General Administration expenses taken as 20% of total costs of Regional, Zonal, Field and Project
Staff and extension costs for completion of First Project.
2/ Price Contingencies include those for General Administration, calculated on the same basis as other
non-civil works.



- 17 -
B.  Proposed Financing
5.03      It is proposed that a Bank loan of US$20.0 million be made to
Government for a period of 20 years, with five years grace.  The Bank loan
would be disbursed over the first five years of the seven-year project period
when all planting and infrastructure development would be carried out and some
85% of total project costs would be incurred. Covernment revenues generated
by the project would cover costs in the sixth and seventh years. In addition
to the proposed loan, approximately US$0.4 million, representing costs incurred
in the preparation year (1973/74) and up to the signing date for project staff
and prospection and survey services, would be covered by the first loan (686
IVC). Thus total Bank financing of the second project would be US$20.4 million,
representing about 67% of costs net of taxes and duties or about 59% of total
project costs (including interest on the second Bank loan). In addition to
the foreign exchange costs, the Bank loan would cover US$2.5 million, or
about 15%, of local costs.
5.04      About US$3.2 million of the Bank loan would be used to finance
interest during grace period. The remaining Bank financing of US$17.2 million
(CFAF 4.1 billion), together with a government contribution of US$7.7 million
(CFAF 1.9 billion), would be channelled through the Caisse Autonome d'Amorti-
ssement (CAA) for deployment as follows:
(a) CFAF 0.6 billion (US$2.3 million) would be onlent to BNDA at
the same interest rate as the Bank loan. Repayments would
parallel those from the farmers and be calculated on the
basis of four tranches (corresponding to the four planting
years of the project), each of which would have a term of
eight years with four years grace. These funds, together
with BNDA's own contribution of CFAF 0.6 billion (US$2.3
million), would be passed on to SATMACI for the extension
of credit in kind to project farmers and of credit in the
form of storage facilities and transportation services for
cooperatives;
(b) CFAF 5.4 billion (US$22.6 million) would be used to meet
the costs incurred by SATMACI in administering the project,
providing services to farmers, and contracting for roads,
wells and consultant services; and
5.05      Farmers contributions of CFAF 1.0 billion (US$4.3 million) would
cover about 20% of on-farm cost, including contingencies.
5.06      During negotiations, assurances were obtained that Government would
provide its contribution to project costs under Conventions (para 4.21) to
be signed with SATMACI at the beginning of each agricultural year and would
cause all funds required for project years six and seven to be provided. The
signing of the Convention covering the first project year, and of subsidiary
loan agreements, acceptable to the Bank, between Government and BNDA and
between BNDA and SATMACI, would be conditions of effectiveness. The following
table summarizes the financing plan.



-18-
SUMMARY PROJECT FINANCING
(US $ million)
IBRD      Governmnent    BNDA       Farmers       Total
1.  COMPLETION OF FIRST PROJECT       0.50         0.02        0.31         0.13       o0.96
2.  ON FARM COSTS                     0.78         0.73        0.86         2.68         5.05
3.  CREDIT TO BLOCK FA1KERS AND       0.59          -          0.36          -          0.95
COOPERATIVES
4.  REGIONAL STAFF                    0.74         0.40          -           -           1.14
5.  ZONAL STAFF                       1.97         1.55         -            -           3.52
6.  FIELD STAFF                       1.52         0.32          -           -           1.84
7.  PROJECT STAFF                      .24         0.13         -            -          0-37
8.  GENERAI ADMINISTRATION            1.12         0.28          -           -           1.40
9.  TRAININIG                          .66         0.16         -            -           0.82
10.  SURVEY AND MAPPING                0.78         0.20          -           -          0.98
11.  COOPERATIVE SERVICES              0.29         0.15          -           -           0.44
.2.  INFRASTRUCTURE                    2.47         1.09         -            -          3.56
13.  STUDIES                           0.22         0.05         -            -           0.27
TOTAL                        11.88         5.08        1.53         2.81       21.30
Unallocated                       5.30         2.63        0.81         1.44       10.18
TOTAL PROJECT                17.18         7.71        2.34         4.25       31.48
Interest on Bank Loan             3.20          _-                       -          3.20
GRAND TOTAL                  20*381/       7.71        2.34         4.25       34.68
Percentage of Total              59%          22%          7%          12%        100%
1/ IBRD total includes US$0.38 million representing estimated costs to be financed under first loan.



- 19 -
C. Farmers' Credit Terms
5.07      Farmers would receive loans of CFAF 11,000 per ha in the form of
insecticides and sprayers and, in specific areas, fertilizer worth CFAF 8,800
per ha; participants in block cooperatives would receive additional credits
of approximately CFAF 3,400 per ha for transportation services, and CFAF 9,200
per ha for joint storage facilities, depending on the size of the particular
block.
5.08      Loans would be granted at 8% for a term of eight years, including
a four-year grace period during which interest would be capitalized. This
interest rate would be sufficient to cover the financial costs (8% on the
IBRD loan, about 5-1/2% on BNDA's own funds) and any administrative costs in-
curred by BNDA. Credit distribution and supervision would be carried out by
SATMACI, with costs borne by the Government. These costs, and the subsidy for
planting material (para 4.14), would be acceptable in view of the high tax-
ation levied on farmers through export duties and CSSPPA surpluses arising
from maintaining a producer price which is well below the world market price
(paras 6.06 and 6.09). During negotiations, assurances were obtained that
terms and conditions of farmers' credit would be acceptable to the Bank.
D. Procurement
5.09      All contracts over US$50,000 for the procurement of fertilizers,
insecticides, sprayers, vehicles and equipment (totaling about US$3.6 million)
would be through international competitive bidding in accordance with IBRD
guidelines. Domestically manufactured goods would be allowed a preference of
15% (or of the level of applicable import duty, whicheverlis lower) when com-
paring domestic bids with those of foreign manufacturers. Contracts for
buildings valued at US$1.3 million, involving several operations scattered
across the project area, are not large enough to attract foreign interest and
would be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally and in
accordance with local procedures which are acceptable to the Bank. It is pro-
posed that the.roads (US$4.4 million) and the wells (US$1.0 million) be con-
structed by force account through other government agencies, SODEPALM and the
Autorite de la Vallee du Bandama (AVB) respectively (paras 4.16, 4.18).
SODEPALM has created a road construction unit to operate in oil palm develop-
ment areas (in conjunction with the Bank supported projects) while AVB is
responsible for a major water development program in the area of the Kossou
dam. Both agencies have demonstrated the ability to carry out their tasks
efficiently and economically and would find themselves with temporary excess
capacity at the time their services would be required for the project. The
major part of project costs, US$21.2 million, would be for on-farm hired labor
and materials to be procured by the farmers themselves, planting materials,
staff salaries and operating costs; none of these would be suitable for com-
petitive bidding.



- 20 -
E. Disbursements
5.10      Proceeds of the Bank Loan would be disbursed to cover:
(a)  100% of the CIF cost, or 80% of total cost (representing
the estimated foreign exchange component) if procured
locally, of vehicles and equipment, fertilizers, sprayers
and insecticides (US$1.8 million);
(b)  90% of total costs of staff salaries for training, survey,
road maintenance, cooperative, administration and extension
services and of training grants for the replacement of
expatriate staff (US$5.3 million);
(c)  80% of the cost of studîes and of survey and mapping of
project plantings (US$0.9 million);
(d)  70% of the cost of civil works construction (US$2.9 million);
and
(e)  40% of the operating costs of project staff and offices
as outlined in Annex 9 (11S$0.6 million).
5.11      Disbursements for (b), (c) and (e) would be on the basis of a state-
ment of expenditures, the documents for which would not be submitted for re-
view but would be retained by the borrower and available for inspection during
the course of project supervision.  All other disbursements would be fully
documented. Of the balance, US$3.2 million would finance the interest on
the Bank loan during the grade period while US$5.3 million would be held as
a contingency reserve. A detailed summary and a schedule of estimated dis-
bursement is shown at Annex 9.  Any funds remaining upon completion of the
project would be cancelled.
F. Accounts and Audit
5.12      Farmers and precooperative credit accounts would be kept in each zone
and would be controlled by SATMACI. All accounts would be subject to inspec-
tion by SATMACI's internal audit and inspectorate services. Accounts would be
kept by CAA for the Project Fund. BNDA and SATMACI would keep separate project
accounts.  SATMACI accounts would be audited annually by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank, and copies of the annual accounts and auditors' repott
would be submitted to the Bank within four months of the close of each financial
year. Assurances tô this effect were obtained during negotiations.



- 21 -
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKETS, FARMIER AND GOVERNMENT BENEFITS
A. Yields and Output
6.01       For individual plantings, hybrid cocoa trees start producing at about
200 kg/ha in the third year after planting and should reach full production in
the sixth year when the yield would be about 1,000 kg/ha.  After year 20, yields
can be expected to decline at a rate of about 100 kg/ha per year, levelling off
at about 250 kg/ha. Due to more efficient supervision, easier access, and better
insect control, yields from the blocks are expected to be about 10% greater than
those from individual plantings.
6.02       At full production, from 1985 onwards, annual output from the pro-
ject would be about 27,500 tons. This compares with an estimated total pro-
duction in the Ivory Coast of 185,000 tons in 1973/74 and a projected total
of 335,000 tons in 1985.
B. Markets and Prices
6.03       The world cocoa market is described in "The World Cocoa Market:
Review and Outlook for Bank Lending" - February 23, 1974. World cocoa pro-
duction is highly cyclical: there were short supplies and high prices in the
1950's and abundant supplies and low prices in the 1960's; current markets
again feature short supplies and high prices. In April, 1974, prices reached
UJS$1.00/lb, compared with a low of US$0.17/lb in 1965. Growing conditions in
West Africa have been generally poor in the last three years, and this has
intensified the supply depressing impact of limited investment and the abandon-
ment of low yielding plantations following the low cocoa prices during the
1960's.
6.04       The average world cocoa price during 1973 was US$0.65/lb.  Current
Bank forecasts are that supply and demand will both grow at 3% per annum.
Supply forecasts take into account expected production from ongoing and planned
projects, including the present one; on the basis of these forecasts, a 1980
price of about US$0.52/lb (in 1974 constant terms) has been used in the eco-
nomic and financial analyses in the report.
6.05       An International Cocoa Agreement (ICA) came into effect in mid-1973,
covering three quota years to 1975/76. The purpose of ICA is to stabilize
prices in the US$0.23-0.32/lb range. Of the basic 1973/74 quota of 1.51 mil-
lion tons, Ivory Coast was allocated 224,000 tons, as compared to an average
production of 185,000 tons in the last two years. In view of current and
expected price levels, it is unlikely that ICA will exert any significant
constraint on cocoa production and exports in the medium term. Since total
Ivory Coast production is expected to grow at about the same percentage rate



- 22 -
as world demand, market prospects for the project and total output appear
firm through 1985.  The project was included in the policy paper describing
the Bank's overall program in cocoa, which has been supported by the FAO and
has been soecifically accepted by the staff of the International Cocoa
r,;      on fTc:: .
C.  Producer Prices and Farmer Benefits
6.06      During the period 1961 to 1973, while world market prices varied
widely, CSSPPA stabilization activities allowed the producer price to climb
steadily from CFAF 65/kg to CFAF 110/kg, except for a brief drop to CFAF 55/kg
in 1965 when the world market hit an all-time low. In view of the very high
world market prices, the producer price was raised again to CFAF 175/kg for
the 1974/75 campaign. However, since the world market price for cocoa is
expected to remain stable in current terms until 1980, it has been assumed
that the producer price will be allowed to decline to CFAF 110/kg in constant
terms. This latter price has been assumed for the life of the project.
6.07      Estimated farm budgets are presented at Annex 10.  They are based
on the yields and prices specified above (paras 6.01 and 6.06) and the credit
terms outlined in paras 5.07 and 5.08.
6.08      Two examples are given:  the case of the individual farmer planting
the minimum of one hectare of new cocoa and that of a participant in block
planting with a maximum of 3 ha spread over four years. Annual net revenues
expected at full development would, therefore, range from about CFAF 106,000
(US$440) to about CFAF 350,000 (US$1,460) and would be between about 3/4 and
2-1/3 times the average rural family income. Net revenues per manday are
expected to be about CFAF 1,300, as compared to the going agriculture wage
rate of CFAF 250 per day. These returns would provide adequate incentive
to project farmers; preliminary results from the first project indicate that
they should be easily attainable.
D. Government Revenues
6.09      Government would derive revenues from taxes and Stabilization Fund
surpluses on expected cocoa production. Taxes consist mainly of export duties,
at a rate of CFAF 43,700/m ton.  The Stabilization Fund benefits from cocoa
export revenues whenever world market prices exceed guaranteed producer prices
plus established export costs. At the assumed price of US$0.52/lb, the Stabi-
lization Fund surplus, net of CSSPPA administrative expenses and contributions
to ICA (US$0.01/lb), would be about CFAF 69,200 per metric ton. The Governinent
cash flow (Annex 11) shows a positive annual balance from 1978 onwards reach-
ing CFAF 2.7 billion at fulI development in 1985.



- 23 -
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
7.01      The principal direct benefit of the project is increased cocoa
output which would result in greater foreign exchange earnings, farm incomes,
and government revenues (para 6.09). At full development in 1985, the annual
FOB value of project production would be about US$29 million and would
generate net foreign exchange earnings of about US$23 million. The project
would assist the Ivory Coast in maintaining its share of world cocoa pro-
duction while at the same time supporting its efforts in maintaining a
diversity of viable cash crops for the farmers of the forest zone. A net
increase in annual incomes of about CFAF 2.9 billion (US$12.1 million) would
be shared by some 17,000 of these small scale farmers, thereby raising the
standard of living of about 100,000 rural inhabitants and helping to limit
the growth in the urban-rural income gap.
7.02      Based on a world market price of US$0.52 per lb (para 6.04), the
economic rate of return is 3eV.  The calculation of the rate of return for
the project is shown at Annex 12. Costs for the completion of the first
project (para 3.07) have been excluded from the calculation while the costs
of roads and wells programs have been discounted by 30%, to account for
that part of benefits to be obtained from the completion of block planting
in 1979 and 1980, which is outside the scope of the present project. All
other costs are taken at full market value, including family labor which
is priced at the agricultural wage rate of CFAF 250 per day.
7.03      The sensitivity of the rate of return has been tested against various
changes in costs and benefits. An increase in investment costs of 25% would
lower the return to 33% while a decrease in benefits of the same magnitude
yields a return of 29%_  As is often the case with slow maturing agricultural
projects, the rate of return shows little sensitivity to relatively large
changes in base estimates.
7.04      In addition to direct project benefits, important secondary benefits
would derive from the institutional strengthening of SATMACI, particularly
in the areas of finance, planning and training. The creation of cooperatives
for the commercialization of cocoa would help the farmers to gain a higher
proportion of the value of their production. Through its infrastructure and
well component, the project would also help to raise the quality of life for
the farming community.
VIII. RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      Assurances were obtained during negotiations that:
(a)  the project would receive adequate supplies of hybrid
seeds (para 4.14);



- 24 -
(b)  a deputy to the General Manager of SATMACI would be designated
within three months from the signing date (para 4.24);
(c) the positions of Financial Director and Planning Advisor
would be filled with qualified personnel, and under terms
of reference, acceptable to the Bank (para 4.25);
(d)  a program of recruitment and training of replacements
for the expatriate personnel would be proposed by SATMACI
within six months of effectiveness (para 4.28);
(e)  terms and conditions of the contracts for the first
project evaluation and for the credit reorganization
study would be acceptable to the Bank (para 4.32);
(f) Government contribution to project costs would be provided
under Conventions signed at the beginning of each agri-
cultural year and Government would cause all funds
required for project years six and seven to be made
available (para 5.06);
(g)  terms and conditions of farmers' credit would be accept-
able to the Bank (para 5.08); and
(h) SATMACI accounts would be audited annually by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank and copies of annual accounts
and auditor's reports would be submitted to the Bank within
four months of the close of each financial year (para 5.12).
8.02      Conditions of effectiveness would be that:
(a) the financial Director has been appointed (para 4.25);
(b)  the convention between Government and SATMACI covering
the first year of the project has been signed (para 5.(6);
(c) subsidiary loan agreements acceptable to IBRD have been
signed between Government and the BNDA and between BNDA
and SATMACI (para 5.06).
8.03      The project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$2n million.



ANNEX 1
Page 1
IVORY COAST
SECOND COCOA PROJECT
PROGRESS OF AGRICULTURAL PROJECTS FINANCED BY THE BANK
A.   Loan 611-IVC - Palmivoire US$3.3 Million Equivalent (June 13, 1969)
1.        The project consists of establishing and bringing into production
4,000 ha of oil palms at Ehania estate to bring the estate to 10,000 ha of
oil palms. The loan became effective on December 30, 1969. Planting was
completed in 1972 and plantation maintenance is satisfactory. Planting costs
were slightly lower than estimated at the time of appraisal.
B.   Loan 612-IVC - Palmindustrie US$4.8 Million Equivalent (June 13, 1969)
2.        The project comprises the construction of a palm oil mill to service
the 10,000 ha Ehania estate and some outgrowers. The loan became effective
on December 30, 1969. The mill was constructed with an initial capacity of
40 tons/hour ffb, in two processing lines, and these are functioning satis-
factorily at full capacity. Costs were within appraisal estimates. An
addition of a 20-ton/hr processing line was provided for in the project, but
Palmindustrie requested the Bank to approve a change in plans involving
two satellite mills of 20-ton/hr each with expanded central mill service,
instead of the addition. The change in plans was approved but, because in-
creased revenues had become available to Palmindustrie, the Bank is limiting
its participation to the residual funds (US$700,000).
C.   Loan 613--IVC - Sodepalm US$9.0 Million Equivalent (June 13, 1969)
3.        The project consists of the establishment and bringing into produc-
tion of 12,000 ha of outgrower oil palms, the establishment and maintenance
until 1974 of 3,500 ha of estate coconuts and 3,000 ha of outgrower coconuts,
the provision of credit and supervisory services for oil palm and coconut
outgrowers and the necessary infrastructure associated with the 3,500 ha of
estate coconuts. The loan became effective on December 30, 1969. Project
coconut estate plantings were due to be conpleted in 1971. Due to shortage
of planting material (because of disease), the Bank agreed to extend the
planting period to 1972. All estate plantings have now been completed. At
the request of the Borrower, the Bank also agreed to the extension of the oil
palm outgrower program planting period, initially scheduled to be completed
in 1970, to 1972 to permit more rigorous selection of outgrowers.
4.        The above three loans are the first Bank operations in support of
the oil palm sector in the Ivory Coast. After a relatively slow start dis-
bursements the Bank have accelerated and are now well within appraisal
estimates. On the other hand, physical progress has been verv good. The pro-
duction of oil palms, now increasing steadily, has reached about 70% of the
potential and yields of both estates and outgrowers are well in line with
appraisal estimates.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
rF. Loan 686-IVC - Cocoa Project US$7.5 Million Equivalent (June 5, 1970)
5.        This project is discussed in Chapter III of the main report.
E.   Loans 759-IVC and 760-IVC-Sodepalm and Palmindustrie US$7.0 Million
Euivale_nt (June 22, 1971)
6.        The project consists of (a) planting 4,5u0 ha outgrower oil palms,
(b) 4,500 ha of outgrower coconut palms, (c) 8,000 ha of coconut palms on
Government-owned estates, and (d) construction of a palm oil mill. The loans
became effective on November 15, 1972. The oil mill was commissioned in
July 1972, and is operating satisfactorily. The planting programs are pro-
ceeding satisfactorily and on schedule.
F.   Loan 938-IVC-SOCATCI Rubber Estate US$8.4 Million Eguivalent (October 23,
1973)
7.        This loan was signed in October 1973 but the deadline for meeting
conditions of effectiveness was postponed from November 30, 1973, the original
date, to April 30, 1974.  The purpose of the loan is to finance, pari passu
with CCCE and FED, the planting of 13,500 ha of modern rubber estates and
the establishment of auxiliary services under the management of "Establishment
Michelin", a French tire manufacturer. Despite difficulties at first in
establishing a large infrastructure, the project is now well under way.
G.   Loan 1036-IVC-Sodepalm and Palmivoire US$2.6 million Eguivalent July 31,
1974)
8.        Conditions of effectiveness for this loan were scheduled to be met
by November, 1974. The loan is a follow-up to previous Bank loans for oil palm.
The project, which will also receive financing from CCCE, provides for the
planting of 5,000 ha of oil palm by outgrowers.



ANNEX 2
IVORY COAST
SECOND COCOA PROJECT
Societe d'Assistance Technique
Pour la Modernisation Agricole de la Cote d'Ivoire
(SATMACI)
1.        The history and legal structure of SATMACI was described in detail
in the appraisal for the First Cocoa Project (Loan 686 IVC), PA-41a of May
4, 1970. The main organizational changes since then include the removal of
livestock development from SATMACI's list of responsibilities and the addition
of a staff post, Assistant to the General Manager, to insure coordination be-
tween headquarters and the regions and zones. The number of regional directors
is being increased from six to seven, with the addition of one at San Pedro
beginning in 1975; there are now 23 zones. Table 1 lists the seven regions with
their respective zones.
2.        The proposed project would provide for a Planning Advisor and for the
separation of responsibilities for financial affairs and administration through
the appointment of a Financial Director. Terms of reference for the Financial
Director and Planning Advisor are at Appendix 1 and 2 respectively. A new
organization chart is also attached (Appendix 3).



ANNEX 2
APPENDIX 1
Terms of Reference - Financial Director
1.        The Financial Director would have overall responsibility for all
matters involving credit, accounts and financing. In conjunction with the
technical services, he would prepare annual budgets on the basis of planned
programs; on the basis of annual equipment and operating budgets, he would
prepare the annual cash flow projections and assure the timely execution of
all necessary steps to secure the required financing, including inscriptions
in the Government budget and the signing of conventions with various financing
agencies.  He would also be responsible for supervision of expenditures (in
coordination with the office of Management and Budget Control) and for the
preparation of the annual accounts and statements.
2.        The Financial Director would also prepare medium term financial
projections, in coordination with the Planning Advisor and the technical
services, and prepare documentation for multi-year financing.
3.        In the area of credit, he would prepare for the General Manager all
the elements necessary for the determination of general credit policy: the
farmers' participation in agricultural investment, interest rates, etc, and
maintain liaison with the BNDA and other public bodies interested in these
questions. He would also participate with the Cooperative Promotion service
in coordination with BNDA and CENAPEC, in the development of the role of
cooperatives in agriculture credit.
4.        The incumbent would also set guidelines on the granting and recovery
of credit and would supervise the study and implementation of the reorganization
of credit administration and record keeping, including participation in the
training of credit personnel.



ANNEX 2
APPENDIX 2
Terms of Reference - Planning Advisor
1.        The Planning Advisor would report directly to the General Manager
and would be responsible for the development of medium and lone-term plans
for SATMACI activities. In consultation with the responsible services of the
Ministries of Agriculture and Planning, he would propose the country's long-
term goals in the areas of cocoa and coffee development. On the basis of these
goals, and in cooperation with the technical services, he would prepare future
SATMACI projects and programs.
2.        The Planning Advisor would also assist the Financial Director in the
determination of medium term financing requirements and of agricultural credit
policy.



SATMACI ORGANIZATION CHART                                                            ANNEX 2
Appendix 3
MINISTRY
OF
AGRICULTURE
MINISTRY                                                     MINISTRY
OF ECONOMICS                                                 0F
AND FINANCE                                                   PLANNING
DIRECTOR GENERAL
FOR AGRtICULTURAL
DEVELOPMENT
GENERAL MANAGER
|and Deputy GM.M
STUDIES       ~AND BUDGET 
STUDIES       ~CONTROL                  DIR ECTOR         ADVISORS           FINANCED PROJECTS
I ASSISTANT TO THE    I
GENERAL MANAGER
FINANCIAL                COMMERCIAL              DITECCNTALPRFJCTAI
|  d   -                      | DIRECTOH OF                 |   ~~~~~~~~~~~~TECHNICAL               CT1
DlRECTOR                                                    [  IeTR l |AOFR ONNL|3
ADPERSONNE
CENTRAL              COCA            PROSPECTION      COOPERATIVE      CRENAPE
CREDIT                 W AREHOUSE  |EPART MENT               AN D     SUR VEY  PR O M OT ION           RT
-|ACCOUNTINGO          -  SPRAYER
REAI SERVICE
-| FINANCE                ZOA  STRE
r  REGIONAL DIRECTORS (71                       R
L    CHIEFS OF ZONE (23)    |
World Bank-8510 (3R)



ANNEX 2
Table l
IVORY COAST
SECOND COCOA PROJECT
SATMACI
Regions agnd Zones
SATMACI Headquarters  - Abidjan
Central Stores - Abidjan
Directions     Zones                Administrative districts (Sous-Préfectures)
Régionales
SOUTH DABOU    Dabou                Dabou, Alépé, Angama, Bingerville, Grand-
(l)                                 Bassam, Bonoua
Adzope               Adzopé, Agou, Yakasse, Akoupé, Afféry
Àbovifle             Agboville
Aboisso              Aboisso, Ayamé, Adiaké
DALOA          Daloa                Daloa, Zoukougbeu, Vavoua, Séguéla
(2)            Bouafle              Bouaflé, Zuénoula, Gohitafla, Mankono
Issia                Issia
GAGNOA         Gagnoa               Gagnoa, Ouaragahio, Guiberoua
T3T            Divo                 Divo, Lakota, Guitry
Tiassal,             Tiassale, Sikensis Grand Lahou
ABENGOUROU     Abengourou           Abengourou, Agnibulekrou
Tanda               Tanda, Koun-Fao, Boundoukou, Sandegue,
Kouassi Datekro
Bongouanou           Bongouanou, M'Batto, Arra
Daoukro              Daoukro, M'Bahiakro, Prikro, Ouelle,
Dimbokro, Bocanda
MAN            Man                  Man, Logoualé, Fagohli, Kouibly, Biankouma,
7T                                  Bangolo
Danane               Danane, Zouan-Hounien, Binhouye
Guiglo               Toulepleu, Duekoue, Blolequin
YAMOUSSOKRO    Yamoussokro          Yamoussokro, Toumodi, Tiebisscj
ouI4                Omé, Sinfra
Bouafle              Bouafle
SAN PEDRO L    San Pédro            San Pédro, Grand Béréby, Grabo, Tabou
(7)~~          Sassandra            Sassandra, Fresco
Soubre               Soubre, Buyo
/  The "Direction Régionale"t of San Pédro would start fumctioning  in 1975.



ANNEX 3
Page 1
IVORY COAST
SECOND COCOA PROJECT
CAISSE DE STABILISATION ET DE SOUTIEN
DES PRIX DES PRODUITS AGRICOLES (CSSPPA)
A.   General
1.        To stabilize producer prices for the Ivory Coast's two major export
crops, coffee and cocoa, separate stabilization funds were established in 1956.
In 1966, these funds were merged to form the Stabilization and Price Support
Fund for Agricultural Products (CSSPPA), which also has responsibility for
cotton, bananas, copra, tobacco, kenaf, and cashew nuts.
2.        In addition to price stabilization, the CSSPPA is charged with the
organization and supervision of domestic marketing and export handling of its
products, the financing of investments designed to increase productivity and
to promote domestic processing, and the conclusion and execution of interna-
tional agreements (such as the International Cocoa Agreement, ICA).
3.        The CSSPPA performs its principal role, i.e. the regulation of
prices paid to producers, by acting as a fully responsible supervisory
authority between the farmer and the sale of commodities on the world market.
It depends primarily on exporters for shipments abroad, and on private inter-
mediaries between the exporter and the producer. It obtains its resources
from two sources:  (a) such income as it obtains from the net price differen-
tial between producer prices and export prices in economically favorable
periods, and (b) earnings from the funds it invests and from its real property.
B.   Organization
4.        CSSPPA is administered by a board of 14 members, who represent various
political, administrative and economic interests, and a general management.
There are two overseas offices. The major departments are: Commercial, Tech-
nical, Financial Affairs, and Administrative Affairs.
C.   Operation
5.        The minimum purchase price guaranteed to all producers is set each
year by Presidential Decree, on the recommendation of CSSPPA. The latter
takes account of three factors in preparing its recommendations:
a.   the international market situation;
b.   the CSSPPA reserve situation; and



ANNEX 3
Page 2
c.   the economic situation of the Ivory Coast and the needs of its
rural sector.
6.        As an illustration, the last change in the producer price for cocoa
for the 1973/74 crop year raised the price from CFAF 85 per kg to CFAF 110
per kg. This increase was decided on at a time when the international market
situation was very favorable (prices were approximately twice as high as in
the preceding year); in addition, because inflationary pressure had resulted
in substantial wage increases in the urban sector, it was considered desirable
to increase the proportion of export revenues distributed to the rural sector.
7.        All intermediary activities, of both coffee and cocoa buyers and ex-
porters, are regulated by legal codes (Decrees No. 63-418 and 63-419 of
October 4, 1963). The breakdown of costs and the margins charged to the pro-
duct at each stage of trading are determined by CSSPPA. Whenever necessary,
CSSPPA revises levels of admissible costs and issues new breakdowns.
8.        The cost breakdown serves as the basis for setting a minimum price
paid to the exporter, on the basis of the destination (Europe or USA and
other countries). Some accounting items are fixed (collection and handling
charges, for example) while others (transportation to Abidjan, domestic
insurance, etc.) are reimbursementg of actual costs incurred by the exporter.
International freiglit rates are aloo a reimbursable item, while insurance and
brokerage fees are fixed percentages of the CIF prices.  Reimbursements are
funneled through a special account called the Autonomous Transport Fund. The
exporter normally seeks out the buyer on his own initiative and, prior to
each shipment, must obtain the approval of CSSPPA. A significant part of
cocoa shipments (20,000 tons in 1972) are shipped by exporters on instructions
from CSSPPA, with a concurrent rçduction of the brokerage fee.  A final adjust-
ment is made on the basis of the actual CIF price received for each shipment.
Depending on whether the actual CIF price is higher or lower than the guaranteed
price, the adjustment is in favor of the exporter or CSSPPA, according to an
established formula.
9.        Out of its surpluses, CSSPPA must pay the contribution to the ICA
Stabilization Fund (currently US$0.Q1 per lb), and administrative expenses
aaounting to about CFAF 1,500 per tqn. Table 1 shows the expected net sur-
plus per ton to be earned by CSSPPA under the conditions assumed for the
appraisal of this report.
10.       Collection is via cooperatives or by a two stage system.  In one
case, the initial buyer, licensed by CSSPPA, purchases the cocoa from indi-
vidual farmers and transports it to regional marketing centers; the second
intermediary stores the cocoa, and then transports it to Abidjan. Cocoa
marketed via a producers' cooperative can bypass one or both of these inter-
mediaries, thus earning all or part of the collection costs (see footnote
two to Table 1) for the cooperative.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
D.   Promotional Activities Financed by CSSPPA
11.       After provisions for Stabilization Fund reserves, CSSPPA has avail-
able net resources which are used to promote export crops and by-product
industries. A number of programs have been officially designated and included
in the CSSPPA's Statutory Program (Loi-Programme). The size of these oper-
ations in recent years is indicated below:
1971          1972           1973*
(------ CFAF millions -----)
Cotton Development                     296            325            472
Coffee Operations                      630            632            743
Cocoa Operations                       993          1,667            832
Joint Coffee and Cocoa Operations       61            104            109
Sugar Development                                     486             20
Agricultural Survey                                                  105
Investment in by-products
industries                                                        220
TOTAL                           1,980         3,214          2,501
*Estimated
12.       As a result of high prices in the late 1960's, net CSSPPA surpluses
totaled CFAF 13.2 billion (US$52.8 million) at the end of the 1972/73 season
(Table 2).



ANNEX 3
Table 1
IVORr COAST
SECOND COCOA PRiOJECT
CSSPPA
Cocoa rrice Calculations
CIF Price US$/lb                                                           o.52
CIF Price(CFAF/metric ton)                                               275,134
Insurance (2.31 %  of CIF)  /                            6,356
Brokerage and Financial charges (1.20% of CIF)j          3,302
Freight i/                                              10,703
TOTAL                                           20,361
FOB Abidjan Price (CFAF/metrie ton)                                      254,773
Exporters Delivery Charges 2/                           25,080
Guaranteed Producer Price  3/                          110,000
TOTAL                                          135,080
Value to Government (CFAF/metrie ton)                                    119,693
Export tax                                             43,700
Contribution to ICA  /                                  5,292
CSSPPA administrative costs                             1  0
TOTAL                                          50,492
Net Surplus to CSSPPA (CFAF/metric ton)                                   69,201
1/  Average values of three modes of exporting beanss  by private exporters to
Europe, to U.S.A. (or countries other than Europe), and directly by the CSSPPA
to U.S.A. in the ratios of 65-25-10, respectively.
2/  Includes collection and transportation charges of CFAF 7,400 per ton, all or
part of which may accrue to marketing cooperatives.
3/  Current price of CFAF 175/kg is expected to decline to CFAF 110/kg in constant
1974 prices, by 1980, and remain at that level throughout the project period.
4/  Contribution of US$0.01/lb to the Stabilization Fund of the International
Cocoa Agreement.



IV0OÆ COAST
SECOND COCQA PFiDJECT
CSSPPA
Fina.ncial .5¢cu}tz (1963-73)
(Billion CFA franes) L
1963/64  1964/65  1965/66  1966/67  1967/68  1968/69  1969/70  1970/71  1971/72  1972/73
Net reaults of stabilization
- Coffee                         + 6.8    - 1.1    +2.6    + 4.3    + 1.6          1       5.9    + 7.7    + 4.3    + 5.4
- Cocoa                          + 1.5    - 1 .0      3.5   + 0.5       4.9    + 9.6    +11.9    + 2.1    - 5.4    + 1.0
- Cotton and other producte              -       -    0.1       -       _       + 0.1    + 0.2    + 0.3    - 0.2    + 0.1
Tbtal net resulta of stabilization    + 8.2    - 2.2    - 0.9    + 4.8    + 6&5    + 8.6    +18.0   +10.1    - 1.3    + 6.5
Other revenues                                                                                + 1.3    + 1.0    + 0.5    + 0.6
Net administrative cost                - 0.4    - 0.1    _ 0.1    - 0.4    - 0.4    - 0.5    - 0.7    - 1 .2    - 0.7    - 1.0
Direct subsidy payments  /             - 0.6    - 0.3      1 .3    - 1.3    - 1.1    - 1.2    - 3.9    - 2.9    - 2.6    - 3.7
Contribution to investment budget         -        -     - 1.3    - 3.0    - 2.0    - 1.6   -13.5    - 8.0          -        -
Net financial results                  + 7.2    - 2.6    - 3.6    - 0.1    + 3.0    + 5.4    + 1.2    - 1.0    - 4.1    + 2.4
Cumulative net financial results      +12.63/ +10.0    + 6.4    + 6.3    + 9.3    +14.7   +15.9   +14.9    +10 8    +13.2
1/  Numbers may not always add due to rounain .
2/ Including diversification funds and contributions to international organizations.
'/  Including a carryover of CFA 5.4 billion  from the period prior to September 30, 1963
Source : Ministry of Economics and Finance ; CSSPPA



ANNEX 4
Page 1
IVORY COAST
SECOND COCOA PROJECT
COOPERATIVES
A. General
1.        The Ivorian Government views cooperatives as a particularly impor-
tant tool of economic and social development in the rural sector. During the
past decade, it has taken a series of measures to promote their development.
In 1965, the Cooperatives Division of the Ministry of Agriculture was re-
organized; in 1966, the legislation applying to cooperatives was revised; in
1967, a program of cooperative education was installed with the support of ILO;
in 1968, the National Center for the Promotion of Cooperative Enterprises
(CENAPEC) was created, also with the assistance of ILO, and in 1972, legisla-
tion was revised again (law No. 72,853 of December 21).
B. CENAPEC
2.        CENAPEC is the principal Government agency for development of co-
operatives. This agency's performance has been impressive in terms of direct
assistance to cooperatives (para 5) and training (para 8). It contributed
to the preparation of the 1972 law and also has been involved in the prepara-
tion of standard statutes and rules and regulation for the use of cooperatives.
CENAPEC is responsible to the Cooperatives Division of the Ministry of Agri-
culture and is organized into four divisions: (a) Promotion and Development,
responsible for direct assistance to cooperatives in five geographical areas
of action; (b) Training, tesponsible for the development of cooperative man-
agers and technicians through two-year courses and complementary short courses;
(c) Operational Methods and Education, responsible for cooperative education
through mobile teams and audiovisual methods; and (d) Studies and Research.
Staff and Financing
3.        The staff of CENAPEC is competent to carry out its functions.  The
staff currently comprises nine ILO experts, 28 expatriate volunteers, and 22
Ivorian professionals. Each geographical area of action is under the respon-
siblity of an ILO expert and an Ivorian counterpart; at the field level, either
an expatriate volunteer or a trained Ivorian supervise some 20 cooperatives.
4.        CENAPEC has operated under a four-year budget of US$1.4 million
financed 51% by the UNDP Special Fund and 49% by the Government. The financing
agreement expires on December 31, 1974, and negotiations to extend it are
underway.



ANNEK 4
Page 2
Performance of CENAPEC
5.        The creation of cooperatives in a country where there is no tradition
of this type of institution is a difficult task under the best of circumstances.
In the Ivory Coast, the task is made even more difficult by the lack of trained
manpower amongst the prospective membership. In view of the problems expected,
CENAPEC adopted a two stage approach to cooperative development. During the
first stage, which is currently underway, CENAPEC is concentrating on the
creation of a form of closely monitored precooperative organization called
"Groupements a Vocation Cooperative" (GVC). Essentially, GVC provides its
members with services and requires responsibilities from them, similar to
true cooperatives. But substantial management and financial administration
is carried out by CENAPEC staff; this assistance is complemented during the
early stages of development by management training. The goal is to transform
each GVC into a true cooperative as soon as enough managerial ability has been
developed within the group. GVC statutes provide for the transformation into
cooperative within a three-year term.
6.        Also, CENAPEC has concentrated its early efforts on the creation
of marketing oriented GVC in the cocoa and coffee sectors. This approach
had the advantage of displacing expensive intermediaries in the primary
marketing process, thereby providing GVC members with a good example of
how group action could promptly result in tangible benefits with only a modest
investment. The recent growth in numbers has been impressive: from 100 in
1970 to 300 in 1971, to 1,000 in 1972, and 1,600 in 1973. The GVC now have
more than 60,000 members. Marketing activity has also grown: 6,600 tons of
produce (coffee and cocoa) in 1969/70, 19,000 tons in 1970/71, and 54,000 tons
(28,000 tons of cocoa) in 1971/72. The volume rebates for the 1971/72 crop
amounted to CFAF 317 million, representing an average rebate of about CFAF
6 per kg of cocoa or coffee sold; this was equivalent to about 5% of the
farmgate price.
7.        CENAPEC's strategy is to broaden progressively the activities of
successfully established GVC, particularly toward involving the GVC in the
distribution of inputs and in the credit and extension services. To that
effect, CENAPEC cooperates with Government development agencies such as
SATMACI and SODEFEL (Vegetable and Fruit Development) which provide the
technical support to GVC in their areas of competence.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
8.        During the last three vears, over 2,000 trainees benefited from
cooperative training provided by CENAPEC, as shown below:
Cooperative
Managers         Cashiers-Accountants         Secretaries   Other Staff
1970         366                      193                                    38
1971         241                      211                      78          145
1972         220                      309                                    30
1973         560                      295
TOTAL      1,387                    1,008                      78           213
C.   The Role of Cooperatives in the Second Cocoa Project
9.        Cooperatives were not part of the first cocoa project because, at
the tine of appraisal in 1969, the program of cooperative development was
just getting started and Government had not yet committed itself to a definite
pattern of cooperative development. The encouraging experience of the last
three years strongly suggests that cooperatives would be an effective medium
to deliver project services to participating farmers, particularly farmers
involved in group planting. It is envisaged, therefore, that all farmers
participating in block plantings would be required to form a GVC. The estab-
lishment of GVC's under the project would be in accordance with the current
policy of promoting cooperatives and broadening their field of activities.
Farmer groups will be created essentially on the basis of the standard
statutes, rules, and regulations developed by CENEPAC (para 2), which are
satisfactory.
10.       Farmers belonging to these block nlanting GVC would own individual
plots, but would undertake important group obligations. The farmers would he
mutually responsible for all project-related debts incurred by group members,
and would agree to undertake mutual assistance in the implementation of block
planting and maintenance under the supervision of SATMACI which would preovide
G.V.C. members with the same services it provides individual planters. In
addition, block G.V.C. members would be eligible for special credits to cover
the cost of transporting planting materials and other inputs from the central
nurseries to individual plots and to finance the construction of G.V.C. storage
facilities at the block center. The GVC would receive and consolidate credit
applications of individuals members; it would applv to SATIMACT for a consol.idnted
credit covering block development, as well as investment in cooperative infra-
structure: the loan to the GVC would be a mutually guaranteed debt of the
membership.  The GVC, however, would keep individual debt accounts.  The
channeling of credit by the GVC to its members is expected to streamline the
distribution of credit as compared to procedures under the first project,
under which credit arrangements were made directlv with individual borrowers
who were often scattered over a relatively large area. By the time the plan-
tations come into bearing, it is expected that GVC would have enough manage-
rial ability within the membership to undertake primary marketing functions.



ANNEX 4
Page 4
Rehates for marketing services would enable the GVC to build reserves suffi-
cient to provide an effective guarantee of the mutual debt. On the basis of
present prices, marketing-related rebates could amount to CFAF 6/kg of produet
marketed; on the basis of 1,non kg/ha at full production, gross rebates would
be sufficient to cover about half of the development credit per hectare. Over-
all it is expected that GVC would (a) contribute to a better performance by
extension staff, (b) streamline distribution of inputs and (c) provide more
efficient credit administration.
i1.       CENAPEC agents would provide guidance in the keeping of G.V.C.
accounts, particularly credit accounts, while key members, such as the G.V.C.
secretary and directors, would receive training at CENAPEC's Bingerville
Training Center.



ANNEX 5
Page i
IVORY COAST
SECOND COCOA PROJECT
FINANCIAL IMPLICATIONS TO THE BORROWER OF CANCELLING
THE FIRST LOAN
1.        In order to simplify the administration of the two Bank cocoa pro-
jects, it is proposed that the first loan be cancelled on the signing of the
second loan (estimated here as beîiig December 15, 1974). 1/ The first Joan
(686-IVC) provides US$7.5 million for the first cocoa project. However,
changes in the project (notably the reduction of the rehabilitation component
and the elimination of fertilizer) have reduced total costs and current pro-
jections indicate only US$6.3 million of the Bank loan would be needed to
complete the project.
2.        If the first loan were cancelled on December 15, 1974, the total
amount committed for the first project would be about US$3.8 million. Start-up
costs for the second project would be about ',S$". million, while capitalized
interest through the original closing date of September 30, 1977, would add
another US$o.8 million. Thus the total amount of the first loan committed on
December 15, 1974, would be about US$5.0 million. The balance of approximately
US$2.5 million would be available for cancellation. The amount needed to com-
plete the first project, on-farm and extension costs (administrative costs
would be included in the second project) wotild be about US$0.5 million, plus
contingencies and capitalized interest. This amount would be transferred to
the second loan along with the total costs of the 3,200 ha transferred from
the first to the second project.
3.        Since repayments for the first loan are to begin October 1977 (and
be made over eight years) while those of the second loan would begin in 1980
(and be spread over 15 years) the Government would realize some benefits from
transferring funds to the second loan. These would offset the difference
between the 7% interest rate of the first loan and the estimated 8% of the
proposed second loan. Thus, the total financial impact of the transfer on the
Government would be at worst neutral.
1/ Cancellation would be for all categories except capitalization of interest
and other charges.



ANNIR 6
IVORY COAST                                                   Table I
SECOND COOA PROJECT
PLANTING PROGRAM
Planting Finaeed unnder th. Proposed Projeet                        Subeequent Planting
-_--_-_-____ Yesar  of Plantig -------------                 --------T ars of Plantig -------
1/        2/                                           Total                                         Total
Reglonas                ZONES               19l7       1975        1976        1977       1978      1975-1978             1i9           198       1979-1980
DALOA                   Daloa
Block Planting     (150)       175         195         315         265         950                 60           56          116
Individual           -         900         675         600         575      2,750                  -            -             -
Sub-total          -       1,075         870         915         840      3,700                  60           56          116
Issia
Individual           -         720         400         420         425      1,965                  -             -            -
GAGNOA                  Gagnoa
Blocking Planting (h47)        300         2h0         705      1,025       2,270               1,110        1,272        2,382
Individual           -         700         675         150          -        1,525                  -            -            -
Sub-total          -       1,000         915         855      1,025       3,795               1,110        1,272        2,382
Divo
Block Planting       -          85         200         320         495       1,100                395           150          515
Individual           -       1.000         675         575         380       2,630                  -            -            -
Sub-total          -       1,085         875         895         875      3,730                 395           150          545
TAMOSSOUIRO              oe
Block Plamting      (83)       165         370         380         210       1,425                  -            -            -
Indiviczal           -         350         300         200         175       1,025                  -            -
Sub-total          -         815         670         530         485       2,450                  -            -
MAN                     man
Individual           -         850         550         450         260       2.110                  -            -
Sub-total          -         850         550         450         260       2,110                  -            -            -
Danane
Bloek Planting       -         435         435         500         810       2,180                 805          830        1,635
Individcal           -       1000           550        450         245       2,245                  -            -            -
Sub-total          -       1,135         935         950       1,05i       4,425                805           830        1,635
ABENOUOU                 btengourou
Block Planting       -         120          60          60          60         300
Indiviczal           -         900         675         575         575       2,725
Sub-total          -       1,070         735         635         635       3,025
DABOW                    Aabtoille
Block Planting        -        325         325         325         325       1,300                  _            -            _
Total bloek      (680)    1,905        1,825       2,605       3,190       9,525               2,370        2,308        4,678
Total Individual  -        6,420       4,500       3,420       2,635      16,975                  -            -            -
Grand total         -      8,325       6,325       6,025       5,825      26,500               2,370        2,308        4 678
1/  Ten blocka are to be started in 1971 with the planting of 680 ha of ooea under th  first proJect.
2/  Inelude. 1,000 ha of individual plantings carried over fruc the first project.
3/ Includes T.olepl-u



IVOE! COAST
SECOND COOOA PR)JECT
PLANTING PRKGRAM
Block Planting Program
A. Distribution of Blocks By Zone
Region         Zone              Number of Blocks         Total Area Available-(ha) j    Estimated Cocoa Area (ha) 2/
DALOA         Daloa                     10                           1,929                          1,216
GAGNOA        Gagnoa                    22                           8,209                          5,099
Divo                     16                           2,735                           1,645
YAMOSSOUKRO   Oume                      il                           2,454                           1,508
MAN           Danane                    13                           6,351                           3,815
ABENGOUROU    Abengouroa                 3                             500                             300
DAB W         Agboville                  1                           1,500                          1,300
Total                                 76                          23,678                         14,883
B. Distribution of Blocks by Year of First Planting
1974          1975           1976          1977           1978           Total
3/
Number of blocks      lO             21             20            12             13              76
1/ Total surface area of blocks.
2/ EstLnated area suitable for cocoa (about 60% for blocks still to be surveyed).
3/ Total of 680 ha planted in 1974 under First Projeot.
IH W
coNX



ANNEX 6
IVORY COAST                Table 3
SECOND COCOA PROJECT
PLANTING PhDGRAX
Area o! Cocoa (ha) Planted under the Fir8t Pro.ject
Directions           SATMACI       Administrative             Year of Planting P               Total
Régionales             Zones          Districts        1971      1972      1973      1974
DALOA                Daloa        Daloa                  14       214       285      800
Zoukougbeu            30        24        24
Issia        Issia                 38       203       243       300
Sub-Total             82       441       552    1,100      2,175
GAGNOA               Gagnoa       Gagnoa                 36       244       267      940
Guiberoua             36       180       137
Ouragahio             13       269       174
Divo         Divo                 215       379       615       945
Lakota                84       211       145
Guitry                94       199       213
Sub-Total            478    1,482    1,551       1,885    5,396
YAMOSSOUKRO          Yamossoukro Yamossoukro            100       180        88       330
Toumodi               44       134       116
Oumé         Oumé                  24       115       215        530
Sinfra                15        56       101
Bouaflé      Bouaflé               76       276       297        709
Sub-Total            259       761       817      1,569    3,406
MAN                  Man          Man                    27        62       124        670
Logouale              97       139       137
Bangolo               96       259       303
Danane       Danane               205       560       199        902
Zouan                100       115       154
Bin Houye             21       187       267
Sub-Total            546    1,322    1,184       1,572    4,624
TOTAL              1,365    4,006    4,104       6,126   15,601
Total area to be planted under the first project ................ 18,830
Area to be planted under the second project to complete the planting
program of the first project: about 3,20C i:a.
P/   1971, 1972, 1973 figures are actual, 1974 figures are SATMACI estimate.



ANNEX 7
Page 1
IVORY COAST
SECOND COCOA PROJECT
STUDIES: TERMS OF REFERENCE
A. The Reorganization of Credit to Farmers
1.        The purpose of this study is to improve the existing system of
credit to farmers to (a) insure adequate control of credit operations, (b)
reduce a minimum related paper work, and (c) define the role of credit and
extension officers involved in credit operations.
Forms, Documents and Recording Procedures
2.        A review would be made of forms and documents which govern the re-
lationship between SATMACI and farmers:  the Farmers Credit Card, the Farmers
Credit Record Book, receipts, repayment notifications, reminders and Preco-
operatives or Group contracts between SATMACI and farmers. A review would
also be made of accounting documents and recording techniques to permit:
i)   a clear presentation of credit data and an easy preparation of
debt recovery operations; and
ii)   manual recording of data.
Proposals would be made to simplify the monthly report to be prepared by the
Zonal Credit Officer for headquarters.
Organization of the Credit Service
3.        An examination would be made of the organization of farmers as it
relates to credit distribution and recovery and the coordination of work
between credit and extension services. An examination would also be made of
the organization and staffing of the Credit Department at Headquaters and its
relationship with the accounting department, and with BNDA. Recommendations
would be made on:
a)   the definition of normal workload for a Zonal Credit Officer and for
Credit Inspectors at HQ level, the distribution of work month by
month, peak periods and resulting staff requirements;
b)   the qualifications required for credit service staff;



ANNEX 7
Page 2
c)   the possibility of improving the identification of borrowers,
including the surveying and mapping of their plantations;
d)   the ultimate reorganization of the credit systeem in the light
of expected increases in the volume of business and in changes
in cocoa and coffee marketing associated with the development
of cooperatives.
4.        The consultants would also be responsible for the preparation of a
credit manual of operations and procedures and a detailed training program
for the staff involved in credit operations, including chief of zones and
other key personnel, as well as concrete proposals to implement said program.
5.        The study is expected to require a total of six manmonths; two man-
months of field work by a credit specialist, one manmonth by an organization
specialist, and three manmonths for report and manual writing. In addition,
one manmonth each year would be required in 1975, 1976 and 1977 to assist
the SATMACI Credit Service in implementing the reform.
Tentative Budget                       US$
Professional Fees:                       45,000
Air fares:                                4,000
Report and manual printing:               8,000
Contingencies:                            3,000
Total                                  60,000
B. Evaluation of the First Cocoa Project
6.        The purpose of this study would be to obtain an objective assessment
of the degree to which the targets of the first project have been attained,
particularly the effective area and quality of cocoa plantations, the impact
of extension services, and the general economic and social conditions of the
farmers affected by the project.  A sample survey would be conducted among
the farmers participating in the project through 1974, covering plantations
established in each of four years in the different zones of the project area.
7.   Information would be collected, inter alia, on the following:
-    locational data:  plantation site, distance from water point, house,
accessibility of plantation and availability of transport;
-    farm family:  size and structure



ANNEX 7
Page 3
labor force:  family labor, share cropping and use of hired labor
on a daily or contract basis;
land utilization:  area under cocoa, coffee, food crops, or other
uses;
farm budget:  total production and production and consumption
expenditures;
state of plantings financed under the project:  area planted by
year, spacing, number of plants, percent of vacancies;
pest control:  type of control, frequency, and access to and con-
dition of spraying equipment;
borrowing:  outstanding loans by year incurred, current or projected
repayments (to be checked with records of zonal credit officer);
overall quality of the plantation:  state of maintenance, effective-
ness of fertilization (if applicable) and insecticide treatments;
yields: actual or projected;
effectiveness of extension service:  frequency of visits of field
worker, agricultural assistant, number of meetings organized in
the village;
marketing:  market location, place of purchase of farm inputs, sale
of cocoa;
-    attitude toward cooperatives.
8.        Completion of the study would take a year.  It would be conducted
by a team consisting of a socioeconomist (leader: 8 manmonths), a cocoa
specialist (4 manmonths), and a statistician (4 manmonths). This team would
spend two months selecting the sample, drafting and testing the questionnaire
and instructing the interviewers.
9.        Field work would be carried out under the direction of a field
supervisor, who would also participate in the testing (but not its preparation)
of the questionnaire. There would be some 10 to 15 teams consisting of an
interviewer and an assistant (at the approximate level of SATMACI's Agri-
cultural Assistant and field worker respectively). The leader would make
supervisory visits during the data collection period and would spend two
months writing the report. The statistician and the cocoa specialist would
contribute 2 manmonths each to the report writing. Data processing would be
computerized.



ANNEX 7
Page 4
Tentative Budget                         US$
Professional fees, air fares
and related expenses                         171,000
Data analysis                                 10,000
Materials and printing                         5,000
Contingencies                                 14,000
Total                                  200,000



IVORY COAST
SECOND COCOA PROJECT
Pro1ect Costs
Summary by Year
('000 CFAF)
%i         CFAF
1973/74     1974/75      1975/76     1976/77      1977/78      1978/79     1979/80      1980/81      Total    Exchange       Exchange 
1.   Completion of First Proiect                           104,472       76,761       50,286         -           -            -            -        231,519      50.9         117,789
2.  On Farm Costs                               74,509     269,317      237,568      246,306     231,954       68,471       49,910      33,111   1,211,146       60.4         731,346
3.   Credit ta Block Farmers and Cooperatives                97,750      40,050       38,480      39,550       11,760         -            -        227,590      63.0         143,436
4.   Regional Staff                                          47,569      48,069       39,169       39,169      42,069       32,569       25,969     274,583      42.8         117,623
5.   Zonal Staff                                            150,803     146,172      116,377      116,487     113,556      101,211      101,211     845,817      33.9         286,659
6.   Field Staff                                39,840       69,720      78,600       90,720      76,320       43,740       28,800       13,860     441,600      20.0          88,320
7,   Project Staff                                           15,820      13,564       13,564       15,320      13,564        7,964        7,964      87,760      40.2          35,282
8.  General Administration -                                 63,646      62,261       54,954      49,459       42,586       34,109       29,801     336,816      40.0         134,726
9.   Training                                                57,858      55,069       30,240       26,853      26,861         -            -        196,881      49.4          97,197
10.   Survey and Mapping                         21,623      126,447      61,481       16,165        5,616       4,327         -            -        235,659      40.0          94,264
11.   Cooperative Services                                    21,687      16,840       16,509       19,971      14,734       14,753         -        104,494      28.7          29,964
12.   Infrastructure                                         392,410     190,082      228,083       30,264       4,264        4,264        4,264     853,631      59.5         508,320
13.   Studies                                                 61,400       1,700        1,700         -           -            -            -         64,800      59.6          38,600
TOTAL                     135,972   1,478,899   1,028,217       942,553      650,963     385,932      273,580      216,180   5,112,296      47.4       2,423,526
Contingencies * Physical                    1 1,665     74,094      43,701       41,652       19,818       2,326        1,096          753      185,105     58.9         108,936
Price 3/                    -         337,783     372,346      479,038      389,483     261,860      218,558      199,881   2,258,949      44.0         993,938
TOTAL PROJECT             137,637   1,890,776   1,444,264   1,463,243   1,060,264        650,118      493,234      416,814   7,556,350      46.6       3,526,400
Interest on Bank Loan                        -         44,600       98,400      169,500     246,200      209,300         -            -         768,000    100           768,000
GRAND TOTAL               137,637   1,935,376   1,542,664   1,632,743   1,306,464        859,418      493,234      416,814   8,324,350      51.6       4,294,400
1/  General Administration expenses taken as 207. of Regional, Zonal, Field, and Project Staffs, and of Extension Service for completion of First Project.
2/   Physical contingencies of 5% applied to all vehicles, tools, and equipment (except plastic bags), and 107, applied to hired labor, shade material, and fertilizers,
and all civil works (buildings, wells, and road construction).
3/  Price contingencies include increases of 187. for 1973/74, 15% for 1974/75, and 12% in subsequent years, compounded, for civil works and construction; and
12.5% in 1973/74, 11.5% for 1974/75, 9.8% for 1975/76, 8.5% for 1976/77, 8.C0. for 1977/78, 7.5% for 1978/79, and 7.0% for 1979/80 and 1980/81, compounded, for
all other items.
4/  Foreign Exchange totals and percentages derived from detailed tables.



ANNEX 8
Table 2
IVORY COAST
SECOND COCOA PROJECT
PROJECT COSTS
1. Completion of First Project
('000 CFAF)
CFAF
1974/75    1975/76    1976/77       Total     % Foreign    Foreign
Exchange     Exchange
ON FARM COSTS I/
Hand Tools                                14,236      10,230      6,126      30,592       90            27,533
Power Sprayers                             6,670       6,854     10,230      23,754       80            19,003
Sub-Total Tools & Equipment             20,906      17,084     16,356      54,346       85.6         46,536
Endrine                                   16,368       9,802           -     26,170       75            19,628
Lindane                                    9,614       9,850     14,702      34,166       75            25,625
Sprayer Fuel                               2,804       2,873      4.288       9.965       30             2,990
Sub-Total Insecticides & Fuel           28,786      22,525     18,990      70,301       68.6          48,243
Hired Labor 2/                            20,460      12,252           -     32,712       25             8,178
Family Labor ('000 mandays)                  (793)      (618)       (355)         -        -                  -
TOTAL                                   70,152      51,861      35,346    157,359       65.4         102,957
EXTENSION SERVICE COSTS
Field Workers                             25,920      18,900      11,340     56,160       20            11,232
Agricultural Assistants                    8.400       6,000       3,600     18,000       20             3,600
TOTAL                                   34,320      24,900     14,940      74,160       20            14,832
TOTAL COST COMPLETION OF FIRST PROJECT   104,472        76,761      50,286    231,519       50.9         117,789
.4CD
1/ Includes all on farm costs through the third year after planting.
2/  Costs of hired labor under first prolect estimated at CFAF 10,000/ha in
the planting year and CFAF 2,000/ha in each of the two following years.
Family labor shown ('000 mandays) to indicate total labor requirements.



IVORY COAST
SECOND COCOA PROJECT
PROJECT COSTS
2. On Farm Costs 1/
('000 CFAF)
CFAF
1973/74   1974/75   1975/76   1976/77   1977/78   1978/79   1979/80   1980/81           Total      X Foreign   Foreign
Exchange    Exchange
Seed Pods                                          -    18,315    15,570    14,520    14,020         1,165          -          -      63,590      40           25,436
Plastic Bags                                  41,209    35,055    32,670    31,545        2,621          -          -          -      143,100      85          121,635
Nursery Materials                             33,300    25,300    24,100    23,300            -          -          -          -      106,000     90           95,400
Hand Tools                                         -      8,325    14,650    20,675    26,500    18,175    11,850          5,825     106,000      90           95,400
Hand Sprayers                                      -    11,655       8,855     8,435      8,155          -          -          -       37,100     80           29,680
Power Sprayers                                     -                     -          -    13,903    10,563    10,062         9,228     43,756      85           37,193
Sub-Total Tools and Equipment            74,509    80,335    80,275    83,955    51,179    28,738    21,912    15,053            435,956      87.0        379,308
Endrine                                            -    13,320    23,440    33,080    29,080    18,960          9,320          -     127,200      75           95,400
Lindane                                            -          -          -          -    19,480    15,180    14,460    13,980         63,100      75           47,325
Sprayer Fuel                         _                                   -         -      5,828      4,428     4          4,078       18,552      30             5,566
Sub-Total Insecticides & Sprayer Fuel          -    13,320    23,440    33,080    54,388    38,568    27,998    18,058           208,852      71.0        148,291
Fertilizers                                        -    32,472    23,408    24,376    24,992             -          -          -     105,248      75           78,936
Hired Labor 2/                                     -   124,875    94,875    90,375    87,375             -          -          -      397,500     25            99,375
Family Labor ('000 mandays)                     (250)   (1,110)   (1,503)   (1,899)   (2,007)   (1,213)          (745)      (326)           -       _                _
TOTAL                                    74,509   269,317   237,568   246,306   231,954    68,471    49,910    33,111   1,211,146             60.4        731,346
1/ Includes all onfarm costs through the third year after planting.
2/  Hired labor estimated at 60 mandays per hectare in the planting year at a rate of CFAF 250 per manday.  Family labor shown (in '000 mandays), to
indicate total labor requirements.



IVORY COAST
SECOND COCOA PROJECT
PROJECT COSTS
3. Credit to Block Farmers and Cooperatives
('000 CFAF)
CFAF
1974/75    1975/76    1976/77    1977/78    1978/79          Total    % Foreign    Foreign
Exchange     Exchange
TRANSPORTATION OF PLANTING MATERIALS
Drivers Salaries                                               4,050       4,050      4,950       4,950           -      18,000       20             3,600
Tractor and Trailers (#)                                      30,600(9)        -      6,800(2)         -          -      37,400       80            29,920
Operating Costs                                                7,300           -      6,930       9,400      11,760      35,390       40            14,156
TOTAL                                                    41,950       4,050      18,680      14,350      11,760      90,790      52.5          47,676
COOPERATIVE STORAGE FACILITIES
TOTAL (#)                                                     55,800(31) 36,000(20) 19,800(11) 25,200(14)          -    136,800       70             95,760
TOTAL COST CREDIT TO BLOCK FARMERS & COOPERATIVES               97,750      40,050      38,480     39,550      11,760    227,590        63.0         143,436
e>
CS D



ANNEX 8
IVORY COAST
SECOND COCOA PROJECT
PRO 7ECT COST5
Extension Services afd Projeot Staff
('880 CEA!)
1973/74 1)   1974/75   1975/76   1976/77   1977/78   1978/79   1979/80   1980/81          Total      Y. Foreige   Foreign
Exchange    Exchange
4.  REGIONAL STAFF
Regiocal Direct-rs (27                                22,800    22,800    22,800    77,807    22,800    16,200          9,600     139,800      56           78,288
Deputy Regioal Directors (2)                          5,470      5,400      5,400     5,470      5`400      5,400     5,400       37,870      20            7,564
Tyoist (2)                                               960        960        960        967       960        960        960       6,720      20            1,344
Drivers  (2)                                             900        900        900       900        900        00         900       6,300      20            1,260
Watohten (25 504                                                    184        504        504       504        504        504        3,528     20              706
Passengers (2)                                           304        004        504                             504        504       3.528      20              706
Slb-Total Salarits 2/                               31,068    31.068    31,068    31,068    31,068    24,468    17,868          197,676      43.8         86,554
Vehicle Ope-atiog Costs                                2,352      2,352      2,352     2,352      2,352      2,352      2,352      16,464      30            4,939
Perdie- 3/                                             1,674      1,674      1,674     1,674      1,674      1,674      1,674      11,718       -                -
Other Erpenses                                         4,075      4,075      4,075     4,075      4,075      4,075     4.075       28,525      40           11.410
Sub-Total Operating Cots                             8,101      8,101     8,101      8,101      8,101     8,101      8,101       56,070      28.8         16,349
Vehicles (frdi-a tors)                                      -     2,900(2)       -          -     2,900(2)       -          -       5,807      80            4,640
Buildings                                              8,400      6,000          -         -          -          -          -      14,400      70           10,080
TOTAL                                               47,569    40,269    39.169    39,169    42,039 12,569    25,969             274,583      42.8        117,623
5. ZONAL SITAFF
Chiefs  f Zfont (5)                                   20,700    20,700    20,700    18,600    13,500    13,500    13,500          121,200      35           42,420
C.-ca Deputi-s (8)                                    19,200    19,200    19,200    19,207    10.208    19,200    lq,200          134,400      20           26,880
Admoinisrative  ooA- olotan  (5)                       7,500      7,500      7,500     7.507      7,500      7,500     7,500       52,500      20           10,500
Crodit Offic-ro (9)                                    8,640      8,640      8,640     8,640      8,640      8,640     8,640       60,480      20           12.096
Typ t (5)                                              2,400      2,400      2,400     2.400      2,400      2,400      2,400      16,800      20           37360
Drivers (12)                                           7,400      5,480      7,407     5,407      7,408      5,400     3,400       37,800      20            7,560
Watchomen (5)                                          1,260      1,260      1,260     1,260      1.260      1,260      1,260        8.820     20           1.764
Sl,b-TItl SaLaries 2/                              65,100    65,100    65,100    63,000    57,900    57,900    57,907          432,000      24.2        104,580
Vehitle Operating Costs                               35,106    35,106    35,106    35,106    35,106    35,106    35,136          245,742      30           73,723
Other Expeoses                                         8.205      8,205      8.205     8.2D5    0.205        8.205     8,205       57,435      40           22.974
Sob-Total Operotiog Coots                           43,311    43,311    43,311    43,311    43,311    43,311    43,311          303.177      31.9         96,697
Vehicles:  Medium Cfrs                                10,176(8)  6,360(5)        -    10,176(8)  6,360(5)        -          -      33,072      80           26,458
Small Cors                                      -     5,985(9)       -          -     ;,985(9)       -                  11,970     80            9,576
Tr-cks                                     7.966)4)  7,966(4)  7,966(4)         -         -          -         -        23,898     80           19,118
Sub-Totol Vehioles                                  18,142    20,311       7,966    10,176    12,345           -          -      68,940      80           55,152
Radio Eqoiptotox                                       3,600          -          -          -         -          -          -       3,600      9O            3,240
Adding Machines, Offioe Eqoipmnot                      3.200          -          -         -          -          -          -       3,200      80            2,560
Sob-Total Eqoipsent                                  6,800          -          -         -          -          -          -       6,800      85.2          5,800
Buildings                                             17,450    17,450                               -          -          -       34,900      70          24,430
TOTAL                                              150,803   146,172   116_377   116,487   113,556   101,211   101,211          845,817      33.9        286,659
6.  IELD 8TAFF  l /
Agricoltarol Aasistaots                  9,600        16,800    19,200    21,600    18,000    10,800         7,200      3,600     106,800      20           21,360
Field Uorkers                           30,240        52,920    59.400    69,120    58,320    32,940    21,600    10.260          334,800      20           66.960
TOTAL                                 39,840        69,720    78,600    00,720    76,320    43,740    28,800    13,868          441,604      20          88,320
7. PROJECT STAFF
Project Ispeetor8 8,300                                           8,380                8,300      8,300      2,700      2,700      46,900      56           26,264
Credit Inspecter                                       1,412      1,412      1,412     1,412       ,412      1,412     1,412         9,884     20            1,977
Typist                                                   480        480        450        480       480        480        480       3.360      20              672
Sob-Total Salaries 2/                               10,192    10,192    10,192    10,192    10.192         4,592     4,592       60,144      48.1         28,913
Vehiole Operatieg Costs                                1,152      1.132      1,157      1,157     1,152      1,172      1,152        8,064     38            2,419
Perdi-e 3/                                             1,920      1,020      1,920     1,927      1,920      1,920      1,920      13,440       -                 -
Office Eapeases                                          300        300        300        300       300        300        300       2,100      40              840
Sob-Total Operaticg Conts                            3,372      3,372      3,372      ,372      3,372      3,372     3,372       23,604      13.8          3,259
Vehicles:  Smoll Cars                                  1,756(2)       -          -                                                   3,512     80            2,810
Office Eqsipment                                         570          -         -          -          -          -         -           500     60              300
TOTAL                                               15.820    13.564    13,56       15,32      13,564      7.964     7,964       87,760      40.2         35,282
/  Cest of rogional, nonal, acd pro-jet staff prior to signing of  -ar are toveref by Fient Projeot.
2/  Foreigo rochange per.eorofe takeo ot 607 af espotriato -alarits a-d 207. (icdirect foreige .echange) ef locol oalaries,  Decrease in solacy indicates
roplacmenet aif epatriate by a local.
3/ Perdies  calculated at o rate of CFAF 4,000 pet day for profesoin Aals,  FAF 650 per day for drivets.
6/  Does fot loclodo staff required for co.pletion aif Eirt Project.



ANNEX 6
Table 6
00VRY COAST
SECOND COCOA PROJRCT
PROJECT COSTS
Training, S-eroy t-d Mapping, CTaperativa Sroiers. Isnfrstructure Oseîapaaent. sud Studi-s
('050 CPAF)
'CFAP
1973/74 Si  1974/75    1975/76    1976/77   1977/78   1978/79   1979/80   1980/81              T-ala     T Foregign   Forign
Exchange    Osahange
9. TRAINl0G
Gagna Tr-ining Center
T'rsning Officers <3)                                                        232400    23,400    18,600    13,900    13,800                                    93,000      53            49,290
Chief            W-ctcl sk-r                                                   1,700      1.200      1,700      1,200       1,200                               6,000      20             1,200
Ln4,ureun (31                                                                    432        432        437         432        432                               2,160      20               432
rharr                                                                            450        450        430        450         430                               7,250      20               450
Typist                                                                           630        638        638         638        638                               3,190      70               638
OS,b-Tata]  Salaries 2/                                                  26,120    26,120    21 .320       16,520     16,520                             106,600       48.8         52,010
VrhiO t Operating C-sts                                                        4,704      4,704      4,704      4,704       4,704                              23,570      30             7,056
tîss-ials                                                                        300        300         300        300        30                                0,300      50               750
4a.,rd (fa  tra inee. ) 3/                                                    1,290       1,001      1.016        585         593                               4,485       -
Ruilding Maintenance                                                             200        700        200        200         200                               1,000      50               500
Sub-'l'ntal Operating Const                                               6,494      6,205       6.220      5,789      5,797                              30.505       27.2          8.306
FlecttricalSystom                                                              2,500          -           -          -          -                               2,500      80             2,000
Teschino fqalipen,î                                                            3,000      3,000                      -                                          6,000      60             3,600
TotI, t-I M-,vi-                                                               7,500      7.500           -          -          -                              15,000      60             9,000
Vuiîs(MfaOns Cars)                                                       2.544(25  2.544(27                2 0544(25  2.544(25                          ,J0J176       50             8,141
Sub-Toti Ir1  alun   Eqaipueau                                           15,544     13,044                  2 2,544    2,544                              33,676       67.5         22,741
Oar--y-.r Iraining Sn-aia1i-r                                                    6,000      6,003                      -           -                             12,000       60            7,200
nnr,     o Gants                                                               h21.000    1,000           -          -          -                               2,000      40               800
5,0b-0    I Snrurvy  rsi-7,00                                                        7,000                                                                14,000       57°1          8,500
Crodit Trasiining S-islist                                                         500        500         500          -           -                              1,500      60                900
Operatina C-non                                                                  700        200        200           -          -                                 600      40               240
0n0w-1'n.1 I:redif Trasining                                                700         700        700                                                     2,100       54.3           1,140
Itrina 1_0tt                                                                     2,000      2,000      2.000    2,000           2,000                            10,.000      5             5.000
'IOi'S5 57,858    55,069    30.240    26,853    26,861                                                                                                   196.881       49.4         97,197
CI.  3u207' 00A r,îpp11114 1/
,.,I. -                                                      21,623      126,447    61,481    16,165         5,616      4,327                             235,659       40           94.264
Il. COOPERATIVT SERVICES
.agn     (5)                                                                   8,640      8,640      8,640      8,640       8,640      8,640                   51,840      20            10,368
se-in         (1/25                                                           2,500       2 500      2,500 2.509           ,2500   2   2.500U                 IS.OO        20            3,nor
Sub_Total 0.llarien.                                                     11,140     11,140    11,140       11,140    11,140      11,140                   66,845       20           13586d
Vehicles (unnîl tars)                                                          3,560(5)       -           -      3,560(5)       -           -                   7,120      80             5.696
ahOilen Ourrsuino fastu                                                       2,900       2,900      2,900      7,900       2,905      2,900                   1  400      40             6,961
Tr-iree Ensesn _1                                                              4.087     27800       2,469    2.371           694        713                  13,134        30          3.449
SsO-Tn-n1 Operating Canon                                                 6,987      5,700       5,369     5,271       3.594       3,613                  30.534       35.7         l1O.90
TOTAI.                                                                   21,687     16,840      16,509     19,971    14,734    14,753                    104,494       28.7          29.964
12.  1NFSAOTRUCTLR8E DE01ILOFMENT
Road Canstructios and  leh-bilitsrtsa  and  losk Cantera                       332,300   141,100   190,400             -           -          _          -      663,800       60          398,280
Salarie                                                                                   1,502      2,735       2,965      2,965      2,965      2,965        16,097      20             3,721
Tehuclesuand Eqaîp,nenr                                                            -    15,383            -          -          -           -          -       15,383      90            43,643
Opearaing Conts                                                                    -        667 6      918       1,299      1,299      1,299       1,299        6,781       30            2,034
1b-T.ara   Mainteanance Unit                                                   -    17,552       3,653      4,264      4,264       4,264      4,264        38,261      49.9          19,098
Weil C-nsrrati-                                                                 60,110    31,430    34,030         6000                       - -        -      151,570       60            90,942
TOTAIL                                      39                            2       40 190.082   270.083     30.26 4  4, 264         476        4.264       853,631      59.5         508320
13. STUDIES
Tredit ReOrgaaieatisn                                                         11,400      1,700      1,700           -          _           -          _       14,800       75           11,100
Evalaaion uf Fient Feajeca                                                    50,000                -                -           -          -          -       50,000       55           27,500
TCTAI.                                                                   61,400       1,700      1,700           -          -          -           -       64.800      5906          38.6ûO
1/  CTar af sauney a-d espping iT  1973/74 is c-vered by Firet PFej.et luan.
2/  f         -rel'unecha-ge  -ercentage  -aken as 60L of expatriate salar -s and 207. (tudtroan  fsraloaexcha-ge) sf local salaries,  Decrsse insalsy,indicatesereplaae,eut of
-upotrOiat  Oc as T-1a..
3/  'Ininue food cutrs calIusl                b-d au shr   sisn uf CPAF 275 prr day par trainee fos  sin veeks, fos  initial trningcnurses,  or for f-neaweks, -  on  refr-h-eroarsen.
41  <nnnd n 'a,n- al (('- 3,3<8/ts fon naiT suen  (in year Saftre pl-atin)g and CFAF 1,642/Os f-r .appoag  '0. yper sftar planring)for indinidual pl-nt ingn  asd
CF.,? ('. '12/'1.. tnr bni]  sarneye . daiiouneîntofpiurr, sud  supën.i  (vou nseas -1fore n   tingIn-  ir  furst trte naeas '0         -u  n1n.i--  -a.-ree  On 1800(05) for
C lck pl ,nti"gn, teder  -e ass-ptina t hat only 60-/ aT thes.:rveyed ores ciOl be plantaùle.
i/  Cnsr   :rn  ai   affîciaIs -nS rppeus ne cor c-nuersfiufs  R th           e  CENAPEC centre  sfî0îgernille



ANNEZ 9
I_VOE  COAST                     Table 1
SECOND COCOA PROJECT
ESTIMÂATED SCHEDULE
OF DISBURSEMENTS
(US$ 1000)
Cumulative Disbursements      Amounts Undisbursed
Year           Semester                at E,nd of Semester         at End of Semester
1975              1                         1,485                            18,515
2                        3,310                            16e690
1976              1                         5,290                            1h,710
2                        7,340                            12,660
1977              1                         9,,450                           10,550
2                       11,635                             8,365
1978              1                        13,890                             6,110
2                       16,215                             3,785
1979              1                        18,615                             1,385
2                       20,000                                 O



IVORY COAST                                              ANNEX 9
Table 2
SECOND COCOA PROJECT
STUJSARY OF IBP.D LOAN
IBED                IBRD           Amount          %
Costs 1/       Dishursement         Disbursement        of            of
Through 1979       Category            Percentage         Loan         Loan
ON FARU8 COSTS 2/                             1.00               Sa                  100            1.00          5.0
CREDIT TO BLOCK FARIERS
AND COOPERATIVES
Transportation Services
Salaries                                 0.08                Sc                 90              0.07
Vehicles and Equipment                   0.16                5c                  80             0.13
Subtotal                            0.24                                                  0.20           1.0
Storage Facilities                       0.57                5b                 70              0.40          2.0
EXTENSION SERVICES
AND PROJECT STAFF 3/
Salaries                                 3.93                4                  90              3.54
Vehicles and Equipment                   0.47                2                   80             0.38
Operating Costs 4/                       1.02                6                   40             0.41
Buildings                                0.21                1                   70             0.14
Subtotal                            5.63                                                  4.47          22.4
GENERAL ADMILISTRATION 5/
Salaries                                 1.11                4                  90              1.00
Vehicles anc Zquipment                   0.05                2                   80             0.04
Operating Costc 4/                       0.20                6                   40             0.08
Subtota_                            1.36                                                  1.12           5.6
TRALNING
Salaries                                 0.50                4                  90              0.45
Vehicles and Eq_-ipaent                  0.14                2                   80             0.11
Operating Co:t& 4/                       0.13                6                  40              0.05
Training Grarts                          0.04                4                   80             0.04
Subtotal                            0.81                                                  0.65           3.2
SURVEY AND MAPPING-                           0.85               3                   80             0.68           3.4
COOPERATIVE SERVICEE
Salaries                                 0.24                4                   90             0.22
Vehicles                                 0.03                2                   80             0.02
Operating Costs 4/                       0.11                6                   40             0.05
Subtatal                            0.38                                                  0.29           1.4
INFRASTRUCTURE
Constructioa of Roads,Wells,
Block Centers                          3.39                1                  70              2.37
Maintenance Jnit Salaries                0.04                4                   90             0.04
Equipment anrl Vehicles                  0.06                2                   80             0.05
Operating Costs                          0.02                6                   40             0.01
Subtotal                            3.51                                                   2.47         12.4
SiTUDIES                                     0.27                3                   80             0.22           1.1
CONTINGENCIES                                 8.43               8                                  5.30          26.5
INTEREST ON BANK LOAN                        3.20                7                  100             3.20          16.0
TOTAL                                 26.25                                                  20.00        100
1/  Start up costs for Second Project prior to signing of Loan and covered under First Loan (686 IVC) not
included
2/  CIF costs of sprayers, insecticides and fertilizers; includes completion of First Project
3/  Includes all costs for Regional, Zonal, Project and Field Staff, and field staff costs for Completion of
First Project
4/  Eligible itens under "Operating Costs" include vehicle operating costs for staff connected with project,
per diem for trainees and staff, rents and utility costs for Regional and Zonal offices.
5/  IB8D disbursements for General Administration made against the costs of the Financial Director, Coordinator
of External Financing, Technical Director, Planning Advisor, Cocoa Department Director, and Chief of the
New Planting Program, plus cars, drivers and operating costs for above.



IVORY COAST
SECOND COCOA PROJECT
FARM BUDGETS
One Hectare Individual Planting
(CFAF)
Year
1           2             3            l             S           6          7           8           9           10           _L          12             13-22
Production Kg                                                                                  200         500         800      1,000         1,O00      l,OO         1,00       l,OO          1,000
Value @ CFAF 110/kg                                                                         22,000      55,000     88,000    110,00       110,000           110,000 llo,OO11O.0oo             110o,ooo
EXPENDITURES
Nursery materials                      L,000
Hand Tools                                         1,000        1,000        1,000        1,000       1,000      1,000       1,000         1,000       1,0,         1,000        1,000         1,000
Plastic bags                           4,950        450
Seeds                                             2,200           200
Insecticides                                      1,600         1,600        1,600        2,400       2,100      2,500       2,150         2,400       2,400        2,500        2,bOO         2,400
Sprayer Fuel                                                                                700         700        700         700           700         700          700          700           700
dand/power Sprayer                                1,400                                   1.670                                            1,670                                                 370
Hired Labor  l/                                  15,000
Total                            8,950      21,650         2,800        2,600        5,770      4,100       4,100       4,100         5,770       4,100        4,100        4,100         4,470
Fertilizer                                            8,800
Total rith Fertilizer                       30,450
LESS
Goverroant Subsidy for seeds
and bags                         3,700       2,650           200
Total Credit                                 3,000         1,600        1,600        4,770
Fertilizer Credit                            8,800
Farmer's Expenditure                      5,259      16,000         i ,0non      1,n0o       1,0 0       4,100       4,100      4,100          5,770      4,100        4,100        4,100         4,470
Return before Debt Service               (5,250)   (16,000)        (l,ooO)      (1,000)     21,000      50,900      83,900    105,900        104,230    105,900       105,900      105,900       105,630
Debt Service 2/                                                                                          3,666       3,666       3,666         3,666
Debt Service for  Fertilizer 2/                                                                          3,347       3,347       3,347         3,347
Net Cash Flow                            (5,250)   (16,000)        (1,000) 3/  (1,000) 3/               47,234      80,234    102,234        100,564    105,900      105,900      105,900       10S,630
Net Cash Flow with Fertili3er                                                                           43,887      76,887      98,887        97,217    1
1k,andays of Fari 1' Labor 1/                 30        127            67           62           5h         58          73          83           83           83           83           83            83
Net Rekzrn per n.anday                                                                         375         814       1,099       1,232         1,212                                               1,273
Net Return per mar,day w.th Fertilizer                                                          37         757       1,053       1,191         1,171       1,276        1,276        1,276
I/  The distribution of work between family and hired labor is e function of average family eize and the extent of other family activities, whtch vary
acrees the projeot area.  A norm of 60 mandays of hired labor for the year of planting has been taken.
2/  Debt service is calculated on the basis of interest capitalized at 87 during the four-year grace period, repayments spread over an additional four years.
3/  Farmers meeting certain planting criteria would qualify for a quality premiurm of CFAF 30,000 per ha in each of the two years following planting.



IVORY COASv1
SE:IoiD incA  PROJECT
FAR8I BUDGETS
Three Hectare Block Planting
(C U AF
Year
1          2           3          4          5          6          7          8          9          10         il         12             13-22
Number Hectares planted                                                      1          1                  1
Yield Kg/ha (by year of planting)                                                                         200         550        880      1,100     1,100      1,100        1,100       1,100         1,100
Total Far.x Production kg                                                                                 200         750      1,430      2,180    2,750       3,080       3,300        3,300         3,300
Value 9 CFAF 110/kg                                                                                    22,000      82,500   157,300   239,800  302,500   338,800    363,000    363,000              363,000
EXPENDITURES
Nursery materials                                       4,000       4,000                 4,000
Hand tools                                                          1,000      2,000      2,000    3,000        3,000      3,000      3,000    3,000       3,000       3,000       3,000          3,000
Plastic bags                                            4,950       5,400        450      4,950       450
Seeds                                                               2,200      2,400        200    2,400          200
Insecticides                                                        1,600      3,200      3,200    5,600        6,400      6,400      7,200    7,200       7,200       7,200       7,200          7,200
Sprayer fuel                                                                                          700       1,400      1,400      2,100    2,100       2,100       2,100       2,100          2,100
Hand/Power Sprayer                                                  1,400      1,400                3,070       1,670                 1,670    1,670                   1,670                      1,110
Hired Labar 1/                                         _f15,000    15J000    __15,000 _                         __                    __          -          _            _
Subtotal                                          8,950      30,600    24,450    14,350   30,220         12,670    10,800    13,970   13,970    12,300          13,970       12,300        13,410
Transportation of seedlings                                         3,425      3,425                3,425
Share cf cooperative storage facilities                  _          9.200      9,200    _     _    9.200
Total                                                    43,225    37,075    14,350   42,845
Fertilizers                                                         8,800      8.800                8,-800
Total with Fertilizers                                   52,025    45,875    14,350   51,643
LESS
Government Subsidy for seeds and
plastic baga                                       3,700       6,350      2,850      3,900    2,850          200
Total Credit                                             15,625    17,225       3,200   21,995        6,370      1,600      4,770
Fertilizer Credit                              _          8,800      8,800    _           8,800      _______     _                                          --          -               __
Fasmers Expenditure                                         5,250      21,250    17,000       7,250   18,000        6,100      9,200      9,200   13,970    12,300         13,970      12,300        13,410
?eturn Before Debt Service                                 (5,250)   (21,250)  (17,000)   (7,250)   4,000          76,400   148,100   230,600  288,530   326,500    349,030    350,700              349,590
Debt Service 2/                                                                                                     8,468    16,936    16,936   25,404    16,936            8,468       8,468
Fertilizer Debt Service 2/                                                                                          3,347      6,694      6,694   10,041       6,694        3,347       3,347
Net Cash Flow                                              (5,250)   (21,250)  (17,000)   (7,250)   4,000          67,932   131,164   213,664  263,026   309,464    340,572    342,232              349,590
Net Cash Flow with Fertilizer                                                                                      63,585   124,470   206,970  252,985   302,770    337,235    338,885
Family Labor I/                                                30         157        194        159       245         183         199        221      236         253         264         264            264
Net Return per manday                                                                                      16         371        659        967    1,115        1,223       1,290       1,296         1,325
Net Return per manday with Fertilizer                                                                      16          347       625         937     1,072      1,197       1,277       1,285          1,325
1/  The distribution of work between family asd  hired labor is a fonction of average famlly size and
the extent of other family activities, which vary across the project area. A nonm of 60 mandays of
hired labor is taken for the year of pla-ting.
2/ Debt Service is calculated on the basis nf interest capitaliied at 8% diuring thie four year grace period,
repayments spread over an additional four years,



IVORy COAST
SECOND COCOA PROJECT
PROJECTED CASII FLOWS
Government Cash Flow-
(CFAF Million)
1986/87
1974/75   1975/76   1976/77   1977/78   1978/79   1979/80   1980/81   1981/82   1982/83   1983/84   1984/85   1985/86   Through   1994/95
1993 /84
A.  SOURCES OF FUNDS
Export Tax Revenues                                        -          -          -       72.3      241.4      492.5      787.9   1,010.5   1,146.0   1,199.6   1,199.6   1,199.6   1,199.6   1,199.6
Net CSSPPA Revenues                                        -          -          -      115.2      382.2      780.0   1.247.6   1.600.1   1.814.7   1,899.6   1,899.6   1.899.6   1 899,6   1,899.6
Total Revenues                                              -                      187.5      623.6   1,272.5   2,035.5   2,610.6   2,960.1   3.099.2   3,099.2   3,099.2   3,099.2   3,099.2
IBRD Loan 2/                                          941.4      676.1       674.4      565.0     399.8        34.4          -          -          -          -          -          -          -           -
Repayment of Famers' Loans 3/                              -                     -          -       46.7       80.3      103.7      129.3       82.6       49.0       25.6           -          -          -
Total Sources uf Funds                            941.4      676.1      674.4      752.5   1,060.1   1,387.2   2,139.2   2,739.9   3,042.7   3,148.2   3,124.8   3,099,2   3,099.2   3,099.2
Impact of Price Increases 4/                                                                                                                                                                    6/
Total Revenues                                           -          -          -     103.9      420.5   1,012.5   1,875.5   2,573.8   3,122.6   3,498.2   3,743.1   4,005.1   5,136.4-  7,363.2
IBRD Loan 2/                                        200.2      229.5      309.0      292.3      274.0       27.3          -           -          -          -          -          -          -          -
Repayment uf Farmers' Loans 3/                           -          -          -          -      14.7       28.3       40.1        53.7       39.0       25.4       13.6
6/
Total Prise Increases                             200.2      229.5      309.0      396.2      709.2   1,068.1   1,915.6   2,627.5   3,161.6   3,523.6   3,756.7   4,005.1   5,136.47  7,363.2
TOTAL SOURCES WITH PRICE TNCREASES              1,141.6      9056   1,8             _ 1148.7   1       2.4554.3   4J6484               66671.8   6.881.5   7.104.3   8.535.6    462 4
B. APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
Project Costs 5/                                    1,139.6      812.T       792.2     569.8      419.0      223.7       183,1          -          -          -          -           -          -          -
Post-Project Administration                                -          -          -          -        7.0       12.8       17.4       48.8       48.8       49.8       48.8       48.8       48.8       49.0
IBRD Share of Credit to Fanmers 3/                    106,7        64.8       65.8      83.4       28.2           -          -          -          -          -          -                      -          -
Debt Service un 188D Loan 2/                            39.6       73.1      121.2      171.6      111.2      379.5      379.5      379.5      379.5      379.5      379.5      379.5      379.5
Total Applications                              1,285.9      950,6      979.2      824.8      565.4      616.0      580.0      428.3      428.3      428.3       428.3      428.3      428.3       48.8
Impact uf Price Increases 4/
Project Costs 5/                                    242.8      278.6      367.2      302.3      293.6      177.9      168.7           -          -          -          -          -           -6/        -
Post-Project Administration                              -          -          -          -       4.2         9.2       14.8      48.1        51.4       55.8       58.9       63.1       83.8-    142.6
IBRD Credit to Farmers 3/                            23.6       20,9       30.9       41.0       19.1           -          -          -          -          -          -          -          -          -
Debt Service on IBRD Loan 2/                          3.9        20.2       39.8      63.7       86,2   _ 154.1       154.1       154.1      154.1      154.1      154.1      154.1      154.1           -
Total Frice Increases                             270.3      319.7      437.9      407.0      403.1      341.2      327.6      202.2      205.5       209.9      213.0      217.2      237.9      142.6
TOTAL APPLICATTONS WITI PRItCE INCREASES                   1270.31231.8                       968.5      957.2      907.6      630.5      633.8       638.2      641.3      645.5      666.2-    191.4
Constant Terms
Net Annoal Cash Flow                                (344.5)   (274.5)   (104.8)    (72.3)    494.7         771.2   1,559.2   2,311.6   2,614.4   2,719.9   2,696.5   2,670.9   2,670.9   3,050.4
Csmolative Cash Fluw                                     -    (619.0)   (723.8)   (796.1)   (301.4)    469,9   2,029.0   4,340.6   6,955.0   9,674.9  12,371.4  15,042.3  36,409.5  39,459.9
Incloding Price Increases                                                                                                                                                                        6/
Net Annual Cash Flow                                (424.6)   (364.7)   (233.7)    (89.4)    800.8   1,498.2   3,147.2   4,736.9   5,570.5   6,033.6   6,240.2   6,458.8   7,869.4- 10,271.0
Cumulative Cash Flow                                     -    (789.3) (1,023.0) (1,112.4)    (311.6)  1,186.5   4,333.7   9,070.6  14,641.1  20,674.7  26,914.9  33,373.7  96,328.9 106,599.9
1/ Excludes costs, including csntiagencies and sapitalized intereot, of completing first prjooct.
2/IBRD L an includes capitalized interest and charges; capitalieed interest on price contingency calculated separately snd included onder prise increases, remainder  f interest and
charges included onder main Ioan. Repayment streams calculated as if two *ep-arte loans.
3/  Reflests share of farmers Isans (repayments) resultig from 1BRD participation in farmers credit; Isans, repayments pans through BNDA; price increases treated as separate boan.
4/  Price contingencies for project costs, farmers credit, os indicated in ousts tables.  Price increoses for project revenues, Post project administration, calerlated using international
price index.
5/  Prsject cost excluding credit to farmers and fanmers costributions.
6/  Impact of price increases averaged uver seven-year period.



ANNEX Il
Table 2
IVORY COAST
SECOND COCOA PROJECT
PROJECTED CASd FLOWS
BNDA Cash Flow  1/
(CFAF oillion)
1974/75      1975/76       1976/77      1977/78       1978/79      1979/1980       1980/81       1981/82       1982/83      1983/84       1984/85
SOURCES OF FONDS
IBRD Loan 2/                                           106.7        64.8           65,8        83.4           28.2
Farmers' Repaysents                                      -                                       -            78.2          134.8         183.5         233.8         155.6         99.0          50.2
Total Sources                                    106.7         64.8          65.8         83.4         106.4          134.8          183.5        233.8         155.6          99.0          50.2
Impact of price increases 3/
IBRD Loan                                               23.6        20.9           30.9        41.0           19.1            -             -             -             -            -             -
Farmers Repayments                                       -           -              -            -            23.9           46.9          74.0         108.1          84.1         61.1          34.1
Total Price Increases                             23.6         20.9          30.9         41.0          43.0           46.9           74.0        108.1          84.1          61.1          34.1
Total Sources with price increases                     130,3        85.7           96.7       124.4          149.4          181.7         257.5         341,9         239.7        160.1          84.3
APPLICATIONIS OF FUNDS
Credit for Fertilieers, Insecticides,
Sprayer. and Fuel                                  61.3         58.5          68.8        105.5          49.7           38.6           28.3
Credit for Transportation and Storage
Facilities                                      104.9        50.6           43.6        44.4            -              -              _
Total Credit to farmers                          166.2        109.1         112.4        149.9          49.7           38.6           28.3           -             -            -             -
Repayment of IBRD Loan 2/                                _          __            __                          46.7           80.3         103.7         129.3          82.6          49.0         25,6
Total Applications                               166.2        109.1         112.4        149.9          96.4          118.9          132.0        129.3          82.6          49.0          25.6
Impact of Frire Increases 3/
Credit to farmer.                                       28,7        31.8           43.7        76.6           33.5           30.7          26.1           -             -                          _
IBRD Repayments                                         -             _             -            _            L4.7           28.3          40.1          53.7          39.0         25.4          13.6
Total Price Increases                             28.7         31.8          43.7         76.6          48.2           59.0           66.2          53.7         39.0          25.4          13.6
Total Applications with Price
Iocreases                                   194.9        140.9          156.1       226.5          144.6         177.9          198.2         183.0         121.6         74.4          39.2
Constant Terms
Net Ann Cal Cash Flow                                  (59.5)      (44.3)         (46.6)       (66.5)         10.0           15.9           51.5        104.5          73.0          50.0          24.6
Cummulative Cash Flow                                             (103.8)        (150,4)     (216.9)        (206.9)        (191.0)       (139.5)        (35.0)         38.0          88.0        112.6
Including Prire Increases
Net Annual Cash Flow                                   (64.6)      (55.2)         (59.4)     (102.1)           4.8            3.8          59.3         158.9         118.1          85.7         45.1
Cummulative Cash Flow                                             (119.8)        (179.2)     (281.3)        (276.5)        (272.7)       (213.4)        (54.5)         63.6         149.3        194.4
1/   Does not include Funds for completion of the First Project.
2/ Refera to that portion of IBRD Loan intended to cover credit t farmers;
repayments calculated at 8% with same schedule as fanoer repaysents.
3/  Price contingencies treated as separate  oans, with  separate  ztreams.



ANNEX 12
Page 1
IVORY COAST
SECOND COCOA PROJECT
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN
Benefits
1.        Quantified benefits consist of value of cocoa at price received
by producers, Government taxes, and CSSPPA surplus. Calculations are based
on a CIF cocoa price of US$0.52/lb, in constant 1974 prices, converted at a
rate of CFAF 240/US$. Producer price used is CFAF 110/ kg (Annex 3).
Costs
2.        Costs are total project costs, including physical contingencies, as
shown in Annex 8, minus taxes, the costs of completing the first project and
30% of the costs of infrastructure, which corresponds to that portion of the
total block area to be completed under a subsequent program. Family labor has
been costed at CFAF 250 per day.
3.        Post-project administration costs consist of extension services,
road maintenance and overheads. Post-investment onfarm costs consist of
insecticides, fuel, sprayer replacements, hand tools and labor.
Project Life
4.        A life of 23 years, corresponding to the end of the period of peak
production, has been assumed.
Results and Sensitivity Analysis
5.        The economic rate of return under assumed costs and benefits is 36%.
Sensitivity analysis was made using CIF prices of USJ32/lb (the upper limit
of the current International Cocoa Agreement price range) and USe57/lb (about
10% above the project price) and with variations in costs and benefits,
yielding the following results:



ANNEX 12
Page 2
Rates of Return
USt32/lb       USJ52/lb       USJ57/lb
Basic Assumptions                  37.4%          35.9%           38.3%
Project Costs Increased by 25%   29.5%            32.8%          35.1%
Benefits Decreased by 25%          26.2%          29.4%           31.7%
Cost Increased and Benefits
Decreased by 25% each             23.7%          26.7%          28.9%
6.        Rates of return are virtually unaffected by changes in the post-
project administration costs.



IVORY COAST
SECOND COCOA PROJECT
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN
(CFAF million)
1983/84 to
1973/74     1974/75      1975/76      1976/77      1977/78      1978/79     1979/80      1980/81      1981/82      1982/83      1995/96
Costs
Total projeci costs including physical
contingency -                                       138       1,553        1,072          984          671          388          275          217           -            -            -
Less: 30% of costs of Block infrastructure 2         -           134           68          74           17            1            l            1           -            -            -
Costs of studies                               -           61            2            2           -            -            -            -            -            -            _
Costs of completing first project              -          107           79           51           -            -          _            _              -          _            _
Sub-total                               138        1,251          923          857          654         387          274          216           -            -            -
Less: Taxes and duties 3/                            19          175          129         120           92           54           38           30
Total                                   119        1,076          794          737          562         333          236          186           -            -            -
Post project administration costs 4/                 -            -            -            -                         6           il           15           42           42           42
Post project on-farm costs 5/                        -            -            -            -           33           58           82          105          105          105          105
Family labor                                         62          278          376         475          502          425          432          462          506          550          561
Total economie costs                    181        1,354        1.170        1.212        1.097         822          761          768          653          697          708
Benefits
Production (tons)                                    -            -            -            -        1,665        5,523       11,271       18,029       23,123       26,224       27,450
Economic value 6/                                    -            -            -            -          383        1,272        2,596        4,152        5,325        6,039        6,322
1/  From Annex 8, Table 1.
2/  Proportion of costs of wells, roads and block storage facilities attributable to plantings to be made to complete the blocks after the project investment period.
3/ Taxes and duties estimated at 14% of total costs.
4/  Costs of field supervision beginning with the fifth year after planting, and administration and road maintenance costs after the project investment period, net of taxes.
5/  On-farm costs beginning with the fifth year after planting, net of taxes.
6/  Economic value CFAF 230,301 per ton, equal to the sum of the producer price, export taxes and CSSPPA revenues, and intermediate margin, from Annex 3, Table 1.






M_~~~r   Z:M&~F 
222$;   r>  >~~~~~~ï%y 222~~~~k~t   ~~    ~~    t§?fr~~~$A~~rQY,i~~~ ~~<4%  22//224/2, ~~~~~~ ~
2   ~ ~ ~ #24Y~~~~~$4Ç~~~  t6t&S0~~~~~> S~~~~ 24-  »4~~~~~ 22222%                        e          ~          ~          ~          l
200A~~~~~~00 ~~~~ffi0</2SS&    4  ti'0  222  5                 c/20            2                  22 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ o2
*"~~~2   072' >2t2~~~~~~~ 2    4-   2  22222~~~~~~~~ 0722 ~ ~
2    t                        22  <2                                        2                   v ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ a  T222~~~~~~~~~~~~2c
'y~~~~~~~~,-2  ,;  2s'       S       j~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~25                                                      t~~~~~~~~I
t~~~~~22222  22~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2   '08                                                                                                   t 0 lfi     _  9
22  243>2222                                                   20  -                  2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--         ---         
F2o82 -- -~~~~~~~~~~~~
~~~2,,   O   2   >22  2   2            or                 022222    2                                                                        6~~~Fi~,   pdtA--ti~.dd . .-  C- 1~-
1~~~~~~~~~~~                      <2 ~       ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ S                  ..   .e
t;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,bl, fd ,d      -.g.D..-tP-~
=  a4j~~  2\{                          02222 ~~22222222               222222228222                22222~~~~22é   A-2   2        oihn   22ct<
A F R   C A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~22222                                  28co22;2»'22220
02222222 2  020 80  0222 222  22   ,>~~~~~~~~                                    IFCR-
222  T 22~~~~~2Qbi ~ ~       ~g2122R102M2C
2>S50J22           P                                                                                              C~~~~~~~~~~~MI Z AMA 
0L2t2                      22 ..                 02



