CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1069 IVC
Loan Agreement
(Second Cocoa Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF THE IVORY COAST
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED JANUARY 10, 1975


﻿CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1069 IVC
Loan Agreement
(Second Cocoa Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF THE IVORY COAST
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED JANUARY 10, 1975


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 10, 1975, between REPUBLIC OF THE
IVORY COAST (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank,
dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were fully set
forth herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements
of the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "SATMACI" means the Socite d'Assistance Technique pour la
Modernisation Agricole de la C6te d'7voire, a socidtd d'Etat of the Borrower
established pursuant to Arr0td No. 35 AEF, Plan 1, dated April 14, 1958 (Journal
Officiel de la Ripublique de C6te d'Jvoire), June 21, 1958;
(b)   "BNDA" means the Banque Nationale pour le D veloppement Agricole,
a societM d'Etat of the Borrower established pursuant to Law No. 6808 dated
January 8, 1968;
(c)   "Beneficiary" means an individual farmer of the Project Area to which
SATMACI has made a Sub-loan;
(d)   "Cocoa Development Project" means a development project included
in the Project, to be carried out by a Beneficiary and to be financed in part by
means of a Sub-loan;
(e)   "Sub-loan" means a loan made by SATMACI to a Beneficiary for a
Cocoa Development Project, in accordance with Schedule 5 to this Agreement;


﻿4
(f)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and BNDA pursuant to Section 3.02(a) of this Agreement,
as the same may be amended from time to time;
(g)   "First Cocoa Project" means the project described in Schedule 3 to
the First Loan Agreement, as amended on August 16, 1973;
(h)   "First Loan Agreement" means the agreement between the Borrower
and the Bank dated June 5, 1970, as amended on August 16, 1973 and as the
same may be amended from time to time;
(i)   "Convention" means each annual operating agreement to be entered
into at the beginning of each agricultural year commencing October 1 between
the Borrower and SATMACI whereby the Borrower is to undertake to make
available to SATMACI, for the carrying out of the Project, its annual budgetary
contribution to the Project costs until the completion of the Project, in accordance
with the Convention Gnerale No. 65/0926 of April 1, 1965 between the Borrower
and SATMACI; and
(j)   "CFAF" means the currency of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and
conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to twenty million dollars ($20,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule may be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and in respect of interest
and other charges on the Loan.
(b)   On or before each of the semi-annual interest payment date specified
in Section 2.07 of this Agreement, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay,
on such date, interest and other charges on the Loan accrued and payable on
or before the date set forth, and up to the amount allocated, in Schedule I to
this Agreement, as such S hedule may be amended from time to time.


﻿5
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, contracts for the
purchase of goods or for the carrying out of works or services (other than
consultants' services) for the Project to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan, shall be awarded in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1980 or such other date
as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Bank.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section  2.06. The   Borrower   shall pay   interest at the   rate  of
eight per cent (8%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-annually on
May 15, and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan
in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project through SATMAC
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate agricultural,
engineering, administrative and financial practices, and shall make available to
SATMACI pursuant to the Conventions entered into with SATMACI at the
beginning of each agricultural year until completion of the Project, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall relend to BNDA the proceeds of the
Loan allocated to Category (5) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement under a subsidiary
loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and BNDA under terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
(b)   Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations
under the Loan Agreement, the Borrower shall cause BNDA to perform, in
accordance with the provisions of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, all the


﻿6
obligations therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action, including
the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or
appropriate to enable BNDA to perform such obligations, and shall not take or
permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such
performance.
(c)  The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement ii, such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, nor amend, abrogate or waive the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall cause BNDA to (i) relend to SATMACI
the proceeds of the Loan lent by the Borrower to BNDA under the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement and (ii) lend to SATMACI an amount equivalent to one million
six hundred thousand dollars ($1,600,000) together with such additional funds as
shall be necessary for the carrying out of Part E of the Project under a subsidiary
loan agreement (hereinafter called the Second Subsidiary Loan Agreement) to be
entered into between SATMACI and BNDA under terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank.
(b)  The Borrower shall cause BNDA to exercise its rights under the Second
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of BNDA,
the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the Second
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof shall not be assigned, amended,
abrogated or waived by BNDA or SATMACI.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall cause SATMACI to on-lend the proceeds
made available to it under the Second Subsidiary Loan Agreement to Beneficiaries
under Sub-loans on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank and, except as
the Bank shall otherwise agree, in accordance with Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall cause SATMACI to exercise its rights in
relation to each Sub-loan in such manner as to: (i) protect the interests of the
Bank, the Borrower, BNDA and SATMACI, and (ii) achieve the purposes of the
Project.
Section 3.06. In carrying out Part D of the Project and unless the Bank
and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall cause SATMACI to
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.


﻿7
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower undertakes to cause SATMACI to insure,
or make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for
such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall cause
all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.08. (a) The Borrower shall cause SATMACI to furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, contract documents and
work and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material modifications
thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause SATMACI and BNDA to: (i) maintain records
adequate to record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and
to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and
to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) enable the Ban!k's accredited
representatives to visit the facilities and construction sites included in the Project
and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any
relevant records and documents; and (iii) furnish to the Bank all such information
as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure of
the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all such action
as shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land and rights in
respect of land as shall be required for carrying out the Project and shall furnish
to the Bank, promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Bank
that such land and rights in respect of land are available for purposes related to
the Project.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall make available or cause to be made available
to Beneficiaries all hybrid seeds as shall be necessary for the canFying out of the
Cocoa Development Projects.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Ban,, in making loans to, or with
the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in normal circumstances, special security


﻿8
from the member concerned but to ensure that no other external debt shall have
priority over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of foreign
exchange held under the control or for the benefit of such member. To that end,
if any lien shall be created on any public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security
for any external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the benefit
of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation, realization or distribution
of foreign exchange, such lien shall, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso
facto and at no cost to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in creating or
permitting the creation of such lien, shall make express provision to that effect;
provided, however, that, if for any constitutional or other legal reason such
provision cannot be made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of
its political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall promptly and at no
cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the
Loan by an equivalent lien on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b)   The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any lien created on
property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely as security for payment of the
purchase price of such property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course
of banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
its date.
(c)   As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means assets of the
Borrower, of any political or administrative subdivision thereof and of any entity
owned or controlled by, or operatiig for the account or benefit of, the Borrower
or any such subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange assets held by
any institution performing the functions of a central bank or exchange stabilization
fund, or similar functions, for the Borrower.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause SATMACI and BNDA to maintain
records adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices the operations and financial condition of SATMACI and
BNDA.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause SATMACI and BNDA          to establish and
maintain separate Project Accounts exclusively for the Project and shall cause
SATMACI and BNDA to record in such Project Accounts all receipts and payments
for or in connection with the Project.
(c)   The Borrower shall cause SATMACI to: (i) have its accounts and
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related
statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing


﻿9
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than four
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial
statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the
accounts and financial statements of SATMACI and the audit thereof as the Bank
shall from time to time reasonably request.
(d)   The Borrower shall cause BNDA to have its Project Account for each
fiscal year audited in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied and to furnish to the Bank the report of such audit as soon as available,
but in any case not later than four months after the end of each such year.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall cause SATMACI to take out and maintain
with responsible insurers, or to make other -provision satisfactory to the Bank for,
insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with
appropriate practice.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall cause SATMACI and BNDA to conduct
their business and operations in accordance with appropriate financial, agricultural
and administrative practices and under the supervision of competent and
experienced management.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall cause SATMACI (a) to appoint: (i) a
Financial Director whose qualifications and experience shall be acceptable to the
Bank upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank and (ii) not later than
three months as from the date of effectiveness of this Agreement or such other
date as the Bank shall agree, a Planning Advisor whose qualifications and experience
shall be acceptable to the Bank upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank; and (b) to designate within SATMACI, not later than three months as from
the date of this Agreement, an officer which shall act in the General Director's
absence in his stead and in his capacity.
Section 4.06. Unless the Bank agrees to later dates, the Borrower shall cause
SATMACI to prepare, not later than six months as from the date of effectiveness
of this Agreement, a phased program, satisfactory to the Bank, for recruitment
and training of nationals of the Borrower to take over management positions in
SATMACI, and thereafter promptly carry out such program.
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall (i) from time to time consult with the
Bank on the implementation of its program for distribution of quality premiums


﻿10
to Beneficiaries; (ii) inform the Bank of any proposed change in that program;
and (iii) afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to express its views on such
proposed change.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   BNDA shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(b)   SATMACI or BNDA      shall have failed to perform  any of their
obligations under the Second Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(c)   a change shall have been made in the Statuts of SATMACI or BNDA
which materially and adversely affects the carrying out or operation of the Project;
(d)   the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of SATMACI or BNDA or for
the suspension of their operations; and
(e)   an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it
improbable (i) that BNDA will be able to perform its obligations under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement, or (ii) that SATMACI or BNDA will be able to perform
their obligations under the Second Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   the events specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section 5.01 of this
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice
thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower; and
(b)   any event specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of Section 5.01 of this
Agreement shall occur.


﻿11
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c)
of the General Conditions:
(a)   that the Borrower and BNDA have entered into the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement mentioned in Section 3.02 of this Agreement;
(b)   that BNDA and SATMACI have entered into the Second Subsidiary
Loan Agreement referred to in Section 3.03 of this Agreement;
(c)  that the Borrower and SATMACI have entered into the first
Convention for the first year of the Project; and
(d)   that the Financial Director referred to in Section 4.05(a) of this
Agreement has been appointed and has commenced his assignment.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 12.02(c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
(a)   that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and BNDA,
respectively, and is legally binding upon the Borrower and BNDA in accordance
with its terms;
(b)   that the Second Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, SATMACI and BNDA,
respectively, and is legally binding upon SATMACI and BNDA in accordance with
its terms; and
(c)   that the first Convention has been duly authorized or ratified by, and
executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and SATMACI, respectively,
and is legally binding upon the Borrower and SATMACI in accordance with its
terms.
Section 6.03. The date April 10, 1973, is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿12
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Ministre de l'Economie et des Finances of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03
of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministre de l'Economie
et des Finances
B.P. 1766
Abidjan
Ivory Coast
Cable address:
MINIFIN
Abidjan, Ivory Coast
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.


﻿13
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF THE IVORY COAST
By /s/ N'Guetta Ahona
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Roger Chaufournier
Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿14
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures incurred before December 31, 1979
for items so to be financed in each Category:
% of
Amount of the            Expenditures
Loan Allocated          incurred before
(Expressed in        December 31, 1979
Category                   Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)  Civil works under              2,500,000         70%
Parts A3, A4 and
C of the Project
(2)  Equipment and                   600,000          100% of foreign
vehicles under                                   expenditures or
Part A5 of the                                   80% (representing
Project                                          the estimated for-
eign expenditure
component)
(3)  Soil surveys and                900,000          80%
mapping under Part
Al of the Project;
studies under Part
D of the Project
(4)  Salaries under                 5,300,000         90%
Parts A2 and
A6; training
grants under
Part A6
(5)  Sub-loans under
Part E of the
Project for:


﻿15
% of
Amount of the             Expenditures
Loan Allocated          incurred before
(Expressed in        December 31, 1979
Category                   Dollar Equivalent)        to be Financed
(a)   fertilizers,             1,000,000          100% of foreign
sprayers and                                expenditures or
insecticides                                80% (representing
the estimated for-
eign expenditure
component)
(b)   Warehouses on              400,000          70%
the blocks
(c)   transportation             200,000          100% of foreign
services                                    expenditures or
80% (representing
the estimated for-
eign expenditure
component) for
tractors and
trailers; 90% for
salaries
(6)  Operating costs                  600,000          40%
for vehicles and
personnel under
Parts A2, A5 and
A6 of the Project
(7)  Interest and other              3,200,000         Amounts due
charges on the Loan
accrued on or be-
fore May 14, 1980
(8)  Unallocated                     5,300,000
TOTAL        20,0000


﻿16
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule the term "foreign expenditures" means
expenditures for goods or services supplied from, the territory, and in the currency,
of any country other than the Borrower; provided, however, that if the currency
of the Borrower is also that of another country from the territory of which goods
or services are supplied, expenditures in such currency for such goods or services
shall be deemed to be "foreign expenditures".
3.    The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compliance with the
policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan shall be disbursed on account
of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods
or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if any event occurs which shall affect the amount of any such taxes
included in the cost of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan,
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, correspondingly adjust the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such item.
4.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or the disbursement
percentages set forth in the table in paragraph 1 above, if the Bank has reasonably
estimated that the amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category,
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category to the
extent required to meet the estimated shortfall proceeds of the Loan which are
then allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are
not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) except in respect of expenditures
under Category (1), if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order
that further withdrawals under such Category may continue until all expenditures
thereunder shall have been made.
6.    If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the procurement of any
item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to
in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or limiting
any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan Agreement, by
notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Loan as in the Bank's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿17
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The purpose of the Project is (i) the establishment and the bringing into
production of about 26,500 ha of cocoa by farmers, including about 9,500 ha
divided in about 76 blocks composed of individual plots, in the SATMACI zones
of Daloa, Issia, Gagnoa, Divo, Oume, Man, Danane, the southern part of
Abengourou and a large block in Agboville, where the Cocoa Development Projects
shall be limited to 3 ha per farmer, and (ii) the maintenance until entry into
production of about 14,200 ha planted under the First Cocoa Project. The Project
consists of the following parts:
A.    1.    Carrying out of soil surveys and mapping of the plantations;
2.    Provision of suprvisory, extension services and technical assistance to
cooperatives;
3.    Construction of offices and housing for personnel performing above
services, of zonal warehouses for storage of inputs;
4.    Construction of about 76 warehouses on the blocks;
5.    Purchase and utilization of vehicles and equipment for extension
personnel;
6.    Training and training facilities for extension personnel; and
7.    Purchase and utilization of tractors and trailers for the blocks for the
transportation of planting materials during the year of planting.
B.    Provision of hybrid seeds.
C.    1.    Construction of about 270 km of access roads and rehabilitation of
about 60 km of existing access roads.
2.    Land clearing for the construction of centers in the blocks.
3.    Construction of about 146 wells.
D.    I.    A study to develop recommendations for the reorganization of credit
to farmers and the preparation of a curriculum for training of credit
officers.


﻿18
2.    An evaluation of the First Cocoa Project.
E.    Making of sub-loans to Beneficiaries for:
1.    The cost of fertilizers, sprayers and insecticides requir-,d for the
purpose of the Cocoa Development Projects;
2.    The purchase of the warehouses provided under Part A4 of the Project.
3.    The use of tractors and trailers provided under Part A7 of the Project
and SATMACI's transportation services.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 198 1.


﻿19
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                                (expressed in dollars)*
May 15, 1980                                            355,000
November 15, 1980                                       370,000
May 15, 1981                                            385,000
November 15, 1981                                       400,000
May 15, 1982                                            415,000
November 15, 1982                                       435,000
May 15, 1983                                            450,000
November 15, 1983                                       470,000
May 15, 1984                                            490,000
November 15, 1984                                       510,000
May 15, 1985                                            530,000
November 15, 1985                                       550,000
May 15, 1986                                            570,000
November 15, 1986                                       595,000
May 15, 1987                                            620,000
November 15, 1987                                       640,000
May 15, 1988                                            670,000
November 15, 1988                                       695,000
May 15, 1989                                            720,000
November 15, 1989                                       750,000
May 15, 1990                                            780,000
November 15, 1990                                       815,000
May 15, 1991                                            845,000
November 15, 1991                                       880,000
May 15, 1992                                            915,000
November 15, 1992                                       950,000
May 15, 1993                                            990,000
November 15, 1993                                     1,030,000
May 15, 1994                                          1,070,000
November 15, 1994                                     1,105,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a currency other
than dollars (see General Conditions, Section 4.02), the figures in this column
represent dollar equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿20
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums payable on
repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the principal amount of the
Loan pursuant to Section 3.05(b) of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                                 Premium
Not more than three years                            1-1/4%
before maturity
More than three years but                                2%
not more than six
years before maturity
More than six years but not                          3-3/4%
more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but                           5-3/4%
not more than sixteen
years before maturity
More than sixteen years but                              7%
not more than eighteen
years before maturity
More than eighteen years                                 8%
before maturity


﻿21
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.    General Procedures
1.    Except as provided in Part A.3 hereof, contracts for fertilizers, insecticides,
sprayers, vehicles and equipment shall be let under procedures consistent with those
set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in April 1972, as revised in October 1972
(hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bidding.
2.    The goods referred to in paragraph I shall be grouped so as to permit bulk
procurement consistent with appropriate technical and procurement practices.
3.    Contracts for such goods not exceeding $50,000 equivalent may be procured
locally, provided, however, that (i) in such event and unless the Bank shall otherwise
agree, procurement shall be made on the basis of at least three quotations and
(ii) the aggregate amount of all goods to be so procured shall not exceed $300,000
equivalent.
B.    Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for Domestic
Manufacturers
1.    For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the supply of
goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry)
price for imported goods, or the ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured
goods; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales
and similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded; and (iii) the
cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the
delivery of goods to the place of their use or installation shall be included.
2.    Goods manufactured in the Republic of the Ivory Coast may be granted
a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
(a)   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall clearly
indicate any preference which will be granted, the information required to establish
the eligibility of a bid for such preference and the following methods and stages
that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b)   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the
following three groups:


﻿22
(1)   Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in the Republic of
the Ivory Coast if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction  of the  Borrower and   the  Bank  that the
manufacturing cost of such goods includes a value added in the
Republic of the Ivory Coast equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2)   Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured in the
Republic of the Ivory Coast.
(3)   Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c)  All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared among
themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import taxes on goods to be
imported and any sales or similar taxes on goods to be supplied domestically, to
determine the lowest evaluated bid of each group. The lowest evaluated bid of
each group shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
(d)   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) above, the lowest
bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall be further compared with the
lowest evaluated bid from group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the
imported goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs duties and other
import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the importation
of the goods offered in such group C bid, or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of
such goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group
A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award;
if not, the lowest evaluated bid from group C shall be selected.
C.   Procurement Without Contracting
Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, (i) civil works under Part Cl and
C2 of the Project shall be carried out by the SODEPALM road unit under terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank and (ii) civil works under Part C3 of the
Project shall be carried out by the Bandama Valley Authority under terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by Bank
1.   Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:


﻿23
With respect to all contracts for the goods referred to in A. 1 estimated
to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more:
(a)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, for
its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and other
bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures to
be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Bank's concurrence before
it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b)   Promptly after the bids have been received, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the names of the bidders and the respective amounts of the bids.
(c)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Bank of the name of the bidder
to which it intends to award the contract and the reasons for the intended award
and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report
on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together with the
recommendation for award and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the intended award would be
inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for such determination.
(d)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the Bank's
concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked or
prequalification invited.
(e)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the Bank
promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such
contract.
2.    With respect to each contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank, promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect
of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with the analysis
of bids, recommendations for award and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the contract
was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the
Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.


﻿24
SCHEDULE 5
SATMACI's Lending Program under
Part E of the Project
1.   Equipment and materials
Beneficiaries shall receive credit not exceeding CFAF 11,000 per ha for the
cost of insecticides and sprayers necessary during the four years commencing with
the first year of cocoa planting.
Beneficiaries in the SATMACI zones of Gagnoa, Issia, Man and Danane shall
receive credit for the cost of fertilizer necessary during the year of cocoa planting
not exceeding CFAF8,800 per ha.
2.    Warehouses
Beneficiaries within each block shall receive credit for the cost of the
warehouse provided in each such block under Part A4 of the Project and shall
repay such credit to SATMACI through the cooperatives in proportion to the area
they cultivate in that block.
3.    Transportation services
Beneficiaries shall receive credit for their use of tractors and trailers provided
to SATMACI under Part A7 of the Project and SATMACI's transportation services.
4.    Terms and conditions of Sub-loans provided
under paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 above
Sub-loan agreements shall include the following provisions:
(a)   the principal amount outstanding of each Sub-loan shall bear interest
at the rate of 8% per annum;
(b)   interest shall be added to the principal amount of the Sub-loan during
the grace period referred to in (c);
(c)   the Beneficiary shall repay the Sub-loan over a period of eight years
including a grace period of four years;


﻿25
(d)  the repayment of principal of, and payment of interest and other
charges on, Sub-loans shall be in CFAF; and
(e)   the proceeds of Sub-loans shall be used exclusively for the carrying
out of Cocoa Development Projects.


