DocumentOf    FILE Copy
The World Bank
FOR OFmICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2410-TH
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE
KINGDOM OF THAILAND
FOR THE
NORTHERN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
May 30, 1979
This document ha a restrited istibutm and may be ued by recipients oiy In the peormane of
their oscial dus. Its coutes my s  sherwibe be discloe widhut Wold BDk auhoriation.



GLOSSARY
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1              =  B 20.00
Baht (B)         -  US$0.5
Baht (B) million = US$50,000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
1 kilogram (kg)                     2.20 pounds
1 metric ton (1,000 kg) (ton)  =   0.98 long tons
1 meter (m)                     =   39.4 inches
1 kilometer (km)                =   0.62 miles
1 hectare (ha)                  =   2.47 acres; 6.25 rai
1 square kilometer (sq km)      =   0.39 square miles
1 cubic meter (cu m)            =   35.3 cubic feet
1 liter                         =   0.26 gallons
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BAAC   -  Bank for Agriculture and Agricultural Cooperatives
CCPDB  -  Central Changwat Development Planning Board
DOAE   - Department of Agricultural Extension
EGAT   - Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand
FAO    -  Food and Agriculture Organization
HTWD   -  Hill Tribe Welfare Division
LDD    - Land Development Department
MOAC   -  Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives
MOI    -  Ministry of Interior
NESDB  -  The National Economic and Social Development Board
OUSMA  -  Office of the Under Secretary of State, Ministry of Agricul-
ture and Cooperatives
OUSMI -  Office of the Under Secretary of State, Ministry of Interior
PWD    -  Public Welfare Department
RFD    -  Royal Forestry Department
RTG    -  Royal Thai Government
TALD   -  Thai-Australian Land Development Project
WMD    -  Watershed Management Division
THAI FISCAL YEAR
October 1 - September 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THAILAND
NORTHERN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Development Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:       Kingdom of Thailand
Amount:          $25 million equivalent
Terms:           Standard
Project
Description:  The proposed project would address two of the major issues
confronting Thailand, namely, the growing scarcity of arable
land and the lack of full participation of low income families
in the benefits of development. The project is also designed
to arrest the rapid depletion of forest and soil resources, to
the benefit of downstream agriculture as well as project
participants. The primary mechanism for achieving these goals
would be the introduction of stable agriculture, involving
appropriate soil and water conservation measures, in place of
shifting agriculture, resulting in higher yields and production
and substantially reduced soil erosion and forest destruction.
The project also provides for: (a) evaluation and strengthen-
ing of planning and development management capabilities at
the provincial and lower levels; (b) short-term consultancy
services for identifying and preparing high priority develop-
ment projects; and (c) small-scale pilot operations, mainly
for agricultural development in rainfed areas of the North and
the Northeast. Major benefits accruing from this project will
be (a) increased incomes of some 21,500 poor families in the
upper North Region resulting from incremental production of
agriculture and forestry products; (b) resource conservation;
and (c) institution-building.
As a first project of this type on the scale proposed in an
area where neither the Bank Group nor the Thai Government has
supported a large systematic development effort before, this
project has risks of a technical, economic and institutional
nature. These risks relate in particular to allocation of
land for agriculture, adoption of proposed technology packages
and adequate institutional commitment, coordination and
efficiency.
This documnent has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Cost:                                          ----- $ million -----
Local  Foreign  Total
Upland Development                  8.17    5.45   13.62
Highland Development                8.28    2.54   10.82
Monitoring and Evaluation           0.07    0.04    0.11
Provincial Planning                 1.00    1.00    2.00
Project Preparation                 1.50    1.50    3.00
Pilot Operations                    3.90    2.10    6.00
Total Base Costs              22.92   12.63   35.55
Contingencies
Physical                       0.68    0.49    1.17
Price                          6.47    4.30   10.77
Total Project Costs           30.07   17.42   47.49 /a
Financing Plan:                                         ----- $ million…
Local  Foreign  Total
Thai Government                   21.25      -     21.25
Australia                           -       0.90    0.90
United Kingdom                      -       0.34    0.34
IDA                                8.82   16.18   25.00
Total                        30.07   17.42   47.49
Estimated Disbursements
from IDA Credit:               ------------------- $ million -------------------
IDA FY:  1980   1981   1982   1983    1984    1985    1986
Annual         0.9    2.3    3.3    4.8       5.6      6.0     2.1
Cumulative    0.9    3.2    6.5   11.3    16.9    22.9    25.0
Rate of Return:    13% lb
Appraisal Report: No. 2269-TH, dated May 15, 1979.
/a Include taxes of $5.2 million.
/b Excludes Provincial Planning, Project Preparation, and Pilot Operations
(23% of total costs).



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMIENT CREDIT TO THE KINGDOM OF THAILAND
FOR THE NORTHERN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.         I submit the following report and recommendation on the proposed
development credit to the Kingdom of Thailand on standard terms for an amount
in various currencies equivalent to $25 million to help finance the Northern
Agricultural Development Project. Additional grant financing of about $1.2 mil-
lion equivalent is expected to be available from the Governments of Australia
and the UJnited Kingdom.
PART I - THE ECONOMY /1
2.         A Basic Economic Report entitled "Thailand - Toward a Strategy of
Full Participation" (2059-TH) was distributed to the Executive Directors on
September 18, 1978. The Report forges a link between the overall development
of the economy and the extent and incidence of poverty. It concludes that
Thailand's rapid economic growth over the past 15 years has led to a signifi-
cant reduction in absolute poverty, but that nevertheless important groups
have lagged behind. It identifies the essential characteristics of these
groups and points to the need for continued rapid overall development as well
as the initiation of specific measures to deal with the poverty problem,
particularly in rural areas. It further discusses the constraints that will
have to be faced if these policies are to be successfully implemented.
Country data are given in Annex I.
Recent Political Developments
3.         Despite frequent changes at the top levels of government, there is
a fundamental stability in Thai society and the bureaucracy. Recent changes
in governments have mainly reflected differences in view about Thailand's
external relations and on the political decision-making process within the
country and not fundamental differences about the social or economic system.
The civilian government formed in November 1977 under the Prime Ministership
of General Kriangsak Chomanan, then Commander in Chief of the Army, moved
successfully to consolidate Thailand's external position by improving and
stabilizing relations with Thailand's Indochinese neighbors and by strengthen-
ing relations among its ASEAN partners. The constitutional assembly under the
interim constitution completed its work and a new constitution was promulgated
in December 1978. [Elections were held on April 22, 1979, and it is expected
that General Kriangsak will continue in office as Prime Minister. The relative
/1 Parts I and II of this report are essentially the same as those contained
in the recent President's Report (No. P2536-TH), dated May 9, 1979)
for the Fifth Education Project in Thailand, distributed to the Executive
Directors on Mlay 10, 1979 under cover of Secretary's Memorandum IDA/R79-48
and approved on May 22, 1979.



- 2 -
strengths of the political parties in the election will determine the exact
makeup and orientation of the new Government. It is unlikely, however, that
the results of the election will impair the country's political stability
or reduce its commitment to poverty alleviation and reduction of income
disparities.]
4.        A broad concensus has been developing over the last several years on
the priorities for socioeconomic development, and all recent governments have
endorsed the objectives and major strategies of the country's Fourth Five-Year
National Economic and Social Development Plan (1977-81). There is now increas-
ing concern to achieve a widespread distribution of the benefits from growth.
In the past several years the Government has initiated efforts to increase the
flow of public resources to the poor rural areas, including the Tambon program
of direct transfers to villages in 1976, the drought relief program in 1977,
and the flood relief program in 1978. All these programs have been designed
to produce quick and visible results, the latter two in response to specific
crises, but they were also aimed at increasing production capacity in rural
areas and demonstrating the concern of the Central Government for the plight
of the rural population. When the new Government is installed for a four-year
term, it will be in a better position to pursue more long-term solutions as
well. There is an increasing realization that an improvement in the conditions
of the poorest farmers and those living in the more remote areas is not only
desirable in itself, but would also counteract political instability and
insurgency in the long run.
Past Socioeconomic Trends and Recent Changes
5.        Thailand's economic performance since 1960 has been good.  Although
there was some deceleration in recent years, the average annual real GDP growth
rate from 1960 to 1978 was 7.5%, or about 4.4% per capita. Real agricultural
growth of 5% was a leading factor sustaining this expansion. The cultivated
area increased by about 4% per year, water control was improved, irrigation
expanded and the cultivation of relatively new crops including maize, cassava,
kenaf, sugar and rubber grew rapidly. As a result, agriculture has also been
a major contributor to export growth. The Government maintained economic and
price stability throughout the period and encouraged private savings and
investment. As a share of GDP, domestic savings fluctuated between 19% and
24%, and total investment between 20% and 27%. The high level of private
investment contributed to a real industrial growth of 10% and a real growth
of manufactured exports of 30% per year since 1970. All this was achieved
with a limited inflow of foreign resources; until recently the resource gap
remained below 5% of GDP, and in most years it was considerably smaller.
6.        The growth in incomes has, however, not been evenly distributed
throughout the country and at present there are very significant regional
differentials in incomes and access to economic and social infrastructure.
While the regions are very different in terms of topography, climate, soils,
urbanization, etc., and present quite distinct problems for future development,
there appears to be a close correlation between development and proximity to
the center. The Central Region, including Bangkok, has the highest average
per capita income and is better served by roads, telecommunications, schools,
public health and other services than the other three regions, the North,



Northeast and South. The incidence of poverty is estimated at only around
10% in the Center, around 25% in the North and South, and around 35% in the
Northeast. Within the regions there is also considerable variation: farmers
who have diversified into cash crops have generally enjoyed substantial
growth in real incomes while the incomes of those who have been unable or
unwilling to shift out of subsistence rice culture have stagnated. This
is most conspicuously the case of the rainfed rice farmers in the Northeast
and North. Since there is a well-functioning labor market, the low incomes of
this large group have tended to depress unskilled wages throughout the economy.
7.        Overall, the rate of GDP growth declined in the 1970s to 7.1% p.a.
compared to 8.3% in the 1960s. In addition to external factors (the oil price
increase and its aftermath), the major domestic factor responsible for this
deceleration is the increasing scarcity of land. Production has been pushed
into less fertile soils causing a decline in the rate of agricultural growth
to about 4.6% p.a. since 1970, compared to 5.7% in the 1960s. During 1973 and
part of 1974, this secular deceleration was hidden by very high prices for
Thailand's main export products and a domestic investment boom. This was
accompanied by rapid domestic inflation, which led the Government to curtail
sharply the public investment program in 1974 and 1975. Price stability has
largely been restored and private domestic investment remains high at 17-18%
of GDP. The economy expanded rapidly in 1978 and inflation again threatens
to become a serious problem. The economy has demonstrated considerable
resiliency in the face of external shocks and the political uncertainty that
has existed in Southeast Asia for the past decade. The real GDP growth rate
never fell below 5% and exceeded 7% since 1975.
8.        Thailand's terms of trade and agricultural export prospects are now
less favorable than in the early 1970s. Thailand is facing severe restrictions
on two of its major exports to the European Economic Community, cassava and
canned pineapple, and its sugar exports are limited by the International
Sugar Agreement. The balance of payments, which recorded surpluses in
1973-74, has since been running large deficits. The current account deficit
reached $1,241 million, or 6% of GDP in 1978. The Government has significantly
increased its foreign borrowing from traditional sources, from the Eurodollar
market and from the IMF to finance these deficits. Foreign exchange reserves
have also been used extensively. To contain the balance of payments deficit,
the Government, in March 1978, raised tariffs on 141 "nonessential" imports
and increased excise taxes on a number of items, most notably gasoline. It
raised the gasoline price again in February 1979 and started an energy
conservation program to try to contain the oil import bill.
Objectives, Constraints and Prospects
9.        Thailand is currently in the third year of its Fourth Five-Year
Development Plan (1977-81). The first two Plans concentrated on providing
necessary economic infrastructure to facilitate and accommodate the rapid
growth that was taking place in the economy. The strategy proposed in the
Third Plan moved beyond the previous Plans to "alleviate problems related to
the widening income gap and inequitable distribution of social services."
However, actual budgetary allocations have not always reflected these priori-
ties, and there has not been a major shift in expenditure patterns.   The



concentration of senior staff of the ministries in Bangkok and the high degree
of centralization of authority at the departmental level have been major
factors impeding reallocation of resources. There is little regional delegation
of authority, and the close cooperation within and among ministries necessary
to implement poverty-oriented development projects has been lacking. These
problems have been recognized and the Government is implementing a number of
long- and short-term measures to modernize its development administration and
expedite project execution, including a major reform in 1976 of the civil
service personnel, planning and staffing procedures, establishment of special
project committees, and implementation of a revolving fund scheme to speed
implementation of Bank-funded projects. Continued improvement in development
management is one of the principal objectives of our policy dialogue with the
Government.
10.       The Fourth Plan continues the shift in emphasis started in the Third
Plan. Its principal objectives are achieving 7% real growth, equitable
distribution of income, reduction in the rate of population growth, faster
generation of employment opportunities and balanced regional development.
Projected public sector development expenditures amount to $12.5 billion for
the Plan period, a 90% increase in real terms over the Third Plan. However,
the Plan addresses sectoral issues and strategies only in broad terms, and
concrete policies and programs to meet the Plan's economic and social objectives
remain largely to be defined. The Bank and agencies of the Government are
undertaking a number of studies to help the Government define policies and
programs to help achieve the Fourth Plan objectives. These studies are
focusing on problems of employment, income distribution, industrial policy,
and regional development. The Bank will be supporting a Provincial Planning
program, and the National Economic and Social Development Board (NESDB) has
just initiated a New Village Development Program, designed to involve all
levels in the determination and implementation of small-scale projects,
initially in the poorest villages. Japan has committed some $70 million to
support the first two years of this program.
II.       In looking ahead towards the 1980s, it is clear that many of the
positive features which helped sustain a rapid rate of economic growth
over the past two decades will continue to contribute to future growth:
a relatively equitable distribution of rural land, responsiveness of Thai
farmers to improved technology, extensive, albeit uneven, provision of
infrastructure by the Thai Government, and the dynamism of the private sector
in both industry and agriculture.  Also major gains have been made in family
planning in recent years, slowing the annual rate of population growth from 3%
during the 1960s to 2.5% in 1977./i The target for 1981 is 2.1%.
12.       However, some less favorable domestic factors are emerging.  As a
result of very rapid population growth in the recent past, the labor force is
expected to grow at 3% over the next decade, necessitating a very high rate of
job creation. Past growth has benefited some households a great deal and
others not at all, creating increasingly obvious income disparities that could
threaten the social cohesion of the country. At the same time, additional
fertile land, which has provided a livelihood for new entrants into the labor
/1 This is a further decline from the 2.9% average growth recorded in
Annex I for the period 1970-76.



- 5 -
force and has supported agricultural export growth in the past, is becoming
increasingly scarce. In view of these factors, continued reliance on the past
pattern of development would lead to a deceleration of agricultural and
overall growth in the next decade, resulting in persistently large balance of
payments dei,cits, higher rates of unemployment or underemployment, and
stagnating or declining real incomes of the poorer segments of the population,
especially in rural areas and among unskilled workers. Thus, a shift in the
development pattern is necessary not only for social but also for economic
reasons.
13.       The key development issue in Thailand is how to shift the economy
from a pattern of growth based on the extension of land under cultivation and
on import-substitution industries to one based on increasingly intensive use
of land and on industries producing for domestic and export markets under
competitive conditions. Effective policies and programs will be necessary to
ensure that economic growth is maintained and income disparities reduced, or
at least not widened during this period of transition. In the past, the
Government's role has been confined to largely short-term economic management,
where its performance has been good, and to the provision of basic economic
and social services. In order to achieve a relatively smooth transition, the
Government will now have to undertake more coordinated and longer-term actions.
14.       Agriculture will continue to be a crucial sector since it directly
generates 30% of GDP, provides about 65% of exports, employs 70% of the labor
force, and provides a livelihood for 90% of Thailand's poor. Future growth of
the sector will have to be based on more intensive utilization of cultivated
areas, improvement in yields, continued diversification of crops, improved
cropping patterns and farming practices, and the availability of agricultural
credit. All of these imply an increased government role in the rural sector.
As a matter of high priority, special programs will have to be employed to
accelerate income growth for those who have not fully participated in the
recent growth in rural income. These programs should aid the development of
upland and rainfed lowland areas through research, extension services and
rural infrastructure development. In addition, wherever technically feasible,
irrigation development, with the associated introduction of high-yielding
varieties, greater use of fertilizers and other commercial inputs should be
continued. The Bank's lending program is being reoriented to support these
efforts (see para. 22).
15.       While growth in the agricultural sector may be expected to remain
fairly rapid for some time to come, the burden of sustaining future growth
will have to shift progressively to the industrial sector. Industry, construc-
tion and services will have to provide an increasing share of employment for
the growing population. This will require modifications of industrial policy
and programs with the prime objective of creating jobs for the rapidly growing
labor force at rising levels of productivity and wages. Greater effort will
be required to encourage the location of industries outside Bangkok and to
promote small-scale and rural industries. While continued rapid growth of
manufactured exports is essential, the large domestic rural population also
offers market opportunities for a balanced industrial growth strategy based on
production of low-income consumer goods, agricultural inputs and equipment for
local use, and processed agricultural products for urban consumption and



- 6 -
export. Our policy dialogue will concentrate on efforts to reduce price
distortions, increase the availability of credit, and eliminate impediments to
efficient production for domestic and foreign markets so that the dynamic
private sector can realize its potential for spurring growth and creating
jobs.
16.       The Consultative Group for Thailand met in Paris on December 5 and 6,
1978, under the chairmanship of the Regional Vice President for East Asia and
the Pacific. The Group noted with satisfaction the positive results of past
development efforts in Thailand as summarized in the recently issued economic
report (2059-TH). The Group also supported the conclusions of the report and
of the analysis of the Thai delegation, led by the Minister of Finance, that
major new efforts were needed to reduce the incidence of poverty and to
maintain the past rates of growth. Programs to accelerate rural development,
raise productivity, and thereby accelerate poverty alleviation were called for
as the first priority. In addition, it was recognized that expanding industrial
production along the lines of Thailand's comparative advantage was essential
to the country's long-term prospects. The Thai delegation presented the New
Village Development Program to the donors and it was favorably received.
Resource Requirements
17.       The implementation of policies needed for a satisfactory rate
of economic and social progress will necessitate a steady increase in public
expenditures over the next few years. This will require much greater efforts
to mobilize both domestic and external resources than in the past. Government
domestic revenue as a percentage of GDP (15.5% for 1974-78) is low compared to
other developing countries at similar levels of development due to low tax
rates, high exemptions and a somewhat below-average rate of compliance. The
Government has achieved a modest improvement in resource mobilization through
revision of the tax structure and income and better collection efforts. It is
currently investigating other more administratively efficient tax systems,
such as the value added tax. Such changes would also make it feasible to
reduce taxation of foreign trade, particularly on rice and other exports,
which has inhibited agricultural growth.
18.       During the coming 5-10 years, there will be significantly greater
demands on external resources than has been the case in the past as the cost
of any attempt to reduce the presently existing resource deficit rapidly would
be high in terms of growth and employment opportunities foregone. Despite an
average real growth of exports in excess of 8% and a modest improvement in the
terms of trade, large trade and current account deficits are expected through
the mid-1980s. The needs for capital goods imports for industry and for
modern inputs to raise agricultural productivity are such that the current
deficit is not expected to decline rapidly. In the longer term, the exploita-
tion of the natural gas fields in the Gulf of Thailand, further development of
its lignite resources, the continued growth of manufactured exports and the
development of Thai industries should restore external equilibrium and sig-
nificantly reduce the current account deficits in the second half of the
1980s. Although the levels of foreign borrowing needed to finance these
deficits are high in relation to Thailand's past experience, they are not high
in relation to the current needs of the Thai economy or in comparison to other



countries at similar stages of development. With a dynamic private sector and
a long history of conservative monetary and fiscal policy, Thailand should be
able to use the resources effectively and service the debt.
19.       Official donors, particularly Japan and the development banks, have
been expanding their programs to meet a part of the rising requirements.
The rest has been financed in the Eurodollar market and bond markets, and
by the utilization of IMF resources for 1978/79, totalling about $200 million.
The Government has established a Foreign Loan Policy Committee to coordinate
and approve all foreign borrowing by the Government and public sector. The
Bank of Thailand is establishing procedures for recording private borrowing
abroad in order to keep track of total foreign debt. Thailand's external
public borrowing requirements to the end of the Fourth Plan period (1981) and
the level of concessionality were reviewed at the last Consultative Group
meeting. It was agreed that, although high, the aid requirements were consis-
tent with Thailand's development strategy and sustainable for the economy.
The need for continued substantial support on concessional terms was emphasized.
It therefore seems appropriate to include a limited amount of IDA credits in
the Bank Group's lending to Thailand. In addition, external agencies, including
the Bank Group, have in recent years increasingly concentrated project lending
to Thailand in the agricultural and social sectors that have high social
benefits but low foreign exchange components. To achieve the higher level of
external resource transfer that is now required, it is necessary, in selected
projects when the foreign exchange component is low, to finance some local
currency expenditures.
20.       It is likely that by 1985, net disbursements will more than double
in current terms for both public and publicly guaranteed borrowing and private
borrowing, although in real terms the growth is much less. Even with this
increase in borrowing, the debt service ratio on public debt (3.8% in 1977)
should remain below 10% through 1985 and decline thereafter. The debt service
ratio on total civilian borrowing, public and private, currently about 15%,
should not exceed 20%. IBRD exposure in Thailand will fall as other donors
increase their programs. Given the diversification of Thai commodity exports
and the rapid expansion of manufactured exports, these debt service requirements
will be within Thailand's capacity and will not endanger its credit standing.
It should be noted, however, that these projections assume a significant level
of concessional assistance from other donors, particularly Japan, in view of
that country's announced intention to expand its foreigrn aid program.
PART II - WORLD BANK OPERATIONS IN THAILAND
21.       Thailand first borrowed from the Bank in 1950 and, as of April 30,
1979, has received 51 loans amounting to about $1,406 million, net of cancel-
lations. Most of these have been for transportation ($330.0 million), irri-
gation ($218.8 million) and power/energy and rural electrification ($325.0 mil-
lion) with, in addition, one for a dual-purpose power and irrigation project
($65.8 million). The remaining loans have been for telecommunications ($153 mil-
lion); agriculture and rural development ($104 million); urban development
($79.6 million); education ($87.0 million); and industry ($42.5 million); two
loans were made under the terms of the Interest Subsidy Fund. Thailand has



- 8 -
also received four IDA credits: one for $19.5 million for an education
project; two credits totaling $12.5 million for irrigation improvement; and
one credit of $33.1 million for a population project. In general, Bank
Group-financed projects have been carried out satisfactorily and in accordance
with expectations. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA
credits and IFC investments as well as notes on the executiol. of ongoing
projects as of April 30, 1979.
22.       Over the past five years, the Bank has shifted its lending to
Thailand from a program dominated by investments in traditional infrastructure
projects (accounting for over 80% of the lending through FY74) to a program
which places increasing emphasis on assisting the Government's efforts to
reach the poorer segments of its population more directly. Since FY75,
investments in transportation, power, water supply, telecommunications
and industry have accounted for only about 40% of Bank Group lending and more
than half of these, in dollar terms, were for projects specifically designed
to benefit the rural population. The proportion of Bank lending to the
agricultural/rural development sector has trebled, accounting for about 45%
of lending operations since FY75. The design of projects in this sector has
also changed, from exclusively large irrigation projects to a program balanced
between irrigation (including land development and support services to the
farmer) and a variety of innovative projects to assist farmers outside the
central flood plain (rubber replanting, livestock, agriculture extension,
research and rural development). Projects in the social sectors which, prior
to FY75, were limited to three in education, accounting for 6% of the program,
have both diversified and grown; such projects have in recent years included
education, population and low-income housing for about 13% of the program.
23.       The findings of the recent Basic Economic Report not only verify
the appropriateness of the shift mentioned above, but also underscore the
need to move even further to design programs which help the rural population,
particularly those farmers in rainfed areas who have so far been largely
bypassed by recent economic growth. In the agricultural sector, therefore,
the Bank is redoubling its efforts to develop an approach which will help to
lift the rainfed farmers out of a subsistence existence. A combination of
education, agricultural research and extension, credit and improved infrastruc-
ture is foreseen. However, the major problem is the absence so far of a
viable package for the poorest and most remote farmers has yet to be developed.
Expansion and improvement of irrigation systems will continue, with increased
emphasis on reaching those farmers with irrigation potential in the northern,
northeastern and southern regions. The program of transportation, electrifi-
cation, water supply and telecommunications projects will also continue to
have a rural focus. A key element of the strategy outlined in the Basic
Economic Report is the creation of jobs and stimulation of increased economic
activity away from Bangkok. The bulk of the Bank Group's urban and industrial
lending will, therefore, be directed to projects which enhance the attractive-
ness of regional urban centers as growth poles for their agricultural hinter-
lands. Selected projects in Bangkok will be aimed at strengthening agencies
providing services to the urban populace and the development of low-cost,
replicable programs to meet the demands of the dynamic urban sector, partic-
ularly the urban poor, without diverting scarce resources from other high-
priority development needs.



- 9 -
24.       The Bank's strategy of placing an increasing share of its program
into projects alleviating poverty and promoting rural development will
be difficult to execute without considerable technical assistance toward
project preparation. The Bank's regional mission in Bangkok will continue to
play a vital role in helping to identify and prepare such projects. Promoting
overall growth also has a high priority in Thailand and is a necessary element
in the poverty alleviation strategy. The resource requirements for infrastruc-
ture development are large and the Bank is concentrating its remaining funds
in projects where it can have a catalytic role in effecting policy changes,
mobilizing other resources, and directly facilitating growth in rural areas.
The Bank is also expanding its support of the industrial sector through its
economic and sector work as well as selected projects in order to help promote
industrial policy which favors more labor-intensive and dispersed activities to
complement Thailand's efforts in poverty alleviation and in reducing income
differentials in rural areas.
25.       Bank loans and IDA credits, disbursed and outstanding, amounted to
$365 million, as of December 31, 1977, representing about 38% of public
external debt (disbursed and outstanding). This is not excessive in view of
Thailand's modest overall public external debt (8.3% of GDP in 1978). In
addition, although the level of Bank commitments is expected to increase over
the next five years, the Bank Group's share is projected to decline below
30% of total public external debt by 1982. The Bank Group's share in total
debt outstanding would fall below 20%, and its share of total debt service
would not exceed 10%.
26.       As of April 30, 1979, IFC has made commitments totalling $83 mil-
lion in 10 projects in Thailand. IFC's activities have been primarily in
industry and in financial institutions development aimed at mobilizing domestic
resources and providing financing to smaller enterprises. Prospects for
increased IFC operations in Thailand have been enhanced by expanding private
sector investment activity. In addition, consultations with the Government
have identified several areas where IFC's assistance may be needed. These areas
include very large and complex projects such as a proposed sponge iron project
and a soda ash project to serve the ASEAN community; projects in the petroleum
and downstream petrochemical sector; and projects in the agricultural sector.
In addition, the Corporation expects to continue to help traditional manufac-
turing projects and to assist in financial institutions and money market
developments.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR AND THE UPPER NORTH
27.       About 80% of Thailand's population of 44 million reside in rural
areas. Although structural change in the Thai economy has been rapid in
recent years, agriculture (including fisheries and forestry) continues to
be the mainstay of the Thai economy (see para. 14). Much of the recent growth
in agriculture has come from an expansion of cultivated area as major crop
yields and cropping intensities have changed little on a national basis. Rice
has become relatively less important in agricultural value added (declining
from 51% in 1960 to 39% in 1975), while some upland crops, particularly maize
and cassava, have contributed larger shares to total output. Maize and



- 10-
cassava exports together are now almost double the value of rice exports.
The Government has adopted a policy of investing in infrastructure (roads,
water control, ports, electric power, etc.), while allowing relatively free
prices and a vigorous private sector to operate. Agricultural support services
such as research and extension had been, until recently, given less emphasis.
28.       Despite agriculture's overall good performance during the past
15 years, large numbers of the rural population remain poor in absolute terms.
Moreover, as readily accessible arable land reserves are exhausted, continued
rapid growth of this sector will be more difficult to maintain. The period
of easy accessibility to new land is rapidly drawing to a close and, in the
presence of continued growth of the rural population, the national average
farm size may already have begun to decline. It is estimated that a third of
all agricultural households (or nearly 9 million people) remain in absolute
poverty (defined as having incomes of no more than $99 per capita p.a.),
with many having had little or no improvement in real incomes since 1960.
About two thirds of all poverty households live in rural areas of the North
and Northeast where the major source of family livelihood is the growing of
low-yielding rice under rainfed conditions. It is in these areas where the
land constraint is increasingly severe, where physical infrastructure
is least adequate and where agricultural and social support services L.?nd to
be the weakest. It is also here that opportunities for nonfarm employment
are the poorest.
29.       In order to help ensure that there is full participation of all
socioeconomic groups in the future growth of the agricultural sector, it will
be necessary to develop appropriate policies and programs in several areas
and to alter certain institutional and administrative arrangements:
(a) Land Productivity. Because new land coming under cultivation
is increasingly of low-yield potential, the main source of increased
production must come from higher yields and cropping intensities.
This will require more effective agricultural support services such
as research and extension.
(b) Rainfed Agriculture. There is need to expand the Government's
efforts to develop rainfed agriculture, the subsector which presents
the most acute problems of poverty, low yields and natural resource
degradation, particularly in rice-growing areas. This requires
investment in road construction to improve accessibility of isolated
areas, soil and water conservation works, programs of applied
research and extension to meet the needs of farmers in different
ecological conditions and an accelerated program of land titling to
provide tenure security and the motivation to pursue more advanced
and less destructive cultural practices.
(c) Fertilizer. Fertilizer use in Thailand is relatively low as a result
of low product/fertilizer price ratios, irregular supplies, and the
lack of appropriate types of fertilizers. These conditions in
turn derive from the high cost, limited capacity characteristics of
the domestic fertilizer industry, and export taxes on certain crops,
particularly rice. The Government is in the process of formulating
a new fertilizer policy and the Bank is undertaking an analysis of
the fertilizer subsector.



- 11 -
(d) Natural Resource Management. A national policy and plan on land use
should be formulated, with efforts focussed on the North and
Northeast. Areas formally designated as forest areas but suitable
for agricultural development should be allocated to the latter use;
conversely, areas not presently reserved for forest development but
unsuited to agriculture should be allocated to forestry. Appropriate
water and soil conservation measures should be introduced to help
develop agriculture on marginal lands. The forest resources should
be managed in a way that increases production in the long run while
conserving water and soil resources affecting downstream agriculture.
(e) Agricultural Credit. Despite a considerable increase in institutional
credit available to agriculture, the small farmer in Thailand still
finds it difficult to obtain adequate production and investment
credit at reasonable terms. Credit requirements will continue to
grow with increased use of purchased inputs to improve production in
already cropped areas. Greater emphasis on lending to smaller
farmers will add to the costs of institutional credit programs.
(f) Government Institutions. A major constraint on Thailand's future
agricultural development is the lack of capacity for planning and
preparation of development projects, particularly at provincial
and lower levels, and of capacity for implementation and monitoring
development projects and more general supporting services. This is
due, in part, to the highly centralized nature of the Government as
well as the functional duplication and inadequate coordination
among government agencies. There is a particular need to define
more clearly the roles of various agencies involved in land develop-
ment, settlement and land reform.
The Upper North
30.       In the North region, the 10 northernmost provinces /1 comprise the
Upper North. This subregion covers about 20% of the country, yet the popula-
tion is only 12% of the total population (of which 94% live in rural areas),
contributing 8% of GDP. Only 10% of the region has relatively flat, fertile
plains; 30% is undulating uplands and the remaining 60% is mountainous. Some
farmers have access to irrigation, but the great majority cultivate under
basically rainfed conditions, and a typical holding is about 2 ha compared to
the national average of about 3.5 ha. Because of the scarcity of readily
cultivable land, many farmers practice slash-and-burn agriculture in the
uplands (slopeland ranging in altitude from about 250 m to 520 m).
31.       Average yields in the Upper North have been declining as a
result of the expansion into upland areas, but even within the uplands,
yields have been falling because of the decreasing fallow period caused by
rising population pressures. Since irrigation opportunities are limited,
/1 Mae Hong Son, Chiang Mai, Chiang Rai, Phayao, Nan, Phrae, Lampang,
Lamphun, Sukhothai and Uttardit.



- 12 -
increasing the intensity of land use would involve primarily a transformation
from shifting to stable agriculture in the upland areas. It is estimated
that about 500,000 ha of these areas could be developed for stable agriculture
with mechanical clearing and preparation of the land together with the use of
appropriate soil conservation measures, cropping patterns and fertilizers.
32.       The typical farmer in rainfed areas of the Upper North (represent-
ing 80% of agricultural households), has a net income of about $450 (1976
prices), of which 80% derives from the farm and 20% through off-farm employ-
ment. This is only 75% of the national typical farm income and is similar to
the income level of subsistence rice farmers in the Northeast. The income
level has increased only about 25% in real terms since the early 1960s,
primarily due to changes in relative prices of livestock. The relative
increase in the rice price did not benefit the typical farmer, in rainfed
areas, who does not produce a rice surplus.  The overall level of government
services in the Upper North (particularly in the rainfed areas) remains well
below the national average, partly because of difficult terrain and transpor-
tation conditions. Literacy rates are among the lowest in the country, and
the index of access of the typical farm household to secondary schools rates
somewhat above 80 in comparison with the national average at 100; access to
rural health centers at about 90 is comparatively better. In summary, the
typical farmer in rainfed areas of the Upper North is among the poorest in
the country.
33.       The Government recognizes the need to focus its assistance on these
low-income farmers in rainfed areas. In addition to the transfer of land from
forest to agricultural use and vice versa, security of land tenure must be
provided to tenant farmers to encourage their improvement of the land. Land
development programs will have to be supported with public funds because of
the long-term nature of the benefits, the accrual of indirect benefits to
downstream farmers (decreased flooding and reduced siltation of irrigation
works), and limitations of capital availability. Further research and pilot
operations are needed to develop a range of cropping systems and conservation
farming systems suited to the varying upland areas. Strengthened extension
services will be required to transfer technology to farmers, and improved
credit facilities must be made available to enable farmers to finance cash
inputs. Road access needs to be extended to permit the flow of goods and
services essential for development. Local government institutions must be
strengthened to facilitate a more accurate reflection of local needs, for
preparation of high priority projects, and to develop the capability for
preparation and implementation of programs at the local level. If actions
along the above lines are undertaken, such as in the proposed project,
which is the first of its type to be supported by the Bank, farm incomes
can be expected to rise by 50% or more over a period of 15 years, in contrast
to a possible decline without these efforts.



- 13 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project History
34.       The proposed project was prepared by the Government with the colla-
boration of the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Programme.  The upland and highland
development components were appraised in June/July 1978; preparation/appraisal
of the remaining components took place between November 1978 and January 1979.
Negotiations were held in Washington from April 23 to May 1, 1979.  The Govern-
ment delegation was headed by HE Klos Visessurakarn, Thailand's Ambassador
to the United States, with Dr. Bancherd Balankura, Director General, Land
Development Department of the Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives, as the
Deputy Head.
Project Objectives
35.       The principal objectives of the project are to:  (a) help raise the
standard of living of the rural poor in the upper North by increasing and
stabilizing farmer incomes and by providing minimal social services in highland
areas; (b) increase agricultural production through intensification involving
the progressive replacement of shifting agriculture with stable agriculture;
(c) conserve water, soil and forest resources; (d) demonstrate, on an expanded
scale, permanent rainfed conservation cropping systems which can be replicated
widely in suitable areas of the North; and (e) accelerate rural development by
assisting the Government in its program to decentralize planning and to
strengthen development management capabilities at the provincial and lower
levels, to identify and prepare future high priority projects, and to design
and implement pilot operations to test technology packages for rainfed areas
of the North and Northeast. The project would be implemented over a five-year
period in various sites in eight provinces of northern Thailand. Details are
provided in the Staff Appraisal Report entitled "THAILAND - Northern Agricultural
Development Project" (No. 2269-TH, dated May 15, 1979) which is being distri-
buted to the Executive Directors separately. Supplementary project data are
provided in Annex III.
36.       Under the proposed project, agriculture development in the upland
areas would represent basically an expansion of the ongoing Thai-Australian
Land Development Project (TALD), administered by the Land Development Depart-
ment (LDD) of the Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives (MOAC). Forestry
development would be modelled after the community forest activities of the
Royal Forestry Department (RFD). In highland areas, agriculture and social
development would be essentially an expansion of the Zonal Development
Program of the Public Welfare Department's (PWD) Hill Tribe Welfare Division
(HTWD). Forestry development in these areas would build on the experience
gained by the Watershed Management Division (WMD) of RFD in its watershed
management program.



- 14 -
Development of Upland Areas
37.       Farm Development.  The upland project areas, totalling 50,000 ha,
have soils of moderate natural fertility suitable for annual cropping with
appropriate soil and water conservation measures. These areas have been
subject to extensive shifting cultivation, but the TALD Project has demon-
strated that with the introduction of appropriate conservation works, improved
seed, fertilizer, mechanized land preparation, and improved cultivation
practices, stable agriculture can replace shifting agriculture with double
the yields. The proposed project will utilize the technology package which
has evolved under TALD and is now considered suitable for application on a
wider scale. About 15,000 ethnic Thai farmers are expected to participate in
and benefit from the upland agricultural component. This component includes a
land classification survey covering 50,000 ha; socioeconomic survey to identify
project beneficiaries; formation of farmer groups for increasing the efficiency
of land development, advisory services and credit activities; boundary survey
for preparing maps of sites to help farmers obtain titles; conservation works
surveys for about 30,000 ha; provision of specialized equipment for land
development; land clearing, root ripping, stick removal and construction of
contour banks as well as initial cultivation on 30,000 ha.
38.       Rural Infrastructure.  About 750 km equivalent of access tracks
will be constructed in the uplands to intersect with the existing network of
all-weather roads in the area. Design and layout of the tracks will be
undertaken by LDD and construction will be carried out by contractors. LDD
will arrange for the maintenance of tracks and conservation works during
the project period, while farmer groups will assume responsibility for main-
tenance thereafter, with LDD's guidance (Section 3.07(c) of the draft Develop-
ment Credit Agreement).
39.       Forestry.   Farmers participating in agricultural development will
also organize village woodlot associations and establish about 90 nurseries
and 90 woodlots covering a total of 4,050 ha. A typical village woodlot
association will include about 120 farm families and will establish a woodlot
of some 45 ha, sufficient to supply perhaps 80% of the families' fuelwood and
timber requirements. Each association will receive a set of simple fire-
fighting equipment and will construct 720 km of firelines and implement fire
control practices.
40.       Technical Services.  LDD will be strengthened to implement upland
agricultural and rural infrastructure development and, with the assistance of
RFD, upland forestry. A maximum of 120 additional professional staff are
required. LDD will help farmers obtain credit from the Bank of Agriculture
and Agricultural Cooperatives for improved seed, tractor services, and fertil-
izer and will provide them with the necessary assistance on conservation
farming systems (Section 4.03 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). LDD
will provide extension services to farmers for three years, in coordination
with the Department of Agricultural Extension, through village centers each
encompassing an average of 450 farmer beneficiaries (Section 3.07(a) and (b)
of the draft Development Credit Agreement). Under the guidance of RFD, LDD
will assist farmers in organizing village woodlot associations, establishing
nurseries and woodlots, and introducing fire control measures. In addition to
the advice received from RFD, LDD will be assisted by 5 consultants in various
aspects of land development and conservation farming systems. Consultants



- 15 -
will also be retained to assist in the expansion of LDD's implementation
capacity and in staff training, and vehicles will be provided to give it the
mobility it needs for regular contact with the project beneficiaries.
Development of Highland Areas
41.       Farm Development.  The highland project area consists of about
172,000 ha at an elevation above 500 meters. Soils in the valley bottoms and
footslopes will support annual cropping with suitable conservation measures.
Introduction of appropriate practices under the project will build on the
experience of the Zonal Development Program, developed over a period of some
15 years to assist the hill tribes in raising their standard of living.
Implementation of the Program is effected through teams of vocational school
graduates (agricultural, education, health and social workers) who are based
in key villages within about five hours' walk of their target group. At
present, there are about 185 teams serving 625 villages containing about
120,000 hill tribe people. On the basis of the confidence which has evolved
between the teams and the hill tribes, the latter have been encouraged to
begin to adopt stable agriculture and reduce their reliance on shifting
agriculture. Given this essential ingredient of trust, stable agriculture
incorporating appropriate conservation structures and the types of cropping
patterns foreseen for the proposed project can be established in the highland
areas. The proposed farm development component will cover about 6,500 farm
families living in the eight highland sites. It includes a land classification
survey of about 172,000 ha; a socioeconomic survey of the potential project
beneficiaries; establishment of about 160 small irrigation schemes covering
800 ha, primarily for rice production; and construction of about 1,300 ha of
bench terraces each for rainfed annual crops and planting of coffee.
42.       Land classification surveys will be undertaken by LDD to delineate
the zones within each site suitable for stable agriculture and those suitable
for forestry. The land designated by LDD as suitable for stable agriculture
will be allocated to that purpose promptly. HTWD will undertake a socioeconomic
survey and will register those families with established residence who qualify
as project beneficiaries, and RFD will issue land-use permits through PWD to
the heads of project beneficiary families. The Government has agreed to ensure
that LDD allocate promptly land suitable for stable agriculture and that RFD
issue land-use permits to project beneficiaries (Section 3.06 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).
43.       Rural Infrastructure.  Small social infrastructure works, consisting
primarily of some 80 schools and 32 health posts will be constructed by
villagers under the direction of HTWD. The schools will be used for both
primary and adult education, teaching basic literacy and arithmetic skills,
basic understanding of the environment, nutrition and personal hygiene, as
well as developing a sense of national identity. The health posts will be
established in 32 key villages to treat simple diseases, help control opium
addiction, and provide training in nutrition, hygiene and family planning.
These services will later be transferred to the concerned government agencies
(Section 3.08(a) of the draft Development Credit Agreement). About 500 km
equivalent of tracks will be constructed, under the responsibility of HTWD,
to provide access from the existing all-weather roads to areas to be developed



- 16 -
for stable agriculture. HTWD will ensure that the irrigation schemes, bench
terraces and access tracks are properly maintained (Section 3.08(b) of the
draft Development Credit Agreement).
44.       Highland Forestry.  Of the total area of 138,000 ha in the eight
highland project sites suitable for forestry development, 30% is under shifting
cultivation while 70% is partly degraded forest subject to continued encroach-
ment. During the project period, the transition from shifting to stable agri-
culture will release approximately 26,000 ha, of which 4,600 will be rehabili-
tated through establishing 56 nurseries, and planting 1,600 ha of broad leaf
species and about 3,000 ha of pine. In addition, about 3,000 ha of woodlots
will be planted on deforested land adjacent to villages with species suitable
both for fuelwood and timber. Protection activities will be focussed initially
on the rehabilitation plantations and village woodlots but eventually will be
extended to the entire area, and include construction of 1,730 km of firelines
and provision of simple firefighting equipment. Access tracks of about 345
km equivalent will be constructed to provide access to areas to be rehabili-
tated or developed for woodlots.
45.       Technical Services.  HTWD will be strengthened to manage the highland
agricultural and social development component. A maximum of 193 additional
professional staff are required. HTWD will ensure provision of adequate
planting material and fertilizer to farmers; provide agriculture, education,
and health services to farmers through key village centers (including a health
post), each serving an average of six villages and 200 farm families; and
retain and supervise contractors for the construction, rehabilitation and
maintenance of access tracks. Consultants will be retained to assist in the
expansion of HTWD's capacity in the strengthening of its capability in agricul-
ture, and in staff training, and necessary vehicles and equipment will be
provided. The Watershed Management Division (WMD) will be expanded to imple-
ment the highland forestry component, for which it will need a maximum of 23
additional professional staff. It will train farmers in fire control practices
and management of the woodlots. Consultants will be retained to assist with
the access tracks, and vehicles and equipment will be provided.
Monitoring and Evaluation
46.       Because of the nature of the problems to which the project is
addressed, and the lack of experience with this type of project on the
scale proposed, a substantial monitoring and evaluation effort is foreseen.
Information would be collected on inputs such as equipment, seeds, and
technician visits to farmers; on outputs such as the area of land developed,
the length of tracks constructed, and the number of woodlots constructed; and
on project impact on farm income, school enrollment, access/use of health
services, forest degradation, etc. The monitoring and evaluation system would
be designed by consultants retained by the National Economic and Social
Development Board (NESDB) and submitted to IDA for review (Section 3.02(b)
of the draft Development Credit Agreement). Information and data collection
on inputs, outputs and project impact will be undertaken by project staff of
LDD, IITWD and RFD.
Provincial Planning
47.       Over the past three years the Government has established provincial
planning units in each of the 71 provinces. These units which are staffed



- 17 -
by government officials with little planning expertise have prepared the
first plans for their respective provinces. However, the present arrangements
and capability for planning and project implementation at the provincial
level require substantial strengthening before larger volumes of financial
resources can be absorbed by provincial administrations for implementation of
rural development projects. The proposed credit includes $2 million for the
provincial planning component. Three inter-related elements are involved,
as follows:
(a) Training. A training program in project identification and prepar-
ation would be introduced for officials at provincial, district, and
subdistrict levels. Consultants would be retained to assist in the
design of the program, the training of trainers, and the implementa-
tion of the program (Section 3.02(c) of the draft Development Credit
Agreement). This effort would constitute an important step toward
expanding the absorptive capacity for development funds at the lower
levels of Government.
(b) Pilot Planning Studies. Pilot planning studies would be undertaken
in four representative provinces of the North and Northeast regions,
selected by the Government in consultation with IDA. A small team
of planning specialists will be engaged to work in close association
with the provincial planning units and the representatives of line
agencies at the provincial level (Section 3.02(c) of the draft
Development Credit Agreement). The pilot planning exercises would
(a) demonstrate the kinds of plans that can be produced and the
benefits to be achieved from improved planning; (b) assist in
identifying any critical institutional, data, staffing or technical
constraints which will need to be overcome; and (c) define more
clearly the future role and training requirements of provincial
planning offices. It is expected that such plans and similar
plans subsequently developed for other provinces would form the
basis of programs which could attract external financing.
(c) Evaluation of Provincial Planning. This study would include an
evaluation of the past performance of provincial planning units, a
review of existing provincial plans, and an examination of the
legal, institutional and procedural implications of greater devo-
lution of responsibility for development planning and coordination.
A group of planning experts and management consultants, drawn from
institutions familiar with provincial planning in Thailand, would
conduct this study and their recommendations will be submitted to
IDA for comments prior to the review by the Central Changwat Develop-
ment Planning Board (Section 3.02(c) of the draft Development Credit
Agreement).
Project Preparation
48.       Broad-based rural development has been constrained not only by
institutional problems such as the highly centralized administrative structure
but also by a failure to develop enough projects that benefit the poorer regions.
The project preparation capability of many agencies has been significantly
improved over the last few years but many of these agencies are concerned



- 18 -
with traditional infrastructure sectors. Technical assistance is still urgently
required in order to develop new projects which directly benefit the rural
poor. The project therefore would provide medium- and short-term consultant
services to identify and prepare high priority projects particularly in the
field of rural development (Section 3.02(c) of the draft Development Credit
Agreement). The proposed funds of $3 million would be used for the analysis
and detailed preparation of projects identified as a result of the provincial
planning process (para. 47) as well as to meet requests from line agencies and
public organizations for studies to identify and prepare high priority projects,
including some future projects likely to involve Bank assistance. Study areas
tentatively identified include preparation of rural infrastructure development
and of various aspects of rainfed agriculture, nonfarm employment, village
level development in the outer regions; review of agro-industrial potential in
the Northeast; and inland fisheries projects, etc. Provincial planning
offices and line departments will submit proposals for use of the funds to
NESDB. A Project Preparation Subcommittee will be appointed and will include
representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the Budget Bureau, MOI, MOAC and
the Civil Service Commission. After evaluating the proposals and reviewing
them with the Project Preparation Subcommittee to ensure consistency with the
Government's development priorities, NESDB will submit them to IDA for approval
prior to the allocation of funds.
Rainfed Agriculture - Pilot Operations
49.       Agricultural development under rainfed conditions poses difficult
technological problems. Some preliminary results are now coming forward from
ongoing research efforts in rainfed rice and upland crops being funded under
Credit 461-TH and Loan 1198-T-TH. However, more extensive farm level testing
is needed before widespread application by low-income farmers who themselves
have to carry the risks associated with such improved technologies. The
proposed credit includes $3.0 million to help finance small-scale pilot
operations, mainly for agricultural development in rainfed areas of the
North and Northeast, and will include farm level testing and development of
cropping improvements being generated by existing research programs. The
proposed type of pilot operations would introduce, in a small number of
districts, a package of alternative techniques and cropping patterns and
strengthen local input supply and marketing services.
50.       A second type of pilot operation will involve developing local water
management techniques in rainfed paddy areas. Much of the North and Northeast
of Thailand is characterized by erratic seasonal rainfall patterns. Extensive
areas of the Northeast are o_Ljrelatively low relief so that the capacity for
storage of water for irrigation is limited. Some steps have been taken to
develop shallow wells or farm ponds in such areas to allow some limited
supplemental wet or dry season irrigation. A more significant impact is
possible through minor watershed alterations to assist in directing runoff to
improve utilization of water in the wet season and, if feasible, increase
storage for dry season use. The project would provide technical assistance
for the design and execution of low-cost works in a limited number of typical
small watersheds in the North and Northeast regions (Section 3.02(c) of the
draft Development Credit Agreement).



- 19 -
Organization and Management
51.       Primary responsibilities for implementation of the project would
be as follows: LDD for upland agricultural and forestry development; PWD
for highland agricultural and social development; RFD for highland forestry
development; the Office of the Under Secretary of State, Ministry of the
Interior (OUSMI) for provincial planning; NESDB for monitoring and evaluation
and project preparation; and the Office of the Under Secretary of State,
Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives (OUSMA) for pilot operations in
rainfed agriculture. The design of the proposed project is such that the
individual components will, to a large extent, be implemented independently.
However, the coordination required will be effected by a Project Execution
Committee to be established not later than September 1, 1979 (Section 3.11 of
the draft Development Credit Agreement). This Committee is likely to include
representatives of MOAC, Ministry of Interior (MOI), Ministry of Finance, LDD,
PWD, RFD, NESDB, the Bank for Agriculture and Agricultural Cooperatives, the
Agriculture Land Reform Office, the Budget Bureau, the Civil Service Commission
and others that may be nominated. LDD, PWD and RFD will appoint a manager
for their project components in consultation with IDA and will increase their
project staff in accordance with a schedule agreed with the Association
(Section 3.10 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). Also, LDD, PWD,
RFD, OUSMI and OUSMA will prepare annual work programs which would be sent to
IDA for review not later than July 1 of each year (Section 3.05 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).
Project Cost and Financing
52.       The total project cost is estimated at $47.5 million, with a foreign
exchange component of $17.4 million (37%). Physical contingencies of 10% have
been added for civil works, materials and equipment, and price contingencies
representing 29% of total base cost plus physical contingencies have also been
added. Taxes of $5.2 million, or 11%, are included in project cost. The
proposed IDA credit of $25 million, equivalent to 59% of total project cost
net of taxes, will cover $16.2 million of the foreign exchange requirement and
$8.8 million of local cost. Local currency financing is justified because of
the Bank's orientation of its lending program toward projects aimed at reducing
income differentials and improving productivity in subsistence agriculture.
The proposed credit also includes $2 million for provincial planning, $3 mil-
lion for project preparation and $3 million for pilot operations in rainfed
agriculture. The Australian Government will grant $0.9 million (2% of net
project cost) for consultants on the upland development component, and the
United Kingdom will grant $0.3 million (1% of net project cost) for consultants
on the highland development component. The Government will finance the
remaining $21.3 million. The cost of local consultant firms to be employed
under the project would be $2,100/month and the cost of expatriate consultants
would be $5,000/man-month, all inclusive.
Procurement
53.       Because of the low unit size and the nature of procurement expected
for the project, international competitive bidding would not be appropriate.
Since procurement will be undertaken by various agencies in widely dispersed
locations over the five-year project period, contracts for land development



- 20 -
($9.8 million), access tracks ($3.8 million), equipment ($5.0 million) and
materials ($1.5 million) will be awarded to contractors and suppliers on the
basis of competitive bidding advertised locally in accordance with procedures
acceptable to IDA and the Government. Miscellaneous civil works, including
small irrigation schemes, schools, health posts, nurseries, rehabilitation
plantations, village woodlots, offices, and houses, will be constructed
by local contractors ($0.9 million) or, in the case of the highland sites and
for part of the pilot operations, on force account with the participation of
local villagers ($5.0 million). In the former case, contracts would be
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally in accordance
with procedures acceptable to IDA and the Government. In order to provide a
measure of flexibility in the case of small civil works, equipment items or
quantities of materials which are specialized in nature or are needed urgently
in the course of project implementation, prudent shopping, involving a minimum
of three quotations where possible, will be employed for items costing less
than $15,000 each and $500,000 in the aggregate. When bids are estimated to
exceed $100,000, IDA's prior approval will be required before invitations to
bid are issued and before contracts are awarded.
Cost Recovery
54.       The relatively small on-farm investment costs will not be recovered
from project beneficiaries because farm incomes, even at full development,
will be only moderately above present absolute poverty levels, and a modest
public subsidy is considered necessary to induce farmers to change from
shifting to stable agriculture and to introduce soil conservation works and
practices. Furthermore, benefits from conservation measures accrue to down-
stream agriculture as well as to direct beneficiaries. The cost of production
inputs will be recovered in cash or in kind. For schools, health posts, and
access tracks, costs will not be recovered.
Marketing
55.       At full development, the annual incremental output of some 43,000 tons
of grains and legumes and 1,000 tons of coffee will be handled by the private
sector marketing network, which is reasonably well developed in the project
area. The market for coffee is less well established than that for grains,
but the small amount to be produced under the project can be readily absorbed
by the local coffee industry. The price of rice is expected to rise in real
terms during the project period, in line with Bank projections of world prices,
while a moderate decline is anticipated for the price of coffee. The price of
fuelwood is expected to increase as a result of growing scarcities. The small
amounts of production inputs required by the project generally are available
in the project area, but LDD will supplement the production of improved seed
for upland farmers.
Environmental Effects
56.       The project will have a positive impact on the environment in both
upland and highland areas by conserving water, soil, and forest resources
through the establishment of contour banks, bench terraces, rehabilitation
plantations, and village woodlots.



- 21 -
Benefits, Justification and Risks
57.       The project will benefit some 21,500 families in the northern
region by increasing the net family income, at present below the absolute
poverty level if $595, to levels of $650-690. It will benefit others, though
less directly, and will provide experience for subsequent implementation of
larger projects with similar target populations. Natural resource conservation
and institutional strengthening will also be fostered by the project. Stable
agriculture will replace shifting agriculture and, with the introduction of
appropriate soil and water conservation measures and production inputs, will
result in the annual incremental production of about 43,000 tons of grains and
legumes, leading to the increases in income cited above. Forestry development
will provide fuel and building materials, and reduce losses of commercial
timber and soil nutrients by fire through increased fire protection. Education
and health facilities in the highlands will improve the quality of life for
adults and children of 6,500 families. Better health and education services
and the introduction of alternative cropping systems are expected to bring
about a reduction in poppy production among those farm families (about 20%) in
the highland sites which now grow them in areas of shifting cultivation.
Employment in both agriculture and forestry will increase significantly. In
addition to the benefits accruing to project participants, the conservation
measures will reduce downstream flooding and siltation of irrigation works.
Other important secondary benefits include the strengthening of rural develop-
ment institutions, a greater decentralization of development management, a
higher rate of project preparation, and the testing of technology packages
designed to raise the production of rainfed crops.
58.       Women play important roles in the food and cash crop production
and processing systems in both upland and highland areas. In training and
extension activities, the project would channel assistance to women as well as
men. LDD and HTWD have women on their advisory service staffs. Efforts would
be made to ensure that the women among beneficiary families are provided with
the opportunity to participate in, and benefit from, project activities,
especially health and education services.
59.       The economic rate of return is estimated to be 14% for upland agri-
culture, the base cost of which is $13.0 million; 12% for highland agriculture
and social development, the base cost of which is $6.5 million; and 13% for
upland and highland forestry, the base cost of which is $4.9 million. The
weighted average economic rate of return on these components, which account
for 69% of total base cost, is 13%. The returns are moderately sensitive to
changes in benefits and costs. A decline in benefits of 21%, or a cost
increase of 27%, would reduce the weighted average return to 10%. In addition
to the benefits included in the rates of return, the project is expected to
yield a number of unquantified benefits: improved income distribution across
regions and socioeconomic groups, conservation and effective management of
natural resources, improved health and education services for highland families,
strengthened rural development institutions, greater decentralization of
government administration, accelerated preparation of projects, and develop-
ment of technology packages for rainfed areas.



- 22 -
60.       As a first project of this type on the scale proposed, in an area
where neither the Bank Group nor the Government has supported a large systematic
development effort heretofore, this project has risks of both an institutional
and a technical/economic character. Project design has attempted to minimize
these risks, although it is recognized that some remain and reflect the circum-
stances inherent in a project of this type. In the case of upland agriculture,
the success of the ongoing Thai-Australian Land Development Project demonstrates
the feasibility of the design assumptions, but the risks cannot be ignored.
Substantial effort by the implementing agencies will be required for the
transition to stable agriculture, and the introduction of unfamiliar agricul-
tural technology and crops such as coffee. Although it has been demonstrated
that the project crops grow well in the area, adoption of new techniques
appears risky to farmers, and it will be difficult to persuade them to alter
their traditional agricultural practices and way of life. It is important
that land in the highland sites be allocated for agricultural use and that
land-use permits be issued to highland beneficiaries, and while assurances
have been obtained on these matters (para. 42), it should be recognized that
such adjustments in land use pose important institutional difficulties in
Thailand. The success of the forestry component will depend largely on the
cooperation of the villagers in the uplands in the establishment of village
woodlot associations, and although the reafforestation technologies to be used
in the highlands are familiar, the controlled use of forest resources is
unknown to many families in the area. The project will utilize local labor
and materials to the maximum extent in order to improve its replicability and
will rely a great deal on the farmers' cooperation and participation.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
61.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Kingdom of
Thailand and the Association and the Report of the Committee provided for in
Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to
the Executive Directors separately. Special conditions of the proposed
project are listed in Section III of Annex III of this report.
62.       I am satisfied that the proposed development credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
63.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
development credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachment
May 30, 1979
Washington, D.C.



- 23 -
Annex I
Page I of  5
TABLE 3A
TUAILAND - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.()                    TRAILAND                          - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)  a
TOTAL             514.0                                                       SAME          SAHE      NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL      238.5                                    MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC    INCOME         INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE lb         REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP Le
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                    100.0        200.0      410.0             616.0       432.3         867.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)         64.0        247.0      284.0            522.0        251.7        578.3
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, MID-YEAR
(MILLIONS)                           26.6         36.3       44.1
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 12.7            15.0       16.8              30.1        24.2         46.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                          52.0         71.0       86.0             156.8        42.7         50.8
PEER SQ. EM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    112.0          152.0      185.0             794.8        95.0         93.3
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                            45.1         44.8       43.7              40.8        44.9         42.9
15-64 YRS.                            52.9         52.3       53.2              55.4        52.8         53.5
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                      2.6          2.9        3.1               3.2         3.0          3.5
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 3.2          3.0        2.9               2.3         2.7          2.5
URBAN                                 3.1          5.0        4.6               5.1         8.8          4.7
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        44.9         41.4       34.9              34.6        42.2          37.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        13.8         10.7        8.9               8.7        12.4          10.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                  ..          3.2        3.1               2.6         3.2           2.5
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)          ..        405.6    2680.2
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..            14.0       37.0              22.1        14.2         20.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OP FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)                68.0        100.0      104.7             106.8       104.3        107.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                      96.0        103.0      107.0             108.7        99.5        105.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)             47.0         52.2       50.0              57.7        56.8         63.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE           8.4           ..       14.6              17.0        17.5         21.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE        10.4          5.3         ..               4.0         7.5          8.0
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    49.0            55.5       58.0              59.0        53.3         57.2
INFANT MORTALITY HATE (PER
THOUSAND)                                ..         80.0       56.3              44.0        82.5          53.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  ..         17.0       25.0              21.9        31.1         56.8
URBAN                                             60.0       69.0              58.3        68.5         79.0
RURAL                                  ..         10.0       16.0               9.8        18.2         31.8
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  *-         17.0       40.0              28.6        37.5         30.9
URBAN                                             65.0       58.0              66.6        69.5         45.4
RURAL                                  ..          8.0       36.0              14.8        25.4          16.1
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN             7800.0       7070.0    6750.0             4103.1      9359.2       2706.8
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON            ..       6650.0    4330.0             1520.2      2762.5        1462.0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                              1340.0 /f    890.0       770.0             657.1       786.5        493.9
URBAN                                            280.0      290.0             145.5       278.4        229.6
RURAL                                  ..       1380.0    1140.0             1011.8      1358.4       2947.9
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED              ..         31.0       19.0              19.0        19.2          22.1
HOUSSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                 5.5 If       5.8        5.5               5.2           ..5.2
URBAN                                 5.3 3f       5.9        5 . 5             5.2           ..          5.0
RURAL                                 5.6 If       5.8        5.5               5.4           ..5.4
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL
URBAN                                                                                                     2.0
RURAL                                                                                        2.3'         1- 5
RURAL     *-               *- .. ..    -.           2.7
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                                        24 .6             39.1        28.3          64.1
URBAN                                 6..          3.0 ]&       ..               ..          .3          67.8
RURAL                      ..        ~~~~~        ~~       ~        ~~~     ~ ~~~~~13.0  .*  10.3  34.1



- 24-                                            Annex I
Pate 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
THAILAND - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
THAILAND                                                I/
- HOST REICENT ESTIMATE)
SAHII       SAME      NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME        INCOME
1960 /b     1970 Lb ESTIMATE Lb       REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP le
EDUCAT ION
ADJUSTED ENROLL1ENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                136.0         81.0       78.0            95.6        75.8         99.8
FEMALE               128.0        77.0       75.0             93.7       67.9         93.3
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  8.0         17.0      25.0              43.3       17.7         33.8
FEMALE                 6.0        14.0       21.0             38.6        12.9        29.8
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECONDARY) 19.0          24.0       13.0             11.3        7.4         12.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            36.0         35.0       30.0             30.0       34.3         34.9
SECONDARY                          20.0         16.0      21.0             25.4        23.5         22.2
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        68.0         79.0       82.0             84.0       63.7         71.8
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
PCPULATION                          2.0          5.0        7.0              9.3        7.2         12.4
RADIO RECEIVERS PER TNOUSAND
POPULATION                          6.0         78.0     135.0             97.6        71.1        104.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          2.3          7.0       17.0            21.8        14.1         28.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   11.0        24.0         ..             25.9       16.3         45.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..            ..        1.7              4.6         1.6         4.6
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    12757.0       16163.0   18514.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   48.3         47.3      46.9              33.2       28.0         25.7
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              82.0         78.0       76.0            48.4        54.1         46.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  5.7          7. 4
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                51.3         46.6       45.6             38.9       37.8         33.8
MALE                                 52.7         49.3       48.6             48.6       50.3         48.1
FEMALE                               49.8         43.9       42.6             28.4       20.9         17.3
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.0         1.1        1.2              1.2         1.3         1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   21.8 /h       23.8 /i   14.0              17.3       19.5         23.6
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  50.9 /h       49.7 /i   42.2             45.6        48.9         52.3
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.2 /h        6.1 /i    7.6               6.5        5.9          4.3
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   14.9 /h       15.9 /i   19.1              17.3       15.7         13.1
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..      120.0            140.8      155.9        191.9
RURAL                                ..           ..       90.0            112.8       97.9        193.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..         ..               ..      143.7        319.8
RURAL                                ..           ..       93.0             76.8       87.3        197.7
EST0IiATED POPYLoTI<N 8EIOW POVERTY
INCOME :x.VEL  CERCENT
URBAN                                ..           ..       11.0             27.7       22.9         19.8
RURAL                                ..           ..       28.0             40.4       36.7         35.1
Not available
Not a.?plicabl-.
NOTES
/a    The ad'usted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the inditcator and the most populated country in each group.  Coverage of countries among the
indi-ators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    nre-s other.-Ise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, berwern 1969
-nd 1971; arc '-r Most Recent Estimate, between 1973 and 1977.
/a    rout As:a 5 P- :1g;   /d  Lower Middle Income (5281-550 per capita 1976);  /e  !,Lr-eOd1t,t  Mtddle Inc-me
'555 -. .3;,  ..   . e. apir, 1976;;   /f  1962;   ..  Percent of population is Bangkok -eLropolitaL  area;
,ral only,  L/  Rural only.
September 1978



- 25 -                                                                      Annex I
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS                                                      rage  ' of   5
N      The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric neans, excluding the extreme voles c' the oncica-ct  or,  rhe -r'
populated country in each group.  Coverage of countries among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not  -fcc-.  Due to tok cf data,
group averages for Capital Surplus Oil Exporters and indicators of access to water and  -erreta disposal, hlosing,  -.com   discribot' n and p-erty are
simple population-weighted geometric means without the exclusion of extreme values.
LAND AREA (thousand sq. km)                                                               Populati.n  per hospital bed - total- sc-n  and s                      so !i.>
Total - Total surface area comprising land area and inland waters,                         urban, and rural) divided by thsic  resFective n-r-s  or h spltai bcds
Agricultural - Most recent estimate of agricultural  area used temporarily                 aoailatle s  public and private gecec-l and o -1sali-d  sptal and rc-
or permanenitly for crops, pastures, market and kitchen gardens or to                    habilitation centers.  Hospitalc are etablish-ents perasco-tly staffed bs
lie fallow.                                                                              at least one physician.  Establoshcec.s peovidr ofg p,i-      -1a Is  -stodial
care are not included.  Rural hospitals, however, s-inuds hilt)  and medi-
GNP PER CAPITA (us$) - GNP per capita estimates at current market prices,                   cal centers not permanently sthffed by a physicsian  but hy   nedisol as-
calculated by same conversion method as World Bank Atlas (1975-77 basis);                sistant, nurse, midwife, etc.) which offer im-aati,st acscrmrod.tsoc asd
1960, 1970, and 1977 data.                                                               provide a 'imited range of medical facilities.
Admissic.n. per hospital had - Total cushbar oh adrirs,,r..  s  -s dsschlcsgc
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA - Annual consumption of commercial ene-gy                     fr.. hospitols divided bh  the n-ubr of lo
(coal and lignite, petroleum, natural gas and hydro-, nuclear and geo-
thermal electricity) in kilograms of coal equivalent per capita.                    HOUSING
Average nice of household (persons per Icu old) - coral, urban, and rural-
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                                             A household consists of a group of individuals who shore living quarters
Total population, mid-year (millions) - As of July 1; if not available,                    and their main meals.  A boarder or locger .ay or may not he included in
average of two end-year estimates; 1960, 1970, and 1977 data.                            the household for statistial purposes.  Statistisal definitiocsai) .sss--
Urban population (percent of total) - Ratio of urban to total popula-                      hold vary.
tion; different definitions of urban areas may affect comparability                   Average nunber of persons per roon - total,  rbia, and rural - Ade-seo nr--
of data among countries.                                                                 ber of persons per noon in all, urban, and rural o-r.piod sat'octarcs-
Population density                                                                         dwellings, respectivelv.  Dwellings exclude  .on-eernacest ..r.-      tsrrncr
Per  sq. km. - Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hectares)                    unoccupied parts.
of total area.                                                                        Access to electricity (percent of dwellings) - tta., sbno, -nJ drurl -
Per sq. km. agriculture land - Computed as above for agricultural land                    Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quarters as pe.rcntage
only.                                                                                   of totul, urban, and rural dwellings respectively.
Population age structure (peroent) - Children (0-14 years), working-age
(15-64 years), and retired (65 years and over) as percentages of mid-               EDUCATION
year population.                                                                     Adjusted enrollment ratios
Population growth rate (percent) - total, and urban - Compound annual                    Primary school - total, and female - Total and locale enrcllment of .'1  ac
growth rates of total and urban mid-year populations for 1950-60,                        at the primary level as perrentages of resrestiwel'  primarv school-age
1960-70, and 1970-75.                                                                    populatinos; normally includes childron  ged 6-11 yprs bst djh-strd hEr
Crude birth rate (per thousand) - Annual live births per thousand of                       differ-nt lengths of primary education; fhr react,ries  cith ccrvsrsdl odh-
mid-year population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and                     cation enrollment may exceed 100 percent sinso sema pupils are belew cr
1970 and five-year average ending in 1975 for most recent estimate.                      above the official school age.
Crude death rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-                     Secondary school - total, and fomale - Compct.d ac ai -ve             d s r sodssv sodusa-
year population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and 1970                    tion requires at least four years oi approrad pri.ary in,sts..tics; Prt-
and five-year average ending in 1975 for most recent estimate.                           vides general vocational, or teacher training instrsctionr for pup.ls
Gross reproduction rate - Average number of daughters a woman will bear                    usually of 12 to 17 years of ago; corr-sponde-c- course.s  ra geonralvs
in her normal seproductive period if she experiences present age-                        excluded.
specific fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending in 1960,                  Vocational enrollment (percent of secondary) - Vocational istitutions in-
1970, and 1975.                                                                          dlude technical, industrial, or other prs,rars which operate Indepond-ct.,
Family planning - acceptors, annual (thousands) - Annual number of                         or as departments of secondary institutions.
acceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of national family                 Pupil-teacher ratio - primary, and secondary - Total  lstdents enrolled in
planning program.                                                                        primary and seconda-y levels divided by numbers of teachers in the corre-
Family planning - users (percent of married women) - Perncetage of                         spending 1vo.
married women of child-bearing age (15-44 years) who use birth-control               Adult literacy rate (percent) - literate adilts (able to read and write) as
devices to all married women in same age group.                                          a percentage of total adult population agid 15 ypros  and ver.
FOOD AND NUTRITION                                                                      CONSUMPTION
Index of food production per capita (1970-100) - Index number of per                   Pas-enger sacs (per thousnod population) - Passenger corn comprise -otet cans
capita annual production of all food commodities.                                     seating lass than eight persons; exctudes am.bulances, hearnse  and ciLotpry
Per capita supply of calories (percent of requirements) - Computed from                 vehicles.
energy equivalent of net food supplies available in country per capita               Radio receivers (per thousand population) - All types of r-eccv-rs for radio
per day.  Available supplies comprise domestic production, imports less               broadcasts to general public per shesaod of populatior; e-sludes sLic-ssed
exports, and changes in stock.  Net supplies exclude animal feed, seeds,              receiver3 in countries and in pears woes registration of rad.o satsas in
quantities used in food processing, and losses in distribution.  Re-                  effect; data for recent years mar .    ot be comparahle since erros  cruntries
quirements were estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for nor-                abolished licensing.
mal activity and health considerisg environmental temperature, body                  TV -eceivers (per thousand populaticn) - TV recsivors for br-adcat tcc gonsri
weights, age and sex distributions of population, and allowing 10 per-                   public per thousand population; esslud s- unlic   TV receivers or saur-
cent for waste at household level.                                                       tries and in years oxen registratlon o- TV cots WaS in eflect.
Per capita supply of protein (grams per day) - Protein content of per                  Newspaper circulation (per thcusand population) - Shows the  -verage circ.la-
capita net supply of food per day.  Net supply of food is defined as                     tion of "daily general interest newspaper", dofised as a yericdicul publi-
above.  Requirements for all countries established by USDA provide for                   cation devoted primarily to recording general news.  It to c-onide-ed rc
a minimum allowance of 60 geams of total protein per day and 20 grams                    be "daily" if it appears at lust four ticoc a wook.
of animal and pulse protein, of which 10 grams should be animal protein.             Cinema annual attendance per capita  or year - Bas.a or the  um-nia   I tickets
These standards are lower than those of 75 grums of total protein and                    sold daring the year, sncluding adtissions to drive-is rir.mas and s-bile
23 grams of animal protein as an average for the world, proposed by                       .sis.
FAO in the Third World Food Survey.
Per capita protein supply from animal and pulse - Protein supply of food             EiIPLOYMENI
derived from animals and pulses in grams per day.                                    Total labor fore (thou.sands) - Efonomically acti-e perso-, ircluding oreed
Child (ages 1-4) mortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thous-                  forces and unemployed but estloding ho-sewives, st,d-cts.  . . _          fisi
and in age group 1-4 years, to children in this age group.                               tions in various countries are not -coparable.
Female (percent) - Female labor force as per,eetago vf tra}1             fhorse.
hEALTh                                                                                   Agriculture (percent) - Labor force in sor-ing, foccatry, h-tcing and fishiro
Life expectancy at birth (years) - Average number of years of life                         an percentage of total labor fhre.
remaining at birth; usually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970,                 Industry (peccent) - Labor force in r.iing, scnstruction, ra:laccascct a-d
and 1975.                                                                                electricity, water and gas as percentage ot total labor frsce.
Infant mortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths opf infants under                  Purtihipatiom rats (peroent) - total, mal, asd hea   - Tortl, 'a., and
one year of age per th-osand live birhts.                                                'emate labor force as persontrgfo  ohf tcair re-p-ct-vc Fope)urti- so
Access to safe water (percent of population) - total, urban, and rural -                   rhese arc ILO's adjusted participeatic  rates rerfe- t-re  oc-so
Number of people (total, urban, and rural) with reasonable acce-s to                     steruture of the pcp'slartic. ord boya  tier tre-d.
safe water supply (includes treated surface waters or untreated but                  Ecoonoic depsdanr   ratio - Ratus of p-pc'c has '            1        '.  s.r I    -
uncontaminated water sooh as that from prooteted boreholes, springs,                     the labor force in age group or
and sanitary wells) as percentages of their respective populations.
In an urban area a public fountain or standpost located not nore                    INCOtE DISTRIBUTION
than 200 meters from a house may be considered as being within rea-                  Percentape of priva-t  income (bhth to cash     n cd dsid) re  ,   bh  rih-eut 5
sonable acceas of that house.  In rural areas reasonable access would                    percent, richest 20 percent, poorent    P- cerct  and  oo.re- t .d percent
imply that rhe housewife or members of the household do not have to                      of hosseholds.
spend a disproportionate part of the day ir fetching the family's
water needs.                                                                        POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Access to excreta disposal (percent of population) - total, urban, and                  Estimated absolute poverty income                     __        1 ' -rt
rural - Number of people (total, urban, and rural) served by excreta               A        bsolute poverty ircme lovel is tae'r.s l   a                          vi,-
disposal as percentages of their respective populations.  Excreta                        nutritionally adequate diet pI  es - aon t     "-t .-.t- 
disposal may include the collection and disposal, with or without                        affordabl.
treatment, of human excreta and waste-water by water-borne systems                    Estimated relative poverty income level 'US  Fer cpita  - crian  -ncarsr -
or the use of pit privies and similar installations.                                     Relative poverty income level is thar i-comt level  oss- riae oo-  ird
Population per physician - Population divided by number of practicing                      per capit. personal incose oh t-  -co-ntry.
physicians qualified from a medical school at university level.                       Estimated. population bIlow poverty income level (percent) - 'tier and cora  -
Population per nursing person - Population divided by number of                            Percenrt of population (erban and rural) who ore either "ohocluto pfr' t r
practicing male and female graduate nurses, practical nurses, and                        "relative poor" whiche-er is greater.
assistant nmroeo.
L-so-lic and Spsia:        D-sta  vitivf
Eco--nic Analysis ard Pr-o-ctioos D-orrtoert



-26-                                                                                            ANNEX I
Pes4 of S
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA SHEEIT
__actual                                              ProJected                         Growth rates (DI    -            1975 share
ijY    1 97 0      1976         1977       1978 /a      1979        1980        1985    1865-77   1977-79   1979-85   1985-90  of GDIP (Z)
A. Natilual ACiCtunts
(Million 770$ at 1975pres
Cones-  domstic product              6,842.-8  10,323.0   15,712.6   16,605.5   18,138.9   19,395.2  20,692.9  29,256.7                 7.7        7.8        7.1       7.0          100.0
2.  Coins fro  tras  of trade             -41.3        42.8      -507.7      -978.1      -704.3      -572.9      -533.8       -518.2                                                    -3.2
1.  Gross domestic  ncm                6,799.5   10,565.8   15,204.9   15,707.4   17,434.6   18,822.5   20,159.1   28,738.5               7.2        9.5        7.3        7.0          96.8
4.  Ioporto                             1,659.9    2,989.4    3,699.1    4,460.8    4,896.8    5,082.8    5,440.4    7,507.8              8.6        6.7        6.7        6.8          23.5
5.  Esports   -- voue-1,593.2  -2,274.8  -3,808.4  -4,506.9   -4,641.3  -4,481.1   -4,862.1   -7,448.5                                    9.1       -0.3        8.9        8.7          24.2
4.  Euports --adjusted for TOT  -1,548.9  -2,317.5  -3,300.7  -3,528.9  -3,957.0  -3,908.1   -4,329.3  -6,930.3                           7.1        5.2       10.1)       8.8          21.0
7.Resourc  gao -  d.j-uted
toe 1107                           111.0       671.9       398.4       932.1       959.0    1,174.7    1,112.1          577.5                                                     2.5
H.  Total c-ssamPtolo                   5,30-13    8,007.0   11,709.5   12,370.3   13,579.1   14,809.7   15,740.4   21,253.9              7.3        9.4        6.2        6.1          74.5
9.  Llnet-eur                           1,609.2    3,030.6    3,093.8    4,269.2    4,815.3    5,187.2    5,530.8    8,062.0              8.5       10.2        7.6        7.5          24.8
if).  Nott-nol  -anlge~                  1576.4    2,500.8    3, 47 7 .7    3 ,3 12 .5    3,794.2    3,970.7    4,300.3    7,037.7         6.4        9 .5      10.1'       9.6          22.1
1I.  -lsni   aings adjusted
lot  0T                         1,491.2    7,350.7    1,495.3    3,337.1    3,055.5    4,012.6    4,410.7    7,484.6               6.9       9.7       10.9        9.3           22.2
12.  CDP at curret  115                 4,0152.9    6,543.11  16,2184.3  10, 156.9  21,081.8  34,093.0   (7,401.6   55,355.9    3.35                15.2       14.9       13.4
4.Secor GIt7 pu't
(Shorn of CDP)                      4,052.9    6,543.3   16,284.3  18,156.9   21,881.0   214,093.0  :17,401.6  55,355.9    13.3                 15.2       14.9       13.4
I.   grilctlcu-                          0.391       0.346       0.311       0.281       0.27]       0.264       0.258       0.229
2.  In-o-ten                               0.208       0.227       0.265       0.288        0.299       0.334       0.309       0.335
j.  S-i..                      0~~~~~1.401  0.427       0.430       0.431       0.434        0.432       0.432       0.437
c.  PrIces_~  9 75 -= _101)
En.,p-rt pri.e  i,de,                    46.43       48.04       91.65       89.35      103.13      113.40      123.48      172.32       5.6      12.7         7.2       5.1
2.  Inp,rt price  id-                      47.79       47.15      105.75      114.12      121.58       130.03      138.71      185.20      7.5        6.7        6.1        5.0
4.   -ervof trade  loden                 97.22      (01.88       86.67       78.30       84.83       87.21       89.02        93.04    -1.8         5.5        1.1        0.1
2. DCP  efl lot-  (50S)                 59.221       63.39      103.64      108.82      116.07      124.22      132.42      189.21      5 .2       6.8        7.-3       6.0
S.    oc,-l  -vrg      uhange  tote        110.80      20.80       23.40       20.40
1.  Selected Indic-otr                               1965-77  1977-79   1979-85  1985-80
1.  1C0R                                         3.56       3.32       3.80       3.97
2.  Import elu-tiritt                             1.09      0.87       0.95       0.97
3.  Soergo no-tona   avisgo cute                 0.24       0.20       0.23       0.26
.  MargInal national saIngs rtot                 0.18       0.25       0.32       0.35
5.  Itp-rtu/CDP                                  0.27       0.26       0.26       0.26
6.  Imv-t-entfCoP                                0.27       0.26       0.27       0.28
7.  dettegop/CDP                                 0. 04      0.06       0.04       0,01
Vleadded /6                            Lahor force Ic                           V.A. DecworketrhI
E.   -st.s~Ls.o Prcaa,d Po.lActiitn  is 1975                     15           milion                0                    illion                                   3                 o   vrg
i.    gri-ltnrv~                                                      4,559               31.3                 13.4                 75.7                  34(1                  41.5
2.  industry                                                            4.442                30.4                  1.4                  7.9               3,170                  356.7
3.    eri-]n-                                                           5,580                38.3                  2.9                16.4                1,930                  235.4
Tost1amnrug!,                                                      58,f              100.0                17.7                100.090                                     100.0
1.   PvbW.crCcro12  iC)                               1965        1870        1974         1975       1976         1972/a
(Centra  G-ver-m-t)
Cutrret  -eneos                              13.5        13.8        14.3        13.6        13.4       14.6
2  .. la evenu                                 12.3        12.5        13.5        12.0        ;2.1       13.3
3.  Correct rup-uditu-c                          10.4         12.6        10.7        o2.1        .3.0       12.5
4.  Oudgetarp co-isgn                             2.9          1.2         3.7         1.5         3.4        1.1
5.  Coral pub.cc  L-reiset                        6.4          7.7         3.8         4.9         5.3         5.4
C. ~e CuInu          Lo±nosomus(                        5.0      112.0       428.n       7±1.7        83 3 .2     923.0
1%o  rtota  impectn  toni. 80.01                8.3         8.0        18.4        20.0        21.1         19.7
f~At cretmco   rcs
to   Otiote-



o- =           C .C          o c'              CC cc cC  vC                                                C =CC =                             CS          CC aC                  CCC            CC              <CC *                                             CC |r  R'C(                                                  " r                         CI r              C =                          C=|   jCw
CcC                        C      C               C       C                   C  O                                                                                                                                                                                                    0  C             0   0   0    0         C  O  O _C                      'C _C gC                            C  C ; * I    , Hi    nii 
C    C   C               C  CCRC                     ,      W=                                    !'    C ~                      C   C   C         C       C '  '   C              C C    C   ' eC              C   C    C- 1       C  '     C    0     C  ,CR  RC                                  - RC                            C     ~' r                                  C  C          C n0o
R ~ ~ ~      ~           ~           ~          ~          ~         ~         ~        ~ ~              C               CCCCC)'C                                             C'C C|'C)                                                        C                                   C        "        -' rL  g* =w<1  J~f       °I   
=     C       C   C      C          C  C   C  C           C g g  *C                                                                                       C                           CeC                I      C    C C , C        C C,              C C CffC              =C nl                      eCC                CCCCCC
l ~ ~ ~     ~           ~           ~           ~          ~         ~         ~         ~ ~               C < C°'   CCC1C                                       CC'  r'                                                      -r                CCvS  Cr t           CCI'-   CCC?sr-  SC.CCCWDC'CC"'C  r wr                                                m
t    SO CO               1-'     D'C           D      C W    C    W     O  C  C  _   C  W       C   C  '   '-       D-   C b -OO0         C':O  - O   =OOs_:sr          
~~~~~~~~C                                                           *          C  C  C                 -                C                                                                                                                              Ca              C       C
r          .IC C° I H C H C         C    C     C                            O   C      C  O                C_                                                                         _h  C  C C C   wOC C C C    C                   C                    ( C       CC                    C        C        C      H
: ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ W   Dl- CO- OC1 OC                                                                                                                                                                                                                              CC D'   CC                               C'CC  __ WO_ >   ) _>w  ._ _WI'                   C I    1                :WO
=                                                                           .  .   .C      D C  C" C '        1-~C I'          CC C.  rC                                              C          C         C    C         C         C                     C           CC          CCC                C OC COC                                   CC         C OC                    CC          CCCCOO__  9gOSI      B                 OWW_O_D g   
__ID CC'_OUlD7  .C    -0   C   C                                  C     I   o_o  C'o,-                      CCC                 CC    o             oC              C         CC              r         C v CC                         '         C          C$             )          0              C    oC                 _C              w        C             _C  o   C s uwCC CCooI  o_ws 
iii~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              CC _   _CICCC 
C C                 S   .r     C     Cw1                         LFC                      ' FC  F                                                                                                  CC          C F                 C C       C                   C      C           Cr            C C                                                     C                    C   C          C     
CC                    C.          Ct CO                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ww
CO~ ~~~ ~~~ ~~~~~~                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~ CC  I'  C  CC   CC  DC                                                                          O  _C              wC       C                  C                   C           CC                      .1                     .                     J                
CC                                                                 ??       D - COl Cr C; CC          °C CCr C>O Cn ^                                                                                           CC        F ~ C- C                                         HOC~             wC       Ci                                                           CCC3 ?   F-         --
CC       I                                                                                      CC D ,                                0          C oC                                                                      C o                                                       C       C -                 ,'      o-IO s                       M WDD 7F' FD
C|"            CC                             =w<s                                                            o_                                                                                                                      n>s_sDs. P  C  e .   C  C.  C                                                                                                               Cu         aOv        n>_        i
CC~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ '_'  C                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
CC~ ~~~~~~~~~~                                        ~~~~~~~~ ?   .C  C  CC  o   C               =
CCC~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ CC                                                                                                                                                                                               ? CC                                                       00          r       ?,       s      



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 12
- 28 -
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THAILAND
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of April 30, 1979)
Loan or                                                                       Amounts ($ million)
Credit                                                                       Less Cancellations
Number  Year    Borrower                                Purpose           Bank    IDA  Undisbursed
Twenty-four loans and one credit fully disbursed                         388.9    5.5          -
822     1972    Kingdom of Thailand                     Education         15.4       -       5.53
864     1972    Telephone Organization of Thailand  Telecom               37.0       -       2.52
870     1972    Kingdom of Thailand                     Highways          28.6       -       0.80
369     1973    Kingdom of Thailand                     Education            -   19.5        4.72
461     1974    Kingdom of Thailand                     Irrigation           -    7.0        1.19
977     1974    Electricity Generating Authority    Power                 75.0       -      15.31
of Thailand
992     1974    Industrial Finance Corporation of   Industry              12.0       -       0.20
Thailand
1021    1974    Metropolitan Water Works Authority  Water                 55.0       -      10.68
1149    1975    Kingdom of Thailand                     Irrigation        95.0       -     74.04
1198    1976    Kingdom of Thailand                     Rural Dev.        21.0(TW)  -       11.04
1199    1976    Kingdom of Thailand                     Livestock          5.0(TW)  -        3.41
1243    1976    Kingdom of Thailand                     Rubber            50.0       -     40.73
1253    1976    Telephone Organization of Thailand  Telecom               26.0       -       8.23
1271    1976    Kingdom of Thailand                     Education         31.0       -     24.12
1327    1976    Industrial Finance Corporation of   Industry              25.0       -      18.34
Thailand
1393    1977    Kingdom of Thailand                     Agriculture       28.0       -     23.53
1468    1977    Kingdom of Thailand                     Irrigation        55.0       -      45.65
1485    1977    Electricity Generating Authority    Power                 50.0       -     40.43
of Thailand
1492    1977    Industrial Estates Authority of         Industry           4.8       -       4.45
Thailand
767     1978    Kingdom of Thailand                     Population          -    33.1/a   33.00
1519    1978    Kingdom of Thailand                     Transportation  110.0        -      98.15
1527    1978    Provincial Electricity Authority    Rural Elect.          25.0       -      25.00
1556    1978    Kingdom of Thailand                     Housing            8.6       -       8.40
S-10    1978    Natural Gas Organization of             Natural Gas        4.9       -       2.65
1620    1978    Telephone Organization of Thailand  Telecom               90.0       -      90.00
1630    1978    Kingdom of Thailand                     Irrigation        17.5       -      17.50
1638    1979    Kingdom of Thailand                     Urban             16.0       -      16.00
/a Of which $3.1 is Norway grant participation.



-29 -                              ANNEX II
Page 2 of 12
1662    1979    State Railway of Thailand                Railways /a        16.7       -      16.70
1690    1979    Electricity Generating Authority    Power /a                80.0       -      80.00
of Thailand
1979    Kingdom of Thailand                     Education /a       35.0       -      35.00
Total                                         1,406.1 /b         65.1             757.32
of wiich has been repaid                      196.1
Total now outstanding                         1,210.0            65.1
Amount sold /b                      68.6
of which has been repaid          38.0         30.6
Total now held by Bank and IDA                1,179.4            65.1
Total xmdisbursed                               718.4            38.9
/a Approved but not yet effective.
/b Of wiich $43.3 million sold to the Bank of Thailand.



ANNEX II
- 30 -                              Page 3 of 12
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of April 30, 1979)
Amounts ($ million)
Year         Company              Type of Business             Loan   Equity   Total
1959   Concrete Products and   Cement and Construc-
Aggregate Co. Ltd.        tion Materials               0.30       -     0.30
1964/  Industrial                Development                       -   0.38       0.38
1970   Finance Corporation        Finance Company
of Thailand (IFCT)
1969/  Siam Cement Group          Cement and
1975                                Construction
Materials                    28.33   3.75    32.08
1977   Mutual Fund                Money and Capital
Company Limited           Market                          -   0.30      0.30
1977   United Sugar               Food and Food
Terminal Limited          Processing                   2.50   0.20      2.70
1978   Siam Commercial Bank    Small and Medium
Scale Industries            2.00       -      2.00
1978   Siam Cement Group          Cement and Construc-
tion Materials                 -   0.09       0.09
1979   Bangkok Glass Industry
Company, Limited        Glass Containers              4.85   0.25       5.10
1979   Siam City Cement          Cement and Construc-
Company, Limited          tion Materials             36.00   4.00    40.00
1979   Thai Orient Leasing
Co. Ltd.                Capital Market                    -   0.15      0.15
Total gross commitments                                 73.98   9.12    83.10
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                                 48.51   2.56    51.07
Net held by the Corporation                             25.47   6.56    32.03
Total undisbursed                                       42.85   0.25    43.10



- 31 -                               ANNEX II
Page 4 of 12
C. STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECIJTION /1
(As of April 30, 1979)
Loan No. 822  Second Education Project (Kasetsart UJniversity); $15.4 Million
Loan of May 24, 1972; Effective Date: August 22, 1972;
Original Closing Date: June 30, 1978; Current Closing Date:
July 31, 1980
Although the technical assistance and educational aspects of
the project are largely on schedule, civil works are about three years behind
schedule with consequent delays in furniture and equipment procurement. The
delays in civil works result from delays in contracting architectural consul-
tants, completing tender documents, and awarding contracts. The specialist
services program under the project is nearly completed. Out of 26 experts, 21
have completed their assignment, two are in post and three are being recruited.
Recommendations of experts for improvement of teaching, research and extension
activities are considered worthwhile and have been implemented by the university
staff. All the fellowships have been awarded; 94 recipients have completed
their training. Total project cost will exceed appraisal estimates by about
35%.
Credit No. 369 Third Education Project; $19.5 Million Credit of April 11,
1973; Effective Date: August 8, 1973; Original Closing Date:
June 30, 1978; Current Closing Date: June 30, 1979
Project implementation is about 20 months behind schedule partly due
to cumbersome review of procurement and shortage of budget funds. However,
substantial progress has been made during the last three years. Contracting
has reached 98% of civil works and 77% of equipment. Almost 75% of the
construction at project institutions has been completed. All project schools
have started operation. The National Curriculum Development Center constructed
and equipped under the project is playing a key role in the development of new
curricula at primary and secondary levels as part of a comprehensive educational
reform program. An in-depth evaluation of rural secondary schools is being
carried out, but preliminary indications are that the new curriculum for
diversified secondary education is working well in them. The expert services
program is virtually completed and ninety-five percent of fellowship funds
have been committed. The component of the project with greatest problems is
that involving the construction and equipping of ten teacher training colleges.
/1  These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
- 32 -                              Page 5 of 12
Physical execution of this component is slow and the status of the colleges is
in a state of flux, as teacher training is being upgraded from secondary to
postsecondary level. Only about 25% of the Credit has been disbursed and the
Government is likely to submit to IDA a request for a postponement of the
Closing Date by about nine months.
Loan No. 1271    Fourth Education Project; $31 Million Loan of September 13,
1976; Effective Date: February 9, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
Progress in project implementation follows the appraisal estimate
with minor delays (3-6 months), mainly related to the adult education system
component. Of the civil works, which are being carried out in three
phases, the first phase is almost completed, the second is under construction
and the third is still to be awarded. About half of the overseas training
has been completed.
Loan No. 864 First Telecommunications Project; $37 Million Loan of December 5,
1972; Effective Date: March 1, 1973; Original Closing Date:
December 31, 1977; Current Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The project is generally maintaining the revised time schedule
established in 1975, following initial delays. The Bank loan is fully committed
and $34.5 million (93%) had been disbursed as of April 30, 1979. Over 90%
of the local telephone network expansion has been completed; the balance is
expected to be completed by June 1979. After a year's delay in procurement
under a bilateral loan, the installation of the long distance transmission
equipment is now progressing satisfactorily. The project is expected to be
completed by the end of September 1979, two years and nine months behind
schedule.
Loan No. 1253 Second Telecommunications Project; $26 Million Loan of June 11,
1976; Effective Date: August 25, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
The project is progressing satisfactorily. Procurement action on
all Bank-financed items is complete. The Bank loan is fully committed and
$17.8 million (66%) had been disbursed as of April 30, 1979. Local telephone
network expansion is expected to be completed on schedule by mid-1979.
After a year's delay in procurement under a bilateral loan, the installation
of long distance transmission equipment is progressing satisfactorily. The
project is now expected to be completed by the end of September 1980, nine
months behind schedule.



ANNEX II
_ 33 -                                Page 6 of 12
Loan No. 1620 Third Telecommunications Project; $90 Million Loan of
October 4, 1978; Effective Date: January 3, 1979;
Closing Date: September 30, 1983
Bid documents for procurement of all project items are expected to
be issued by mid-1979. Action has been initiated on the following items as
required under institutional covenants in the Loan Agreement: (a) maintenance
of waiting lists for potential telephone subscribers, (b) better utilization
of installed capacity in local telephone networks, and (c) the Economic Study
of Telecommunications in Thailand.
Loan No. 870  Fifth Highway Project; $28.6 Million Loan of December 26, 1972;
Effective Date: March 26, 1973; Original Closing Date:
December 31, 1977; Current Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The project is almost complete and the loan is expected to be
disbursed in full within the next month.
Loan No. 1519    Sixth Highway (Provincial Roads) Project:  $110 Mlillion
Loan of March 23, 1978; Effective Date: June 22, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Progress is satisfactory. Procurement of maintenance equipment is
under way, and most contracts have been awarded. Construction of project
roads is well under way, with most contracts on schedule.
Credit No. 461 Northeast Irrigation Improvement Project; $7 Million Credit
of February 19, 1974; Effective Date: October 7, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
The project will be completed two years behind schedule as a result
of initial delays in appointing consultants and in procuring earthmoving equip-
ment. During the 1977/78 working season there was a marked improvement in the
pace of construction, especially on the tertiary canals. Work on rehabilitation
of main canal systems has been satisfactory and will be completed in 1979.
The estimated project cost is $30.3 million, compared with $12.5 million
at appraisal. In part, the increased cost is due to price inflation being
higher than foreseen at appraisal. Also, a large part of the increase is due
to a decision to provide new tertiary canals over an area of 34,700 ha rather
than the 21,500 ha assumed at appraisal, and the adoption of higher standards
for tertiary development than envisioned at appraisal. The higher costs are



ANNEX II
- 34 -                        Page 7 of 12
compensated for by increases in projected commodity prices and the economic
rate of return is now estimated at 24% compared to 22% at appraisal. Progress
on the rainfed rice component continues to be satisfactory. The breeding program
continues to be the strongest element while the agronomic program remains weak.
Loan No. 1630 Second Northeast Thailand Irrigation Improvement Project:
$17.5 Million of December 4, 1978; Effective Date: April 25, 1979;
Closing Date: September 30, 1985
The loan was declared effective on April 25, 1979.
Loan No. 1149 Phitsanulok Irrigation Project; $95 Million Loan of
July 25, 1975; Effective Date: October 31, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Although the start of major construction was delayed by about
a year, prospects are good that the project can be completed on schedule
in 1984. A contract for the diversion dam was awarded in October 1977 and the
first of three contracts for canal construction was signed in April 1978.
Most of the equipment for the project is now delivered or on order. The
on-farm works are proceeding on schedule, with f3ur pilot projects in operation
and construction of the first large block under way. The consulting services
for the project were recently reorganized to provide a nucleus of resident
staff and a greater level of assistance in project management. Systems for
monitoring project benefits and water-associated diseases are being established
and the reporting of project progress has improved. The first phase of the
Chao Phya Basin Study, also financed from the loan, has been completed and
the next phase is continuing. Consultants appointed in August 1978 for the
RID Administration and Organization Study will shortly complete their first
phase reports.
Loan No. 1468    Second Chao Phya Irrigation Improvement Project;
$55 Million Loan of September 23, 1977; Effective Date:
December 23, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Equipment procurement is progressing satisfactorily. Rehabilitation
and on-farm development works on about 5,300 ha were completed in the 1978
construction season. Project preparation for about 40,000 ha in the Stage II
area of Maeklong was recently completed.  A project monitoring system is
being set up and the Chao Phya Project area is now served by the National
Agricultural Extension Project.



ANNEX II
-35 -                                 Page 8 of 12
Loan No. 1198T Northeast Thailand Rural Development Project; $21 Million
Loan of February 27, 1976; Effective Date: June 29, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
After a delay of one year in appointing consultants good progress
is being made on the engineering of the village roads. The first contract for
construction of 114 km has been completed and work has begun on two contracts
for a total of some 250 km. Procurement problems have delayed the water
supply components, but most of the drilling equipment has now been delivered,
drilling crews have been recruited and are being trained. Progress on
rural electrification is excellent and this component will be completed in
June 1979. Progress on agricultural extension and land settlements is satis-
factory. After a slow start-up, the Upland Crop Improvement Component is
progressing satisfactorily. The program management, with the assistance of a
recently appointed program advisor, has undertaken a critical review of past
work and is gradually introducing an innovative program of research investiga-
tions of great problem-solving relevance to upland crop farmers in the Northeast.
Loan No. 1199T Livestock Development Project; $5.0 Million Loan of February 27,
1976; Effective Date: May 25, 1976; Closing Date: June 30,
1981
The seed production and pasture development programs are progressing
reasonably well and the loaned-bull and artificial insemination programs,
hitherto hindered by the delay in importation of cattle, are expected to
improve with the delivery of 400 imported Brahman cattle. Furthermore, the
number of permanent project staff has been increased from the initially
approved 121 to 223, and the New Zealand Government has agreed in principle to
provide additional technical assistance for the remaining project period.
Disbursements are still considerably behind schedule but are expected to
increase with improvement in the preparation of procurement documents and the
importation of cattle. The Department of Livestock Development has agreed to
conduct a livestock sector review to prepare an integrated development plan.
Loan No. 1243 Rubber Replanting Project; $50 Million Loan of September 13,
1976; Effective Date: January 14, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30 1981
After initial delays, project implementation is progressing very
well, with the rate of replanting matching appraisal estimates.



ANNEX II
- 36 -                             Page 9 of 12
Loan No. 1393 National Agricultural Extension Project; $28 Million Loan
of May 17, 1977; Effective Date: September 1, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Project implementation in the field is progressing well with almost
all staff appointments completed in fifteen provinces. There continues to be
encouraging evidence of adoption of new technology by farmers as a result of
improved extension services. Procurement is on schedule, but the civil works
program is now more than one year late because bids for the revised civil
works program were excessively high or unresponsive. Retendering is in
progress, using simplified tender procedures agreed to for one Regional
Training Center and eight provincial construction packages. Tendering has
commenced for the 1979 construction program. Disbursements are also behind
schedule because of the delays in the civil works program, but both the civil
works program and disbursements are expected to progress as scheduled during
1979. Extension and civil works consultants continue to provide DAE with
excellent assistance.
Loan No. 977   Srinagarind (Ban Chao Nen) Hydroelectric Project; $75 Million
Loan of April 15, 1974; Effective Date: June 14, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Civil works under the project have been about 85% completed.
Construction of the dam embankment was completed on May 14, 1978 and all other
works are being carried out satisfactorily. The installation of the turbine
generating units is expected to be completed on schedule. Although the
reservoir did not reach the level anticipated during the first wet season,
1978 has been a good hydro year and the water situation in the reservoir has
improved. Project costs are likely to be about 20% over estimates, due mainly
to additional grouting work required beneath the main embankment. Project
costs will probably increase further as a result of the recent devaluation of
the US dollar against the Japanese yen. The progress on resettlement has been
satisfactory, and almost all of the 814 families affected have now been
moved into their new homes.
Loan No. 1485 Pattani Hydroelectric Project; $50 Million Loan of September 23,
1977; Effective Date: December 20, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The construction of the main civil works is proceeding satisfactorily.
Implementation is about one month behind schedule. The initial delay was caused
by slow mobilization of the contractor and poorer than expected rock conditions
at the downstream ends of the diversion tunnels. Orders for all major equipment
(financed by the Kuwait Fund) have been placed. Construction of the resettle-
ment project is progressing according to schedule. Disbursements are generally
in line with appraisal estimates.



ANNEX II
- 37 -                            Page 10 of 12
Loan No. 1527 The Accelerated Rural Electrification Project; $25 Million Loan
of March 9, 1978; Effective Date: June 7, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983.
The project is in the early stages of implementation. There was an
initial delay of about four months in the preparation of bid documents but
procurement is now under way and should present no further problems.  Field
construction crews have been organized and have been working on pole setting
and conductor stringing since the middle of 1978, utilizing materials available
in stock.
Loan S-10       Natural Gas Development Engineering Project, $4.9 Million Loan
of July 28, 1978; Effective Date: September 25, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The engineering work is proceeding on schedule. The follow-up
project loan is at the appraisal stage.
Loan No. 1021 Bangkok Water Supply Project; $55 Million Loan of June 28,
1974; Effective Date: December 2, 1974; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979
Physical work on the project is proceeding satisfactorily. The
quality of construction and the performance of consultants on supervision of
construction of the IBRD portion of the project is good. The quality of
work on the ADB portion of the project - the transmission and distribution of
pipes - has not been satisfactory, but MWWA is taking corrective measures.
Because of the initial delays in contract awards, the project is expected to
be completed in late 1979, about 20-21 months behind the original schedule.
Extension of the June 30, 1979 Closing Date by about 9-12 months will be
required for full disbursement of the loan. Due to inadequate tariffs, which
were last revised in May 1972, MWWA's financial performance continues to be
poor. MWWA's proposals for raising the water tariffs in line with increased
operating costs were reviewed recently by the Cabinet which has approved in
principle a substantial increase in water tariffs, beginning July 1, 1979
(when some water benefits from the project are expected to materialize). MWWA
has also received approval to increase tariffs every two years following the
initial increase so as to enable MWWA to achieve its covenanted rate of return
of 8%.
Loan No. 1556 Bangkok Sites and Services Project; $8.6 Million Loan of
June 15, 1978; Effective Date: September 22, 1978; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981
Progress is generally good with only minor delays in implementation.
Current cost estimates for civil works are below appraisal estimates. Initial
interagency problems in improving water supply and in transfer of project land
at King Petch are being resolved. In order to minimize resistance to benefi-
ciary charges, cost recovery in improved slums will be introduced as physical
works are completed - starting in early 1980.



ANNEX II
- 38 -                               Page 11 of 12
Loan No. 1638 Bangkok Traffic Management Project; $16 Million Loan of
January 25, 1979; Effective Date: April 25, 1979; Closing
Date: September 30, 1982
Implementation of the project is generally ahead of schedule.
Signal equipment will be installed this spring, some two years earlier than
had been expected, as a result of the consulting and procurement work done
under contracts for which the Bank provided retroactive financing.
Loan No. 1492   The Minburi (Lat Krabang) Industrial Estate Project;
$4.75 Million Loan of December 5, 1977; Effective Date:
March 24, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Project implementation is progressing satisfactorily. Construction
of on-site infrastructure is proceeding on schedule and land sales are well
ahead of the appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 992   Second Industrial Finance Corporation of Thailand (IFCT)
Project; $12.0 Million Loan of June 4, 1974; Effective
Date: September 4, 1974; Original Closing Date: September 30,
1978; Current Closing Date: September 30, 1979
The full amount of the $12 million Loan has been committed, of which
98% has been disbursed. The commitment was more rapid than originally estimated.
Disbursements have also been very satisfactory. Since June 1974 when the loan
was made, IFCT's financial condition has continued to be good.
Loan No. 1327 Third IFCT Project; $25 Million Loan of December 8, 1976;
Effective Date: March 14, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The loan commitment rate has been slower than expected because of
the sharply depressed investment climate in 1976. The IFCT's capital structure
and liquidity position have improved, however, with successful share capital
increases.  Satisfactory progress has been made on the institution-building
aspects of project.
Credit No. 767 Population Project; $33.1 Million Credit of February 27, 1978;
Effective Date: July 6, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
RTG has, in accordance with the Credit Agreement: (a) established
and staffed the Project Coordinating Committee, which has met frequently;
(b) established and staffed the Project Administration and Financing Unit
(PAFU); (c) appointed a project director, deputy director and two assistant
project directors and a health planner/economist; and (d) initiated most of
the key project activities at the national level and in the 20 Accelerated



ANNEX II
39 -                             Page 12 of 12
Family Planning and Health Provinces. Due to initial delays in staffing the
project administration and financing unit, a high turnover of staff in the
Construction and Design Division, and delays in securing Budget Bureau approval
for the supplementary budget for FY1978, key project activities were held up
initially and major elements of the project are about six months behind
schedule. The Ministry of Public Health is, however, taking appropriate
action to strengthen project management, improve coordination and remove
impediments to implementation.



ANNEX III
- 40 -                           Page 1
THAILAND
NORTHERN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supplementary Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project:        About 2-1/2 years - June/July
1976 to January 1979
(b)  Agency which prepared the project:        The Government with the assist-
ance of FAO/IBRD Cooperative
Programme
(c) Date of first Bank mission to
consider the project:                     The project was identified in
June/July 1976
(d)  Departure of the Appraisal Mission:    The major project components
were appraised in June/July
1978. The technical assistance
components (provincial planning,
pilot operations and project
preparation) were appraised
between November 1978 and
January 1979
(e)  Completion of Negotiations:               May 1979
(f)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:            September 1979
Section II: Special IDA Implementation Action:
IDA staff from Washington, D.C., as well as the staff of the Regional
Mission, Bangkok are working closely with the Government and concerned agencies
to broadly define the nature and scope of the proposed small-scale pilot
projects in rainfed agriculture in the North and Northeast regions of Thailand.
Section III: Special Conditions
The Borrower has agreed to:
(a) take all such measures as may be required to ensure prompt allocation
of land suitable for stable agriculture and issuance of land-use
certificates to project beneficiaries (para. 42);



- 41 -                         ANNEX III
Page 2
(b) submit to IDA for its review the project monitoring and evaluation
system devised by the consultants (para. 46);
(c) submit to IDA for comment consultants' recommendations for the
strengthening of provincial planning (para. 47);
(d) set up a committee comprising the representatives of concerned
agencies to provide the necessary coordination and cooperation for
the implementation of the project (para. 51);
(e) ensure appropriate staffing for project implementing agencies
(para. 51); and
(f) three months prior to the start of each fiscal year, submit to
IDA annual work progrms of each implementing agency (para. 51).






IBRD 13842 R
99°                          1000   ,                      ¶0 t120                       104°                (c     ~   Z;, SHINA
BURMA   ,    %          r
$ ~~~0  C¶o,ongR8  I  -~~~~~~~~~~~~                                    THAUILANS)
-~~~~~~                                   )       (>~~~~~~~~~~ENCROT C 2
e                                                            LAO   PEOPLES  DEM. REP                ]                               A
-o*oogM~,  S oNj                               I 4
-X60  t~~~~~d i t \-1-/---l~~~                                         0          o $>7)10000~
FS .'C7,A  X  Vrl  /:   
=.O4       ,C                         >.DEMOC          KAMPUC    
'1 ~ ~~~~       ~~~ j- B<0aot)>chnBr                                       Zt0  00        Jb¶ THAILAND               -
¶40~~~~                  ~          ~ 0 o1  a AnUoooongh8oTm oo,
T.k~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~K'
&t < <'     pkehakll    1    ,f--NORTHERNAGRICULTURALDEVELOPMENTPROJECT
A ~     ~       ' nda  ,n    S            1              ;JR/                                 LOCATION OF PROJ ECT AREA
>r8 ¢                                           05..  C1 C00h4' ,.                      PROJECTAREA
S _A--   j  jEf                               4     e   ~~~~~~---   PROV,NCIAoBCUIoUBR ES
r~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~so                                            00 i.  -  ,   QhUhPKmW t      INTERNAT ONAi BCUNDAk ES
,,m .,o,,,  '                                                                    b
stp~~~~~~~~~~~~A __a di} tXa
.r'-K- t"                           (f                  t                                                 LBS
880              KMAL    ASS                                                                                   1979~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DEOCATC KA P  E
A oo':m an                                                             00 J                                             MARCH
§22   8,  , \  4   Gev/f   of                                                  (>v   J~~~~~~~~~~~~~RROJCTRE
",   Wt_)   l                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AS   a/nd
5eC7~~~~t91                 /     X        enS hEnka 
-SP   .  huket  t   s  t  -                                                                                                  99~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AIVVY
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IVERS\hg@
,_1~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RVCA BC,XN DARth :                            ES             12KLOETh
t At A  )   \  Pe   X                    1Bo                          IvlARCH TERNTONABCUNA97E






BRD 1 3843 R 
9 t   l  --   7        -               9e0                                             .;                           :   0l         ARRIL1979
'>1Z-    [c   . -w        LAO PEOPLE'S
\   A                ~~~EMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
~\   TV~UoNO                        BURMA
<  THAtLAND5   s  ' '  '   ' ' '    -    -B U R  W   :       a2s  . g               |X    ,:                  1   
.c;   -!1                                                                  (- )"zgi7 \  i  /    X   .CHIAHNG RAf
y~~ -4
CViAVFA                                                                                            \    /   Tooos
\>><  2;rv>^^wet       jl   HMAE HONGO/ON
7X        E* t,OA tV ts                                         c.o,                               k'  \                                   ,i      52
wtftatmtttsvsbtuwof                               -                            / -   \   { v e   t   /  \> X   9    rq4Y^D  H     JA
HONG~                         I        9SI    T 
~~~~Oo~~~- ~~~&. fo~~~~~oJ,0ofno oSffh.                                                    ~    -d
oytleyttAYrvwfl    /$;eorsrI neJI ao\                                                                                          f<                   Y 
yhJn ~ )      kc-   CHIANG MAI K_                                                 - Y .      I    t    N   (A)J r--Lj
i % _ ~~~~~~San P2 Tongt 2 ~a n> 4    A< 
___           ro CVoo-\                                  g    -J      5    |      (/    \/                    T                  Ie;~n o 
-  t t \   >   s  0     {   /N ,                     oon                                    THAILAND                 
/z;          NORTHERN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
.N                                     jt \ < i X ad / -PROJECT SITES LOCATIONS
U PLAND DEVELOPMENT STES
HIGHLAND DEVELOPMENT S TES
ROADS                                              17S
RAILWAYS
~-RIVERS
BURMA                                                                                 - -_    DISTR CT BOUNDARIES
t   41   -           .                           ,                             _  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROV NCIAL BCUNDAR ES
Kr1                                                                                                                 S :  \  -   -  NTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
k/ <  C.  0                                                      1I 0   2D    30    40    50
9  D     3  0 AD 5S
9    * ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~KILOM&ERS
'0~~~~~~~~~'*~o~1 1



