I)ocument of
The World Bank
FOR OF]FICIAL USE ONLY FiLE  copY
Report No. 2269-TH
THAILAND
NORTHERN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
May 15, 1979
Projects Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00          =     Baht (B) 20.00
B 1.00          =      US$0.5
US$ 1 million   =      B 20 million
B 1 million            US$50,000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
1 kilogram (kg)                      2.20 pounds
1 metric ton (1,000 kg) (ton)        0.98 long tons
1 meter (m)                     =   39.4 inches
1 kilometer (km)                =   0.62 miles
1 hectare (ha)                  =   2.47 acres
1 square kilometer (sq km)      =   0.39 square miles
1 cubic meter (cu m)            =   35.3 cubic feet
ABBREVIATIONS
BAAC   Bank of Agriculture and Agricultural Cooperatives
CCDPB Central Changwat Development Planning Board
DOAE   Department of Agricultural Extension
DOAT   Department of Agricultural Techniques
HTWD   Hill Tribe Welfare Division
LDD    Land Development Department
MOAC   Ministry of Agriculture & Cooperatives
MOF    Ministry of Finance
MOI    Ministry of the Interior
OUSMA Office of the Under Secretary of State of MOAC
OUSMI Office of the Under Secretary of State of MOI
PWD    Public Welfare Department
RFD    Royal Forestry Department
TALD   Thai-Australian Land Development Project
TRC    Tribal Research Center
WMD    Watershed Management Division, RFD
GOVERNMENT OF THAILAND
FISCAL YEAR
October 1 - September 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THAILAND
NORTHERN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.  BACKGROUND ....  .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  1
A. Rural Sector . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  1
B.  Government Policy   ....  .           .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  2
C.  Bank Involvement ....  .            .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  4
II.  THE UPPER NORTH   ....  .           .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  5
III.   PROJECT AREA ....  .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ..  7
A.  Upland ....  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  7
B.  Highland  ....  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  8
IV.  THE PROJECT   .....  .           .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .. ... . . .    9
A.  Objectives  ....  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  9
B.  Origin .1.0..  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    lO
C.  Brief Description   ....  .           .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    10
D. Detailed Features . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  12
E. Cost . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28
F.  Financing   ....  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    30
G.  Procurement   ....  .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    31
H.  Disbursement  ....  .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   32
V.  ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   32
A. General .32
B.  Land Development Department   . . . . . . . . . . . . .   33
C.  Public Welfare Department   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   34
D.  Royal Forestry Department   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   36
E.  Provincial Planning, Project Preparation, and Pilot
Operations  ....  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    37
F.  Accounts and Auditing   ...  .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   38
VI.  MARKETING AND PRICES  ....  .            .  .    . .....  .    .  .  .  .  .    .    38
A.  Output  ....  .  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    38
B.   Production Inputs   ...  .  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   43
This report is based on the findings of a team composed of Messrs. Luhman,
Burer, Goering and Lutz (IDA) and Messrs. Bilbo and Blomkviist (consultants),
which visited Thailand in June/July 1978, and a team composed of Messrs. Porter,
Hermans, and Ms. Murphy which visited Thailand in November 1978.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their ofricial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
Page No.
VII.  BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION, AND RISK . . . . . . . . . . . . .  43
A.    Benefits   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  43
B.  Environmental Impact ... .  .  .   .....  .  .  .  .  .   .  46
C.  Role of Women  ... .  .  .  .   ..... .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  47
D.  Economic Returns . . . . . . . . . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   47
E.  Risks  . . .    .. ........  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   48
F. Cost Recovery  ... .  .  .  .  .  .   ...  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   49
VIII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECO1M2ENDATION  . . . . . . . . . . .  49
LIST OF TABLES IN MIAIN TEXT
4.1 Project Cost .......  ..  ...  ..  ..  ..  ...  ..  .  .   29
4.2    Financing    .  .  .  .  .  ...  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  30
6.1 Annual Incremental Production of M4ajor Commodities . . . . . .  39
6.2  Summary of Economic and Financial Prices of Project Output . .  40
7.1 Family Income by Farm Type . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  44
ANNEXES
1. Economic Analysis ......  ..  .  ..  ..  ..  .  ..  ..  .  . .   52
2.  Supporting Tables and Charts
T-1  Farm Model Cropping Patterns, Yields, and Production . .    65
T-2  Staffing Schedule  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  69
T-3 Project Cost Details and Phasing . . . . . . . . . . . . .  73
T-4  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements  . . . . . . . . . . .  79
C-1 Implementation Schedule  .....  .  .  .  ..  .  .  .  .  ..   .   80
C-2 Organization of Land Development Department  . . . . . . .  81
C-3  Project Organization of Land Development Department  . . .  82
C-4 Organization of Hill Tribe Welfare Division, Public
Welfare Department  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  83
C-5 Project Organization of Hill Tribe Welfare Division  . . .  84
C-6 Organization of Royal Forestry Department. . . . . . . . .  85
3.  Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File . . .  86
LIST OF MAPS
IBRD 13842 Project Area
IBRD 13843 Project Sites



I. BACKGROUND
A. The Agricultural Sector
1.01      About 80% of Thailand's population of 44 million reside in rural
areas. Structural change in the Thai economy has been rapid in recent
years, but agriculture (including fisheries and forestry) continues to
employ more than three quarters of the labor force, contributes about 30% of
GDP and accounts for over 70% of goods exported. Agricultural GDP in
1970-76 grew by 4.3% p.a., down from 5.4% p.a. in 1960-70, with about 75% of
output accounted for by crop production, 4% by forestry and the balance by
livestock and fisheries. Much of this recent growth has come from an
expansion of cultivated area, as major crop yields and cropping intensities
have changed little on a national basis. Rice has become relatively less
important in agricultural value added (declining from 51% in 1960 to 39% in
1975), while some upland crops, particularly maize and cassava, have con-
tributed larger shares to total output. Maize and cassava exports together
are now almost double the value of rice exports. The Government adopted a
policy of investing in infrastructure (roads, water control, ports, electric
power, etc.), while allowing relatively free prices and a vigorous private
sector to operate. Agricultural support services such as research and
extension have until recently been given less emphasis.
1.02      The increase in average farm size during the early years of the
1960-76 period and higher relative prices for farm products in recent years,
resulted in annual average incomes of agricultural households being nearly
doubled in this period to US$950. But variations around that mean are large,
with the highest incomes being realized in the irrigated agriculture of the
Central Region and the lowest in the North and Northeast. Agricultural
employment has grown less rapidly than the rural labor force, resulting in
substantial rural-urban migration and the growing importance of rural nonfarm
employment and income. In 1970 about 30% of average national gross farm
family income came from off-farm sources.
1.03      Despite agriculture's overall good performance during the past
15 years, large numbers of the rural population remain poor in absolute
terms. Moreover, as readily accessible arable land reserves are exhausted,
continued rapid growth of this sector will be more difficult to maintain.
The period of easy accessibility tc new land is rapidly drawing to a close
and, in the presence of continued rapid growth of the rural population, the
national average farm size may already have begun to decline. It is estimated
that a third of all agricultural households (or nearly 9 million people) remain
in absolute poverty (defined as having annual incomes of no more than US$99
per capita in rural areas), with many having had little or no improvement
in real incomes since 1960. About two-thirds of all poverty households live
in rural areas of the lWorth and Northeast where the major source of family
livelihood is the growing of low-yielding rice under rainfed conditions. It



is in these areas where the land constraint is increasingly severe, where
physical infrastructure is least adequate and where agricultural and social
support services tend to be the weakest. It is also here that opportunities
for nonfarm employment are the poorest.
B. Government Policy
1.04      There is growing concern in the Government over these and other
emerging issues of longer-term development of the agricultural sector. The
Government is increasingly stressing the need to achieve greater spatial
balance in economic growth and to ensure that all socioeconomic groups
benefit from the growth process. The latest development plan (the Fourth
National Economic and Social Development Plan, 1977-81) states that "several
basic policy reforms are considered necessary for promoting greater economic
security for the nation and creating a more equitable economic and social
order which would mean an eventual eradication of poverty among large segments
of the population." National development objectives of the plan include
accelerated economic growth, reduced income disparities, reduced population
growth, expanded employment, improved management of natural resources,
greater national cohesion, and expanded decentralization of development
management.
1.05      The plan sets out the Government's strategy to achieve these objec-
tives. A target annual growth rate of 5% has been set for the agricultural
sector. Agricultural diversification is to be promoted through expansion
of the livestock, coastal fisheries and fruit and vegetable subsectors.
Emphasis is to be given to integrated agricultural development through
programs to undertake land development, improve on-farm irrigation, expand
agricultural credit, improve input delivery systems and strengthen the
extension service. An annual reforestation target of 0.5 million ha has been
established. Particular emphasis is to be given to regional planning and to
expanding and decentralizing public utilities, transportation and communica-
tion services. The plan also calls for the revision of pricing policies for
these services to promote improved distribution of income across regions and
socioeconomic groups, and proposes expanded social services among lower-income
classes.
1.06      Although valuable as statements of Government policy, national
development plans generally have not been effective guides to government
agencies in establishing priorities and implementating programs. The insti-
tutional complexities of national planning in Thailand, the weakness of
planning units in the major developmental ministries, and the lack of coor-
dination among agencies has meant that the plans are often disregarded in the
allocation of financial and administrative resources. Moreover, present
institutional arrangements, particularly the highly centralized administra-
tive structure, are not conducive to equitable economic and social develop-
ment and the eradication of poverty. It is difficult for agencies and
departments located in Bangkok to identify and respond to the differing needs
of farmers in various parts of the country.



- 3 -
1.07      Full participation of all socioeconomic groups in the future
development of the agricultural sector can only be ensured if appropriate
policies and programs are developed and if certain institutional and
administrative changes are made:
(a) Land Productivity. Because new land coming under cultivation
is increasingly of low-yield potential, the main source of
increased production must come from higher yields and cropping
intensities on land already under cultivation. This will require,
in particular, more effective agricultural support services such
as research, extension and mnarketing.
(b) Rainfed Agriculture. This subsector presents the most acute
problems of poverty, low yiields and natural resource degradation,
particularly in rice-growing areas, and development efforts by the
Government need to be expanded. This requires investment in road
construction to improve accessibility to isolated areas, soil and
water conservation works, programs of applied resetarch and exten-
sion to meet the needs of farmers in different ecological condi-
tions and an accelerated program of land titling to provide tenure
security and the motivation to pursue more advanced and less
destructive cultural practices.
(c)  Fertilizer.  Fertilizer use in Thailand is relatively low as a result
of low product/fertilizer price ratios, irregular supplies, and the
lack of appropriate types oE fertilizers. These conditions in
turn derive from the high cost, limited capacity characteristics of
the domestic fertilizer industry and export taxes on certain crops,
particularly rice. Government is aware of this problem and is in
the process of formulating a new fertilizer policy; the Bank is
undertaking an analysis of the fertilizer subsector.
(d) Natural Resource Management. A national land use policy and plan
should be formulated, focussed on the North and Ncrtheast. Areas
formally designated as forest areas but suitable for agricultural
development should be allocated to the latter use; conversely,
areas not presently reserved for forest development but unsuited to
agriculture should be allocated to forestry. In the development of
agriculture on marginal landls, particular care must be exercised to
introduce appropriate water and soil conservation measures.
1Management of forest resources should produce maximum output on a
sustained basis while at the same time conserving water and soil
resources affecting downstream agriculture.
(e) Agricultural Credit. Despite the rapid expansion in the amount of
institutional credit made available to agriculture, the small
farmer in Thailand still has difficulty in obtaining adequate
production and investment credit on reasonable terms.  The expanded
use of purchased inputs needled to intensify production in already



- 4 -
cropped areas will add to credit requirements. Greater emphasis on
lending to smaller farmers will add to the costs of institutional
credit programs.
(f) Government Institutions. Inadequate planning, implementation and
monitoring capacity for both development projects and supporting
services restricts Thailand's future agricultural development. The
highly centralized nature of the Government, as well as functional
duplication and inadequate coordination among government agencies.
The roles of various agencies involved in land development, settle-
ment and land reform need to be defined more clearly.
C. Bank Involvement
1.08      There is basic agreement between the Bank and the Government on the
problems and development prospects of the agricultural sector. The Bank's
lending emphasis has evolved in recognition of the changing character of
these problems. Until the early 1970s, Bank lending concentrated on trans-
portation infrastructure and irrigation, which accounted for about 60% of
total Bank lending to Thailand in 1973. Lending for irrigation was the
Bank's only activity in the agricultural sector until FY75. The initial
emphasis was on improving water control through low-cost development in the
country's major irrigation areas. Subsequent lending in irrigated areas
provided for improved supporting services, roads and on-farm development.
1.09      Recently the Bank has supported the strengthening of Government
institutions involved in agricultural and rural development and the diver-
sification of the agricultural sector. Bank lending has provided finance for
national extension, livestock, rubber replanting, northeast rural development,
and two northeast irrigation projects. In addition to the proposed project,
a second agricultural extension project has been appraised and an agricultural
research project and a rural credit project are under preparation. A primary
aim of these projects is to strengthen essential rural institutions. The
livestock and rubber projects also contribute to the diversification of the
agricultural sector while the northeast rural development project includes an
initial effort to develop improved production technologies for rainfed areas.
1.10      A major focus of future Bank lending in the agricultural sector
will be on raising incomes among the poorest farmers in rainfed areas. This
can be done by bringing more marginal lands into permanent production through
techniques which improve productivity while conserving the natural resource
base. At the same time, efforts to diversify agricultural production and
strengthen Government institutions will continue. Projects in rainfed areas
typically are the most difficult to prepare and implement because of the lack
of well-developed technology packages and the high risks confronting small
farmers. Preparation and implementation of such projects will require
a concerted effort on the part of the Government and substantial collabora-
tion by the Bank.



1.11      The proposed project is consistent with the Government policies
discussed above and would be the first of its type to be supported by the
Bank.  It would demonstrate on an expanded scale the viability of technology
packages for certain areas and of techniques for reaching low-income farmers.
The project would also assist the Government in expanding its planning and
implementation capacity at the provincial level and would support the prepara-
tion of further high priority projects and the testing of technology packages
for rainfed areas.
II. THE UPPER NORTH
2.01      The Upper North /1 covers about 20% of the country but contains
only 12% of the population (of which 94% live in rural areas) and contributes
a mere 8% of GDP. Only 10% of the region has relatively flat, fertile
plains; 30% is undulating uplands and the remaining 60% is mountainous.
Some farmers have access to irrigation, but the great majority cultivate
under basically rainfed conditions, and a typical holding is only 2 ha
compared to the national typical holding of about 3.5 ha. Because of the
scarcity of readily cultivable land, many farmers practice slash-and-burn
agriculture in the uplands, but yields are declining and increasing erosion
problems are occurring in some areas.
2.02      The typical farmer in rainfed areas of the Upper North (represent-
ing 80% of agricultural households), has a net income of about US$450 (]L976
prices). This is only 75% of the national typical farm income and is s:imilar
to the income level of subsistence rice farmers in the Northeast. Approxi-
mately 80% of this income derives from the farm and 20% is obtained through
off-farm employment. The income level has increased only about 25% in real
terms since the early 1960s, almost exclusively as a result of an increase in
livestock income caused by changes in relative prices.  Holding size had no
impact on income over the period, since it remained unchanged, and yields may
have declined as a result of decreasing productivity in upland areas. Since
the typical farmer in rainfed areas does not produce a rice surplus, he also
did not benefit from the relative increase in the rice price during the
period. The overall level of government services in the Upper North (parti-
cularly in the rainfed areas) remains well below the national average, partly
as a result of difficult transportation conditions. Literacy rates are among
the lowest in the country, and the index of access of the typical farm house-
hold to secondary schools rates somewhat above 80 in comparison with the
national average at 100. Access to rural health centers at: about 90 is
comparatively better. In summary, the typical farmer in rainfed areas of the
Upper North is among the poorest in the country.
/1 The ten northernmost provinces of Mae Hong Son, Chiang Mai, Chiang Rai,
Phayao, Nan, Phrae, Lampang, Lamnphun, Sukhothai and Uttardit.



- 6 -
2.03      As of 1975, there were about 1.0 million ha of land available for
cultivation in the North /1 in comparison with 5.3 million ha in farm hold-
ings. But much of this additional area was slopeland under shifting cultiva-
tion and if it is to be developed for stable agriculture would require
clearing, mechanical land preparation, and soil conservation measures. In
the Upper North, for example, it is estimated that about 500,000 ha of upland
areas (slopeland ranging in altitude from about 250 to 500 m) currently
cultivated on a shifting basis could be developed for annual cultivation with
the introduction of such measures. Since irrigation opportunities are
limited in the Upper North, increasing the intensity of land use will involve
primarily this transformation from shifting to stable agriculture in the
upland areas. Average yields in the Upper North have been declining as a
result of the expansion into upland areas, but even within the uplands,
yields have been falling because of the decreasing fallow period caused by
rising population pressures. This trend can be arrested only through the use
of appropriate cropping patterns and fertilizer, in combination with soil
conservation measures, to maintain soil fertility.
2.04      In the absence of a concerted development effort, the prospects for
the vast majority of farmers in the Upper North are bleak. Those in the
limited irrigated areas should fare reasonably well by extending the area
under double cropping and even moving into triple cropping. However,
those in rainfed areas will face increasing pressure to break up their
holdings, and declining rice yields, together with limited opportunities for
diversification, will contribute to the reduction in output. Some will
migrate, but they will find few jobs outside of agriculture. As a group,
these farmers could find their incomes declining in real terms.
2.05      In order to prevent such an occurrence, the Government will have
to focus its assistance on these low-income farmers in rainfed areas. In
addition to the transfer of land from forest to agricultural use and vice
versa (para. 1.07), titles will need to be issued to farmers to encourage
their improvement of the land. Land development programs will have to be
supported with public funds because of the long-term nature of the benefits,
the accrual of indirect benefits to downstream farmers (decreased flooding
and reduced siltation of irrigation works), and limitations of capital
availability. Further research will be needed to develop a range of cropping
systems and conservation farming systems suited to the varying upland areas.
Strengthened extension services will be required to transfer technology to
farmers, and improved credit facilities must be made available to enable
farmers to finance cash inputs. Road access needs to be extended to
additional areas in order to permit the flow of goods and services essential
for development. Local government institutions must be strengthened
/1 The 17 northernmost provinces: the 10 listed previously for the Upper
North plus Tak, Kamphaeng Phet, Phitsanulok, Petchabun, Phichit, Nakhon
Sawan, and Uthai Thani, constituting the Lower North.



so that they more accurately reflecl: local needs and so that the capabiLlity
for implementation of programs can be expanded at the locaLl level. If
actions along the above lines are undertaken, as in the proposed project,
farm incomes can be expected to rise by 50% or more over EL period of 15 years,
in contrast to a possible decline w:ithout these efforts.
III. PROJECT AREA
A. Upland
3.01      The gross area for development in the uplands under the proposed
project (rolling terrain up to about 500 m elevation next to valley lowlands)
is appproximately 50,000 ha, located in various sites in seven provinces of
northern Thailand (Map IBRD 13843). This area represents about 2% of the
upland area in the North. Of this gross area, 30,000 ha would be under
agricultural development, and 4,050 ha of the remainder would be developed
for forestry. Some 20,000 ha of land has been specificalLy identified as
suitable for upland agricultural development; the remaining 10,000 ha would
be identified during the project period for development in the last two
years. Slope is the primary constraint on agricultural development in the
project area. Thus the area to be developed for agriculture under the
project consists of land with a maximum slope of 15%, on which appropriate
erosion control works would be constructed, while the remaining area consists
mainly of steep slopes better suited to forestry development.
3.02      The soils in the upland sites are alluvial or residual and are
derived from granite and limestone. They are mostly dark to light brown
sandy loams with moderate permeability and fertility, which are suitable for
upland crops. Annual rainfall ranges between 1,000 and 2,000 mm, almost all
of which occurs in the months May through October. The cool dry season is
November through January, while the hot dry season is February through April
(temperatures in the North vary generallg from a mean daily minimum of 120C
in January to a mean daily maximum of 36 C in April). The growing season is
generally mid-April to mid-December.
3.03      Virtually all of the area is under damaged forest and is not
classified as reserve forest. Farmers living in neighboring lowlands practice
shifting cultivation in the uplands, with about 25% of the area planted each
year to rice, maize, peanuts, and nmungbeans. The average crop/fallow
rotation period is about four years. As a result of this land use pattern,
ground cover in fallow areas varies from stubble to shrubby forest, bamboo,
and Imperata grass (Imperata cylincrica).
3.04      About 15,000 ethnic Thai farmers who are prospective project
beneficiaries live in the neighboriLng lowlands, where some 60% have legal
tenure, 10% operate on the basis of traditional rights, and 30% are tenants.
About 50% of these farmers have legal tenure to half of the upland area,



- 8 -
while the remainder is utilized according to traditional rights. The average
family of about six is composed of three adults and three children, and can
mobilize about three adult labor units for farm work.
3.05      The typical prospective beneficiary utilizes about 2.4 ha of land,
of which 0.4 ha is lowland and 2.0 ha is upland, 0.5 ha of the latter being
cultivated each year and the remaining 1.5 ha being left in fallow. Irrigated
rice, tobacco, vegetables, soybeans, and peanuts are grown in the lowland
area, while mainly rice and some maize and peanuts are grown in the upland
area. Upland yields are low: 800 kg/ha for unmilled rice, 600 kg/ha for
maize, and 400 kg/ha for peanuts. The farmer's annual net income is about
US$420, of which some US$240 is in cash, thus placing him well below the
absolute poverty level of about US$595 for a family of six.
B. Highland
3.06      Development in the highlands (over about 500 m elevation) would
occur in eight catchments in five provinces in northern Thailand, covering a
total of some 172,000 ha (about 3% of the highland area), of which perhaps
34,000 ha are suited to stable agriculture and the remaining 138,000 ha are
suited to forestry development.
3.07      Within the highland sites, the valley bottom land (up to 3% slope)
accounts for about 3% of the area, footslopes (between 3% and 35%) cover
perhaps 17% of the area, and the remaining 80% of the area consists of more
steeply sloped land (over 35%). The level areas can be developed for irrigated
agriculture, while the footslopes can be developed for rainfed agriculture
with the use of bench terraces to control erosion. Most of the more steeply
sloped land is better suited to forestry development.
3.08      The soils are mostly residual, derived from varying parent material
(including granite, sandstone, and limestone). They are mainly well-drained
dark brown to reddish or yellowish brown loams. In the valley bottoms, the
soils have sufficient clay content for the construction of irrigation bunds
and will support annual cropping. On the footslopes, the soils will
also support annual cropping, provided that appropriate soil and water
conservation measures are taken.
3.09      Annual rainfall is generally in the upper part of the 1000 to
2000 mm range cited for the uplands, and the seasonal pattern is about the
same as in the uplands. The seasonal temperature pattern also is similar,
although cooler on average because of the higher altitude, and frosts occur in
some remote locations. The overall growing season for annual crops is about
April through November, although opium poppies are planted in September and
harvested December through February.
3.10      Partially damaged forest covers 71% of the highland sites, while 23%
is under forest fallow. The area under crops in a given year accounts for the



remaining 6%, with food crops under shifting cultivation occupying 3.5% of the
area, poppies under shifting cultivation 0.4%, irrigated rice 0.6%, and miang
tea 1.5%. Thus the area under shifting cultivation or fallow is about 29% of
the total.
3.11      There are about 200 villages in the highland sites with some 6,500
families (perhaps 8% of the highland population), 28% of which are ethnic
Thais and the remaining 72% hill tribe families. These areas are generally
classified as forest reserve, and cultivation is undertaken on the basis of
traditional rights. Because of increasing population pressure, fallow
periods are being shortened, with a consequent deterioration of soil fertility
and structure and a decline in production. The average family of about six
has three adult labor units available for farm work.
3.12      There are perhaps three maLin cropping systems practiced by farmers
in the highland sites. The first irLvolves about 60% of the farmers and is
characterized by shifting cultivation based on rice. The second is practiced
by some 20% of the farmers and is based on shifting cultivation of rice,
maize, and poppies. The remaining 20% of farmers produce Miang tea under
permanent tree crop conditions.
3.13      As an example of the highland farm unit, the typical rice farmer
may cultivate annually about 1.3 ha, consisting of 0.2 ha of irrigated rice
and 1.1 ha of swidden crops (mostly rice). He utilizes a total of 7.9 ha,
including the cultivated area of 1.3 ha and forest fallow of 6.6 ha, based on
a rotation period of seven years. About one out of every two such farmers
has a head of buffalo or cattle, and, on average, each farmer has some two
pigs and seven head of poultry. The buffaloes are used for draft power for
irrigated rice production, but all other farming activities are undertaken by
hand, often using rudimentary tools., Virtually no purchased inputs are
utilized. Yields are 2,000 kg/ha (unmilled) for irrigated rice and 1,250
kg/ha (unmilled) for swidden rice. The farmer's net income is about US$390,
of which approximately 65% is derived from agriculture, 15% from off-farm
employment, and 20% from other sources (handicrafts, etc.). Perhaps US$220
of the total is in cash.
IV. TIRE PROJECT
A. Objectives
4.01      The principal objectives of the project are to
(a) raise the standard of living of the rural poor by increasing and
stabilizing farmer incomes and by providing minimal social services
in highland areas;
(b) expand agricultural production through intensification by the
progressive replacement of shifting agriculture with stable
agriculture;
(c) conserve water, soil, and forest resources;



- 10 -
(d) enhance national cohesion by strengthening links between hill tribes
and ethnic Thais;
(e) demonstrate, on an expanded scale, permanent rainfed conservation
cropping systems which can be replicated widely in suitable areas
of the North;
(f) assist the Government in its program to decentralize planning and
implementation activities and accelerate rural development;
(g) facilitate the preparation of high priority projects; and
(h) test technology packages for rainfed areas of the North and Northeast.
4.02      In addition to expanding agricultural production and increasing
farmer incomes, the transition to stable agriculture is expected to reduce
opium poppy production in highland areas. Conservation structures and prac-
tices introduced under the project would increase agricultural yields and
production within the project areas. These conservation measures also would
have a beneficial impact on other areas of the North and in the central plain
as well, through moderation of the water runoff pattern and reduction of silt
levels in rivers. Hill tribes in highland areas have remained isolated from
the mainstream of Thai society, but the project would foster the development
of additional economic and social links between hill tribes and ethnic Thais.
The project would make a substantial contribution to the strengthening of the
institutions involved. Furthermore, it seeks to heighten the responsive-
ness of the central and provincial governments to the needs of the rural
poor. This would be done by assisting the Government to achieve its objective
of greater decentralization of development management through identifying
ways of improving planning and coordinating public sector activities at the
provincial level. Finally, the monitoring and evaluation element incorporated
in the project would provide the basis for designing subsequent larger-scale
projects with similar objectives. It is expected that this project would be
the first in a series of projects in the North of Thailand, a region with one
of the highest priorities for development and one in which the World Bank
Group previously has not been involved.
B. Origin
4.03      The proposed project was identified by a Bank reconnaissance team
which visited Thailand in June/July 1976. Preparation of the project was
undertaken by the Government with the assistance of the FAO/IBRD Cooperative
Program, which sent teams to Thailand in February/March 1977, May/June 1977,
and January/February 1978. The major project components were appraised in
June/July 1978; preparation/appraisal of the remaining components was under-
taken in November 1978 and January 1979.
C. Brief Description
4.04      The project would be implemented over a five-year period in various
sites in eight provinces of northern Thailand. In upland areas, consisting of
rolling terrain up to about 500 m elevation, next to valley bottomlands, it
would involve agriculture and forestry development affecting a total of 15,000



- 11 -
ethnic Thai families. Of a gross area of about 50,000 ha, some 30,000 ha
would be developed for stable agriculture, while 4,050 of the remainder would
be developed for forestry. The project also would involve agriculture,
social, and forestry development aimed at about 6,500 mainly hill tribe
families in highland areas above about 500 m containing valleys with narrow
floors and steep sides. The eight hiLghland sites cover a total of some
172,000 ha, of which perhaps 34,000 ha are suitable for stable agriculture
and 138,000 ha have conditions suited to forestry development.  The project
would also include components for the improvement of provincial planning,
the preparation of additional high priority development projects, and the
testing of technology packages for rainfed agriculture in pilot operations.
4.05     In the upland areas, agricu:Lture development would represent basically
an expansion of the ongoing Thai-Australian Land Development Project (TALD),
administered by the Land Development Department (LDD) of the Ministry of
Agriculture and Cooperatives (MOAC). Forestry development would be modelled
after the community forest activities of the Royal Forestry Department (RFD)
of MOAC. In highland areas, agriculture and social development would be
essentially an expansion of the Zona:L Development Program cif the Public
Welfare Department's (PWD) Hill Tribe Welfare Division (HTWD). Forestry
development in these areas would buiLd on the experience gained by the
Watershed Management Division (WMD) of the Royal Forestry Department (RFD) in
its watershed management program.
4.06      Upland agriculture development would include farm development (land
clearing, erosion control works, and initial cultivation on 30,000 ha), seed
supply, applied conservation research, access tracks (750 km), and technical
services. Crops grown in the upland areas would be primarily rice and some
maize, groundnuts, and mungbeans.  Forestry development in the uplands would
involve the establishment of village woodlots (4,050 ha) and the provisiLon of
technical services. In the highlands, agriculture and social development
would comprise farm development (800 ha of irrigation for food crops, mainly
rice, 1,300 ha of terraced land for rainfed annual crops, and 1,300 ha of ter-
raced land for coffee), small social infrastructure works such as schoo:Ls
(80) and health posts (32), access tracks (500 km) and technical services.
The main crops grown on developed land in the highland areas would be rice
and coffee, while secondary crops would include maize and soybeans. Forestry
development in the highland areas would involve establishment of village
woodlots (3,100 ha), rehabilitation of degraded forest (4,600 ha), protesction
of forest areas (1,730 km of firelin,ss, firefighting equipment, and training
of farmers), access tracks (345 km), and technical services.
4.07      Primary responsibilities for implementation of the project would be
as follows: LDD for upland agricultural and forestry development; HTWD for
highland agricultural and social devealopment; RFD for highland forestry
development, the Office of the Under Secretary of State of the Ministry of
the Interior (OUSMI) for provincial lplanning, the National Economic and
Social Development Board (NESDB) for project preparation, and the Office of
the Under Secretary of State of the Ilinistry of Agriculture and Cooperatives
(OUSMA) for pilot operations.



- 12 -
D. Detailed Features
Upland Agriculture
4.08      Farm Development.  The Thai-Australian Land Development (TALD)
Project has demonstrated that stable agriculture can replace shifting agri-
culture and double the yields, based on the introduction of appropriate
conservation works, improved seed, fertilizer, mechanized land preparation,
and improved cultivation practices. In the case of upland rice, for example,
average yields of 600-900 kg/ha with shifting agriculture have increased to
1500-2000 kg/ha after development. The land is first cleared, partly with
chains and partly with cutting blades, roots are removed with rippers, and
the brush is collected and burned. Contour banks of about 1.1 sq m cross
section and an average of 40 m separation are then formed, the land is
ploughed with heavy disc harrows, and the farmers are provided with improved
seed adapted to upland conditions. In subsequent years, farmers hire tractor
services for mechanical land preparation and fertilizer is added which,
together with the cereal/ legume cropping pattern, serves to maintain yields.
LDD began with a small experimental plot of 40 ha in 1968 and a larger area
of 350 ha in 1969. The Australian Government initiated its support in 1970,
and the area developed each year was expanded until the current rate of about
1,500 ha per year was reached. The total area developed to date is about
8,500 ha. The land development has been undertaken by force account, and
budgetary restrictions have limited the rate. The proposed project would
utilize the technology package which has evolved under TALD and is now
considered suitable for application on a wider scale. Under the project,
land development would be implemented by contractors.
4.09      About 15,000 ethnic Thai farmers are expected to participate in the
upland agriculture component of the proposed project. Conditions among
these farmers are sufficiently similar that a single farm model is adequate.
The typical farmer (para. 3.05) presently utilizes about 2.0 ha in the
uplands, 20% of which is in rice, 5% in maize and peanuts, and 75% in bush
fallow. Project activities would include surveying, land clearing, root
ripping, stick removal, construction of conservation works, and initial
cultivation. LDD would ensure that an adequate supply of improved seed and
fertilizer was made available to the farmer, and technical assistance would
be provided to him on appropriate conservation farming practices (para.
4.15). The Bank for Agriculture and Agricultural Cooperatives (BAAC) would
provide production credit for seed, fertilizer, and tractor services for land
preparation after the first year (para. 4.56). Following the introduction of
stable agriculture, the typical farmer would utilize about 2.0 ha of upland,
of which some 40% would be in rice, 30% in maize, 10% in peanuts, and 10% in
soybeans or mungbeans. The remaining 10% would be occupied by conservation
works and access tracks. A second crop would be grown on perhaps 20% of the
area, with half in peanuts and half in soybeans or mungbeans. At full
development in the fourth year, the farmer's annual net income would increase
to about US$680, compared to US$420 at present and the absolute poverty level
of US$595.



- 13 -
4.10      In the aggregate, this component of the project wjould include the
following activities:
(a)  a land classification survey covering the gross area of approxi-
mately 50,000 ha, and socio-economic, boundary, and conservation
works surveys for the 30,000 ha to be developed for agriculture;
(b)  procurement of specialized equipment for land development to be
leased to contractors (anchor chains, Fleco-type root ploughs,
brush rakes, and Rome-type heavy offset disc harrows);
(c)  land clearing, root ripping, stick removal and construction of
contour banks on 30,000 ha (2,500 ha, 4,500 ha, 7,000 ha, 8,000 ha,
and 8,000 ha for project years 1-5, respectively);
(d)  initial cultivation of the 30,000 ha.
4.11      LDD would undertake a land classification survey to divide the
gross area into zones suitable for agriculture and those which would be
left for forestry. It would also undertake a socio-economic survey to
identify project beneficiaries and to generate base line data for the moni-
toring and evaluation activities (para. 4.43). After allocation of land to
project beneficiaries by the local government authorities, LDD would carry
out a boundary survey and prepare a map of each site. These maps would be
submitted to the District Land Office to facilitate acquisition of titles by
farmers. LDD also would assist in the formation of farmer groups to increase
the efficiency of land development, advisory service, and credit activities.
Finally, LDD would align and peg the. contour banks. Land clearing, root
ripping, and construction of contour banks would be undertaken by contractors
retained by LDD, using 200 hp tractors, and LDD would supervise stick removal
by the farmers. Since thorough land preparation and the use of appropriate
material inputs are essential to the successful establishment of the new
cropping system, LDD would contract for the initial land preparation (which
would be undertaken with the heavy offset disc harrows).  It would provide
proper amounts of improved seed to farmers, and would closely supervise
the final seedbed preparation and planting by the farmers. Maintenance
of the contour banks would be undertaken by LDD during the project period.
Subsequently, LDD would assist the farmers in maintaining the contour banks.
An assurance was obtained at negotiations that LDD would ensure that the
conservation works were properly maintained.
4.12      Access Tracks.  This component would consist of the construction
of 25 m of access track per ha of agricultural area, or about 750 km in
total. Each track would provide acc:ess to a group of farm plots and would
intersect with the existing all-weather roads which form a satisfactory net-
work in the area of the upland sites. Grassed waterways would be constructed
on either side of the tracks to servre as part of the drainage system for the
conservation works described above.
4.13      The tracks would be 4 m wide and would not be surfaced.  They would
be constructed with heavy tractors and graders after initial ploughing of the
farmland. The waterways would be 3 m wide, with a concave cross-section, and



- 14 -
would be formed by graders. Design and layout of the tracks and waterways
would be undertaken by LDD while construction would be carried out by con-
tractors retained by LDD, normally the same ones retained for the land
development work. LDD would arrange for maintenance of the tracks by contract
during the project period, while the farmer groups would assume responsibility
for maintenance thereafter, with LDD's guidance. Farmer groups would maintain
the waterways during and after the project period. An assurance was obtained
at negotiations that LDD would ensure that the tracks and waterways were
properly maintained.
4.14      Technical Services /1. This component would involve the expansion
of the unit established by LDD to implement the TALD project. It would
(a)  provide the overall management for upland agricultural
development;
(b)  implement the land classification, socio-economic, boundary, and
conservation works surveys;
(c)  procure the specialized equipment required for land development;
(d)  retain and supervise contractors to undertake land clearing, root
ripping, establishment of soil conservation works, initial cultiva-
tion, and construction of access tracks;
(e)  ensure the provision of adequate improved seed and fertilizer to
farmers;
(f)  provide technical assistance on conservation farming systems to
farmers;
(g)  implement conservation farming research;
(h)  provide training for its staff; and
(i)  retain consultants to assist in the expansion of the unit's capacity
and the training of staff.
4.15      Information on the organization and management of the unit is given
in Chapter V; farm development and access tracks are discussed in paras.
4.08 to 4.13 above. In order to ensure an adequate supply of improved seed,
the unit would provide foundation seed to selected farmers for multiplication.
Equipment and facilities for cultivation of the foundation seed and for seed
processing and storage would be provided under the project. One man-year of
technical assistance would be provided for every 450 farmers during the first
three years of development, or a maximum of 26 man-years in the fifth year of
/1   Technical services include project administration, technical assistance
to farmers, consultant services, seed supply, and conservation farming
research.



- 15 -
the project. The technicians providing this assistance would help farmers in
forming groups of perhaps 25 farmers each, and would advise them on the new
conservation farming system. As part of this task, they would assist farmers
in applying for production credit, and they would arrange and supervise the
annual contract ploughing of fields. LDD would provide this technical
assistance to farmers in coordination with the Department of Agricultural
Extension (DOAE). For each farmer, LDD would provide the technical assistance
for a period of three years, during which time it would also train DOAE
extension agents in conservation farming practices, both in formal sessions
and in field work with the farmers. After the new conservation farming
system had been established, at the end of the three-year period, DOAE would
assume responsibility for providing regular extension services to farmers.
(An assurance on this matter was obtained at negotiations.) Current research
on improved cultivation methods, cropping systems, and conservation structures
and practices for sloping terrain would be expanded, in coordination with the
Department of Agricultural Techniques (DOAT). Equipment and facilities would
be provided to support this effort. F'oreign training in the form of study
tours would be provided to selected staff to review land development con-
tracting procedures and conservation f'arming practices. LDD would retain
five specialists in conservation works and practices, land development
contracting, rainfed farming sytems, soil fertility, and seed production and
processing, to assist in expanding the overall capacity of the unit and
participate in the training of staff.
4.16      A maximum of 112 additional professional staff would be required by
the unit to undertake the activities described above. Housing would be
provided for the additional staff, as would offices and equipment. A total
of 105 vehicles would be required, consisting of 6 cars, 10 pickups,
30 four-wheel drive (4WD) vehicles, 5C5 motorbikes (125 cc), 2 wheeled tractors,
1 truck, and 1 grader.
Upland Forestry
4.17      Village Woodlots.  The clearing of forest fallow and the replace-
ment of shifting agriculture with stable agriculture in the upland sites would
reduce the farmers' supply of fuelwoocl and timber. In order to meet their
needs, 90 woodlots covering a total of 4,050 ha of land adjacent to the areas
to be developed for agriculture would be established by village woodlot
associations with assistance from LDD and the Royal Forestry Department
(RFD). LDD, under the guidance of RFI), would help the farmers of the upland
agriculture component organize the associations and establish the woodlots.
Although woodlots are a recent development in Thailand, they have been
introduced in about 25 forest villages. The experience gained will be useful
in providing assistance to the village woodlot associations under the prcoject.
4.18      A typical village woodlot association would include about 120 farm
families and would establish a woodlot of some 45 ha, sufficient to supply
perhaps 80% of the families' fuelwood and timber requirements. (The families



- 16 -
would continue to obtain the remaining 20% from natural scrub forest areas.)
Approximately 70% of the woodlot would be planted with species suitable for
firewood, 20% would be planted with timber species, and 10% would be existing
forest managed primarily for fuelwood production.
4.19      A nursery would be established, and the woodlot planted and ope-
rated, by the village woodlot association as assisted by LDD, with the advice
of RFD. In order to protect the woodlot, the association would establish a
fireline around each planted area at the rate of 200 m/ha, or about 8,000 m
for the entire woodlot. In addition, the association would form a fire
brigade which would be provided with simple fire fighting equipment. MIembers
of the association would be instructed in fire control practices. After the
disbandment of the temporary nursery, RFD would provide seedlings for the
maintenance of the woodlot from its regular nurseries.
In the aggregate, then, this component would involve:
(a) establishment of 90 temporary nurseries;
(b) establishment of 90 woodlots covering a total of 4,050 ha;
(c) construction of 720 km of firelines; and
(d) provision of 90 sets of simple fire fighting equipment.
4.20      Technical Services.  This component would involve the provision of
advisory services to village woodlot associations by LDD, under the guidance
of RFD. They would:
(a) assist farmers participating in upland agricultural development
to organize village woodlot associations;
(b) advise the associations on the establishment and management of
nurseries and woodlots;
(c) advise the associations on the construction of firelines; and
(d) instruct association members on fire control practices.
4.21      About 9 additional professional staff would be needed to under-
take the above activities. Of this total, 8 would be required to serve as
woodlot advisors, and about 12 man-months of specialist input (species
selection, silviculture, fire protection, etc.) would be needed each year.
Ten vehicles would be provided, consisting of two 4WD vehicles and 8 motor-
bikes (125 cc).



- 17 -
Highland Agriculture and Social Devielopment
4.22      Farm Development.  The Zo:nal Development Program of the Public
Welfare Department's (PWD) Hill Trilbe Welfare Division (HTWD) has been
developed over a period of some 15 years. It is aimed at assisting the hill
tribes to raise their standard of living in terms of income, education,
health, and social institutions, and it is designed to continue until the
line agencies are able to provide the needed services. Implementation of the
program is effected through teams of vocational school graduates (agricul-
tural, education, health and social workers) which are based in key viLlages
and service satellite villages within about five hours' walk. At present,
there are some 185 teams serving 625 villages containing approximately
100,000 hill tribe people. On the basis of the confidence which evolved
between the teams and the hill tribes, the latter have been encouraged to
adopt stable agriculture and reduce their reliance on shif-ting agriculiture
(including poppy cultivation). Thus, given the essential ingredient oE
trust, it has been demonstrated that stable agriculture, incorporating
appropriate conservation structures and the types of cropping patterns
foreseen for the project, can be established in the highland areas. The
necessary requirements are an adequate supply of seed, the selective use of
fertilizer, the utilization of appropriate cultivation practices, and the
provision of technical assistance to farmers. Minimal education and health
facilities and services help achieve the necessary level of trust and
contribute directly to an improvement in the farmers' quaLity of life. The
medications provided through the health services serve to reduce the use of
opium as a medicine. The Zonal Development Program has been operating in
each of the sites to be developed under the proposed project, although its
impact has been limited by a lack of resources.  The highLand agricultural
and social component of the proposed project would provide the necessary
resources in the selected sites and would ensure the teams had adequate
administrative and technical support.
4.23      This component of the project would affect about 6,500 farm fami-
lies (mostly hill tribes) living in eight highland sites covering a total of
172,000 ha. In the aggregate, it would include the following major elements:
(a) a land classification survey in the eight highland sites encom-
passing a total of 172,000 ha;
(b) a socio-economic survey of the potential project beneficiaries with
established residence in the eight highland sites and registration
of these beneficiaries (about 6,500 families);
(c) issuance of land-use perm[its to the approximate 6,500 project
beneficiaries;
(d) establishment of perhaps 160 small irrigation schemes covering a
total of about 800 ha, primarily for rice production;
(e) construction of 1,300 ha of bench terraces for rainfed annual
crops; and



- 18 -
(f) construction of bench terraces and establishment of coffee
on 1,300 ha.
4.24      The land classification survey would be undertaken by LDD to
delineate the zones within each site which are suitable for stable agricul-
ture and those which should be developed for forestry. An assurance was
obtained at negotiations that land designated as suitable for stable agricul-
ture by LDD would be allocated to that purpose promptly after submission of
LDD's report. In the course of its work, LDD would assist HTWD in the
selection of specific areas within the agricultural zone for the construction
of irrigation schemes, rainfed annual crop terraces, and coffee terraces.
HTWD would implement a socio-economic survey in each site to identify project
beneficiaries and provide a benchmark for monitoring and evaluation (para.
4.43). It would then register those families with established residence and
identified as project beneficiaries, and would transmit this information to
RFD for the issuance of land-use permits by RFD. At negotiations, an
assurance was obtained that RFD would issue such land-use permits promptly on
receipt of the registration information from HTWD. HTWD would retain a local
engineering firm to assist in designing and supervising construction of the
irrigation schemes, construction being undertaken by the beneficiaries.
Beneficiaries also would construct the bench terraces, under the guidance of
HTWD. Assistance in the establishment of coffee and the cultivation of
irrigated rice and soybeans, rainfed annual crops, and coffee would be
provided to farmer beneficiaries by HTWD through the project period (para.
4.34). Maintenance of the irrigation schemes and terraces would be undertaken
by the farmers under the supervision of HTWD. An assurance was obtained at
negotiations that HTWD would ensure that the schemes and terraces were
properly maintained.
4.25      There are basically three farming systems which are utilized by
highland beneficiaries: shifting agriculture based on rice; shifting agri-
culture based on rice, maize, and poppies; and Miang tea farming. About 60%
of highland project beneficiaries would be employing the first system, and a
typical farmer of this group presently utilizes about 7.9 ha of land, of
which perhaps 2% is in irrigated rice, 13% in swidden rice, 1% in other
swidden crops, and 84% in regenerating forest fallow (para. 3.13). Under the
project, in addition to participating in the construction of the main elements
of the irrigation system, the farmer would level and bund his own field, and
would construct feeder and drainage ditches for his field. He would also
construct his own terraces for rainfed annual crops and coffee. HTWD would
provide planting material and fertilizer to the farmer, receiving payment in
kind, and an HTWD technician would advise him on appropriate agricultural
practices. After implementation of the project, the farmer would be utilizing
about 4.1 ha of land, of which 8% would be in irrigated rice, 6% in rainfed
annual crops on terraces, 5% in coffee on terraces, 8% in swidden crops
(mostly rice), 49% in regenerating forest fallow, and 24% in his share of the
village woodlot (para. 4.38). A second crop of soybeans would be grown on
perhaps one third of the irrigated area. Thus a substantial decrease of 70%
would occur in the area under swidden crops and forest fallow. At full
development in year seven, the farmer's annual net income would increase to
about US$685, compared to US$390 at present. (The absolute poverty level
is about US$595.)



- 19 -
4.26      About 20% of highland project beneficiaries woulcd be using thes
second system. A typical farmer of this group presently utilizes appro.ximtely
12.2 ha of land, of which some 1% is in irrigated rice, 4% in swidden rice,
5% in swidden maize, and 90% in forest fallow. A second crop of mostly poppies
is grown after maize. The farmer's participation in the construction and
maintenance of project facilities, and the involvement of HTWD, would be
the same as described above. After implementation of the project, the farmer
would be utilizing about 7.4 ha of land, of which approximately 4% would be
in irrigated rice, 3% in maize on terraces, 3% in coffee oni terraces, 4'% in
swidden rice, 4% in swidden maize, 68% in forest fallow, and 14% in his share
of the village woodlot. A second crop of soybeans would be grown on about
one half of the irrigated area, a second crop of mostly soybeans would
be grown on perhaps one third of the terraced maize area, and a second crop
of primarily poppies would be grown on the swidden maize area (on land not
developed under the project). The reduction in swidden and fallow area would
be 54%, and the reduction in poppy area and production wouLd be approximately
50%. At full development in year seven, the farmer's annual net income would
increase to about US$690 from approximately US$470 at present.
4.27      The remaining 20% of highland project beneficiaries would be employ-
ing the third system. A typical farmer of this group presently utilizes about
2.0 ha of land, all of which is under Miang tea cultivation. Under the project,
this farmer would replace part of his tea stand with coffee, requiring the con-
struction of terraces and the establishment of the coffee stand. HTWD would
provide inputs and assist the farmer as described above. After implementation
of the project, the farmer would be utilizing about 2.7 ha of land, of which
56% would be in miang tea, 7% in coffee, and 37% in his share of the village
woodlot. At full development in year seven, the farmer's annual net income
would increase to about US$650 from approximately US$520 at present.
4.28      Social Infrastructure.  This component would consist of the con-
struction of small social infrastructure works, comprising primarily some 80
schools and 32 health posts, by villagers under the direction of HTWD, mostly
using local materials.
4.29      The schools would be located in villages where population density
warrants and would be used for both primary and adult education. Education
for children would be provided through the lower primary grades, after which
students wishing to continue their education would transfer to provincial
schools. The curriculum is aimed at instilling basic literacy and
arithmetic skills; fostering a rudimentary understanding of the natural
environment, nutrition, and personal hygiene; and promoting a sense of
national identity.
4.30      A health post would be established in each of 32 key villages, with
mobile service to be provided to surrounding villages. Only simple diseases
would be treated, with more serious cases being referred to provincial health
posts or hospitals. The emphasis would be on the treatment of common aLilments
such as internal parasites and malaria, the treatment of opium addiction, and
education in nutrition, hygiene, and family planning.



- 20 -
4.31      Access Tracks.  This component would involve the construction or
rehabilitation of some 500 km equivalent of hill tracks which would provide
access from the existing network of all-weather roads to the areas to be
developed for stable agriculture in each of the highland sites. These tracks
would be 4 m wide, with a backslope into the hill and a small drainage ditch
on the hillside, and would not be surfaced. They would be formed by heavy
tractors with bulldozer blades and with graders. Local materials would be
used for crossings and for drainage ditch diversions.
4.32      Design and layout of the tracks would be undertaken by HTWD with
the assistance of an engineering consultant firm (para. 4.34) and construction
would be carried out by contractors retained by HTWD. Maintenance also would
be implemented by contractors, both during and after the project period,
although HTWD would establish a small maintenance unit at each one of the
eight Zonal Development Centers to undertake minor and emergency maintenance.
An assurance was obtained at negotiations that HTWD would ensure that the
tracks were properly maintained.
4.33      Technical Services.  This component would involve the expansion and
strengthening of the organizational unit of HTWD currently implementing the
Zonal Development Program. This unit would:
(a)  provide the overall management for highland agricultural and social
development;
(b)  register families with established residence in each highland site;
(c)  assist farmers in establishing the small irrigation schemes,
terraces and coffee stands;
(d)  ensure the provision of adequate planting material and fertilizer to
farmers;
(e)  assist villagers in constructing simple schools and health posts;
(f)  provide agriculture, education, and health services to farmers;
(g)  retain and supervise contractors for the construction, rehabilita-
tion, and maintenance of access tracks; and
(h)  retain consultants to assist in the expansion of the unit's
capacity and the training of staff.
This component also would include support for LDD in carrying out the land
classification survey for each highland site and for the Tribal Research
Center (TRC) in implementing the socio-economic surveys.
4.34      Information on the organization and management of the HTWD unit is
given in Chapter V, while its activities relating to farm development,
social infrastructure, and access tracks are described in paras. 4.22 to 4.32
above. The unit would supply farmers with improved seed, fertilizer, and



- 2:[ -
agricultural chemicals, receiving payment in kind.  In the case of coffee
seedlings, the unit would establish a nursery at each key village with
materials provided under the project. Farmers would receive seedlings in
exchange for labor contributed to the construction and operation of the
nurseries. Agriculture, education, and health services would be provided to
farmers by the village center teams in coordination with the line agencies
(DOAE, the provincial governments, the Ministry of Education, and the Ministry
of Public Health). With an agriculturalist, a health worker, and a social
science specialist on each of the 32 teams, there would be a technician of
each type for every 200 families, on average. The 80 education instructors
on the teams would each serve an average of 2.5 villages. These services to
villagers would be provided by HTWD during the project periocl and until the
line agencies were in a position to provide them. (An assurance on this
point was obtained at negotiations.) Staff would undergo pre- and in-service
training, including foreign study tours for selected subject matter specialists.
HTWD would retain an engineering consultant firm to strengthen its capacilty
for designing and supervising the construction of irrigation systems and
access tracks. Two consultants would also be retained by HTWD, one in
highland agronomy and advisory services and the other in sma]Llholder coffee
production. They would assist in expanding HTWD's general capacity for
project implementation and would participate in the training of staff.
4.35      A total of 193 additional professional staff would be required to
undertake the activities described above. The major specialists needed would
be agriculturalists, education instructors, health workers, and social
science workers to form the key village center teams. Housing, offices, and
equipment would be provided for the additional staff. About 159 vehicles
would be required, consisting of 31 4WD vehicles, 120 motorbikes (125 cc),
and 8 tractors (for minor maintenance).
Highland Forestry
4.36      The Watershed Management Division (WMD) of RFD currently operates 33
watershed management units which cover an area of perhaps 330,000 ha, primarily
in the North. The rehabilitation, woc,dlot development, protection, and track
construction activities undertaken by these units form the basis for the
highland forestry component of the proposed project. As in the case of the
upland forestry component, village woodlots are a recent innovation, but in
the highland component they would be established and operated by WND until the
villagers were in a position to assume responsibility for them.  Considerable
experience has been accumulated in the rehabilitation of watershed areas, and
some 33,000 ha have been planted.
4.37      Rehabilitation.   Of the total area of about 138,000 ha in the
eight highland project sites which is suitable for forestry development,
about 30% is under cultivation or in forest fallow, while the remaining 70%
is partly degraded forest subject to continued encroachment. During the
project period, the transition from shifting to stable agriculture would
release approximately 26,000 ha, of which 7,700 ha, or about 30%, would be
rehabilitated through the establishment of plantations or developed for
village woodlots. The rehabilitation component would consist of, in the
aggregate:



- 22 -
(a) the establishment of 56 nurseries, and
(b) plantation of 4,600 ha, of which about 1,600 ha (35%) would
be in broadleaf species and 3,000 ha (65%) in pine.
The nurseries would be constructed by WMD using local highland labor. WMD
would also establish and maintain the plantations, using local highland
labor. The plantations would be located on deforested land where natural
regrowth was scarce or absent, such as recently-abandoned swidden areas or
areas invaded by Imperata grass. WMD would coordinate with HTWD on the
determination of the amount of land released from shifting agriculture and
thus available for rehabilitation, and the selection of areas to be rehabil-
itated each year. In the case of the broadleaf plantations, a first thinning
would be made after five years, producing about 70% fuelwood and 30% con-
struction timber. A second thinning after ten years would produce 30%
fuelwood and 70% construction timber. The pine plantations would be thinned
initially after ten years. Assurances regarding the maximum use of local
highland labor and coordination on the identification of areas for rehabili-
tation and for village woodlots were obtained at negotiations.
4.38      Village Woodlots.  The progressive replacement of shifting agricul-
ture with stable agriculture in the highland sites would, as in the case of
the upland sites, result in a gradual reduction of readily-accessible forest
resources for fuel and timber and warrant the establishment of village
woodlots. However, there would be a substantial difference between uplands
and highlands in the degree to which this phenomenon occurs. This is because
the entire area of the highland sites suitable for stable agriculture would
not be developed in the context of this project, and some villages will be
close to natural forest areas, even in the long run. Therefore, the 3,100 ha
of woodlots planned for this component would meet only about 30% of the
villagers' total wood requirements, compared to 80% for the upland areas.
The nurseries to be established by WMD, as indicated above, would be used to
supply seedlings for both the rehabilitation plantations and the woodlots.
The woodlots would be introduced on deforested land adjacent to villages and
within the area designated for forestry. About 90% of each woodlot would be
devoted to species suitable for fuelwood production, and the remaining 10%
would be for timber production, using the same broadleaf species to be
planted in the rehabilitation plantations. The woodlots would be established
and operated by WMD, using local labor, since the concept of managed forest
resources would be novel to most highland villagers. However, WMD would
assist the villagers to form village woodlot associations which would, even-
tually, assume responsibility for management of the woodlots under the guid-
ance of WMD. An assurance on this last point was obtained at negotiations.
4.39      Protection.  Protection activities would be focussed initially on
the rehabilitation plantations and village woodlots but eventually would be
extended to cover the entire area of approximately 138,000 ha to be developed
for forestry. The specific items to be included in this component are



- 23 -
(a)  1,730 km of fire lines, of which 430 km would form the boundary
lines between agricultural and forest land and 1,300 km would be
for protection of rehabilitation plantations and woodlots, and
(b) simple fire-fighting equipment.
The fire lines would be cleared of trees and brush to a width of 4 m and
would have a strip of bare soil, 2 m wide, in the middle. They would be
constructed and maintained by WMD using local highland labor. The fire-
fighting equipment would be under the control of forest guards, to be hired
by WMD, who would patrol the forest aLrea and mobilize crews to fight fires
within or close to rehabilitation plantations or woodlots.
4.40      Access Tracks.  This componLent would consist of the construction of
about 345 km equivalent of tracks which would provide access to areas to be
rehabilitated or developed for woodlots. They would be of the same standard
as the access tracks in the agriculture areas and would also be designed,
constructed, and maintained in a similar manner, with WMD retaining the
engineering consultant firm and contractors. An assurance was obtained at
negotiations that WMD would ensure that the tracks were properly maintained.
4.41      Technical Services.  This component would involve the expansion and
strengthening of WMD's capacity to implement forestry development activities
in the highland sites. As part of the project, WMD would:
(a)  issue land-use permits to project beneficiaries for agriculture
plots within the areas designated as suitable for stable agriculture;
(b)  establish nurseries for seedling production;
(c)  rehabilitate deforested areas;
(d)  establish woodlots in forest areas near villages;
(e)  construct firelines to serve as boundaries and protect planted areas;
(f)  introduce other fire control measures and train farmers in con-
trolled-burning techniques; and
(g)  retain and supervise contractors for the construction, rehabili-
tation, and maintenance of access tracks.
Information on the organization and maanagement of WMD is given in Chapter V.
4.42      The additional professiona:L staff required by WMD to implement: its
part of the project would be 23, with major requirements being for foresters
to manage the field units in the highland sites and for forest guards.  Each
highland site would have about three foresters and seven forest guards.
In-service training would be provided to newly-recruited staff.  WMD would
retain an engineering consultant firma to assist it in the design, layout, and
supervision of construction of access tracks. Housing, offices and equipment



- 24 -
would be provided for the additional staff. About 25 vehicles would be
required, consisting of 9 4WD vehicles, 8 motorbikes, and 8 tractors (for
minor maintenance).
Monitoring and Evaluation
4.43      Because of the gravity of the problems to which the project is
addressed, the consequent importance of the project as one means of attacking
these problems, and the dearth of experience with this type of project on the
scale proposed, a substantial monitoring and evaluation effort is foreseen.
Information would be collected on inputs such as equipment, seeds, and
technician visits to farmers; on outputs such as the area of land developed,
the length of tracks constructed, and the number of woodlots constructed; and
on project impact on farm income, school enrollment, access/use of health
services, forest degradation, etc. The monitoring and evaluation system would
be designed by consultants retained by the National Economic and Social
Development Board (NESDB), working in collaboration with LDD, HTWD, and RFD.
Data collection for monitoring and evaluation would be undertaken primarily
by the staff involved in the implementation of the project under the supervi-
sion of thie Land Policy and Planning Divison (LPPD) of LDD, the Planning
Section and the Tribal Research Center (TRC) of HTWD, and the Planning and
Coordination Division (PCD) of RFD. These units would analyze the information,
providing feedback for management purposes and input for the evaluation
effort under the guidance of consultants retained by NESDB. Evaluation would
be undertaken by the NESDB consultants. Project support for these activities
would include three 4WD vehicles (one each for LPPD, TRC, and PCD) and
consultant and data processing services. (See Working Paper C5 for additional
details.) Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the respective
agencies would monitor and evaluate the project and that by September 30,
1979, NESDB would retain consultants for design of the monitoring and eva-
luation system whose qualifications and experience, terms of reference, and
conditions of employment were agreed upon with IDA. An assurance was also
obtained that NESDB would, by January 31, 1980, provide a report on the
proposed system for review by IDA.
Provincial Planning
4.44      The failure of a significant proportion of the rural population,
exemplified by the intended beneficiaries of the Northern Agricultural
Development Project, to participate meaningfully in Thailand's economic and
social development has become a source of increasing concern. The Government
has recognized that its highly centralized administrative structure and
decision-making processes, its traditional reluctance to delegate authority
to local administrations and the lack of coordination between line agencies
operating in the field have contributed to this problem. Planning has always
been undertaken from the top down. These institutional arrangements have
impaired the ability of the Government to perceive and respond to the real
needs of the rural poor.
4.45      The Government has accordingly embarked on a program to create a
decentralized planning and development management capability. In the past
three years provincial planning units consisting of between 4 and 10 posts



- 25 -
each, depending on the size of the province, have been established in all
71 provinces. They have been staffed by officials selected mainly from the
Department of Local Administration (DOLA) and the other departments of MOI.
Provincial planning personnel received some initial training in planning
procedures organized by the Office of Policy and Planning in MOI and by the
National Institute for Development Administration (NIDA).  Operating under
guidelines issuedlby the Central Changwat Development Planning Board (CCDPB),
appointed to supervise the introduction of provincial planning, the provincial
planning units have completed the preparation of the first plans for their
respective provinces.
4.46      The Government has determined that the provincial development plans
will in future constitute the framework through which all development activities
occurring in each province will be coordinated. It intends to channel increas-
ing amounts of its own resources through the provincial administrations, for
the implementation of local development projects, rather than through the line
agencies of the central government. To this end, the Government appropriated
1% of its national budget in FY79 for the funding of small projects included
in provincial development plans not otherwise departmentally financed. These
resources were allocated to provinces towards the end of 1978 roughly in
accordance with need. If these funds are effectively utilized, the Government
proposes to make larger block allocations available to provincial administra-
tions and hopes that external aid agencies will also program resources for
the implementation of small rural development projects in this way. Provin-
cial planning units will clearly plaLy a crucial role in the coordination and
monitoring of development activities as well as in the preparation of provin-
cial plans. The quality of these plans and the efficiency of the provincial
units in relation to planning, project preparation and appraisal and develop-
ment management, will thus determine the extent to which resources directly
allocated to provinces can be absorbed and efficiently utilized for develop-
ment purposes.
4.47      The present arrangements for planning and development management at
the provincial level require substantial modification before larger volumes
of development resources could be channelled through provincial administrations
for the implementation of rural development projects. The initial plans
produced by the new provincial planning units contain only a brief description
of the principal features of each province and a summary list of all projects
proposed by district officers, line departments and district councils. Little
attempt was made to make an assessment of the resources available to the pro-
vince, to identify social and economic problems, or to formulate simple develop-
ment strategies. Projects included in provincial plans are not subjected
to sufficiently rigorous technical or economic appraisal. The ability of the
provincial planning units to supervise and coordinate the activities of the
many agencies operating in the provinces is also weak. ThLe strengtheniLng of
provincial planning offices is recognized by the Government as being a
prerequisite to the achievement of greater decentralization of development
management.
4.48      The provincial planning component of the project would thus seek to
identify weaknesses in the present planning arrangements, to develop practical
proposals to remedy existing deficiencies, and to demonstrate the advantages
to be gained from improved planning and project preparation at the provincial
level. Three inter-related elements are involved, as follows:



- 26 -
(a)  Training.  Government funds are being provided (para. 4.46) and
external funds are also becoming available to finance development
projects in rural areas. However, well conceived and prepared
projects are needed to utilize these funds effectively, and therefore
a training program in project identification and preparation would
be introduced for officials at provincial, district, and subdistrict
levels. Consultants would be retained to assist in the design of
the program, the training of trainers, and the implementation of
the program. This effort would constitute an important step toward
expanding the absorptive capacity for development funds at the
lower levels of Government.
(b) Pilot Planning Studies. Pilot planning studies would be undertaken
in four representative provinces of the North and Northeast regions.
A small team of planning specialists would work in close association
with the provincial planning units and the representatives of line
agencies at the provincial level. The idea is to demonstrate
the kinds of plans that can be produced and the benefits to be
achieved from improved planning. It is anticipated that the pilot
planning exercises would assist in identifying any critical insti-
tutional, data, staffing or technical constraints which will need
to be overcome if provincial planning is to be strengthened. They
will also define more clearly the future role and training require-
ments of provincial planning offices. Consultants will be engaged
to develop these pilot plans. It is expected that such plans - and
similar plans subsequently developed for other provinces - would
form the basis of programs which could attract external financing.
The provinces would be selected by the Government in consultation
with IDA by reference to their relative poverty and development
prospects.
(c) Evaluation of Provincial Planning. An evaluation of provincial
planning and development management capabilities would also be
undertaken with a view to formulating a program to further de-
centralize development management. This study would include an
evaluation of the past performance of provincial planning units, a
review of existing provincial plans, and an examination of the
legal, institutional and procedural implications of greater devo-
lution of responsibility for development planning and coordination.
A group of planning experts and management consultants drawn from
institutions familiar with provincial planning in Thailand would
conduct this study and make recommendations to the CCDPB for the
strengthening of provincial planning and development coordination.
The expert group would benefit from the experience gained by the
consultants engaged to carry out the pilot planning studies.
Project Preparation
4.49      Broad-based rural development that benefits all the people has been
constrained not only by institutional problems such as the highly centralized
administrative structure, but also by a failure to develop enough projects that



- 27 -
benefit the poorer regions.  The project preparation capability of many
agencies has been significantly improved over the last few years but most of
these agencies are concerned with traditional infrastructure sectors. Tech-
nical assistance is still urgently required if new projects are to be developed
which directly benefit the rural poor.
4.50      The project preparation component would therefore provide funds for
medium and short-term consultant services to be used for identifying and
preparing high priority projects, particularly in the field of rural develop-
ment. The funds would be used partly for the analysis and detailed pre-
paration of projects identified as a result of the provincial planning
process. But the use of the funds would not be restricted to studies arising
out of the provincial planning process; proposals from line agencies for
studies to identify and prepare high priority projects would also be considered.
The development of small water resource projects is one particular area where
the need for detailed studies has already been identified.
Pilot Operations
4.51      Major concentrations of the absolute poor are in the rainfed areas
of the North and the Northeast regions. Agricultural development under
rainfed conditions poses difficult technological problems, and while some
preliminary research findings on raising productivity are beginning to emerge,
generally they have not been tried at the farm level. Funds would be provided
to help finance small-scale pilot operations, mainly for agricultural develop-
ment in rainfed areas of the North and Northeast. Such pilot operations will
permit the testing of new technologies, providing a cruc:ial bridge to full-
scale projects.
4.52      One possibility for a pilot operation would be the introduction to
farmers of cropping technology packages being generated by existing research
programs. Preliminary results are now coming forward from ongoing research
efforts in rainfed rice and upland crops being funded under Credit 461-TH and
Loan 1198-T-TH. However, farm level testing is necessary before widespread
application by low-income farmers who themselves have to carry the risks
associated with such improved technologies. Funding would be provided for a
program of support, in a small number of districts, for the introduction of a
package of alternative techniques and cropping patterns -and strengthened
local input supply and marketing services.  A second type of pilot operation
might involve developing local water management techniques in rainfed paddy
areas. Much of the North and Northeast of Thailand is c'haracterized by
erratic seasonal rainfall patterns. Extensive areas of the Northeast are of
relatively low relief, and the capacity for storage of water f i irrigation
is limited. Some steps have been taken to develop shallow wells or f'arm
ponds in such areas to allow some limited supplemental wet or dry seaLson
irrigation. A more significant impact is possible through minor watershed



- 28 -
alterations to assist in directing runoff to improve utilization of water in
the wet season and, if feasible, increase storage for dry season use. The
pilot operation would provide for the design and execution of low-cost works
in a limited number of typical small watersheds in the North and Northeast.
4.53      The efforts contemplated in provincial planning, project prepara-
tion, and small-scale pilot operations in rainfed areas should enable the
Government to better utilize the considerable external assistance being
offered for agricultural and rural development projects that would directly
benefit the poorer areas.
E. Cost
4.54      Total project cost is estimated at US$47.5 million, of which
US$17.4 million, or 37%, represents foreign exchange requirements. The base
cost estimate is based on prices for beginning CY79. Physical contingencies
of 10% have been added for civil works, materials, and equipment. The price
contingency amounts to 29% of total base cost plus physical contingencies,
assuming the following rates of price increase:
Item                            Rate of Price Increase (%)
1979    1980    1981    1982    1983/84
Civil works                  12       12       10      9          9
Equipment & services          7        7        7      7          7
Salaries                      5        5        5      5          5
Taxes of US$5.2 million, or 11%, are included in project cost.  Project cost
details are presented in Annex 2 and are summarized below.



- 29 -
Table 4.1: PROJECT COST
Proportion      Foreign exchange
Component                    Local       Foreign    Total       Local    Foreign    Total    of base cost           requirement
----- -- B million -------    ------ US$ million -----                  (x)                 (x)
Upland
Agriculture
Farm development          73.00      60.60       133.60      3.65       3.04       6.69            19                 45
Access tracks             11.60        7.80       19.40      0.58       0.39       0.97             3                 40
Technical services        68.00      38.40       106.40      3.40       1.92       5.32            15                 36
Subtotal                152.60    107.00       259.60      7.63        5.35      12.98           37                  41
Forestry
Village woodlots           7.40        1.20        8.60      0.37       0.06       0.43             1                 13
Technical services         3.40       0.80         4.20      0.17       0.04       0.21             1                 20
Subtotal                 10.80       2.00        12.80     0.54        0.10       0.64            2                  15
Subtotal Upland         163.40    109.00       272.40      8.17        5.45      13.62           39                  40
Highland
Agriculture and Social
Farm development          10.80       4.40        15.20      0.54       0.22       0.76             2                 50
Social infrastructure    0.40         0.60         1.00      0.02       0.03       0.05            -                  52
Access tracks             13.80       5.80        19.60      0.69       0.29       0.98             3                 30
Technical services        70.40      24.60        95.00      3.52       1.23       4.75            13                 26
Subtotal                 95.60      35.40      130.80      4.78        1.77       6.55           18                  27
Forestry
Rehabilitation            16.40       0.60        17.00      0.82       0.03       0.85             3                  3
Village woodlots           15.20      0.40        15.60      0.76       0.02       0.78             2                  2
Protection                 3.00       0.00         3.00      0.15       0.00       0.15            -                   2
Access tracks              9.60       4.20        13.80      0.48       0.21       0.69             2                 30
Technical services        25.80      10.20        36.00      1.29       0.51       1.80             5                 29
Subtotal                 70.00      15.40       85.40      3.50        0.77       4.27           12                  18
Subtotal Highland       165.60      50.80      216.40      8.28        2.54      10.82           30                  23
Monitoring and evaluation    1.40          0.80        2.20      0.07       0.04       0.11             -                  38
Provincial planning            20.00      20.00       40.00      1.00       1.00       2.00             6                  50
Project preparation            30.00      30.00       60.00      1.50       1.50       3.00             8                  50
Pilot operations               78.00      42.00      120.00      3.90       2.10       6.00            17                  35
Total Base Cost         458.40    252.60       711.00    22.92        12.63      35.55          100                  36
Contingencies /a
Physical                     13.60       9.80      23.40       0.68       0.49       1.17                                42
Price                      129.40       86.00    215.40        6.47       4.30      10.77                                36
Subtotal                143.00      95.80    238.80        7.15        4.79      11.94                               40
Total Project Cost    601.40    348.40    949.80          30.07       17.42      47.49                               37
/a   Calculated on upland development, highland development, and monitoring and evaluation.



- 30 -
F. Financing
4.55      The proposed IDA credit of US$25.0 million, amounting to 53% of
total project cost (59% of project cost net of taxes), would be equivalent to
US$16.2 million of the foreign exchange requirement plus US$8.8 million of
local cost. Local currency financing is justified because of the Bank's
strategy of reorienting its lending program toward projects aimed at reducing
income differentials and improving productivity in subsistence agriculture.
The Australian Government would finance the consultants for the upland
agricultural component, the cost of which amounts to US$0.9 million, or about
2% of project cost, and the United Kingdom would provide US$0.3 million, or
about 1% of project cost, to finance the consultants for the highland agricul-
tural and social component. (Total external financing would amount to 50% of
project cost for components other than provincial planning and project
preparation.) The remaining US$21.3 million, or 44% of project cost, would
be financed by the Government. Beneficiaries would make a substantial labor
contribution to project works, valued at US$4.5 million in market prices,
which, because it is a noncash item, is not included as part of project cost
or financing. If this amount were added to project cost, it would represent
9% of the total. The financing for individual components of the project is
summarized in the following table:
Table 4.2:  PROJECT FINANCING
(Amounts in US$ million)
Government    Australia        UK           IDA
Component                   Amt.   %        Amt.  %    Amt.   %      Amt.   %   Total
Upland
Agriculture                 6.49   50      0.66   5      -     -    5.83   45   12.98
Forestry                    0.32   50       -     -     -      -    0.32   50    0.64
Highland
Agriculture and social    3.28   50         -     -    0.22   3    3.05   47    6.55
Forestry                    2.13   50       -     -      -     -    2.14   50    4.27
Monitoring and evaluation   0.06   50         -     -      -     -    0.05   50    0.11
Provincial planning              -    -       -     -      -     -    2.00  100    2.00
Project preparation              -    -       -     -      -     -    3.00  100    3.00
Pilot operations              3.00   50       -     -      -     -    3.00   50    6.00
Contingencies                 5.97   50      0.24   2    0.12   -    5.61   47   11.94
Total                  21.25   44      0.90   2    0.34   1   25.00   53   47.49



- 31 -
4.56      The Government would make budgetary funds availab]Le to the impLe-
menting agencies on an agreed schedule. On average, the Government's contri-
bution to the project would require an increase of 23% in the annual budget
allocations of the implementing agencies during the project period and 5%'
after the project period, compared to current budget allocations. As a comple-
ment to the project, the Bank for Agriculture and Agricultural Cooperatives
(BAAC) would make short-term production credit available in a timely manner
to beneficiaries of the upland agricultural component. The maximum annual
requirement of about US$1.5 million is expected to be reached in year five of
the project. BAAC would also make medium-term credit available to facilitate
the expansion of tractor services in the project area. Loans would be made
available for tractor sets including reversible plows or for reversible plows
alone. The total amount of loan funds required for these items over the
five-year period of the project is estimated at US$1.9 million. Production
and equipment credit would be granted on the basis of confirmation by LDD that
the borrowers and the items to be financed were appropriate to the project.
In the event that BAAC were not able to meet the entire demand for production
or equipment credit, the commercial banks would provide the additional amounts
required. Assurances on the provision of production and equipment credit
were obtained at negotiations.
G. Procurement
4.57      Because of the unit size and nature of procurement expected for the
project, ICB would not be appropriate. Land development (US$9.8 million) and
access track construction (US$3.8 million) would be undertaken by local
construction firms under contract to the implementing agencies. Since these
works would be widely dispersed in time and space, the individual contracts
(about US$270,000 for land development and US$25,000 for access tracks) would
not be of a size to attract international bidders. Therefore contracts would
be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally in accordance
with procedures acceptable to IDA and the Government. A substantial numLber
of local construction firms are capable of undertaking this type of work, and
they have adequate capacity to meet project requirements. To the extent
practicable, works would be grouped iLnto contracts of the size indicated
above for purposes of efficient execution and supervision.
4.58      Miscellaneous civil works, including small irrigation schemes,
schools, health posts, nurseries, rehabilitation plantations, village wood-
lots, offices and houses (US$5.9 mil:Lion), would be constructed by local
contractors or, in the case of the h:ighland sites and for part of the pilot
operations, by force account by the implementing agencies themselves. Fpor
the works built by construction firms, contracts would be awarded on the
basis of competitive bidding advertised locally in accordance with procedures
acceptable to IDA and the Government.
4.59      Purchases of equipment, amounting in total to US$5.0 million, would
also be widely dispersed in time, location and among suppliers. Therefore,
contracts would average perhaps US$60,000 and would not be attractive to
international bidders. They would be awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding advertised locally in accordance with procedures acceptable to IDA
and the Government. Major manufacturers of equipment to be utilized in the
project are represented in Thailand or have plants in Thailand (as in the
case of vehicles).



- 32 -
4.60      Materials and small tools, including farm supplies, amounting to
US$1.5 million, would be purchased in small quantities costing perhaps
US$25,000 each and therefore would be procured on the basis of competitive
bidding advertised locally in accordance with procedures acceptable to IDA
and the Government.
4.61      In order to provide a measure of flexibility in the case of small
civil works, equipment items, or quantities of material which are specialized
in nature or are needed urgently in the course of project implementation,
prudent shopping, involving a minimum of three quotations where possible,
would be applied for items costing less than US$15,000 each and US$500,000 in
the aggregate. When bids are estimated to exceed US$100,000, IDA's prior
approval would be required before invitations to bid are issued and before
contracts are awarded. Assurances on procurement procedures were obtained at
negotiations.
H. Disbursement
4.62      Disbursements would be made at the rate of 100% of the foreign
exchange cost of directly imported equipment, 65% of expenditures for equipment
procured locally off the shelf, and 100% of the ex-factory cost of locally
manufactured equipment. For consultants, training and data processing
services, the rate of disbursement would be 100% of total expenditure.
Disbursements for civil works (including materials and labor for force
account works) would be 60% for LDD, 70% for PWD, 50% for RFD, and 50% for
OUSMA. Disbursements at the rate of 70% of incremental operating and mainte-
nance costs would be made for PWD. Disbursements for civil works to be
carried out by force account and for incremental operating and maintenance
costs would be made against certificates of expenditure, the documentation
for which would not be submitted for review but would be retained by the
respective agencies and made available for inspection by IDA during the
course of project supervision. It is expected that disbursements would be
completed by December 31, 1985. An estimated schedule of disbursements is
given in Table T-4.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. General
5.01      The design of the proposed project is such that the individual
components would be implemented independently to a large extent. Thus, the
success of each component would depend on the effectiveness of the line
agency with primary responsibility for that component. Those matters needing
resolution at a higher level would be dealt with by a committee consisting of
representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives (MOAC),
the Ministry of Interior (MOI), the Ministry of Finance (MOF), the Land
Development Department (LDD), the Public Welfare Department (PWD), the Royal
Forestry Department (RFD), the Bank for Agriculture and Agricultural Coopera-
tives (BAAC), the National Economic and Social Development Board (NESDB),
the Agricultural Land Reform Office, the Department of Technical and Economic



- 33 -
Cooperation, the Bureau of the Budget, and the Civil Service Commission.
The representative of MOAC would be chairman and the representative of MOI,
deputy chairman. An assurance was obtained at negotiations that such a
committee, satisfactory to IDA, would. be established by September 1, 1979.
Project activitThs at the provincial level would be coordinated through the
existing provincial development committees, on which the implementing agencies
are also represented.
B. Land Development Department
5.02      LDD (Chart C-2), one of the ten departments of MOAC, has a total
staff of about 1,100. It has seven operating divisions: Land Policy
and Planning, Soil Survey, Soil Analysis, Land Classification, Soil and Water
Conservation and Management, and Engi.neering.  LDD formulates land use
policy; conducts soil, land use, and tenancy surveys; prepares soil analyses
and maps; estimates land capability; and implements specific land development
projects aimed at soil and water conservation. The four main projects which
LDD is carrying out at present are the Thai-Australian Land Development
Project (TALD), the Prachwap Khiri Khran-Phetchaburi Land EDevelopment Project,
the Kamphaeng Phet Land Development Project, and the Coastal Land Development
Project. As mentioned earlier (para. 4.05), TALD forms the basis for the
upland agricultural component of the proposed project.
5.03      LDD headquarters for the upland agricultural component would be
maintained at Chiang Mai, centrally Located in the northern provinces.  Direc-
tion of project activities would be effected through district centers, to be
located at existing Land Development Centers near Chiang Mai, Chiang Rai,
Nan, and Lampang, and through 34 village centers to be established in the
main village of each development site encompassing on average 450 beneficiary
farmers (Chart C-3). (See Working Paper Cl for further details.)
5.04      LDD's project staff would be headed by a project manager, appointed
in consultation with IDA, assisted by a deputy project manager. Their acti-
vities would include the preparation of annual work programs for implemen-
tation of the upland agriculture and forestry components, a copy of which
would be sent to IDA for comment three months prior to the start of the
fiscal year. Implementation of the project would require 120 incremental
professional staff, the majority of which would be agriculturalists to serve
as land management advisors and agricultural engineers who would undertake
the surveys and supervise the land development works (Table T-2). Assurances
on the project manager appointment, annual work programs, and staffing
schedule were obtained at negotiations. These staff would either be seconded
to the project from LDD's various divisions or be newly recruited.
5.05      The socioeconomic, land classification, boundary, conservation
works, and access track surveys would be undertaken by teajms operating
from headquarters. The contract supervision teams would be directed from
headquarters but would set up camps in each site for the duration of the land
development and access track construction work, in order to provide close
supervision of contractors. Land mainagement advisors at the village centers
would operate under a training and visit system, to be organized in coordina-
tion with DOAE, and would be supervised through the district centers. For
example, the chief of the district center team (a soil conservationist) and
the agronomist would spend one day every two weeks visiting the advisors in



- 34 -
their district during the regular field work. Another day of the two-week
period would be devoted to planning and training sessions with the advisors at
the district centers. In turn the advisors, who would help organize the
farmer groups averaging perhaps 25 farmers each, would spend a half day every
two weeks with each of about 18 groups that they would be assisting and one
day at the district center.
5.06      LDD's seed production unit at Hangchat (near Lampang) would be
expanded to ensure an adequate supply of improved seed to project farmers.
This unit would produce foundation seed which would be made available to
contract growers. LDD would purchase the seed produced by these growers and
provide it to project farmers for the initial cultivation of their developed
upland plots.
5.07      The existing conservation farming research team, also at Hangchat,
would be expanded in order to strengthen the effort being undertaken to
further improve the technology package for upland development on slopeland.
The broadened program would evaluate different types of conservation structures,
practices, equipment, and cropping systems.
5.08      Pre-service training would be provided to all newly recruited staff,
and in-service training would be integrated into the sequence of project
activities. Trainees for land management advisory positions, for example,
would participate in the socioeconomic surveys. After completion of this
work, they would remain in the areas which they helped to survey and begin
the organization of farmer groups. The consultants to be provided under the
project would assist in the design and implementation of the training programs.
5.09      LDD would retain consultants to assist it in expanding its capacity
in certain fields. Five specialists, in conservation works and practices (two
years), land development contracting (three years), soil fertility (12 man-
months), rainfed farming systems (three years), and seed production and
processing (two years), would be retained to assist with the training programs,
help design the implementation system, and assist in the execution of the
project. (Four of the specialists already are working with LDD on the TALD
project.) An assurance was obtained at negotiations that the consult-
ants, their terms of reference, and their conditions of employment would be
agreed upon with IDA.
C. Public Welfare Department
5.10      PWD is one of the largest departments within MOI.  Among its respon-
sibilities are social security, general welfare, hill tribe welfare, community
development, and settlement. Its activities in these fields are administered by
13 divisions at headquarters and by the provincial administrations, which are
under the authority of MOI.
5.11      HTWD (Chart C-4) is the division of PWD charged with the responsi-
bility of promoting the development and welfare of members of hill tribes,
with the aim of enabling them to become citizens and full participants in
Thai society. HTWD implements its programs through five subdivisons in



- 35 -
Bangkok and through ten provincial hill tribe development anld welfare cenlters,
six of which are in the eight northern-most provinces. It also operates the
Tribal Research Center (TRC), which undertakes demographic, economic, social,
and anthropological studies of the hill tribes, and the Hil:L Tribe Training
Center. HTWD has a total staff of about 900; nearly 90% are posted outside
Bangkok and over 80% are working in the field.
5.12      HTWD headquarters for the highland agricultural and social coq?onent
of the proposed project would be located at Chiang liai. Direction of project
activities would be effected through zonal development centers to be estab-
lished in each of the eight highland sites, in close coordiniation with the
existing provincial hill tribe development and welfare cent,ers, and through
key village centers, to be located in 32 main villages within the sites (Chart
C-5).  (For further details, see Working Paper C3.)
5.13      HTWD's project staff would be headed by a project manager, appointed
in consultation with IDA, assisted by a deputy project manager. Their duties
would include the preparation of annual work programs for implementation of
the highland agricultural and social component, a copy of which would be sent
to IDA for comment three months prior to the start of the fiscal year.
Incremental professional staff required for the project would be 193, with the
main requirements being agriculturalists, health workers, and education
instructors for the 32 mobile teams operating out of the key village cenLters
(Table T-2). Assurances on the project manager appointments, annual work
programs, and staffing schedule were obtained at negotiations. Initially,
the project positions would be fillecl primarily with experienced staff drawn
from among the HTWD mobile teams operating throughout the highland areas, and
newly recruited staff would be added once implementation was well under way.
5.14       Specifications for civil works, including the irr igation schemes,
terraces, access tracks, schools, health posts, offices, and houses would
be prepared by the agricultural engineer at headquarters, assisted by the
agricultural engineers at the zonal dlevelopment centers and the agricul--
turalists at the key village centers.  The engineering consultant firm would
provide outside expertise. The agric-ultural engineers would also be responsible
for the procurement of contractor services, for the supervision of construction
by the contractors and project farmers, and for the supervision of maintenance
by contractors, the zonal development center maintenance units, and farmers.
5.15      Agricultural advisory services to farmers would be provided by the
agriculturalists on the key village center teams, who would work with an
average of 200 farmers each under the direction of the highland agronom:ist
and smallholder coffee specialist at headquarters and the agriculturalists
at the zonal development centers. The agronomist and the coffee speciaList
would design and implement the advisory service system with the assistance of
the consultants in highland agronomy and smallholder coffee production. The
system would follow the training and visit approach, in which the zonal
development center agriculturalists would spend one day every two weeks
working with each of the key village center agriculturalists, one day conducting
in-service training courses, one day visiting demonstration plots and reviewing
research activities, and four days working on specific devielopment activities



- 36 -
at the village level. The agriculturalists at the key village centers would
make regular visits to an average of about five villages in the neighborhood
of each key village to provide advice to project farmers.
5.16      Education and health services for farm families would be provided
by the education instructors and health workers on the key village center
teams, working under the direction of the education and health coordinators
at headquarters and the education and health supervisors at the zonal develop-
ment centers. The education instructors would staff the 80 schools within
the eight highland sites, while each health worker would assist an average of
about 200 farm families, located in the key village and about five neighboring
villages. The approach used by the health workers would follow the training
and visit system, and supervision of both education instructors and health
workers would utilize the techniques of this system.
5.17      Pre-service training for newly recruited agriculturalists, as well
as refresher courses, would be given at the Rural Development Training Center,
the Tribal Research Center, and the University of Chiang Mai, all within or
near Chiang Mai. Similar courses for education instructors would be given at
teacher training colleges in various northern towns, while courses for health
workers would be given at established facilities near Bangkok and in the
northern provinces. The courses would be organized by the relevant project
specialists, with assistance from the consultants in the case of agriculture,
in cooperation with the Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives, the Ministry
of Education, and the Ministry of Public Health.
5.18      HTWD would retain an engineering consultant firm (one year) and
consultants in highland agronomy and smallholder coffee development (five
years each) to work with HTWD in expanding its project implementation
capacity. The engineering firm would assist in the design and supervision of
construction of the irrigation schemes and access tracks, while the other
consultants would assist with the training programs, the establishment of
procedures, and implementation of the project. An assurance was obtained at
negotiations that the consultants, their terms of reference, and their
conditions of employment would be agreed upon with IDA.
D. Royal Forestry Department
5.19      RFD has 11 divisions based in Bangkok and regional, provincial, and
district offices. Programs are implemented through the provincial and
district offices, with the regional offices acting in an advisory capacity
and the divisions at headquarters providing technical support (Chart C-6).
The Watershed Management Division (WMD), with a professional staff of about
180, was established in 1965 to develop and manage watershed areas. It would
be responsible for the highland forestry component of the proposed project.



- 37 -
5.20      RFD would implement the project through its existing network of
regional and provincial offices. Units of WMD would be located in each of
the eight highland sites. (For further details, see Working Paper C4).
5.21      RFD would have a manager, appointed in consultation with IDA, to
direct project activities. These would include the preparation of annual
work programs, a copy of which would be sent to IDA for comment three months
prior to the start of the fiscal yea.r. Incremental professional staff
requirements would be 23. Assurances on the project manager appointment,
annual work programs, and staffing schedule were obtained at negotiations.
The major need would be for foresters to staff the units in each highland
site responsible for rehabilitation, village woodlot, protection, and access
track development. Project positions are expected to be filled with expe-
rienced staff from within RFD.
5.22      Annual work programs would be prepared by the project manager in
consultation with his field staff and would be worked out in detail at the
local level for each site. RFD wou:Ld undertake the rehabilitation of degraded
forest areas, the establishment of village woodlots, and forest protection
through its unit in each highland site, and it would emplciy contractors to
construct and maintain the access tracks.  It would retain an engineering
consultant firm to assist in the design, layout, and supervision of conls-
truction and maintenance of the access tracks. RFD would instruct farmers in
controlled burning of swidden fields and fire control procedures for village
woodlots and natural forest areas. An assurance was obtaiLned at negotiations
that the engineering consultant firm, its terms of reference, and its condi-
tions of employment would be agreed upon with IDA.
E. Provincial Planning, Project Preparation, and Pilot Operations
5.23      The provincial planning component of the project would be administered
by the Office of the Under Secretary of the Ministry of the Interior (OUSMI)
on behalf of the Central Changwat Development Planning Board (CCDPB). OUSMI
would retain consultants to assist in the design and implementation of the
training program, the preparation of pilot plans for the four provinces, and
the evaluation of provincial planning. In the case of the project preparation
component, provincial planning offices and line departments would submit
proposals for use of the funds to NESDB, which would act on behalf of the
project committee (para. 5.01). During negotiations, it was agreed that
NESDB would prepare a list of potential projects which might be prepared in
the near future under this component.  The component for pilot operations in
rainfed agriculture would be administered by the Office c,f the Under Secretary
of the Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives (OUSMA) on behalf of the
project committee. OUSMA would screen proposals for pilot operations from
various departments and agencies and would select those which are likely to
make the greatest contribution toward the development of technology packages
which can be used on a widespread basis in rainfed areas of the North and
Northeast. An assurance was obtained at negotiations that, in the case of
all three components, proposals would be agreed upon with IDA before 'being



- 38 -
implemented. It was also agreed that consultants retained to assist in the
design and implementation of the activities proposed for each component,
their terms of reference (including detailed work programs), and their
conditions of employment would be agreed upon with IDA. The responsible
agencies would ensure that all necessary data and support services would be
made available to the consultants in order to permit them to fulfill their
assignments.
F. Accounts and Auditing
5.24      Separate accounts covering all financial transactions for the
project activities would be maintained by LDD, HTWD, RFD, NESDB, OUSMI,
and OUSMA. These accounts would be audited annually by auditors satisfactory
to IDA, and the audited financial statements, together with the auditor's
comments, would be sent to IDA within six months of the close of each fiscal
year. An assurance on accounts and auditing was obtained at negotiations.
VI. MARKETING AND PRICES
A. Output
6.01      Most farm families meet their basic food needs from their own
production. Much of the incremental basic food production from the project
would be consumed by participating families or, as in the case of coffee,
enter well-established market channels. With the exception of coffee,
incremental agricultural and forestry production from the project would be
a small portion of national output and would have no significant impact on
national price levels. Annual incremental production at project full develop-
ment (year 10) is shown below while marketing and prices are discussed in
greater detail in Working Paper C7.



- 39 -
Table 6.1:  ANNUAL INCREMENTAL PRODUCTION OF MAJOR COMI40DITIES
Year 10
Product                           Unit       Year 5 /a      (Full development)
Coffee                             ton          130               1,040
Rice (paddy)                       ton       18,500              24,200
M4aize                             ton        4,400               7,100
Soybean/Mungbean                   ton        4,500               5,300
Peanut                             ton        5,300               6,000
Miang tea                          ton         -500              -1,100
Opium                               kg       -1,600              -2,500
Fuelwood /b                     '000 cu m      32.5               112.1
Sawlogs /b                      '000 cu m       6.1                15.4
Construction poles /b           '000 cu m         -                 7.1
/a  Assumed to be Thai fiscal year 1984, beginning October 1983.
/b  Incremental forest products in terms of standing timber at the end of
year 20 (Thai fiscal year 1999) are projected to be 1.1 million cu m of
fuelwood, 633,000 cu m of construction poles and 89,000 cu m of sawlogs.
6.02      There is a well established and reasonably efficient private
sector marketing network for project output and production inputs in the
upland areas of the project, with marketing margins for both inputs and
outputs fairly commensurate with costs and risks involved. In the less
well-developed marketing infrastructure of the highland areas, traders often
link provision of credit and supplies to purchases of farm output. The
improved road access provided by the project will reduce transport costs and
improve marketing services in both upland and highland areas. Table 6.2
below provides a summary of economic and financial prices for project output.
(See Working Paper C6 for further details.). Tables 1, 2 and 3 of Annex 1
detail the price structure for rice, coffee and sawlogs/construction poles,
respectively.
6.03      Rice.  At full development (year 10) the project would produce
annually an additional 24,200 tons of paddy rice, mostly in the uplands,
where the yield is expected to increase from 800 kg/ha in the base year to
1,800 kg/ha in the fourth year of development for each farm. Rice is the
most important crop in the project, and production would be increased from a
deficit in both the upland and highland areas to an annual marketable surplus
of about 3,500 tons. This surplus would be sold to local merchants and
millers. There are some 30 large rice mills in the Northern Region supplying
the export market and thus linking local prices to the world market.  Farm-
gate prices are presently low relative to world prices but, according to Bank
projections of world prices, should increase throughout the project period.



- 40 -
Table 6.2: SUMMARY OF ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL PRICES OF PROJECT OUTPUT /a
1 9 7 9               1 9 9 0
Product                      Unit      Financial  Economic  Financial   Economic
Rice (paddy)                  $/ton         100         165         127          210
Maize                                        75          91          86          104
Peanuts                                     250         293         291         341
Soybeans                                    205         223         254          276
Mungbeans                                   275         335         340          415
Coffee                                    2,100       2,222      1,870        1,977
Miang tea                                   125         115         125          115
Mixed vegetables                             50          46          55            51
Upland Forestry /b            $/cu m
Plantation fuelwood           "          2.25        2.05       4.25         3.90
Plantation timber
thinnings                   "         2.25        2.05        4.25         3.90
Coppice fuelwood              "          2.25       2.05        4.25         3.90
Highland Forestry /b
Plantation fuelwood
and thinnings               "          2.00        1.85       3.80         3.50
Pine plantations /c                         -           -       2.80        14.50
Natural Forest
Fuelwood                              2.00        1.85        3.80         3.50
Sawlogs                               3.00       15.65        4.15        21.60
Broadleaf Plantations
Thinnings                              2.00       1.85        3.80         3.50
Construction poles          "         2.00       10.50        4.00        14.50
Sawlogs                     "         3.00       15.65        4.15        21.60
/a  Constant 1979 prices.  These prices are at farm-gate in the case of agricul-
tural products and are estimated on a standing tree basis in the case of
forestry products.
/b  Because forestry products are valued on a standing tree basis, i.e., excluding
labor and other exploitation costs, the values for the products listed are
identical to the value of the respective standing crop at end of the project
period (1999), adjusted for changes in real prices during the project period.
/c  It is assumed that pine thinnings have financial and economic values equal
to plantation fuelwood but that no commercial production of pine timber is
realized during the 20-year project period. The value of standing pine
plantations at end of the project period is assumed to be the same as that
for construction poles from broadleaf plantations.



6.04      Coffee.  Coffee would be produced in the highland areas and would
be the second most important crop in the project. Production is low at
present; the project would add 1,040 tons by full developmerLt in year 10.
For each farm, the yield is expected to increase from 800 kg/ha in year 5 to
800 kg/ha in year 7. There is little national data on domestic production
and consumption, but both supply and demand are increasing rapidly. Nat:ional
production estimates for 1978 were about 3,000 tons with exports of about
1,000 tons. Imports fell to less than 1,000 tons in 1977. The expected
annual growth rate of at least 10% over the next few years will require
domestic production of nearly 10,000 tons of beans by 1990.
6.05      Robusta coffee accounts for most of the recent planting and produc-
tion in Southern Thailand. Arabica coffee will be produced under the
project: with larger supplies of good quality coffee, local industry plans
to market a new milder low-roast coffee. The services of the coffee consul-
tant in the project would be essential to improve the cultural and processing
practices in coffee production.
6.06      Project output of Arabica coffee should be absorbed at satisfactory
prices by the local or export markets.  Following Bank projsections of world
prices, a financial farm-gate price of B 42/kg (US$0.21/kg) in 1979, falling
to about B 37/kg (US$0.185/kg) in 1990 has been assumed (in constant 1979
values).
6.07      Miaize.  At full project development, annual incremental maize
production is estimated at about 7,100 tons. Highest production would be in
the uplands, with expected yields increasing from 600 kg/ha in the base year
to 1,300 kg/ha in the third year of development for each farm. Most of the
incremental production would be consumed on-farm. The surplus would be sold
to local merchants for local or export markets. Real farm-gate prices for
maize are projected to increase slightly in the project area but higher
transport costs will keep them lower than the national average.
6.08      Mungbeans, Soybeans and Peanuts.  At full development the project
would produce annually an additional 4,800 tons of soybeans or mungbeans in
the uplands and some 500 tons in the highlands. In the uplands, an average
yield of about 900 kg/ha is expected, starting in the first year of develop-
ment for each farm.  Most of the incremental production would enter estab-
lished local and export market channels. A portion of marketed soybeans may
be absorbed by the existing processing plant in Chiang Rai Province which
utilizes soybean oil to produce filled milk for local sale. This plant may
expand to utilize 6-8 tons of beans/clay and a second processing plant in
Chiang Mai Province is planned. Real prices for soybeans and mungbeans are
expected to increase.
6.09      Some 6,000 tons of peanuts would be produced annually at full
project development in the uplands, with an expected yield of about 800 kg/ha
beginning in the first year of development for each farm. This incremental
output would be mostly available for off-farm sale and consumed domestically.
There is, however, some export of shelled nuts and edible oil to neighboring
countries.



- 42 -
6.10      Forestry Products.  By the end of project implementation (year 5),
incremental forestry production will still be small: about 32,500 cu m of
fuelwood; and 6,100 cu m of sawlogs from improved fire protection. By
year 10 expected annual incremental production would be 112,000 cu m of fuel-
wood, 7,100 cu m of construction poles, and 6,100 cu m of sawlogs. Pine
plantations would be established and, by the end of the 20-year project
period, standing timber would constitute an important forestry benefit.
Commercial production is not expected during the project life.
6.11      Rapid depletion of forest resources is leading to shortages and
steady increases in real prices of most timber products. The increased pro-
duction of fuelwood would be used by project families in cooking and heating,
substituting partially for supplies obtained illegally from forest reserve
areas. There would be a ready market in the area for any excess supply as
fuelwood for the tobacco-drying kilns and brick-making operations, and as sawn
timber.
6.12      In nominal terms, prices of fuelwood have been rising at 12-15% p.a.
in the region. Given the increasing scarcities of fuelwood, real price
increases of 6% p.a. are projected during the life of the project. Following
Bank projections for prices of sawn timber moving in world trade, sawlog
prices are assumed to increase at 3% p.a. during this period (albeit from
lower levels than projected prices of sawn timber from Malaysian dark red
Meranti). The price of construction poles is assumed to move roughly in
parallel to price increases for sawlogs.
6.13      Poppies.  An estimated 20% of the 6,500 project families living
in the highland sites produce poppies on swidden plots averaging 0.55 ha in
size. With an opium yield of 7 kg/ha, about 5 tons are produced annually,
most of which enters the international market. Although net returns/ha/annum
from poppies are greater than practically any other crop, net returns/man-day
from other crops, e.g., coffee, exceed returns per man-day from poppies.
Return/ man-day appears to be an important consideration for hill tribe
farmers in choosing cropping systems. Improved agricultural supporting
services and transportation facilities under the project will help influence
farmers to reduce poppy production by making alternative crops more attractive.
Experience in the highlands has shown that the introduction of stable agricul-
ture involving alternative crops such as coffee significnatly decreases poppy
production. Project education and health services would also help reduce
poppy production.
6.14      Farm-Produced Home Consumption.  Estimates of the volume of on-farm
consumption are speculative and no reliable consumption data exist. It is
likely that basic needs for families of project beneficiaries who consume
much of the ongoing production, including livestock products, fruits and vege-
tables, are not fully met at present. The incremental project output of food
staples will be used by project families and, in cases where their supplies
are presently inadequate, will reduce their need to purchase food. The farm
budget analysis assumes beneficiary families would consume farm-produced
products at the following average annual per capita levels: rice (paddy)
250 kg; maize 15 kg; mungbeans/soybeans 12 kg; peanuts 5 kg; vegetables
(uplands) 20 kg and mixed crops (largely vegetables in the highlands) 15 kg.



- 43 -
B. Production Inputs
6.15      With the project the use of purchased inputs would increase rapidly,
albeit from a small base. Seed of project area crops would be provided from
foundation seed multiplied by the Department of Agricultural Technology
(DOAT), DOAE and LDD. Production from LDD sources would be expanded by the
project. In highland areas, village center teams of HTWD would ensure that
farmers had an adequate supply of improved maize and soybean seeds from DOAT
and DOAE. Private dealers sell imported and selected seeds from local
production for a wide range of crops and operate widely throughout the
project area.
6.16      Coffee seeds would be obtained from DOAT and seedlings would be
produced by HTWD in small nurseries throughout the highland project area.
The project would, through the services of the coffee consultant, improve
nursery techniques and the general quality of coffee seedlings.
6.17      Fertilizers and other agricultural chemicals are available in much
of the project area, the most important source being merchants in provincial
centers, many of whom distribute through village agents. The marketirLg
system for these inputs is less well-developed in highland areas and would be
strengthened both by the provision of tracks, inducing local merchants to
extend their operations, and the intervention of HTWD to ensure that farmers
obtain adequate supplies of these inputs.
6.18      The major tractor and farm machinery manufacturers, represented in
the project area, are experiencing strong sales growth. The use of contract
services in land development and preparation is well developed in upland
areas and would be further stimulated by the project.  Private sector con-
tracting capacity for these services can be expanded rapidly, as additional
credit is made available for this 'purpose through BAAC and the commercial
banks (para. 4.56).
VII. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISK
A. Benefits
7.01      The main focus of the project, and its primary economic benefit,
would be the increase in incomes of some 21,500 poor families in the Northern
Region, with indirect benefits for others, through incremental production of
agriculture and forestry products. This increase would help improve the
distribution of benefits across regions and socioeconomic groups. A second
major effect of the project would be the conservation and effective management
of natural resources. The project would also improve the quality of life for
highland families through the provision of health and education facilities.
Important secondary benefits would include the strengthening of rural
development institutions, a greater decentralization of development manage-
ment, a higher rate of project preparation, and the testing of technology
packages designed to raise the prc,ductivity of poor farmers in rainfed
areas.



- 44 -
Table 7.1: FAMILY INCOME BY FARM TYPE
(US$)
Future /b
With     Without       Incremental /c
Farm type                          Present /a    project   project   Family    Per cap./d
Upland Farm
Gross value of production           179              628       196        433
Net farm cash flow /e               240              413       209        204        32
Net farm benefit /f                 154              414       166        248        39
Off-farm income                     265              265       265          0         0
Total family income /g            419             679       431        248        39
Highland Rice Farm
Gross value of production           192              581       218        362
Net farm cash flow                  222              450       206        243        41
Net farm benefit                    172              474       196        278        47
Off-farm income                     218              210      218        - 9         -1
Total family income               391             684       414        269        45
Highland Rice/Maize Farm
Gross value of production           344              662       360        301
Net farm cash flow                  296              447       271        176        29
Net farm benefit                    318              548       334        214        36
Off-farm income                     153              140       153      - 12         -2
Total family income               471             688       487        201        34
Highland Miang Tea Farm
Gross value of production           437              622       437        185
Net farm cash flow                  520              647       520        127        21
Net farm benefit                    413              540       413        127        21
Off-farm income                     107              108       108          0         0
Total family income               520             648       520         128       21
/a   Assumed to be Thai fiscal year 1979.
/b   At full development, i.e. Thai fiscal year 1989.
/c   Compares future "with" and future "without".
/d   Assuming 6.3 members/family in the uplands and 6 members/family in the
highlands.
/e   Defined to exclude the value of home consumption, debt service and
cash expenses, but to include off-farm income.
/f   Includes the value of home consumption but excludes off-farm income.
/g   Defined as net farm benefit plus the value of off-farm income.



- 45 -
7.02      Agriculture.  As noted in the previous section, at: full projecl:
development annual incremental production would be about 42,600 tons of
grains and grain legumes, some of which would be consumed by project benefi-
ciaries thereby raising their nutrition standard to an adequate level.
Off-farm sales of coffee and surplus grains would further integrate beneEi-
ciary families into the monetary economy. Annual incremental production of
about 135,000 cu m of forestry products would provide fuel and building
materials to local populations thereby aiding both conservation efforts in
public forest reserves and longer-term agricultural and timber production in
the area.
7.03      Project beneficiaries are among the absolute poor, with an average
net family income per year (including off-farm income and the value of
farm-produced home consumption) of US$390-520, or less than the absolute
poverty level of approximately US$595 (Table 7.1). The project would increase
family income to average levels of US$650-690, and at full development, some
15,000 families would be participating in the upland agricultural component
and 6,500 families in the highland agricultural and social component (3,900
on rice farms and 1,300 families each on rice/ maize farms and Miang tea
farms).
7.04      Forestry.  In the upland areas, about 15,000 participating families
obtain their timber products (fuel and construction materials) from nearby
foothills and remnants of forests surrounding their farms. As a result of
the project, much of this land now producing forest products would be cleared
for intensified agriculture. In these upland areas, the project would
contribute to alternative supplies of timber products by establishing
4,050 ha of village woodlots to be managed by village woodlot associaticons.
Each woodlot is expected to provide tup to 80% of local requirements of fuel
and construction poles.
7.05      In the highland areas, the project would constitute a major effort
to protect watersheds now increasing:Ly subject to degradation by destructive
forestry and agricultural practices. It would establish 3,100 ha of woodlots
to meet 30% of the forest product requirements of the 6,50C0 participating
families. It would also establish 4,600 ha of mixed plantations for watershed
protection and wood production and, ithrough the construction of firelines and
access tracks, protect 138,000 ha of natural forest against fire and uncon-
trolled shifting cultivation. The additional benefit of increased fire
protection in highland natural forest would reduce both the economic loss of
damage to commercial timber and the loss of soil nutrients from fire, thereby
enhancing growth and productivity of the natural forest.  (See Working Paper
C8 for details.)
7.06      Social Infrastructure.  The education facilities to be introduced
under the project would provide benefits to both children and adults of the
6,500 participating families in the highland areas. Children would be pro-
vided with a basic education and would have an opportunity to continue their
education in provincial schools. Adult education would conLcentrate on
functional literacy and rudimentary arithmetic skills.



- 46 -
7.07      The 6,500 participating families in the highland areas would
also benefit from the project health facilities. The health posts to be
constructed in 32 key villages would provide services for nearby families,
and health workers would visit surrounding villages on a regular basis.
Treatment would be provided for simple maladies, while more serious cases
would be referred to provincial health posts or hospitals for treatment.
Families also would be given instruction in prevention of disease, nutrition,
and family planning.
7.08      Employment.  The project area is characterized by much higher
supplies of labor than is required on the relatively small farms. However,
an active labor market provides opportunities for considerable off-farm work
in handicrafts, cottage industries, logging, road construction/ maintenance,
and on larger farms in nearby lowlands. At full development (year 10), labor
requirements in upland agriculture would more than double to about 6.1
million man-days/year. Annual man-day requirements for upland forestry
activities might total another 81,000 (say 20 man-days for each of 4,050 ha
of woodlots). Total supplies of labor among upland beneficiaries probably
exceed 10 million man-days. Thus, while a major effect of the project would
be to substantially reduce underemployment in upland agriculture, labor
supplies would permit continued substantial off-farm employment. A small
increase in hired agricultural employment (about 40,000 man-days/year at full
development) is also projected in upland agriculture.
7.09      In highland areas, where neither the reservoir of unskilled rural
labor nor labor demand is as large, the project would result in a slight
decline in agricultural labor requirements. More intensive agriculture
and greater labor requirements in some crop production activities would
be more than offset by reduced labor needs from declining production in
Miang tea and shifting agriculture areas. Hired labor requirements would
decline, again reflecting the decline in labor-intensive Miang tea production.
On the other hand, labor requirements of highland forestry would increase
by some 400,000 man-days/year (50,000 man-days/year for each of the eight
catchment areas).
B. Environmental Impact
7.10      A major justification for the project is to slow degradation
of the country's soil, water and forest resources, largely resulting from
growing population pressures. At a rough estimate, some 30,000 ha of forest
lands are destroyed annually to make way for shifting cultivation which now
covers an excess of 2 million ha. Although shifting cultivation under
carefully-managed conditions permits sustained agriculture over long periods
of time, growing population pressures are reducing fallow periods and destroy-
ing the ecological balance which has been established by some hill tribes, and
crop yields have begun to decline. This decline is assumed to continue
without the project.
7.11      The project would have a positive impact on the environment in
both upland and highland areas. In upland areas, soil conservation banks



- 47 -
would be built on 30,000 ha. The growing of fuelwood supplies in upland
woodlots would reduce destructive scavenging on bush land and incursions
into forest reserves.
7.12       In highland areas the project would encourage effective soil
conservation works by assisting cultivators in the construction of small
diversion weirs and distribution systems for 800 ha of irrigation development
in the valley floors. Families now practicing shifting cultivation would be
allocated land suitable for annual rainfed cultivation and would construct
simple terraces (1,300 ha) on this allotment. Highland agricultural
development is expected to reduce the area used for shifting cultivation by
about 26,000 ha. The introduction of stable agriculture, together with
requisite supporting services, is also expected to reduce production of opium
poppies. Hill tribe leaders increasingly recognize the detrimental effects
of opium on their communities, and poppy cultivation exhausts the soil.
7.13       Finally, highland forestry development would protect some 138,000 ha
of watershed from burning and destructive cutting. The planting of fuelwood
and timber plantations would, as in the uplands, reduce pressure for destruc-
tive cutting of forest reserves and bush areas.
C. Role of Women
7.14      Women play important roles in the food and cash crop producton and
processing systems in both upland and highland areas.  Whereas off-farm
employment is typically the domain of male family members, the women of the
household frequently have dominant roles in farm activities. In its training
and extension activities, the project would endeavor to channel assistance
to women as well as men. LDD and IITWD have women on their advisory service
staffs. Efforts would be made to ensure that female staff participate in
project implementation and to ensure that the women among beneficiary
families are provided with the opportunity to participate in, and benefit
from, project activities, especially health and education services.
D. Economic Returns
7.15      The net present value (N]V) of the project, with benefits and
costs discounted at the opportunity cost of capital of 10%, is US$5.7 million.
(Economic returns are based on upland and highland development.) Of this total,
about US$2.6 million originates in the upland agriculture component while
US$0.9 million is contributed by the highland agricultural and social component
and US$2.2 million derives from forestry. (See Annex 1 for additional details.)
7.16       The best estimate of the projected economic rate of return is about
13%. Returns to project components are: upland agriculture 14%; highland agri-
culture and social 12%, and upland and highland forestry 13%. (The conversion
factors and shadow prices utilized in determining these rates of return are
e-tpiained in Annex 1.) Project returns are moderately sensitive to changes in
the level of the underlying benefit and cost streams.  For the total project a
cieclina in benefits of 21%, or a cost increase of 27%, would push the NPV to



- 48 -
zero or, equivalently, the economic rate of return to 10%. Project returns
are also moderately sensitive to assumptions regarding yields or economic
prices for rice. A 20% decline in rice yields or prices would lower the
project's economic rate of return to about 10% and generate a negative NPV
while a 20% increase in benefits from rice would result in an overall rate of
return of nearly 17% and a NPV for the project of US$11.9 million (Annex 1,
Table 9). In the highland agricultural and social component, variations in
benefits from coffee also imply moderate changes in this component's NPV,
with an economic rate of return of about 8% indicated with a 20% fall in
coffee prices.
E. Risks
7.17      As a first project of this type on the scale proposed in an area
where neither the Bank nor the Thai Government has supported a large sys-
tematic development effort before, this project has risks of both an institu-
tional and a technical/economic character. Project design has attempted to
minimize these risks, although it is recognized that some remain which are
inherent in a project of this type.
7.18      Allocation of land for stable agriculture in the highland sites is
necessary for the implementation of that component of the project, and the
issuance of land-use permits to highland families is important to ensure
the protection of their rights over time. Assurances were obtained at nego-
tiations that these actions would be taken promptly once the surveys and
registration activities were completed (para. 4.24), but it should be
recognized that such adjustments in land use pose important institutional
difficulties in Thailand. The cooperation of RFD would be needed for the
execution of these assurances. A substantial expansion of LDD's capability
in land development would be required for successful implementation of the
upland agricultural component, and consultants would be provided under the
project (para. 5.09) to support this endeavor.
7.19      The technical risks relate essentially to the agricultural tech-
nology which the project would utilize. These risks are perhaps greatest
in the case of coffee, a crop which grows well and the assumed project yields
of which have been exceeded in small plots, but which is relatively new to
the area. Production and processing risks are expected to be held to
acceptable levels through the work of the coffee consultant provided unaer
the project. Economic returns of the highland component are sensitive
to variations in coffee prices, which are essentially beyond the control of
the project. In both upland and highland areas the successful transition
from shifting to stable agriculture will require substantial effort by the
implementing agencies: farmers are uncertain about this transition and it
will be difficult to persuade them to alter their traditional agricultural
practices and way of life.
7.20      In the forestry component, risks are probably more institutional
than technical. The extent of upland woodlot development will depend to a
considerable degree on the success of LDD in assisting farmers in estab-
lishing the village woodlot associations. The technologies to be emploved in
project reforestation and plantation establishment are well known in Thailand,



- 49 -
although the controlled utilization of forest resources, as envisaged in the
project, differs from the existing practice of many families in the area who
view these resources as a free public good.
F. Cost Recovery
7.21      The project would not attempt to recover the relatively small
on-farm investment costs from beneficiaries for two basic reasons:
(a) beneficiary incomes even at full development will be at levels only
moderately in excess of absolute poverty levels; and (b) a modest public
subsidy is considered necessary to induce farmers to shift from swidden to
stable agriculture and to introduce soil conservation works and practices,
benefits of which have not been demonstrated over a wide area in the region.
Furthermore, these soil conservation activities produce benefits in the form
of a moderated water runoff pattern and reduced siltation of rivers, which
accrue to the economy as a whole rather than to the direct beneficiaries.
Project expenditures for farm production inputs will be recovered in cash or
kind through existing mechanisms.
7.22      On-farm investment costs (including family labor valued at the
market wage rate) are small. In the uplands, investment costs of land
development, including soil conservation works on an average 2 ha plot, would
be approximately US$595, of which about US$55 would be the value of the
farmers' labor contribution at market wages. In highland areas, investment
costs per farmer, involving the establishment of 0.15 ha of irrigated land,
0.25 ha of rainfed annual crop terraces and 0.20 ha of coffee on terraces,
would be approximately US$680, of which the farmers' contribution in the form
of labor would be about US$555.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
8.01      During negotiations agreements were reached on the following:
(a) LDD would ensure that upland conservation works and access tracks
were properly maintained (paras. 4.11 and 4.13);
(b) LDD would provide technical assistance on conservation farming
practices to farmers in coordination with DOAE. For each farmer,
LDD would provide the technical assistance for a period of three
years, during which time it would train DOAE extension agents in
conservation farming practices. At the end of the three-year
period, DOAE would assume responsibility for providing regular
extension services to the farmer (para. 4.15);
(c) in the highland sites, land designated as suitable for stable
agriculture by LDD would be allocated to that purpose promptly after
submission of LDD's report (para. 4.24);



- 50 -
(d) RFD would issue land-use permits to residents of the highland
sites promptly on receipt of the registration information from
HTWD (para. 4.24);
(e) HTWD would ensure that highland irrigation schemes, bench terraces,
and access tracks were properly maintained (paras. 4.24 and 4.32);
(f) HTWD would transfer responsibility for providing agricultural,
education, and health services in the highland areas to the relevant
line agencies when the latter were prepared to provide such services
(para. 4.34);
(g) WMD would use local highland labor to the maximum extent possible
in implementing the highland forestry component (para. 4.37);
(h)  WID would collaborate with HTWD in the selection of areas for
village woodlots and for forest rehabilitation in highland sites
(para. 4.37);
(i) WMD would assist highland villagers to form village woodlot asso-
ciations which eventually would assume responsibility for manage-
ment of the woodlots under the guidance of WMD (para. 4.38);
(j) WNID would ensure that access tracks were properly maintained
(para. 4.40);
(k) the implementing agencies would monitor and evaluate the project,
and NESDB would, by September 30, 1979, retain consultants for
design of the monitoring and evaluation system whose qualifications
and experience, terms of reference, and conditions of employment
were agreed upon with IDA; NESDB would also, by January 31, 1980,
provide to IDA for review a report on the proposed system (para.
4.43).
(1) BAAC would provide sufficient short-term production credit in a
timely manner to meet the requirements of project beneficiaries in
the upland agricultural component, on the basis of confirmation by
LDD that the borrowers and the items to be financed were appropriate
to the project (para. 4.56);
(m)  BAAC would provide sufficient medium-term credit for tractors and
reversible plows to ensure the availability of adequate tractor
services for project beneficiaries in the upland agricultural compo-
nent, on the basis of confirmation by LDD that the borrower and the
items to be financed were appropriate to the project (para. 4.56);
(n) the implementing agencies would follow agreed procurement procedures
(paras. 4.57 to 4.61);
(o) a project committee satisfactory to IDA would be established by
September 1, 1979 (para. 5.01);
(p) LDD, HTWD, and RFD would consult with IDA concerning appointments to
the position of manager of their respective project units (paras.
5.04, 5.13, and 5.21);



-. 51 -
(q) LDD, HTWD, and RFD would expand their staffs according to agreed
schedules (paras. 5.04, 5.,13, and 5.21);
(r)  LDD, HTWD, and RFD would prepare annual work programs for the
implementation of their respective components and would send a copy
to IDA for comment three months prior to the start of the fiscal
year (paras. 5.04, 5.13, and 5.21);
(s) the consultants to be retained by LDD, HTWD, WMD), OUSMI, NES])B, and
OUSMA, their terms of reference, and their conditions of empLoyment
would be agreed upon with IDA (paras. 5.09, 5.18, 5.22, and 5.23);
(t)  all proposals for utilization of funds under the provincial planning,
project preparation, and pilot operations components would be
subject to the agreement of IDA (para. 5.23); and
(u) the implementing agencies would maintain separate accounts for
the project and submit audited statements to IDA (para. 5.24).
8.02      Subject to the above assuLrances, the project is suitable for an
IDA credit of US$25 million.



- 52 -
ANNEX 1
Page 1
THAILAND
NORTHERN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Analysis
Methodology
1.        The economic analysis was carried out in terms of efficiency prices,
with uncommitted public income measured in border prices as the common unit
of account. Distortions between internal and external price levels in Thailand
are generally small, but due to import taxes and other trade restrictions, the
official exchange rate understates the value of foreign exchange saved, earned
or spent in project implementation. Conversion factors were employed to reduce
domestic currency values for nontraded project inputs and outputs and to correct
for distortions in relative prices. The value of traded goods was converted
to local currency at the official exchange rate of B 20 = US$1.00, then
adjusted by the appropriate conversion factor(s) to obtain the farm-gate
equivalents in terms of border prices.
2.        Conversion Factors.  The standard conversion factor (SCF) of 0.92
(implying a shadow exchange rate of B 21.9 = US$1.00) uses a formulation that
excludes excise and business taxes on inputs and outputs. Three specific
conversion factors were used to arrive at economic efficiency values expressed
in local currency at border prices: (a) for fertilizers, insecticides, and
agricultural machinery services, 0.90; (b) for construction and transportation
services, 0.74; and (c) for trade margins, agro-industrial processing and
government services, 0.70. The factor to convert labor's opportunity cost to
border prices was assumed to be 1.0, though production foregone by labor
includes products that have conversion factors greater than 1.0 (rice, maize,
mungbeans), approximately equal to 1 (soybeans, coffee) and less than 1 (non-
traded products such as fuelwood, Miang tea, mixed vegetables, construction
poles). The result is an opportunity cost of labor at domestic market prices
that equals its cost at border prices.
3.        Opportunity Cost of Capital.  The opportunity cost of capital measured
in real terms is estimated at 10%. All taxes and price contingencies are
excluded in the economic valuation of project output and input, but physical
contingencies are included in the project's economic costs. Project costs
for education are excluded since this activity is not required to realize
measurable project benefits during project life. All health costs are included
in the rate of return analysis.
Valuation of Project Output
4.        Future financial prices of internationally traded project output
are expressed in constant 1979 prices (based on Bank projections), and for
products not internationally traded, recently quoted farm-gate prices were
adjusted to early 1979 levels. Economic farm-gate prices for traded products
are derived from Bank price projections for similar products, adjusted for
quality differences, location, and the specific conversion factors needed to



- 53 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2
obtain the farm-gate equivalent in terms of border prices (Tables 1-3).
Economic prices for nontraded goods are estimated farm-gate prices in finan-
cial terms, adjusted by the SCF of 0.92. It is assumed that Thailand will
continue to be a net exporter of rice, coffee, maize, mungbeans, soybeans,
tobacco leaves and peanuts, for which economic valuation was made in terms of
export parity prices. It is also assumed that it will continue to be a net
importer of (non-teak) sawn timber, for which import parity served as the
basis for calculating economic value.
Valuation of Project Inputs
5.        Unskilled Rural Labor.  The rural labor market in Thailand apparently
operates with considerable efficiency and the market wage rate for unskilled
labor is roughly equivalent to labor's opportunity cost. Excess supplies of
family labor in the upland component are reduced with prcject activities or
utilized in off-farm employment, and family labor shortages occur in some
months of the year. No shadow pricing of unskilled labor is assumed in the
upland component and average market wage rates per man-day range from B 15-28.
However, rates in the highland areas are lower at B 15-20)/man-day due to greater
slack in the labor market. Because available labor is utilized less Eully and
labor demand will not increase as a result of the project, the economic cost of
unskilled farm labor in the highlands is assumed to be 75% of the mar'ket wage,
or B 11-15/day. In the forestry component, no shadow pr:icing of unskilled
labor is assumed. The market wage of B 25/day for forestry and construction
activities includes costs of housing which would not be provided to farm labor.
6.        Other project inputs include planting materials, agricultural chem-
icals, land development activities, ploughing services and various government
support services (Table 4). In calculating the economic value of land develop-
ment activities, access tracks and ploughing services, the foreign exchange
component was estimated at 41% of total financial costs and was converted to
baht at the official exchange rate. The remaining 59% of domestic costs was
adjusted to economic value in border prices using the estimated conversion
factor for government services (0.70).
Results
7.        The economic analysis included calculation of net present values
(NPVs) and economic rates of return to the aggregate of the production
components and to these components individually. It also included estimation
of "switching values" for major cost and benefit streams, i.e. the pesrcentage
change in a variable which would result in the net present value approaching
zero or, equivalently, which would generate an economic return no greaater
than the opportunity cost of capital (see Table 5-9 and Figure 1).
8.        The project (aggregate Qf production components) generates an NPV
of B 114.0 million when cost and benefit streams are discounted at 10% (para.
3). The NPV of the upland agricultural component is B 51.9 million, that of
the highland agricultural component, B 18.2 million, andl of the forestry
components, B 43.7 million. The best estimate of the project rate of return



- 54 -
ANNEX 1
Page 3
is 13.2% (upland agriculture 13.7%; highland agriculture and social 12.0%;
and forestry 13.3%). Switching values for total project cost and benefits
indicate that benefits could fall by 21% or costs rise by 27% before the NPV
declines to zero, but a smaller joint change would drive the NPV down sharply.
Focusing on changes in NPV, a 20% increase in total project costs would
reduce the NPV from B 114.0 million to B 26.6 million (Table 9). A delay of
one year in realizing benefits from the upland component would reduce project
NPV to B 77.5 million and the rate of return to 12.3%. Project returns are
moderately sensitive to assumptions regarding the yield or economic price of
rice. A 20% decline in rice yields or prices would decrease the rate of
return to 9.7% and generate a negative NPV while a 20% increase in yields or
prices would result in a rate of return of 16.6% and an NPV for the project
of B 238 million (Table 9).
9.        For upland agriculture (Table 6), a 20% increase in costs would
reduce the rate of return by 20% (from 13.7% to 10.9%) but the NPV by 75%
(B 51.9 million to B 13.1 million). In the highland agricultural component,
variations in benefits from coffee also imply moderate changes in the com-
ponent NPV, with an economic rate of return of 7.6% indicated with a 20% fall
in coffee prices. In general, a given decline in benefits has a greater
effect on NPV than a similar increase in costs. For the forestry component
(Table 8), a 20% decline in benefits would reduce the component's NPV by 80%,
but the rate of return by only 20%. In highland forestry, the base case
included indirect additional benefits from improved fire protection and the
provision of access tracks; without these additional benefits, the NPV falls
to B 2.0 million and the rate of return to just over 10%.



- 55 -
A_N1EX 1
Table 1
THAILAND
NORTHEBR AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT'
Price Structure of Rice (Paddy) /a
(per ton)
1 9 7 9                          1 9 9 0 _-
Conversion'                       Conversion
Financial   factor    Economic  Financial   factor   Economic
f.o.b. Bangkok
US$ /b                  295                    295        374                    374
Baht                 5,900                   5,900      7,480                  7,480
Rice premium /c                700                       -        887                      -
Export duty /d                 250                       -        317
Mlunicipal tax /e                10                      -         10                      -
Exporter's margin /f           449        0.70         314        570         0.70       399
Ex-mill price rice           4,491                   5,586      5,696                 7,081
Ex-mill price of paddy /g  3,296                     4,100      4,181                 5,197
Mlilling tax /h              165                       -        209                     -
Miller's margin /i           247        0.70         173        314         0.70       220
Price of paddy at mill,
Bangkok                    2,884                   3,927      3,658                 4,977
Merchant's margin              884        0.70         619      1,121         0.70       785
Farm-gate price of paddy   2,000                     3,308      2,537                 4,192
/a  Based on the Bank's commodity price projections of June 1978, adjusted to
early 1979 levels.
/b  Weighted average price of exported rice is assumed to be 85% of the price of
5% brokens (US$347 in 1971).
/c  Rice premium is assumed to vary proportionately with changes in rice price.
The premium has been increased in 1978.
/d  Estimate based on adjustments in 1978.
/e  Baht 10/ton.
/f  Approximately 10% of ex-mill price of rice.
/g  Miling rates of 66% plus value of bran and milling tax.  It is assumed that
the same ratio of rice:paddy (0.734) exists in financial and economic prices.
/h  Five percent of the ex-mill price of paddy.
/i  Includes transport, handling costs, profit at appraisal (mid-1978), inflated
by 7.0%/year to early 1979.



- 56 -
ANNEX 1
Table 2
THAILAND
NORTHERN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Price Structure of Coffee
(per ton)
1 9 7 9                          1 9 9 0
Conversion                        Conversion
Financial   factor    Economic  Financial   factor   Economic
c.i.f. New York, Guatemalan
prime, washed, spot
US$/ton                   2,844                   2,844      2,535                 2,535
Freight & insurance
Bangkok-New York (US$)    60                       60         60                     60
f.o.b., Bangkok
US$                       2,784                   2,784      2,475                 2,475
Baht                     55,680                  55,680    49,500                 49,500
Less 10% quality discount 50,112                   50,112    44,550                 44,550
Exporter's margin /a         4,176       0.70       2,923      3,341         0.70    2,339
Processing charges           1,500        0.70      1,050      1,500         0.70    1,050
Merchant's margin            2,436        0.70      1,705      2,309         0.70    1,616
Farm-gate price /b          42,000                 44,434    37,400                 39,545
/a  Approximately 7.15% of f.o.b. value.
/b  According to the Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives, the national average
farm-gate price for coffee in 1977 was B 71,540/ton. By mid-1978, this had fallen
to B 55,000/ton. In line with projected declines in the international price, a
farm-gate price of B 42,000 is assumed for early 1979.



- 57 -
ANNEX 1
Table 3
THAILAND
NORTHERN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Price Structure of Sawlogs and Construction Poles from Broadleaf Plantations
1 9 7 9                          1 9 9 0
Conversion                        Conversion
Financial   factor    Economic  Financial   factor   Economic
c.i.f. Bangkok, sawn timber
US$/cu m                      107/a                    107         148/e                  148
B/cu m                      2,145                    2,145       2,960                  2,960
Importer's margin               500         0.70         350         690       0.70         483
Transport, Bangkok to sawmill 500           0.74         370         690       0.74         511
Ex-sawmill price of sawn
timber, North Thailand    3,145/b                    2,865       4,340                  3,954
Ex-sawmill equivalent
value of sawlogs            1,415/c                  1,289       1,953                  1,779
Sawmilling margin per cu m
of sawlogs                    665/d       0.70         466         918       0.70         643
Value of logs at sawmill        750                      823       1,035                  1,136
Transportation, roadside
to sawmill                    100         0.74          74          L38      0.74         102
Costs of logging, trans-
portation to roadside         590         0.74         436         814       0.74         602
Government royalty
(financial cost)               60                                   83/f
Financial or economic
prices for sawlogs             60                      313          83                    432
Financial or economic
prices for construction
poles                          40                      210          80                    290
/a  Based on observed prices of sawn timber in Bangkok, mid-1978, inflated at 10% p.a.
This price refers to ordinary grade lumber which trades at a price about two-thirds
that of Dark Red Maranti.
/b  Corresponds closely to observed prices in North Thailand in mid-1978, adjusted for
10% p.a. inflation.
/c  Assumes 45% recovery of sawn timber from round logs.
/d  Includes milling costs and profit (B 300/cu m of round logs).
/e  Following Bank projections for sawn timber prices, assumed to increase at: 3% p.a.
in 1979-90.
/f  Assumed to increase at 3% p.a., 1979-90.



- 58 -
ANNEX 1
Table 4
THAILAND
NORTHERN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summary of Economic and Financial Prices of Project Inputs
1 9 7 9                           1 9 9 0
Conversion                         Conversion
Financial   factor    Economic  Financial   factor   Economic
Rural Unskilled Labor (B/day)
Upland areas                      22       1.00           22         22       1.00          22
Highland areas                    18       0.75           14         18       0.75          14
Seeds (B/ton)
Paddy /a                      2,200        1.65       3,630       2,791       1.65       4,605
Maize /a                       1,650       1.21        1,996      1,882       1.21       2,277
Peanuts /a                    5,500        1.17        6,435      6,401       1.17       7,489
tIungbeans /a                  6,050       1.22        7,381      7,489       1.22       9,137
Soybeans /a                   4,510        1.09        4,916      5,583       1.09       6,085
Other Planting Materials
Coffee seedlings               1.15/pc    0.92         1.06/pc   1.15/pc    0.92         1.06/pc
Pine seedlings                0.5/pc       0.92        0.5/pc    0.5/pc       0.92       0.5/pc
Fuelwood seedlings            0.5/pc       0.92        0.5/pc    0.5/pc       0.92       0.5/pc
Fertilizers (B/ton)
15-15-15                      4,500       0.90        4,050      6,600       0.90       5,940
Armonium sulfate              3,200        0.90        2,880      4,700       0.90       4,230
Equipment & Services
Handtools (B/farm)               100       0.90           90        100       0.90          90
Tractor services (B/ha)          960       0.90          864      1,200       0.90       1,080
/a  Conversion factors for these seeds are the ratios of economic to financial prices.



- 59 -
ANNEX 1
Ta'ble 5
THAILAND
NORTHERN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMIENT PROJECT
Summary of Rate of Return Analysis
Net Present       Economic         Switching Values /a
Component                     Value @ 10%   Rate of Return    Benefits          Costs
(B million)         ()            -() ------
Total Project                     114.0            13.2              -21         +27
Upland Agriculture and
Social Development              51.9             13.7             -22         +28
Highland Agriculture and
Social Development               18.2            12.0             -10         +11
Forestry
Upland                           15.4            14.9              -35        +54
Highland                         28.3            12.8              -21        +27
Total Forestry                   43.7            13.3              -25        +33
/a  Defined as the percentage change in benefits or costs which would result in
a net present value which approaches zero or, equivalently, which would
generate a project (or component) economic rate of return equal to the oppor-
tunity cost of capital.



- 60 -
ANNEX 1
Table 6
THAILAND
NORTHERN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Incremental Costs and Benefits
Upland Agriculture
No.     Year                 Incremental         Incremental       Net incremental
Thai Fiscal                 costs /a        benefits /b            benefits
------------------ (Baht million) ----------------
1      1980                     42.2                 0.7                -41.5
2      1981                     38.3                 2.2                -36.1
3      1982                     52.1                 3.6                -48.5
4      1983                     49.5                12.8                -36.7
5      1984                     47.8                23.9                -23.9
6      1985                     12.7                32.4                 45.2
7      1986                      4.0                34.6                 30.6
8      1987                      2.4                37.5                 35.1
9      1988                      0.5                39.3                 38.8
10      1989                      0.5                40.9                 40.3
11      1990                      0.5                41.4                 40.9
12      1991                      0.5                41.9                 41.4
13      1992                      0.5                42.5                 41.9
14      1993                      0.5                43.0                 42.5
15      1994                      0.5                43.6                 43.0
16      1995                      0.5                44.1                 43.6
17      1996                      0.5                44.6                 44.1
18      1997                      0.5                45.2                 44.6
19      1998                      0.5                45.7                 45.2
20      1999                      0.5                46.3                  45.7
/a  Includes costs of land development, access tracks, ploughing services,
and agricultural support services.
/b Net of all on-farm economic costs.
Economic Rate          Net Present Value
Sensitivity Analysis          of Return (%)         at 10% (million Baht)
Base case                           13.7                   51.9
Costs up 20%                        10.9                   13.1
Benefits down 20%                   10.3                    3.7
Benefits delayed 1 year             11.6                   21.2
Soybean prices or quantities
down 20%                          8.2                    -0.1
Rice prices or quantities
down 20%                          5.3                    -0.03
up 20%                           20.8                   163.0
Switching value for upland agricultural benefits:         -22%
Switching value for upland agricultural costs:            +28%



- 61l -
ANNEX 1
Table 7
THAILAND
NORTHERN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Incremental Costs and Benefits
Highland Agriculture and Social Development
No.     Year                 Incremental         Incremental       Net incremental
Thai Fiscal                 costs /a        benefits /b            benefits
------------------ (Baht million) ----------------
1      1980                     34.0                 2.0                -32.0
2      1981                     21.5                 2.2                -19.3
3      1982                     20.6                 0.5                -20.2
4      1983                     14.2                 0.3                -14.4
5      1984                     13.7                 4.3                  -9.3
6      1985                     19.8                12.4                  -7.4
7      1986                     16.8                24.9                   8.1
8      1987                     13.4                32.7                  19.3
9      1988                     13.4                37.7                  24.2
10      1989                     14.3                38.5                  24.2
11      1990                     15.6                39.4                  23.8
12      1991                     15.6                40.2                  24.6
13      1992                     15.6                41.0                  25.5
14      1993                     15.6                41.9                  26.3
15      1994                     15.6                42.7                  27.2
16      1995                     15.6                43.6                  28.0
17      1996                     15.6                44.4                  28.9
18      1997                     15.6                45.3                  29.7
19      1998                     15.6                46.2                  30.6
20      1999                     15.6                47.0                  31.5
/a  Includes only costs of access tracks, soil and water conservation and
irrigation works, agricultural support services and health services.
/b  Net of all on-farm economic costs.
Economic Rate           Net Present- Value
Sensitivity Analysis          of Return  (          at 10% (million Baht)
Base case                           12.0                    18.2
Coffee prices or quantities
down 20%                          7.6                    -0.05
Coffee prices or quantities
up 20%                           15.6                    55.6
Rice prices or quantities
down 20%                         10.6                      5.0
up 20%                           13.5                    31.4
Switching value for highland agricultural benefits:   -10%
Switching value for highland agricultural costs:          +11%



- 62 -                                         ANNEX 1
Table 8
THAILAND
NORTHERN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Incremental Costs and Benefits
Forestry
Upland                     Highland                   Total Forestry               Net
No.     Year      Incremental  Incremental   Incremental  Incremental   Incremental  Incremental   Incremental
Thai Fiscal      costs        benefits         costs        benefits         costs        benefits        benefits
--------------------------------------- (Baht million) -------------------------------------
1      1980           1.8            0            14.7             0            16.5             0            -16.5
2      1981           3.4            0            12.8             0            16.2             0            -16.2
3      1982           5.4            0            15.0             0            20.4             D            -20.4
4      1983           6.9            0.2          13.7             1.3          20.6             1.5          -19.1
5      1984           8.4            0.5          11.6             3.1          20.0             3.7          -16.3
6      1985           3.9            1.4          11.9             4.4          15.8             5.8          -10.0
7      1986           2.1            1.9           7.4             7.0           9.5             9.0          - 0.5
8      1987           1.1            2.9           8.1             8.7           9.2            11.6            2.4
9      1988           0.5            3.5           8.3            10.3           8.8            13.8            5.0
10      1989           0.6            4.2           8.3            11.4           8.9            15.6            6.7
11      1990           0.9            4.7           8.3            13.4           9.2            18.1            8.9
12      1991           1.2            6.4           8.5            14.0           9.7            20.4           10.7
13      1992           1.6            7.4           8.5            16.7          10.1            24.1           14.0
14      1993           1.6            8.2           8.4            15.5          10.1            23.7           13.6
15      1994           1.7            8.2           8.4            14.8          10.1            22.9           12.8
16      1995           1.7           11.1           13.5           20.5          15.2            31.5           16.3
17      1996           1.7           16.5           8.9            30.5          10.6            47.0           36.4
18      1997           1.7           22.7           8.6            30.6          10.3            53.4           43.1
19      1998           1.7           25.7           8.7            43.2          10.4            68.8           58.4
20      1999           1.7           64.6            8.7          359.1          10.4           423.8          413.4
Economic Rate           Net Present Value
Sensitivity Analysis                                   of Return (%)         at 10% (million Baht)
Upland Forestry
Base case                                              14.9                     15.4
Benefits down 20%                                      12.3                      6.5
Costs up 20%                                           12.8                      9.6
Benefits delayed 1 year                                10.7                      1.8
Highland Forestry
Base case                                              12.8                     28.3
Benefits down 20%                                      10.2                       1.9
Costs up 20%                                           10.7                      7.6
Benefits delayed 1 year                                 3.1                    -37.1
No additional benefits from increased fire
protection                                           10.2                      2.0
Total Forestry
Base case                                              13.3                     43.7
Benefits down 20%                                      10.7                      8.5
Costs up 20%                                           11.2                      17.3
Benefits delayed 1 year                                 5.7                    -35.3
Switching value for upland forestry benefits:            -35%
Switching value for upland forestry costs:               +54%
Switching value for highland forestry benefits:          -21%
Switching value for highland forestry costs:             +27%
Switching value for total forestry benefits:             -25%
Switching value for total forestry costs:                +33%



63 -
ANNEX 1
Table 9
TRAJLAND
NORTHERN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Incremental Costs and Benefits
Total Project
No.     Year                 Incremental         Incremental        Net incremental
Thai Fiscal                 costs /a         benefits /a            benefits
------------------ (Baht million) ----------------
1      1980                     92.7                 2.7                 -90.0
2      1981                     76.0                 4.4                 -71.6
3      1982                      93.1                4.1                 -89.0
4      1983                      84.3               14.1                 -70.2
5      1984                      61.5               11.9                 -49.7
6      1985                       7.0               34.8                  27.8
7      1986                      20.8               58.9                  38.1
8      1987                      15.9               72.6                  56.8
9      1988                      14.0               82.0                  68.0
10      1989                      14.9               86.1                  71.2
11      1990                      16.1               89.6                  73.9
12      1991                      16.1               92.8                  76.7
13      1992                      16.1               97.5                  81.4
14      1993                      16.1               98.6                  82.5
15      1994                      16.1               99.5                  83.4
16      1995                      16.1              103.9                  87.8
17      1996                      16.1              125.5                 109.4
18      1997                      16.1              133.5                 117.4
19      1998                      16.1              150.3                 134.2
20      1999                      16.1              506.6                 490.5
/a  Derived from corresponding costs in Tables 5, 6 and 7.
Economnic Rate          Net Present Value
Sensitivity Analysis          of Return (%)         at 10% (million Baht)
Base case                           13.2                   114.0
Rice prices or quantities
down 20%                           9.7                    -0.1
up 20%                            16.6                   238.0
Coffee prices or quantities
down 20%                          12.2                    76.5
up 20%                            14.1                   151.0
Upland benefits delayed
one year                          12.3                    77.5
Highland benefits delayed
one year                          12.4                    81.5
Total benefits down 20%             10.2                     5.9
Total costs up 20%                  10.7                    26.6
Switching value for total project costs:                    +27%
Switching value for total project: benefits:                -21%



- 64 -                                  ANNEX 1
Figure 1
THAILAND
NORTHERN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Present Values Versus Discount Rate
525.0
X10I
500.0
>475.0
3450.0
425.0                                                        \
Lii
:D~~~ ~ 400CUT   RT
LEGEND~~~
a:
> 375.0N
I.---                             INCEETLBNFS
350.0N
w 325.0                                       N=
X0   7.6   8.6      9.5    10.5    11.6-     12 .6    13.5    14.5
DISCOUNT RATE
LEGEND
=10.007. - OPPORTUNITY COST OF CRPITRL
______________    = INCREMlENTAL BENEFITS
= INCREMENTAL COSTS
 - - - - - - - - - = INCREMENTRL BENEFITS DOWN 20 Z
- _____ - _____ - - = INCREMENTRL COSTS UP 20X
2/5/79



- 65 -
ANNEX 2
Tab:Le T-1
Page 1
THAILAND
NORTHERN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Model Cropping Pattern, Yields and Production
Upland Farm
Base Year                    Full Development /a
Area    Yield   Production    Area    Yield    Production
Crop                      (ha)   (kg/ha)      (kg)        (ha)   (kg/ha)        (kg)
Lowlands
Main crop
Rice /b              0.32    2,500        800         0.32    2,500         800
Tobacco              0.04    2,500        100         0.04    2,500         100
Vegetables           0.04    8,000        320         0.04    8,000         320
Total              0.40                             0.40
Second crop
Tobacco              0.01    2,500         25         0.01    2,500          25
Vegetables           0.01    8,000         80         0.01    8,000          80
Soybeans             0.01       800         8         0.01       800          8
Peanuts              0.01       900         9         0.01       900          9
Total              0.04                             0.04
Uplands
Main crop
Rice                 0.40       800       320         0.90    1,800      1,620
Maize                0.05       600        30         0.36    1,300         468
Peanuts              0.05       400        20         0.36       800        288
Soybeans/mungbeans   -                      -         0.18       900        162
Bush fallow          1.50         -         -          -           -          -
Bunds & tracks        -            -        -         0.20         -          -
Total           2.00                            2.00
Second crop
Peanuts               -           --        -         0.22       600        132
Soybeans/mungbeans          -               -         0.22       700        154
Total                                           0.44
/a In year four.
/b Irrigated.
1/16/79



- 66 -
ANNEX 2
Table T-1
Page 2
THAILAND
NORTHERN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Model Cropping Pattern, Yields and Production
Highland Rice Farm
Base Year                   Full Development /a
Area    Yield   Production    Area    Yield    Production
Crop                     (ha)   (kg/ha)       (kg)       (ha)   (kg/ha)       (kg)
Main crop
Irrigated
Rice                 0.18    2,000       360         0.33    2,800        924
Terrace
Rice                  -           -        -         0.22    1,900        418
Mixed                 -           -        -         0.03    1,800         54
Coffee                -           -        -         0.20      800        160
Swidden
Rice                 1.00    1,250    1,250          0.30    1,250        375
Mixed                0.10    1,500       150         0.03    1,500         45
Fallow               6.60         -        -         2.00        -          -
Total              7.88                            3.11
Communal
Woodlot                                    -         1.00
Total                                              4.11
Second crop
Irrigated
Soybeans              -          -         -         0.10      800         80
/a In year seven.
12/11/78



- 67 -
ANNEX 2
Tab:Le T-1
Page 3
THAILAND
NORTHERN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Model Cropping Pattern, Yields and Production
Highland Rice/Maize Farm
Base Year                    Full Development /a
Area    Yield   Production    Area    Yield    Production
Crop                      (ha)   (kg/ha)      (kg)        (ha)   (kg/ha)       (kg)
Main crop
Irrigated
Rice                 0.14    2,000        280        0.30    2,800         840
Terrace
Maize                 -           -         -        0.25    1,800         450
Coffee                -           -         -        0.20       800        160
Swidden
Rice                 0.50    1,250        625        0.30    1,250         375
Maize                0.60    1,000        600        0.30    1,000         300
Fallow              11.00         -         -        5.00         -          -
Total             12.24                            6.35
Communal
Woodlot               -                               1.00
Total             12.24                            7.35
Second crop
Irrigated
Soybeans              -           -         -        0.15       800        120
Terrace
Poppies              0.55         7          3.85    0.27         7          1.89
Mixed                0.05    1,500          75       0.03    1,500          45
Swidden
Soybeans              -           -          -       0.08       600         48
Mixed                 -           -          -       0.01    1,800          18
Total             0.60                            0.54
/a In year seven.
12/11/78



- 68 -
ANNEX 2
Table T-1
Page 4
THAILAND
NORTHERN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Model Cropping Pattern, Yields and Production
Highland Miang Tea Farm
Base Year                   Full Development /a
Area    Yield   Production    Area    Yield    Production
Crop                      (ha)   (kg/ha)      (kg)        (ha)   (kg/ha)       (kg)
Miang tea                 2.00    1,750      3,500        1.50    1,750        2,625
Coffee                    -           -          -        0.20      800          160
Communal woodlot          -           -          -        1.00        -            -
Total               2.00                            2.70
/a In year seven.
12/11/78



- 69 -                               ANNEX 2
Table T-2
Page 1
THAILAND
NORTHERN AGR]CULTURAL DEVELOPMEN4T PROJECT
Staffing Schedule
(man-years)
_roject Year
Position                             Grade    1        2       3        4       5
Land Development Department
Headquarters
Office of Manager
Manger                            PC-7     1        1       1        1       1
Deputy Manager                    PC-6     1        1       1        1       1
Assistant                         PC-4     1        1       1        1       1
Clerk                            PC-3      1        1       1        1       1
Clerk                            PC-2      1        1       1        1       1
Typist                           UG /a    1         1       1        1       1
Drivers                           UG       3        3       3        3       3
Administration & Finance Section
Chief Accountants                PC-5      2        2       2        2       2
Clerks                           PC-2      1        2       2       2        2
Clerks                           PC-i      3        4       6        6       6
Typists                          UG        1        2       2        2       2
Driver                            UG       1        1       1        1       1
Socio-Economic Section
Chief                            PC-5      1        1       1        1       1
Clerk                            PC-2      1        1       1        1       1
Typist                           UG        1        1       1        1       1
Driver                            UG       1        1       1        1       1
Soil Conservation Section
Chief                            PC-6      1        1       1        1       1
Assistant to Chief               PC-5      1        1       1        1       1
Survey Team Leaders              PC-4      5        9      14      16       16
Conservationists & Surveyors    PC-3       5        9      14       16      16
Conservationists & Surveyors    PC-2       5        9      14       16      16
Drivers                           UG       7       11      16       16      16
Laborers                          UG      20       36      56       64      64
Contract Supervision Section
Chief                             PC-5     1        1       1        1       1
Assistant                        PC-4      1        1       1        1       1
Agricultural Engineers            PC-3    10       18      28       32      32
Clerks                           PC-i      5        9      14       16      16
Drivers                           UG       2        2       2        2       2



- 70 -
Ai4NEX 2
Table T-2
Page 2
Project Year
Position                            Grade    1         2       3       4        5
Land Management Advisory Section
Chief                            PC-5      1       1        1       1        1
Assistant                        PC-4      1       1        1       1        1
Drivers                          UG        2       2        2       2        2
Seed Production Section
Agronomist                       PC-4      1        1       1       1        1
Agronomist                       PC-3      1       1        1       1        1
Assistant Agronomists            PC-2      2       3        5       5        5
Clerk                            PC-i      1       1        1       1        1
Drivers                          UG        3       4        5       5        5
Tractor Drivers                  UG        1       2        3       3        3
Laborers                         UG        3       5        8       8        8
Provincial Land Development Centers
Soil Conservationist/
Agricultural Engineer            PC-5      4       4        4       4        4
Agronomists                        PC-4      4       4        4       4        4
Agricultural Economists /b         PC-4      4       4        4       4        4
Interviewers /c                    PC-3      3       4        4       4        4
Clerks                                       4       4        4       4        4
Typists                                      4       4        4       4        4
Drivers                                      8        8       8       8        8
Village Centers
Agriculturalists /d                PC-3      3       8       16      22       28
Woodlot Advisors                   PC-2      4       5        7       8        8
Laborers                           UG        3       8       16      22       28
Total                                    141     205      287     322     330
Public Welfare Department
Headquarters
Office of Manager
Manager                           PC-7     1        1       1       1        1
Deputy                           PC-6      1        1       1       1        1
Secretary                        UG        1       1        1       1        1
Drivers                          UG        2        2       2       2        2



- 71 -
ANNEX 2
Table T-2
Page 3
Project Year
Position                              Grade    1         2       3        4        5
Administration Section
Chief Clerks                       PC-4      2       2        2        2       2
Clerks                             PC-1     4        4        4        4       4
Secretaries                       UG        2        2        2        2       2
Technical Service Section
Highland Agronomist                PC-5      1       1        1        1        1
Coffee Specialist                 PC-5       1       1        1        1       1
Agricultural Engineer              PC-5      1       1        1        1        1
Drivers                            UG        3       3        3        3       3
Social Services Section
Education Coordinator              PC-5      1       1        1        1        1
Health Coordinator                 PC-5      1       1        1        1        1
Drivers                            UG        2       2        2        2        2
Zonal Development Centers
Leader                               PC-5      8        8       8        8        8
Agriculturalist                      PC-4      8       8        8        8        8
Engineering Supervisor               PC-2      8       8        8        8        8
Asst. Engineering Supervisor         PC-2      8       8        8        8        8
Education Supervisor                 PC-4      8       8        8        8        8
Health Supervisor                    PC-4      8       8        8        8        8
Clerical Assistants                  PC-i      8       8        8        13       8
Foremen                              UG        8       8        8        8        8
Carpenters                           UG        8       8        8        ,8       8
Tractor Drivers                      UG        8       8        8        ,8       8
Drivers                              UG       24      24       24       24       24
Laborers                             UG       16      16       16       16       16
Key Village Centers
Leader                               PC-4    22       24       32       32       32
Agriculturalist                      PC-3    16       24       32       32       32
Health Worker                        PC-3    17       25       32       32       32
Education Instructor                 UG       35      60       80       80       80
Total                                     233      276      319      319     319



- 72 -                                   ANNEX 2
Table T-2
Page 4
Project Year
Position                              Grade    1         2        3        4        5
Royal Forestry Department
Manager                              PC-6       1        1       1        1        1
Specialist                           PC-4      1        1        1        1        1
Unit Chief                           PC-4      8        8        8        8        8
Assistant to Chief                   PC-3      -        -        6        6        6
Assistant                            PC-2      8        8        8        8        8
Clerks                               UG        3        3        3        3        3
Drivers                              UG       18       18       18       18       18
Forest Guards                        UG       24       40       57       57       57
Foremen                              UG        8        8       16       16       16
Watchmen                             UG       16       16       16       16       16
Janitors                             UG        8        8        8        8        8
Total                                       95      111      142      142     142
/a Ungraded.
/b Serve as leaders of the socio-economic survey teams.
/c Serve on the socio-economic survey teams.
/d New recruits spend part of the year with the socio-economic survey teams as
part of their training.
5/9/79



THAILAND
NORTHERN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Cost Details and Phasing
Summary
(US$'000)
Project Year                                 Total        Foreign Exchange
Item                            1           2           3          4           5                              Amount       %
Upland
Agriculture                2,782.9    2,185.4    2,901.0   2,638.9    2,468.8           12,977.0           5,346.4      41
Forestry                      61.8        95.0       133.9      154.5       198.7          643.9              97.7      15
Highland
Agricultural and Social  1,800.3    1,341.6    1,380.9   1,159.2            856.2        6,538.2           1,764.5      27
Forestry                     881.3       801.5       951.7      881.2       756.6        4,272.3             770.2      18
Monitoring and Evaluation       60.2          9.8        15.7        9.8        19.3          114.8              43.4      38
Provincial Planning            400.0       400.0       400.0      400.0       400.0         2,000.0          1,000.0       50
Project Preparation            600.0       600.0       600.0      600.0       600.0         3,000.0          1,500.0       50
Pilot Operations             1,200.0    1,200.0    1,200.0   1,200.0    1,200.0             6,000.0          2,100.0       35
Subtotal                7,786.5    6,633.3    7,583.2   7,043.6    6,499.6           35,546.2          12,622.2      35
Physical Contingency/a         261.8        195.1      258.5      242.3       209.1         1,166.8             492.9      42
Total                   8,048.3    6,828.4    7,841.7   7,285.9    6,708.7           36,713.0          13,115.1      36
/a   Calculated on upland development, highland development, and monitoring and evaluation.
January 16, 1979



ANNEX 2
-able -3
Page 2
-AND
NORTHERN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Cost Details and Phasing
Upland Agriculture Component
(US$'000)
Project Year                  Total
Item                            1         2         3          4         5
Farm Development
Land Clearing
Chaining                 13.0       23.4      36.4      41.6      41.6      156.0
Blading                  45.3       81.6    126.9    145.1       145.1      543.9
Blading (light)          19.9       35.8      55.7      63.7      63.6      238.7
Subtotal                 78.2    140.8    219.0    250.4    250.2           938.6
Windrowing                  43.2      77.8    121.0    138.2    138.2          518.4
Root Ripping               137.7    247.9    385.6    440.6    440.6   1,652.4
Conservation Banks         129.5    233.1    362.6    414.4    414.4   1,554.0
Initial Cultivation
Harrowing               100.5    180.8    281.2    321.4    321.4   1,205.3
Seeds                    15.5      27.9       43.5      49.7      49.7      186.3
Subtotal                116.0    208.7    324.7    371.1         371.1   1,391.6
Specialized Equipment
Anchor Chains            36.0       24.0      36.0      12.0         -      108.0
Blades                   27.6       18.4      27.6       9.2         -       82.8
Brush Rakes               16.6       8.3       8.3       8.3         -       41.5
Root Rippers              40.0      30.0      40.0      15.0         -      125.0
Disc Harrows              75.0      50.0      62.5      25.0          -     212.5
Parts                     19.5      16.1      17.4       7.0         -       60.0
Subtotal                214.7      146.8    191.8       76.5         -      629.8
Subtotal                   719.3  1,055.1  1,604.7  1,691.2  1,614.5   6,684.8
Access Tracks
Construction                79.4     142.9    222.2    254.0    254.0         952.5
Maintenance                    -       1.1       3.2       6.3        8.6       19.2
Subtotal                    79.4    144.0    225.4    260.3    262.6          971.7
Technical services
Personnel /a                46.6    161.7    306.3    370.8    385.1   1,270.5
Training                   198.0    102.8       52.0      25.6        3.3      381.7
Materials                  127.0       2.0    127.0        2.0        2.0      260.0
Equipment                  913.1     143.0    135.5       38.0        8.0   1,237.6
Facilities                 301.8    164.7    130.8        60.0          -      657.3
O&M - Equipment             67.7      84.8     109.4    117.9    120.2         500.0
- Facilities            6.0        9.3      11.9      13.1      13.1       53.4
Subtotal               73.7      94.1     121.3    131.0    133.3         553.4
Conservation research    60.0         60.0      60.0      60.0      60.0       300.0
Consultants                264.0    258.0    138.0            -         -      660.0
Subtotal                1,984.2    986.3  1,070.9    687.4    591.7   5,320.5
Total                      2,782.9  2,185.4  2,901.0  2,638.9  2,468.8  12,977.0
Physical contingency /b   155.7    143.4    203.0    203.0    188.2              893.3
TOTAL                      2,938.6  2,328.8  3,104.0  2,841.9  2,657.0  13,870.3
/a Includes personnel travel.
/b 10% on civil works, materials and equipment.
January 15, 1979



- 75 -
ANNEX 2
Table T-3
Page 3
THAILAND
NORTHERN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT
Project Cost D)etails and Phasing
Upland Forestry Component
(lJS$'000)
Project year               Total
Item                           1      2      3       4       5
Village Woodlots
Equipment                 1.8    3.5    6.5    8.1   13.2    33.1
Materials                10.1   24.3   40.7   49.1   64.8   189.0
Labor                     9.8   25.5   43.3   53.9   77.3   209.8
Subtotal                 21.7   53.3   90.5  111.1  155.3   431.9
Technical Services
Personnel                11.5   11.0   15.0   16.0   16.0    69.5
Training                  2.2    3.0    3.0    3.0    3.8    15.0
Equipment                13.1   10.1    3.0    0.8       -      27.0
Administration
Personnel Travel       9.2    9.0   12.6   13.5   13.5    57.8
O&M                     4.1    8.6    9.8   10.1   10.1    42.7
Subtotal               13.3   17.6   22.4   23.6   23.6   100.5
Subtotal                 40.1   41.7   43.4   43.4   43.4   212.0
Subtotal                   61.8   95.0  133.9  154.5  198.7   643.9
Physical Contingency /a   2.5    3.8    5.0    5.8    7.8    24.9
Total                    64.3   98.8  138.9  160.3  206.5   668.8
/a 10% on materials and equipment.
5/9/79



- 76 -                             ANNEX 2
Table T-3
Page 4
THAILAND
NORTHERN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Cost Details and Phasing
Highland Agricultural and Social Component
(US$'000)
Project year                   Total
Item                          1         2        3        4        5
Farm Development
Irrigation                64.9     64.9      62.5        -       -     192.3
Terraces                    -      51.9      51.8      50.4      -      154.1
Coffee establishment
Nurseries               12.0       -         -         -       -      12.0
Fertilizer                -      62.0    126.3    213.2        -     401.5
Subtotal               12.0      62.0    126.3    213.2       -      413.5
Subtotal          76.9    178.8    240.6    263.6        -      759.9
Social Infrastructure
Schools                    9.5     12.4      12.4        -       -      34.3
Health posts               4.8       7.6      7.6        -       -       20.0
Subtotal          14.3      20.0      20.0       -       -       54.3
Access Tracks
Construction             250.7    250.7    250.8         -       -     752.2
Maintenance                 -       25.1     50.2      75.3   75.3    225.9
Subtotal         250.7    275.8    301.0       75.3   75.3    978.1
Technical Services
Personnel               287.6    378.4    462.9    462.9  462.9  2,054.7
Training                  50.0     50.0        -         -       -      100.0
Equipment                595.5     24.0      24.0      72.0   24.0    739.5
Facilities               192.0     65.8      65.8        -       -     323.6
O&M                      223.3    238.8    266.6    285.4  294.0  1,308.1
Consultants /a           110.0    110.0        -         -       -     220.0
Subtotal       1,458.4    867.0    819.3    820.3  780.9  4,745.9
Subtotal                 1,800.3  1,341.6  1,380.9  1,159.2  856.2  6,538.2
Physical contingency /b   47.4        12.8     12.8       3.6    1.2       77.8
Total                    1,847.7  1,354.4  1,393.7  1,162.8  857.4  6,616.0
/a  This item includes an amount of US$25,000 for a local engineering consul-
tant firm which would be financed under the IDA credit. The total would
be composed of salaries, US$16,000; travel, US$4,000; and overhead,
US$5,000.
/b 10% of civil works, materials, and equipment.
1/11/79



- 77-
ANNEX 2
Table T-3
Page 5
I'HAILAND
NORTHERN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT
Project Cost Details and Phasing
Highland Forestry Component
(Uss'000)
Project year                    Total
1       2        3        4        '
Rehabilitation
Equipment                   2.0      2.5      4.5      7.0      7.0     23.0
Materials                  10.0    12.5    22.5    35.0    35.0    115.0
Labor                      39.0    71.4   129.5   211.5   262.4    713.8
Subtotal                 51.0    86.4   156.5   253.5   304.4    851.8
Village Woodlots
Equipment                   4.5      6.5      4.5       -        -       15.5
Materials                  22.5    32.5    22.5         -        -      77.5
Labor                     108.3   204.1   213.8   111.6    5:1.8    689.6
Subtotal                135.3   243.1   240.8   111.6    5:1.8    782.6
Protection
Firelines                   3.6    11.7    22.6    29.7    35.3    102.9
Fire Fighting
Equipment                 4.8      3.2      3.4      -        -       11.4
Labor                     1.8      5.1      8.5      9.5    10.2      35.1
Subtotal                  6.6      8.3    11.9      9.5    10.2       46.5
Subtotal                   10.2    20.0    34.5    39.2    45.5    149.3
Access Tracks
Construction               48.0   174.0   174.0   120.0          -     516.0
Maintenance                 4.8    22.2    39.6    51.6    51.6    169.8
Subtotal                   52.8   196.2   213.6   171.6    51.6    685.8
Technical Services
Personnel                  90.8    93.3   127.5   126.5   124.5    562.6
Training                    6.0      6.0      6.0      6.0      6.0     30.0
Equipment                 305.9       -        -        -        -     305.9
Facilities                 72.9       -        -        -        -      72.9
Administration
Personnel travel         41.2    45.4    61.7    61.7    61.7    271.7
O&M                     112.7   111.1   111.1   111.1   111.1    557.1
Subtotal                153.9   156.5   172.8   172.8   172.8    828.8
Consultant /a               2.5       -        -        -       -        2.5
Subtotal                  632.0   255.8   306.3   305.3   303.3  1,802.7
Total                  881.3   801.5   951.7   881.2   756.6  4,272.3
Physical contingency /b    52.4    35.1    37.7    29.9    11.9    167.0
Total                  933.7   836.6   989.4   911.1   768.5  4,439.3
/a  The amount of US$25,000 would be composed of salaries, US$16,000; travel,
US$4,000; and overhead, US$5,000.
/b 10% on civil works, materials, and equipment.
1/11/79



- 78 -
ANNEX 2
Table T-3
Page 6
THAILAND
NORTHERN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Cost Details and Phasing
Monitoring and Evaluation Component
(US$ '000)
Project Year                    Total
Item                            1         2         3       4         5
Personnel                      3.0       1.5       1.5      1.5      1.5        9.0
Equipment                     37.5        -         -        -        -        37.5
O&M                            9.2       4.6       4.5      4.6      4.5       27.4
Consultants                    7.0       2.0       7.0      2.0     10.0       28.0
Data Processing                3.5       1.7       2.7      1.7      3.3       12.9
Subtotal                 60.2      9.8       15.7      9.8      19.3      114.8
Physical contingency /a        3.8        -         -        -        -         3.8
Total                    64.0       9.8     15.7      9.8      19.3      118.6
Ia 10% on equipment.
5/9/79



- 79 -
AN1EX 2
Table T-4
THAILAND
NORTHERN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of disbursements
(US$'000)
IDA fiscal year                                 Cumulative
and semester                                  disbursement
FY80    1st
2nd                                         900
FY81    1st                                        2,000
2nd                                       3,200
FY82    1st                                        4,600
2nd                                       6,500
FY83    1st                                       8,700
2nd                                      11,300
FY84    1st                                      14,000
2nd                                      16,900
FY85    1st                                       19,900
2nd                                      22,900
FY86    1st                                      25,000
May 9, 1979



THAILAND
NORTHERN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Implenmentation Schedule
UPLAND                                                                                                                                                      PROJECT -AR
Ag.lOoltO,.
Ce-o DOeolo-me-n
Eq,ipm,nt Fnoclrement               LDO
Land D-*10-*                        LDD/Fa--nrS
A-,es T ak,
Design ltd LaDolt                   LOD
Con-t--ction                        LDD
T.Fhi,ai- S-lri-e
Staff Rec-itme'tt
aT,.ining                         LDD
Coteeltant R-cRno -nt               LOD
Eiquipment P-o-nent-                LOD
Coo,, otioct of Di-ttlot
and Village C-ots,-                LDD
Sun-,                               LDD
AdViSOly Sain,oo,                   LCD
SMFFd SSp,-                         LDD
Con,e,outlon/Respa.of               LDD
FoensaC
Vif ag. WoodIOts
E,uip-ent and Mat-tiaf,
PnF unent                          LDD
Woodlot Establno--,t                   DD DIR_F_D
Technical Setoto.5
aStf Oecn0itmntet
and Tr,in,g                       LDD/RFD
Eqoipoent Ptocutetttett             LDD
AdviwrtY SFrvice                    LCD/RFD
HIGHLAND
Agosodions alaod-Id Fa-, Drn et
Denign of Intigation Sth,,,,,
a-d Tannacing                      PWD
CCnon=ti;o 01 Inigatlo,
S,h-em- and Te...cing              FWD/Far--rn                                               _
Coffle E-,blmh-tnt                  PWD/Fa.mn-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          O
DecignootSofoole ano
1-aettfl Po.t,                    PWD_
Co nsrcti5n of School,
and Re-Ith Poet,                  PWD
*00,,, Tracks
Design ,0d L.o-o                    PWD
Con--ucimn                          PWD
Taenctfl S HC noiosi
Steff Ro,noitmn,ct and
raming                             PWD
Cons-ul-nt Ref ninntmn-             I.D
E,.ip-nent PFo-une-en               PWD
C-nsr-cion of Z-1a
ad K.,V Vill,. Cont,,,            PWD
Land C.P.-iloto Sonc-y              LOD
sp ial Eo-nomic S--oens             PWD
A,010-, Dani-js                     PWD
Po,eatnc
Refablitetioo 000 VollegO *0001011
.quiOmant and Mata-iels
P--.-aen                          RID
Planing                             RFFD
Egoip-ent P'o,""-oenl               RID
Foili- E-,nbilah-nnt                RFD
Fin, Fighting                       RFD
Accn T-aks
Dnign-and LIco-t                    RFD
Con,tnootiOfl                       RFD
Tfthn,oel Sen,. e,
Staff C 60 titOtent end
Tanitog                            RF0
Conooltent Psotoitmnian             RPD
OEq,pmnnon  Fno,otement             RPD                                                                                                    ______________E______
Co-ntuto 0 o"   Ot OtFtoIh 
a,id H-litg nFD0lRI
W-ld0 Bat,k -tSS9 i5



THAILAND
NORTHERN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Organization of Land Development Department
Office of Director
General
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Si andj C  Wtl-er)
Ilnd Pol,,  Land P  a
OfficeoftilaenduSoil Ana!                                          a d                                 Land Development
Provincial Und~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ninern
Centers  
World Bank - 19553
It X
Ix



THAI LAND
NORTHERN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Organization of Land Development Department
Office of Director
General
Office of Project
Manager
I   .   .    X  ff  Conservation   |  |   |   _            |   1         1         l  l    ~~~~~~~Contract  ||Land Management |0
AdministrationCRsear                     Seed Produc-          Socio-Economic         Soil Conservation          Suprviio               advi.ory
n      Research             ~~~tion Section           Section                  Section               Suectiion               Avsr
Section                                                          Section                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ection
Provincial Land
Development
Centers
ZZLZI~~
Village
L   Centers                                                 B
ct >4
VVorld Bank - 19550 n



THAI LAND
NORTHERN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Organization of Hill Tribe Welfare Division of Public Welfare Department
Office of Director GeneralI
Tribal Research Center
General Affairs              Programming and             Scial Development           Occupation Development              Material Suppor               Hill Tribe Training           HlTribe Development
-Division  ~       Planning Su-                  Su-Division                    Su-Division                     Su-Division                      CetradWlae Centers                                 00
Sub-Dvso                          ivSionbSu                                                                                u                                 enendWla
World Bank - 19551
rtX
4-



THAI LAND
NORTHERN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Organization of Hill Tribe Welfare Division
Office of Director General
Office of Project
Manager
| Administration    l l            Technical        l           ocial Services    l
Section                      Services                      Section
_   ,   _                 ~~~~~~Sec-tion
0p.
Provincial Hill Tribe
Development and        ..................
Welfare Centers
| Zonal Devealoprnent      l
|    Centersl
Key Village
Centers
SatellIite
F    Village
World Bank - 19552                                            rt X1
l m



THAILAND
NORTHERN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Organization of Royal Forestry Department
CENTRAL ADMINISTRATION
Office of Director
General
Officelof                                                                       Forest Control            ational Forest La          Forest Management
s he Secretary                                                                         DiilnMngmn   iiinDvso
ry       ~~Personnel DivisIon          Fiance Division                Dvso                                  iiiDvso
0l
I  ,                       |    - = -                     F                                                                                Co~~~~~~~~I 
Forest Product         Watershed Management         Wildlife Conservation                                     Divisional Forest
Silvicultural Division      Research Division               Division                    Division          lNational Park Division                Office
PROVINCIAL ADMINISTRATION
Governors
Provincial Forest
Offices
r  District Forest      l
I    Offices          l
World Bank - 19554
CDI 



- 86 -                                ANNEX 3
THAILAND
NORTHERN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPFXENT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A. Selected Reports and Studies on the Sector and Subsector
Al. World Bank, Thailand: Toward a Development Strategy of Full
Participation, May 5, 1978
B. Selected Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
B1. FAO/IBRD Cooperative Programme, Northern Rural Development Project
Preparation Report, May 19, 1978
C. Selected Working Papers
Cl. Upland Agriculture
C2. Upland Forestry
C3. Highland Agriculture and Social Infrastructure
C4. Highland Forestry
C5.  Monitoring and Evaluation
C6. Economic Valuation of Inputs and Outputs
C7. Prices and Marketing
C8. Additional Forestry Benefits



B1RD 138421
O"p ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1CH INA
9P  1dD  ,:s        DZ:                     Id40      BURMA   ,V<q L
-20-~~~~~~~~~~~ 22
200                                                                                                                     3 1/)>    D-X   
~~~                                              Aodo~~~~~~~~~~~~    0~~~HAILAND \
5 ,  0              ,   g          iz LAO  PEOPLE'S DEM. REP 2_0
3.                                    Oe, X    y}O~Cl~  X0ot ,                                          kh.
!,,           A" 360 ,1  Q                                                a                                      v
-                             08330 i  (00 Kt                                                 KAMPUCHEA>    2   1  +   8 " '  Xh'
-                            s., iPo    00 Uthai Than O4tL ,/         DEMOCRATIC+ph.,hK
V  S  r>       < Fbud  /[      >_@-  NORTHERN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Arodanoan             i                i ;J        (/ >        sr        ]       DLOCATION  OFKPROJECTAREA
th-                                 THA - i  - _   PROVINCIALDBONDAR ES
j0X  P,,o,o.OTiRA                                IUT -*A- INTERNATVENALBGUNDAROES
k,100 Ag~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FUE, ARE
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R e <VVAYS  . _
.                     t      1   1                                                                RIVE'RS 
Ilk  KIi                                                                         INE IT   AL  JU AE
iv,~ ~ ~~~~~~~K
OS.,., T     5n.
-t >_-s\>  $      rhailan
_E)    A   A    5 1                                                    MCr
9r  110,                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MARCH I97






IBRD 3B43R I
S        .                          98t'                                   9'9o                                     100     1j                                          APPIL 197n-
'IAg   C  qtHloa           :                               -      -                   ,              i -   Bj                         LAO  PEOPLE'S
BURMA                                          __v^              _               V :t   \t- tCvOEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
-3'\e  H.LA:)'5            '        BURMA                       /\                o_s,  
*                                 n >o<Kf*Lt Cti. }   '  j   /   >>   XjAIAG PAI
f 1>          T 4a OT                              -                                                               I s 4    >               
K.  nt%ro                                         -                                 ta/<                f    JA
------t----                     MAE HONG/NO(
000   t-oto of  by root 6.   (                                  oI 
W.,d 00tooO-k Co ss O
Od Book; .00.00ttsd vt l . 2n*ooo, o ,n,                                      l                                                                 N E 
0500000 toltn.tO0000oftrtr    I                                  sagJa-   
OCt 000,000,0t t.tp 0y00tn00t tr ,J t HN   e4                     __ l         I//\W                          ,   OAAI \/cgn      ;                     t
drnst>9ajrtbatrrsirtbtt rnr                     )     SoPTn                                                                        \.,,  t(       \             FhA>A9\  2\t
- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~- I  -AHtAUA
yhun   1           t C~`,,HIANG MAI t  ,     4          '         0       \        t     \      /(X                         -
THAILAND
NORTHERN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
i- \    <-                \-,  _ j C                /                      PROJECT SITES LOCATI(DNS
UPLAND U-V-LOPMENT STE'
H GHLAND DEVELrOPMEt\T SI-ES
_____, ROADS
RA9XS'S
K                                              *1                                                           -----URMAVERS
''BURhAA              2                                        t                ___  D STR .T BOJUNDAR ES
K24                                                                E .  .   = T= NTERI AT ONAL BROLiDAR EL
C    10   20    3L   4C    5C
k   74}                                                                                                       O0  I?C 2C  30  42  5
j  V               tv    j                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~K LCM-TERS
'0,*,I'                                                          K DMEIEEI
t   9'84    ~~~~~~~~~~~~  S~0'5                                                     1C0'                                     1L I



