CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 929 TH
Development Credit Agreement
(Northern Agricultural Development Project)
between
KINGDOM OF THAILAND
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated June 28, 1979


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 929 TH
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 28, 1979, between KINGDOM OF THAILAND
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the  Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower has requested the Association to assist
in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02.   Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "MOAC" means the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture
and Cooperatives;
(b) "MOI" means the Borrower's Ministry of Interior;
(c) "MOE" means the Borrower's Ministry of Education;
(d) "MPH" means the Borrower's Ministry of Public Health;
(e) "LDD" means the Land Development Department within MOAC;


﻿-2-
(f) "DAE" means the Department of Agricultural Extension
within MOAC;
(g) "RFD" means the Royal Forestry Department within MOAC;
(h) "PWD" means the Public Welfare Department within MOI;
(i) "BAAC" means the Bank for Agriculture and Agricultural
Cooperatives established pursuant to the Borrower's Bank for
Agriculture and Agricultural Cooperatives Act, B.E. 2509 (1966);
(j) "NESDB" means the National Economic and Social Develop-
ment Board within the Borrower's Prime Minister's office;
(k) "OUSMI" means the Office of the Under-Secretary of State
of MOI;
(1) "OUSMA" means the Office of the Under-Secretary of State
of MOAC;
(m) "Upland" means about 50,000 ha located in various
sites of the Project Area consisting of rolling terrain up to
approximately 500 meters elevation;
(n) "Highland" means about 172,000 ha located in various
sites of the Project Area consisting of steep-walled valleys
and exceeding approximately 500 meters elevation;
(o) "Project Area" means the set of Upland and Highland
sites covering a total of about 222,000 ha; and
(p) "Baht" means the currency of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to twenty five million dollars ($25,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to


﻿-3-
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association, for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1985
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each
March 1 and September 1 commencing September 1, 1989, and ending
March 1, 2029, each installment to and including the installment
payable on March 1, 1999, to be one-nalf of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter
to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project
through LDD, PWD, RFD, NESDB, OUSMI and OUSMA with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial, agricultural, forestry and engineering practices, and
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the purpose.


﻿-4-
(b) In carrying out Part A.2 of the Project, the Borrower
shall ensure that LDD is provided with all such technical assis-
tance from RFD as may be required.
Section 3.02. (a) In order to assist: (i) LDD in carryinL
out Part A.1 of the Project, (ii) PWD in carrying out Part B.1 of
the Project, and (iii) RFD in carrying out Part B.3 (d) of the
Project, the Borrower shall cause LDD, PWD and RFD, respectively,
to appoint, in consultation with the Association, agricultural and
engineering consultants, whose qualifications, experience, terms
of reference and terms and conditions of employment shall be
agreed upon between the Borrower and the Association.
(b) In order to assist LDD, PWD, RFD and NESDB in imple-
menting Part C of the Project, the Borrower shall cause NESDB: (i)
not later than September 30, 1979, or such later date as the
Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, to appoint
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and condi-
tions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Borrower and to
the Association; and (ii) not later than January 31, 1980, or such
later date as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise
agree, submit to the Association for its review and comment the
consultant's report on the design of the Project monitoring and
evaluation system under Part C of the Project.
(c) In order to assist the Borrower in implementing Parts D,
E and F of the Project, the Borrower shall cause OUSMI, NESDB
and OUSMA, respectively, to employ development planning, project
preparation   and agriculture consultants whose qualifications,
experience, terms of reference (including detailed work programs),
and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to
the Borrower and to the Association.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the
Project.


﻿-5-
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules for
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) maintain and cause LDD, PWD,
RFD, OUSMI, OUSMA and NESDB to maintain records and procedures
adequate to record, monitor and evaluate the progress of the
Project (including its cost and the benefits to be derived
from it), to identify the goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose their use in the
Project; (ii) enable and cause LDD, PWD, RFD, OUSMI, OUSMA
and NESDB to enable the Association's accredited representa-
tives to visit the facilities and construction sites included
in the Project and to examine the goods financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and any relevant records and documents;
and (iii) furnish and cause LDD, PWD, RFD, OUSMI, OUSMA and
NESDB to furnish to the Association at regular intervals all
such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the Project, its cost and, where appropriate, the
benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure of the proceeds
of the Credit and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the
Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and
to be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and the
Association of their respective, obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall cause LDD, PWD, OUSMI,
OUSMA and RFD, respectively, to prepare and furnish to the
Association for its review and comment, not later than July 1 of
each year and until the completion of the Project, an annual work
program for the execution of their respective parts under the
Project for the next succeeding fiscal year.


﻿-6-
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall take all such measures, for
allocation of land and issuance of land use permits, as may be
required:
(i) to enable and cause LDD to determine, under Part
B.1 of the Project, the areas within each Highland
site which are suitable for stable agriculture
and thereupon allocate such areas for such use;
and
(ii) to ensure that RFD issues and grants, promptly
upon receipt of the relevant information from
PWD, land use permits for plots within the areas
delineated pursuant to subparagraph (i) above, to
persons or groups of persons who shall have been
certified and registered as permanent residents
and Project beneficiaries by PWD.
Section 3.07. (a) For the purposes of implementing Part A.1
(c) (i) of the Project, the Borrower shall cause LDD to provide,
for a period of approximately three consecutive years, all such
advisory services as may be required, including without limita-
tion, assistance to farmers, individually, (i) in forming farmers'
groups and applying appropriate conservation farming practices,
(ii) in applying for production credit from BAAC, and (iii) in
entering into annual contracts, to be executed by private contrac-
tors under LDD's supervision, for the ploughing of fields.
(b) The Borrower shall cause LDD to coordinate its activi-
ties under Part A.1 (c) (i) during the three year period pursuant
to subparagraph (a) of this section with DAE, and provide DAE's
extension agents with adequate training in conservation farming
practices, and thereafter transfer to DAE the responsibility for
such activities upon expiration of said three year period.
(c) For the purposes of implementing Part A.1 of the
Project, the Borrower shall cause LDD to ensure that the contour
banks and access tracks (including waterways) are adequately
maintained.
Section 3.08. (a) For the purposes of implementing Parts B.1
and B.2 of the Project and at least until the completion of the
Project, the Borrower shall cause PWD to provide farmers with all
such agriculture, education and health services as shall be


﻿-7-
required, and thereafter ensure the timely transfer of the respon-
sibility for providing such services to the relevant agencies
within MPH, MOE or MOI, and MOAC as such agencies may be respec-
tively responsible and as such agencies shall be adequately
staffed and trained for providing said services.
(b) Upon completion of the construction works carried out
under Parts B.1 (a) (ii), B.1 (b) and B.3 (d) of the Project, the
Borrower shall cause PWD and RFD to ensure that such works are
thereafter adequately maintained.
Section 3.09. (a) The Borrower shall take all such measures
as shall be required to ensure that maximum collaboration and
coordination is achieved between PWD and RFD with respect to
the identification of areas released from shifting agriculture
and made available for village woodlots and forest rehabilitation
under Parts B.1 (a) and B.3 (a) and (c) of the Project.
(b) For the purposes of implementing Part B.3 of the
Project, the Borrower shall cause RFD: (i) to employ local labor
to the maximum extent possible for the establishment and opera-
tion of woodlots, (ii) to provide villagers with the necessary
assistance in forming and operating village woodlot associations
until such time as said associations are adequately staffed and
trained, and thereafter (iii) to transfer to said village woodlot
associations the responsibility for the management of the woodlots
under RFD's guidance.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall cause LDD, PWD and RFD,
respectively, to:
(a) expand their professional Project staff by such numbers
of new staff and according to such schedule as shall be agreed
between the Borrower and the Association; and
(b) appoint, in consultation with the Association, a Project
Manager to implement their respective components under the
Project.
Section 3.11. The Borrower shall not later than September 1,
1979, establish and thereafter maintain a Project Execution
Committee with membership, powers, functions and procedures
acceptable to the 'Association.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain and cause
LDD, PWD, RFD, OUSMI, OUSMA and NESDB, respecti-ely, to main-
tain separate records adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices
their operations and financial condition with respect to the
Project.
(b) The Borrower shall and shall cause LDD, PWD, RFD, OUSMI,
OUSMA and NESDB to: (i) have their respective Project accounts and
financial statements for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish
to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later
than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified
copies of their respective financial statements for such year as
so audited and (B) the reports of such audits by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have
reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such
other information concerning their respective Project accounts and
financial statements and the audits thereof as the Association
shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause LDD, PWD and RFD
to take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or to make
other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance
against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent
with appropriate practice.
Section 4.03. In order to meet the Project beneficiaries'
requirements under Part A.1 of the Project, the Borrower shall
take all such measures as may be required to ensure that:
(a) BAAC shall provide farmers with adequate and timely
short-term production credit to meet their requirements for
production inputs, including tractor services;
(b) BAAC shall provide suppliers of tractor services with
adequate and timely medium-term credit to enable such suppliers to
procure tractor sets (including reversible plows) and reversible
plows; and


﻿-9-
(c) All short- and medium-term credit provided by BAAC
pursuant to paragraphs (a) and (b) above shall be subject to LDD's
prior confirmation to BAAC that such farmers and suppliers are
eligible to receive such credit from BAAC and that the items to
be financed out of the proceeds of such credit are consistent with
the implementation of Part A.1 of the Project.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof, namely that the Borrower or any other
authority having jurisdiction shall have taken any action for the
dissolution, disestablishment of LDD, PWD, RFD, OUSMI, OUSMA or
NESDB or for the suspension of their respective operations unless
arrangements acceptable to the Association shall have been made to
replace LDD, PWD, RFD, OUSMI, OUSMA or NESDB by departments which
will assume and perform all the obligations of LDD, PWD, RFD,
OUSMI, OUSMA and NESDB, respectively, under this Agreement upon
said dissolution, disestablishment or suspension.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof, namely that any event specified in
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Termination
Section 6.01. The date September 26, 1979 is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿- 10 -
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Bangkok 2
Thailand
Cable address:                    Telex:
MINANCE                            TH 2823
Bangkok
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have causef
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
KINGDOM OF THAILAND
By /s/ Klos Visessurakarn
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By Is/ S. Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated         % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) For LDD under
Parts A and B
(1) (a) (i) of
the Project:
(a) civil works           6,570,000        60% of total
expenditures
(b) vehicles and          1,170,000        100% of foreign
equipment                             expenditures for
directly imported
goods, 65% of
expenditures for
goods procured
locally off-the-
shelf, and 100%
of the ex-factory
cost for locally
manufactured goods
(c) consultants and          80,000        100% of total
training                              expenditures
(2) For PWD under
Parts B (1) and B
(2) of the Project:
(a) civil works           1,990,000        70% of total
expenditures


﻿- 12 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated         % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(b) vehicles and            660,000        100% of foreign
equipment                             expenditures for
directly imported
goods, 65% of ex-
penditures for
goods procured
locally off-the-
shelf, and 100%
of the ex-factory
cost for locally
manufactured goods
(c) consultants and         120,000        100% of total
training                              expenditures
(d) incremental           1,130,000        70% of total
operation and                         expenditures
maintenance
(3) For RFD under Part
B (3) of the Project:
(a) civil works           1,760,000        50% of total
expenditures
(b) vehicles and            920,000        100% of foreign
equipment                             expenditures for
directly imported
goods, 65% of ex-
penditures for
goods procured
locally off-the-
shelf, and 100%
of the ex-factory
cost for locally
manufactured goods
(c) consultants and          30,000        100% of total
training                              expenditures


﻿- 13 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated         % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(4) For NESDB under
Part C of the
Project:
(a) vehicles and             30,000        100% of foreign
equipment                             expenditures for
directly imported
equipment, 65% of
expenditures for
goods procured
locally off-the-
shelf, and 100%
of the ex-factory
cost for locally
manufactured
goods
(b) consultants,             40,000        100% of total
training and                          expenditures
data processing
services
(5) For OUSMI under            2,000,000        100% of total
Part D of the                              expenditures
Project: Provin-
cial planning
and training
(6) For NESDB under            3,000,000        100% of total
Part E of the                              expenditures
Project: Project
prepaiation
(7) For OUSMA under
Part F of the
Project:
(a) civil works           1,300,000        50% of total
expenditures


﻿- 14 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated        % of
(Expressed in      Expenditures
Category             Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1b) vehicles and          700,000        100% of foreign
equipment                            expenditures,
for directly im-
ported equipment,
65% of expendi-
tures for goods
procured locally
off-the-shelf,
and 100% of the
ex-factory cost
for locally manu-
factured goods
(c) training, con-       1,000,000        100% of total
sultant and                          expenditures
data processing
services
(8) Unallocated               2,500,000
TOTAL     25,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to


﻿- 15 -
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement, and no withdrawals
under Categories (5), (6) or (7) shall be made in respect of
payments made for expenditures prior to approval by the Associa-
tion of proposals for provincial planning and training, project
preparation and pilot operations, respectively.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that
the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Association are not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii)
if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such ex-
penditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category
may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been
made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice
to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the
Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such
expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financ-
ing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The purpose of the Project is to increase and thereafter
stabilize the income of farmers, to help replace shifting agricul-
ture with stable agriculture, to conserve water, soil and forest
resources and to improve rural infrastructure in the Borrower's
northern region; to improve agriculture in rainfed areas in the
Borrower's northern and northeastern regions; to identify and
prepare future high priority projects, and to strengthen provin-
cial planning and provide training in project preparation. The
Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Agriculture and Forestry Development in Upland Areas
1.   Agriculture
(a) Farm development comprising:
(i) a land classification survey encompassing approx-
imately 50,000 ha, and socio-economic, boundary
and conservation works surveys for about 30,000 ha
to be developed for agriculture;
(ii) acquisition of anchor chains, clearing blades,
brush rakes, root rippers and harrows; and
(iii) land clearing, root ripping, stick removal and
construction of contour banks and initial culti-
vation on about 30,000 ha.
(b) Expansion of the road network through the design,
layout and construction of about 750 km of access track
with waterways;
(c) Provision of (i) advisory services to farmers on conser-
vation farming systems, (ii) seed production, and (iii)
conservation farming research;
(d) acquisition of miscellaneous farming equipment and
vehicles, and construction of offices and housing.
2.   Forestry
(a) Establishment of about 90 woodlots and production of
sufficient seedlings therefor;


﻿- 17 -
(b) Construction of about 720 km of firelines and acquisi-
tion of about 90 sets of fire fighting equipment; and
(c) Provision of t:Thnical services and training to assist
farmers in organizing village woodlot associations,
managing nurseries, constructing firelines, and con-
trolling fires.
Part B:   Agriculture, Social and Forestry Development in Highland
Areas
1.   Agriculture
(a) Farm development comprising:
(i) a land classification survey encompassing approxi-
mately 172,000 ha and a socio-economic survey and
registration of about 6,500 project beneficiary
families and issuance of land use permits thereto;
(ii) establishment of about 800 ha of irrigation for
food crops, construction of about 1,300 ha of
bench terraces for rainfed annual crops and con-
struction of about 1,300 ha of bench terraces
for coffee plantations;
(b) Expansion of the road network through the construction
or rehabilitation of about 500 km of access track with
drainage ditches;
(c) Provision of advisory services to farmers on agricul-
tural and social development; and
(d) acquisition of miscellaneous farming equipment and
vehicles, and construction of offices and housing.
2.   Social Infrastructure
Construction of small social infrastructure works, including
about 80 schools and about 30 health posts.
3.   Forestry
(a) Rehabilitation of about 4,600 ha of degraded forest
through:


﻿- 18 -
(i) plantation of about 1,600 ha of broadleaf species
and about 3,000 ha of pine; and
(J,i) establishment of about 56 nurseries;
(b) Construction of about 1,730 km of firelines and acquisi-
tion of fire-fighting equipment;
(c) Establishment and management of about 3,100 ha of
village woodlots;
(d) Construction of about 345 km of access tracks;
(e) Provision of advisory services to farmers on management
of village woodlots and fire control; and
(f) Acquisition of miscellaneous farming equipment and
vehicles, and construction of offices and housing.
Part C:   Monitoring and Evaluation
Design of a Project monitoring and evaluation system
and collection and analysis of data on Project inputs,
outputs and impact.
Part D:   Provincial Planning and Training
1.   Provision of technical assistance to evaluate and strengthen
planning and development management capabilities at provin-
cial level.
2.   Training in Project preparation at provincial, district and
sub-district levels.
Part E:   Project Preparation
Provision of technical assistance to identify and
prepare future high priority agricultural and rural
development projects.
Part F:   Pilot Operations
Formulation and implementation of small scale pilot opera-
tions for agricultural development in rainfed areas of the north


﻿- 19 -
and northeast regions including development of typical small
watersheds and comprising the construction of small civil works
and the provision of vehicles, materials, equipment, training, and
consultant and data processing services.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1985.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   General Procedures
1.   Except as provided in Parts A.3 and A.4 hereunder, goods
and civil works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of local competitive bidding in accordance with procedures
mutually acceptable to the Borrower and the Association.
2.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of local competitive
bidding, (i) bidders shall be required to state in their bid the
c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods, or the ex-factory
price for domestically manufactured goods; (ii) customs duties and
other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and similar taxes
on domestically supplied goods, shall be excluded; and (iii) the
cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other expenditures
incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of their use or
installation shall be included.
3.   Miscellaneous civil works, including small irrigation
schemes, small buildings, nurseries, rehabilitation plantations,
and village woodlots, which in the aggregate do not exceed the
equivalent of US$5,000,000 may be executed by force account.
4.   (i) Small construction works, (ii) small equipment, or (iii)
materials specialized in nature or needed urgently, which do
not exceed the equivalent of US$15,000 each and which do not
exceed, in the aggregate, the equivalent of US$500,000, may be
procured locally by prudent shopping off the shelf or on the basis
of negotiated contracts involving, in each case and whenever
possible, a minimum of 3 quotations.
B.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to all bids estimated to amount to the equiva-
lent of US$100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to


﻿- 21 -
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the
Borrower shall, before a final decision on th award is made,
inform the Association of the name of the bidder to which it
intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report, on
the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together with
the recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as t-ke
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with
procedures agreed to pursuant to this Schedule, promptly inform
the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.


