CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 436 IND
Project Agreement
(PDFCI Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
P.T. PRIVATE DEVELOPMENT FINANCE COMPANY OF INDONESIA
DATED NOVEMBER 2, 1973


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 436 IND
Project Agreement
(PDFCI Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
P.T. PRIVATE DEVELOPMENT FINANCE COMPANY OF INDONESIA
DATED NOVEMBER 2, 1973


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated November 2, 1973, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and P.T.
PRIVATE DEVELOPMENT FINANCE COMPANY OF INDONESIA (hereinafter
called PDFCI), a private development finance institution established and operating
under the laws and regulations of the Republic of Indonesia.
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith
between the Republic of Indonesia (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the
Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower, for
relending to PDFCI, an amount in various currencies equivalent to ten million
dollars ($10,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development
Credit Agreement, but only on condition that PDFCI agree to undertake such
obligations toward the Association as hereinafter set forth; and
WHEREAS PDFCI, in consideration of the Association's entering into the
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement
and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. PDFCI shall carry out the Project described in Section 3.01
of the Development Credit Agreement and conduct its operations and affairs in
accordance with appropriate investment standards and practices, with qualified and
experienced management and personnel, and in accordance with the Charter and
Statement of Policy.


﻿4
Section 2.02. (a) In accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of the
Development Credit Agreement, PDFCI shall submit sub-loans and investments to
the Association for approval or for authorization to make withdrawals from the
Credit Account.
(b)   When submitting a sub-loan (other than a free-limit sub-loan) or an
investment to the Association for approval, PDFCI shall furnish to the Association
an application, in form satisfactory to the Association, together with a description
of the Investment Enterprise and an appraisal of the Investment Project (including
a description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit relent to PDFCI under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement) and the
proposed terms and conditions of the sub-loan or investment, including the schedule
of amortization of the sub-loan, or of repayment by PDFCI of the amount of
the proceeds of the Credit relent to PDFCI under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
to be used for the investment, and such other information as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(c)   Each request by PDFCI for authorization to make withdrawals from
the Credit Account in respect of a free-limit sub-loan shall contain a summary
description of the Investment Enterprise and the Investment Project (including a
description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit relent to PDFCI under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement) and the terms
and conditions of such free-limit sub-loan, including the schedule of amortization
therefor.
(d)   The amortization schedule applicable to each Investment Project shall
provide for an appropriate period of grace, and, unless the Association and PDFCI
shall otherwise agree, shall not extend beyond fifteen years from the date of
approval by the Association of such Investment Project or of authorization by
the Association to make withdrawals from the Credit Account in respect of such
Investment Project.
(e)   Except as the Association and PDFCI shall otherwise agree, applications
and requests permitted under paragraphs (b) and (c) of this Section shall be
submitted to the Association on or before December 31, 1976.
Section 2.03. (a) PDFCI shall furnish to the Association all such information
as the Association shall reasonably request concerning (i) the expenditure of the
proceeds of the Credit relent to PDFCI under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(ii) the Project; (iii) the Investment Enterprises; (iv) the Investment Projects; and
(v) the sub-loans and investments.


﻿5
(b)   PDFCI shall maintain records adequate to record the progress of the
Project and of each Investment Project (including the cost thereof) and to reflect
in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting practices the
operations and financial condition of PDFCI and shall enable the Association's
representatives to examine such records.
Section 2.04. PDFCI shall: (a) have its accounts and financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) for
each fiscal year audited, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association,
in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied; (b) furnish to
the Association, as soon as available but, in any case, not later than four months
after the end of each such year, certified copies of its audited financial statements
for such year, and an audit report by the said auditors of such scope and in such
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and (c) furnish to the
Association such other information concerning the accounts and financial
statements of PDFCI and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time
to time reasonably request.
Section 2.05. (a) The Association and PDFCI shall cooperate fully to ensure
that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the Association
and PDFCI shall from time to time, at the request of either party, exchange views
through their representatives with regard to the progress of the Project, the
performance by PDFCI of its obligations under this Agreement and the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement, the administration, operations and financial condition of PDFCI
and any other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)   PDFCI shall furnish to the Association all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the administration, operations and
financial condition of PDFCI and its subsidiaries, and shall enable the Association's
representatives to examine any relevant records and documents.
(c)   PDFCI and the Association shall'fpromptly inform each other of any
condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by PDFCI of its obligations
under this Agreement or the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.06. (a) PDFCI shall exercise its rights in relation to each Investment
Project financed under a sub-loan or with an investment in such manner as to
protect the interests of the Association and of PDFCI, to comply with its obligations
under this Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and to achieve the
purposes of the Project.


﻿6
(b)   Pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section PDFCI undertakes that unless
the Association shall otherwise agree, any sub-loan or investment will be made
on terms whereby PDFCI shall obtain, by appropriate written contract with the
Investment Enterprise or by other appropriate legal means, rights adequate to
protect the interest of the Association and of PDFCI, including, in the case of
any such sub-loan and to the extent that it shall be appropriate in the case of
any such investment the right of PDFCI to: (i) require the Investment Enterprise
to carry out and operate the Investment Project with due diligence and efficiency
and in accordance with sound technical, financial and managerial standards and
to maintain adequate records; (ii) require that (1) the goods and services to be
financed out of the proceeds of the sub-loan or investment shall be purchased
at a reasonable price, account being taken also of other relevant factors such as
time of delivery and efficiency and reliability of the goods and availability of
maintenance facilities and spare parts therefor, and, in the case of services, of their
quality and the competence of the parties rendering them and (2) such goods and
services shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Investment Project;
(iii) inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Association if the
Association shall so request, such goods and the sites, works, plants and construction
included in the Investment Project, the operation thereof, and any relevant records
and documents; (iv) require that the Investment Enterprise shall take out and
maintain with responsible insurers such insurance, against such risks and in such
amounts, as shall be consistent with sound business practice and that, without
any limitation upon the foregoing, such insurance shall cover hazards incident to
the acquisition, transportation and delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds
of the sub-loan or investment to the place of use or installation, and that any
indemnity thereunder shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Investment
Enterprise to replace or repair such goods; (v) obtain all such information as the
Association or PDFCI shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to
the administration, operations and financial condition of the Investment Enterprise;
(vi) suspend or terminate the right of the Investment Enterprise to the use of
the proceeds of the sub-loan or investment upon failure by such Investment
Enterprise to perform its obligations under its contract with PDFCI.
Section 2.07. PDFCI shall take such steps satisfactory to the Association
and PDFCI as shall be necessary to protect itself against risk of loss resulting from
changes in the rates of exchange between the various currencies used in its
borrowing and lending operations.
Section 2.08. Except as the Association and PDFCI shall otherwise agree,
PDFCI shall not incur or permit any subsidiary to incur any debt if, after the
incurring of such debt, the consolidated debt of PDFCI and all its subsidiaries
then incurred and outstanding would be greater than three times the consolidated


﻿7
capital and surplus of PDFCI and all its subsidiaries. For the purposes of this
Section:
(a)   (i)  "Debt" means any debt incurred by PDFCI or any subsidiary,
including debt assumed or guaranteed by PDFCI or by a
subsidiary.
(ii)  The term "debt" shall not include either the principal amount
of the Subordinated Loan referred to in Section 3.02(b) of the
Development Credit Agreement or of any other subordinated
loan which, in the event of liquidation, shall rank both after
all other debt of PDFCI and pari passu with equity.
(b)   Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (i) under a loan contract or
agreement on the date and to the extent the amount of the loan is drawn down
and outstanding pursuant to such loan or agreement; (ii) under a guarantee
agreement, on the date the agreement providing for such guarantee has been entered
into but only to the extent that the guaranteed debt is outstanding; and (iii) on
deposits as and when they are received.
(c)   Whenever in connection with this Section it shall be necessary to value
in terms of Rupiah debt payable in foreign currency, such valuation shall be made
at the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such foreign currency is, at
the time of such valuation, obtainable by PDFCI in Jakarta for the purposes of
servicing such debt.
(d)   "Consolidated debt of PDFCI and all its subsidiaries" means the total
amount of debt of PDFCI and all its subidiaries, excluding any debt owed by
PDFCI to any subsidiary or by any subsidiary to PDFCI or to any other subsidiary.
(e)   "Consolidated capital and surplus of PDFCI and all its subsidiaries"
means the aggregate of (i) the total unimpaired paid-in capital, surplus and free
reserves of PDFCI and of all its subsidiaries after excluding therefrom such amounts
as shall represent equity interests of PDFCI in any subidiary, or of any such
subsidiary in PDFCI or in any other subsidiary, and (ii) the outstanding principal
amount of the Subordinated Loan referred to in Section 3.02(b) of the
Development Credit Agreement or of any other subordinated loan which, in the
event of liquidation, shall rank both after all other debt of PDFCI and pari passu
with equity.
Section 2.09. PDFCI shall not make any repayment in advance of maturity
in respect of any outstanding debt of PDFC1 which, in the judgment of the


﻿8
Association, would materially affect PDFCI's ability to meet its financial
obligations.
Section 2.10. PDFCI agrees to employ experts acceptable to the Association
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including a minimum term
of employment of thirty-six months for each expert, to fill the respective positions
of: Advisor to the Director and Chief Executive Officer; Manager, Projects Appraisal
Department; Chief Engineer; and Manager, Business Development and Promotion.
If any one of said experts is replaced by his counterpart in PDFCI before his
term of employment shall be completed, he shall serve the remainder of his term
in an advisory capacity; such replacement, however, shall be made only after
agreement thereon has been reached between the Association and PDFCI.
Section 2.11. PDFCI shall duly perform all its obligations under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the Subordinated Loan Agreement. Except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, PDFCI shall not take or concur in any action
which would have the effect of assigning, or amending, abrogating or waiving any
provision of, the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or the Subordinated Loan Agreement.
Section 2.12. Except as the Association and PDFCI shall otherwise agree,
PDFCI: (i) shall not sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any of its property
or assets, except in the ordinary course of business; and (ii) shall take all action
necessary to maintain its corporate existence and right to carry on operations and
to acquire, maintain and renew all rights, powers, privileges and franchises necessary
or useful in the conduct of its business.
Section 2.13. PDFCI shall cause each of its subsidiaries (if any) to observe
and perform the obligations of PDFCI under this Agreement to the extent to which
the same may be applicable thereto as though such obligations were binding upon
each of such subsidiaries.
Section 2.14. PDFCI shall ensure that the position of Chairman, and the
position of Director and Chief Executive Officer, of PDFCI are at all times filled
by qualified and experienced persons and that, before any appointment is made
to any such position, the Association is informed of the name, qualifications and
experience of the person being considered for appointment to such position and
is afforded a reasonable opportunity to comment on the qualifications and
experience of such person.


﻿9
ARTICLE III
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 3.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date
upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 3.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and
of PDFCI thereunder shall terminate:
(i)        on the dat. when the Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall terminate
in accordance with its terms or on a date 20 years from the
date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the later; or, if earlier,
(ii)       on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms.
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with
its terms, the Association shall promptly notify PDFCI of this event.
Section 3.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the Development
Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 4.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿11
in their respective names and delivered in the District of Columbia, United States
of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ I.P.M. Cargill
Regional Vice President
Asia
P.T. PRIVATE DEVELOPMENT
FINANCE COMPANY OF INDONESIA
By /s/ A. Y. Mokoginta /s/ Sulaksana Suparto
Authorized Representatives


