CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 436 IND
Development Credit
Agreement
(PDFCI Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED NOVEMBER 2, 1973


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 436 IND
Development Credit
Agreement
(PDFCI Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED NOVEMBER 2, 1973


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated November 2, 1973, between REPUBLIC OF
INDONESIA     (hereinafter  called  th:  Borrower  and  INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the modifications thereof set forth
in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (said General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements of the Association, as so modified, being
hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "PDFCI" means P.T. Private Development Finance Company of
Indonesia, a limited liability company established and operating under the laws
of the Borrower.
(b)   "Project Agreement" means the Agreement of even date herewith
between the Association and PDFCI, as amended from time to time.
(c)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the loan agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and PDFCI pursuant to Section 3.02(a) of this
Agreement, and "Subordinated Loan Agreement" means the loan agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and PDFCI pursuant to Section 3.02(b)
of this Agreement.
(d)   "sub-loan" means a loan or credit made or proposed to be made by
PDFCI out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to PDFCI under the Subsidiary


﻿4
Loan Agreement, to an Investment Enterprise for an Investment Project, and
"free-limit sub-loan" means a sub-loan as so defined which qualifies as a free-limit
sub-loan pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.03(b) of this Agreement.
(e)   "investment" means an investment other than a sub-loan made or
proposed to be made by PDFCI out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to PDFCI
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement in an Investment Enterprise for an Investment
Project.
(f)   "Investment Enterprise" means an enterprise to which PDFCI proposes
to make or has made a sub-loan or in which it proposes to make or has made
an investment.
(g)   "Investment Project" means a specific development project to be
carried out by an Investment Enterprise utilizing the proceeds of a sub-loan or
investment.
(h)   "Rupiah" and "Rp." mean the currency of the Borrower.
(i)   "foreign currency" means any currency other than the currency of
the Borrower.
(j)   "Charter" means the Articles of Association of PDFCI dated July 26,
1973, as amended from time to time.
(k)   "Statement of Policy" means the Statement of Financial and
Operational Policies adopted by the Board of Directors of PDFCI, as amended
from time to time.
(1)   "Subsidiary" means any company of which the majority of the
outstanding voting stock or other proprietary interest is owned or effectively
controlled by PDFCI or by any one or more subsidiaries of PDFCI or by PDFCI
and one or more of its subsidiaries.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.0 1. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to ten million dollars ($10,000,000).


﻿5
Section 2.02. The Borrower designates PDFCI as its representative for the
purposes of taking any action required or permitted under the provisions of Section
2.03 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
Section 2.03. (a) Pursuant to Section 2.02 of this Agreement, PDFCI, on
behalf of the Borrower, may withdraw from the Credit Account in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods or services required for the Investment Project in respect
of which the withdrawal is requested:
(i)         such amounts as shall have been expended (or, if the Association
shall so agree, shall be required to meet expenditures to be made)
in a currency other than the currency of the Borrower for goods
procured, or services supplied from, outside the territories of
the Borrower;
(ii)       the equivalent of sixty per cent (60%) of such amounts as shall
have been expended for vehicles, machinery and equipment
procured in the territories of th; Borrower, which percentage
represents the estimated foreign exchange component of such
goods; and
(iii)      the equivalent of forty per cent (40%) of such amounts as shall
have been expended for civil works, which percentage represents
the estimated foreign exchange component of such services;
provided, however, that no withdrawal shall be made in respect of an Investment
Project unless (i) the sub-loan or investment for such Investment Project shall have
been approved by the Association, or (ii) the sub-loan for such Investment Project
shall be a free-limit sub-loan for which the Association shall have authorized
withdrawals from the Credit Account.
(b)   A free-limit sub-loan shall be a sub-loan in an amount to be financed
under the Development Credit Agreement which, together with any other amount
or amounts financed or proposed to be financed for the same project out of the
proceeds of the Credit, and not repaid, shall not exceed in the aggregate the
equivalent of two hundred thousand dollars ($200,000) and which, when added
to all other free-limit sub-loans financed out of the proceeds of this Credit, shall
not exceed in the aggregate the equivalent of two million five hundred thousand
dollars ($2,500,000), the foregoing amounts being subject to change from time
to time as determined by the Association.


﻿6
(c)   Except as the Association and PDFCI shall otherwise agree and subject
to the limitation contained in Section 5.01(a) of the General Conditions, no
withdrawals shall be made on account of expenditures made by an Investment
Enterprise in respect of a sub-loan subject to the Association's approval, or an
investment, more than ninety days prior to the date on which the Association
shall have received in respect of such sub-loan or investment the application and
information required by Section 2.02(b) of the Project Agreement or, under a
free-limit sub-loan, more than ninety days prior to the date on which the
Association shall have received in respect of such free-limit sub-loan the request
and information required by Section 2.02(c) of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1978 or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on March I and
September 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each March I and September 1,
commencing March 1, 1984 and ending September 1, 2023, each installment to
and including the installment payable on September 1, 1993 to be one-half of
one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter
to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Description of the Project;
Use of Proceeds of the Credit
Section 3.01. The purpose of the Credit is to assist PDFCI in financing the
development of productive facilities and resources in the territories of the Borrower.
The Project consists of the financing by PDFCI of specific development projects
through loans to and investments in enterprises in the territories of the Borrower
in furtherance of the corporate purposes of PDFCI.


﻿7
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall enter into a subsidiary loan agreement
with PDFCI, containing terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association,
pursuant to which the proceeds of the Credit shall be relent to PDFCI.
(b)   An   amount    of   two   billion  seventy-five  million  Rupiahs
(Rp.2,075,000,000) shall be made available by the Borrower to PDFCI in the form
of a loan which shall bear interest at the rate of four per cent (4%) per annum,
which shall be fully repaid within a period of thirty years after its date (including
a grace period of fifteen years) and which, in the event of liquidation, shall rank
both after all other debt of PDFCI and pari passu with equity (hereinafter called
the Subordinated Loan).
(c)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement and the Subordinated Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect
the interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes
of the Credit, and except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not assign, nor amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
or the Subordinated Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
ARTICLE IV
Additional Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall not take, or permit any of its political
subdivisions or any of its agencies or instrumentalities or any agency or
instrumentality of any political subdivision to take, any action which would prevent
or materially interfere with the performance by PDFCl of any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement, the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or the Subordinated
Loan Agreement, and shall take or cause to be taken all reasonable action which
shall be required on its part in order to enable PDFCI to perform such obligations.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to (i) the
performance of the respective obligations of the parties under the Development


﻿8
Credit Agreement, the Project Agreement, the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the
Subordinated Loan Agreement; (ii) the administration, operations and financial
condition of PDFCI and its subsidiaries, including any proposal to amend the
Charter; and (iii) any other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the administration, operations and financial condition of PDFCI and
its subsidiaries.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof, the performance by either of them of its obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement or the performance by PDFCI of its obligations under the Project
Agreement, the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the Subordinated Loan Agreement.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.02. The Development Credit Agreement and the Project Agreement
shall be free from any taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery
or registration thereof, imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect
in its territories.


﻿9
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 7.03 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the period,
if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continuance
thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice to the Borrower declare
the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immediately
together with the service charges thereon and upon any such declaration such
principal and service charges shall become due and payable immediately, anything
to the contrary in the Development Credit Agreement notwithstanding.
Section 7.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   any part of the principal amount of any loan to PDFCI having an
original maturity of one year or more shall, in accordance with its terms, have
become due and payable in advance of maturity as provided in the relative
contractual instruments, or any security for any such loan shall have become
enforceable;
(b)   PDFCI shall have been unable to pay its debts as they mature or any
action or proceeding shall have been taken by PDFCI or by others whereby any
of the property of PDFCI shall or may be distributed among its creditors;
(c)   the Charter or the Statement of Policy, or any provision thereof, shall
have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as, in the judgment
of the Association, to affect adversely and materially the carrying out of the Project
or the operations or financial condition of PDFCI or the efficiency of PDFCI's
management or personnel;
(d)   the Borrower, PDFCI's shareholders, or any other authority having
jurisdiction shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of
PDFCI or for the suspension of all or part of PDFCI's operations;


﻿10
(e)   a subsidiary or any other entity shall have been created or acquired
or taken over by PDFCI, if such creation, acquisition or taking over would adversely
and materially affect the conduct of PDFCI's business or PDFCI's financial situation
or the efficiency of PDFCI's management and personnel or the carrying out of
the Project; and
(f)   a default shall occur in the performance of any obligation of PDFCI
under the Project Agreement.
Section 7.03. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   any of the events specified in Section 7.02(a), (b), (c) or (d) of this
Agreement shall occur; and
(b)   any of the events specified in Section 7.02(e) or (f) of this Agreement
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall
have been given by the Association to the Borrower and to PDFCI.
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 8.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   the execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on behalf of
PDFCI, have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and
governmental action;
(b)   the Borrower and PDFCI have entered into the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, and into the
Subordinated Loan Agreement, on the terms and conditions set forth in Section
3.02(b) of this Agreement, and such agreements have become fully effective and
binding on the parties thereto in accordance with their respective terms, subject
only to the effectiveness of this Agreement;
(c)   an amount of at least two billion five hundred million Rupiahs
(Rp.2,500,000,000) shall have been paid to PDFCI by its shareholders under
subscriptions for shares of its capital stock;


﻿11
(d)   an amount of at least eight hundred thirty million Rupiahs
(Rp.830,000,000) shall have been paid to PDFCI by the Borrower pursuant to
1he Subordinated Loan Agreement, such payment representing the first tranche
of the Subordinated Loan;
(e)  the Advisor and both Managers referred to in Section 2.10 of the
Project Agreement shall have been appointed pursuant to the provisions thereof;
and
(f)   a Statement of Policy, the provisions of which are acceptable to the
Association, has been approved by the Board of Directors of PDFC1.
Section 8.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 10.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)  that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, PDFCI, and constitutes a valid and binding
obligation of PDFCI in accordance with its terms; and
(b)  that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the Subordinated Loan
Agreement have been duly authorized or ratified by, and executcd and delivered
on behalf of, the Borrower and PDFCI, respectively, and constitute valid and
binding obligations of the Borrower and PDFCI in accordance with their respective
terms.
Section 8.03. The date January 3 1, 1974 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. Subject to the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement,
the Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿12
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Post Office Box 21
Jakarta
Indonesia
Cable address:
Ministry Finance
Jakarta
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
By /s / Sjarif Thajeb
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / I.P.M. Cargill
Regional Vice President
Asia


﻿13
SCHEDULE 1
Modifications of the General Conditions
For the purposes of the Development Credit Agreement, the provisions of
the General Conditions are modified as follows:
(1)   The words "Investment Projects" are subsituted for the words "the
Project" at the end of Section 5.03.
(2)   Section 6.02(h) is deleted and Section 6.02(i) is renumbered into
Section 6.02(h).
(3)   Section 6.03 is deleted and replaced by the following new Section:
"Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Association. If (a) the right of the
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account shall have been
suspended with respect to any amount of the Credit for a continuous period
of thirty days, or (b) by the date specified in paragraph (e) of Section 2.02
of the Project Agreement no applications or requests permitted under
paragraph (a) or paragraph (b) of such Section shall have been received by
the Association in respect of any portion of the Credit, or having been so
received, shall have been denied, or (c) after the Closing Date an amount
of the Credit shall remain unwithdrawn from the Credit Account, the
Association may by notice to the Borrower terminate the right of PDFCI
to submit such applications or requests or to make withdrawals from the
Credit Account, as the case may be, with respect to such amount or portion
of the Credit. Upon the giving of such notice such amount or portion of
the Credit shall be cancelled."


