Report No. PID10805
Project Name                     South Africa-Municipal Financial (@)
Management Support Project
Region                           Africa Regional Office
Sector                           Urban Management
Project ID                       ZAPE76901
Borrower(s)                      REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA
Implementing Agency
Address SOUTH AFRICA NATIONAL TREASURY
WITH ASSISTANCE OF DBSA
Address: 40 Church Square, Pretoria,
South Africa
Contact Person: Mr. Ismael Momoniat,
Deputy Director General
Tel: (012) 315 5165
Fax: (012) 315 5045
Email: ismail.momoniat@treasury.gov.za
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                November 29, 2001
Projected Appraisal Date         December 13, 2001
Projected Board Date             April 18, 2002
1. Country and Sector Background
Macro Context - South Africa has made remarkable progress in achieving a
low inflation and a stable macro environment. The fiscal deficit is
dropping, to the 2% range in 2001, and revenues are growing rapidly. The
key missing element is growth, which remains around 3%. This level of
growth is insufficient to generate the jobs required for equitable and
sustained development. The National Infrastructure Investment Framework
(1996) indicates that SA faces an infrastructure backlog of at least R170
billion. Addressing this backlog in a sustainable way will be an
important part of putting the economy on a six percent plus growth path
and attacking the country's challenges of poverty and inequality. But
this objective will be difficult to achieve if the macro-economic gains
are not supported by an efficient and equitable delivery of public goods
at the local level.Municipal Sector PolicyThe Local Government Setting:
South Africa is undergoing a major process of restructuring and
transforming its basic institutions of economic governance and poverty
reduction. Integral to this agenda of institutional reform, is the design
and implementation of a new system of multi-tiered government.
Increasingly, the local government level a constitutionally mandated
independent third tier is becoming the fulcrum of South Africa's
intergovernmental system. Over 80% of the nation's GDP is urban based,
with the economic nodes concentrated in the country's metropolitan
centers. The governance and management of these urban areas are obviously
critical to achieving government's broader economic objectives. In
addition, non-urban local governments will play an essential role in
facilitating Government's push for integrated rural development which is
the linchpin of its policies for directly reducing poverty. Furthermore,



the delivery of basic municipal services to all communities - urban and
rural - is dependent on the effective performance of local government.
Finally, at the political level, the 1999 national election campaign
revealed the importance communities gave to their interface with local
councils and administration an interface that may well signal the
strength of South Africa's new democracy. In sum, the final shape,
capacity and performance of local governments in South Africa will have
direct implications for the political, social and economic fabric of the
society.The overall objective of Government is to focus on the local tier
is to give municipalities and local governments sufficient resources and
support their capacity to carry out their extensive responsibilities in
respect of the development and management of the services for which they
are accountable. There are four key dimensions to this transformation. I
At the administrative level, the process has involved the amalgamation of
the racially fragmented local authorities and the creation of democratic
and unified municipal governments. The recently completed demarcation
process redefined the boundaries and numbers of the local governments, and
legislation such as the Municipal Systems Act has recently been enacted.
Metropolitan centers will see the emergence of metropolitan governments
and a uni-city structure. In addition, outside these metropolitan nodes,
the roles and functions of district councils are being redefined
especially in relation to smaller primary municipalities and rural local
governments.I At the institutional level local governments have the
mandate and independence, supported by important legislation, to
restructure their systems to bring communities and the private sector into
partnerships to tackle the challenge of delivery. As such, the
legislation supports the role of local governments as enablers of service
provision while leaving the direct delivery of services in the hands of
communities, the private sector, and others as needed, feasible, and
deemed necessary.      i Supporting this overall institutional change is
the evolving fiscal framework for the local sphere. This includes the
preservation and strengthening of the local tax bases (rates and levies)
and the rationalization of municipal authority to change tax rates and
implement user-charges. In addition, Government has replaced the ad-hoc
intergovernmental grants of the apartheid era with a more efficient,
equitable, and predictable system of recurrent (equitable share) and
capital (CMIP) transfers. Changes to the municipal accounting system (the
introduction of GAMAP) are also gradually being introduced and will soon
be mandatory as part of the Municipal Finance Management Bill, 2001.
Finally, the local budgeting process is being developed to ensure that
local governments are placed in the overall MTEF and budgetary framework
as an independent third sphere of government. Such changes will facilitate
greater transparency in the fiscal management of local governments. I The
fourth aspect, the financial framework, which is the focus of the policy
framework for municipal borrowing, sets out the policy and regulatory
environment that will guide and structure access by local governments to
debt finance.Taken together, the administrative, institutional, fiscal,
and financial frameworks form the policy basis for the establishment of an
independent and accountable tier of local government as envisioned in the
Constitution. The capacity of this governance tier to deliver, or
facilitate the delivery of, and sustain basic infrastructure and services
to the poor is a critical element in the government's attempt to
accelerate equitable growth.
2. Objectives
-2-



The Municipal Financial Management Support Project (MFMSP) will support
RSA's program of decentralization to develop the capacity of local
authorities to plan, implement and manage critical services within a sound
fiscal and financial framework.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Bank's value added through MFMSP is based on its support of
government's efforts to frame the policy context of local government
restructuring, and to now assist government through the National Treasury
to facilitate the institutional reforms needed to translate policy into
benefits on the ground. The core issue is not one of finance, but one of
access to international policy and implementation experiences, and it is
in this latter respect that the Bank's support is being sought through a
technical assistance operation. Specific technical assistance will be
provided by the World Bank through:a) Continuing the access to global
experience of local government reform;b) the provision of municipal
financial management specialists for municipalities, to provide long term
advisory support to municipal reforms;c) the provision of various
international experts to assist in policy reform processes, and the
implementation of monitoring and evaluation systems; andd) leveraging
additional support from the donor community.In addition, this project will
provide an important testing ground for the future of the Bank's
involvement in SA. The actual value added to SA of involvement with the
Bank will be readily assessable through implementation of the project.
Key factors will include the degree to which the project provides SANT
with the desired inputs without imposing unacceptable levels of management
burden, determination of the effective costs of borrowing from the Bank,
and identification of benefits resulting from the lending relationship.
The Bank's country management is strongly committed to demonstrating,
throughout project implementation, that substantial added value will
accrue to SA, thus providing the basis for a growing program of
interaction in key areas in which the Bank's comparative advantage is
clear and valuable to SA in meeting its national development objectives.
4. Description
The project is designed to support the continuing development of financial
management capacity in the newly demarcated municipalities of South
Africa, specifically to improve the efficiency with which these local
authorities utilize fiscal and financial resources to provide local
infrastructure and services primarily to poor residents.
a. Implementing Municipal Reforms - Well elaborated municipal financial
management and budgeting policies will not have the intended effect unless
implemented throughout the sector. The National Treasury is, therefore,
seeking assistance to fully implement at the municipal level the core
reforms contained in the Municipal Financial Management Act (uniform
budget, reporting and accounting procedures for all local governments),
including the design and application of disclosure regulations and
guidelines, and capacity building to improve the creditworthiness of
municipalities to encourage private sector participation
b. Design and Implementation of a Municipal Sector Monitoring and Early
Warning System - The key area for support stems from the National
Treasury's appreciation that the efficiency of sub-national investments is
not, at present, readily monitorable and that, therefore, the efficiency
with which fiscal and financial resources are being employed may be
- 3 -



significantly sub-optimal. This area of support will focus, therefore, on
the design and implementation of monitoring and regulatory frameworks that
provide critical information related to budgets, debt, intergovernmental
transfers, and other key comparators. This element of the work correctly
assumes that institutional reform is a dynamic process and will support
the design and installation of the appropriate systems to enable all tiers
of government to constantly read the pulse of the reform process in real
time and to seek course correction as and when needed.
c. Additional Policy Reforms- while the macro-policy context is well
elaborated, specific sectoral issues remain to be resolved. These include
reforms to encourage competitiveness within the financial sector and
stimulate municipal debt markets, the regulatory framework for
sub-national service provision, the policy framework for dealing with
weak/failing municipalities, and the reform of key fiscal instruments to
improve municipal investment and provision efficiency. International
experience and expertise will be accessed to address these issues.
MFMSP is purely a technical assistance project; no goods or civil works
will be procured through the project.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER                         5
IBRD                             15.15
Total Project Cost               20.15
6. Implementation
Implementation period: FY2002-2006Executing agencies: Ministry of Finance:
Intergovernmental Relations Branch in the National Treasury
7. Sustainability
The project's benefits will be sustained through improved financial
management, planning and implementation in local governments and through
policy reforms and fiscal incentives provided through SANT.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The project design builds on key lessons learned in the region and
internationally, which include:n Without fundamental institutional change,
sustained delivery of services to promote growth and eradicate poverty
will not be possible.n For decentralization to succeed, the
intergovernmental fiscal rules of the game must be clear and
predictable. Sub-national governments can become successful facilitators
of local economic developmentand thereby significant contributors to
national growth only when assignment of expenditure responsibilities,
authority to raise revenues and systems of accountability to citizens are
transparent and accessible. n Capacity building efforts in sub-national
governments are more successful when a learning by doing approach is
adopted. This approach requires that councils have access to both
technical assistance/training and to investment capital in order to learn
how to plan, implement and manage services that respond to local
priorities and direct the process of change in a dynamic way in real
time..n Since sub-national governments have a variable range of
responsibilities and capacities in all countries, a sectoral capacity
building initiative must be flexible and responsive. Basic skills may
need to be supplied to weaker councils, while stronger councils may demand
-4 -



more sophisticated and specialized inputs.The ultimate goal for all
municipalities in a decentralized system must be achievement of good
governance. A proxy for this in many municipalities will be their
creditworthiness. That is, a creditworthy council will, by definition,
be well managed, autonomous, fiscally and financially sound, transparent
and responsive to citizen's priorities. In other municipalities where
market access is unlikely in the medium term, a proxy of creditworthiness
may be possible when supported by appropriate levels of fiscal transfers
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :  None, since this is technical assistance loan.
11. Contact Point:
Team Leader
David G. De Groot
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone:   (27-12) 431-3100
Fax:   (27-12) 342-5511
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending
February 8, 2002.
-5



