Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 23291 -SA
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 15.0 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA
FOR A
MUNICIPAL FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT TECHICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
August 12, 2002
Water and Urban 1
Eastern and Southern Africa
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective November 30, 2001)
Currency Unit = South Africa Rand
ZAR 1.0 = US$0.101
US$1.00 = ZAR 9.9
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS                         -     Country Assistance Strategy
CMIP                        -     Consolidated Municipal Infrastructure Program
CQ                          -     Consultant's Qualification
DBSA                        -     Development Bank of South Africa
DPLG                        -     Department of Provincial and Local Government
FMR                         -     Financial Monitoring Reports
GAMAP                       -     Generally Accepted Municipal Accounting Practices
GDP                         -     Gross Domestic Product
GEAR                        -     Growth, Equality and Redistribution
GPN                        -      General Procurement Notice
IBRD                        -     International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDP                         -     Integrated Development Planning
LG                          -     Local Government
M&E                         -     Monitoring and Evaluation
MFMA                        -     Municipal Financial Management Act
MFMB                        -     Municipal Financial Management Bill
MFMTAP                      -     Municipal Financial Management Technical Assistance Project
MSP                         -     Municipal Services Partnerships
MSSP                        -     Municipal Sector Support Project
MTEF                        -     Medium-Term Economic Framework
NJIF                        -     National Infrastructure Investment Framework
PIP                         -     Project Implementation Plan
QCBS                        -     Quality and Cost Based Selection
RDP                         -     Reconstruction and Development Program
RSA                         -     Republic of South Africa
SANT                       -      South Africa National Treasury
SOE                        -      Statement of Expenditures
TA                          -     Technical Assistance
Vice President:  Callisto E. Madavo
Country Manager/Director:  Fayez Omar
Sector Manager/Director:  Alain Locussol/Praful Patel
Team Leader/Task Manager:    David DeGroot/Junaid Ahmad



SOUTH AFRICA
MUNICIPAL FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                    Page
1. Project development objective                                                     2
2. Key performance indicators                                                        2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project    2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                        2
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                6
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                8
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                     8
3. Benefits and target population                                                    8
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                     8
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                         9
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies       10
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                              10
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                 11
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                       11
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                         11
2. Financial                                                                         12
3. Technical                                                                         12
4. Institutional                                                                     12
5. Environmental                                                                     12
6. Social                                                                            13
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                13
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                   14
2. Critical risks                                                                    14



3. Possible controversial aspects                                                   14
G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                          14
2. Other                                                                            15
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                        15
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                       15
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                        16
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                 20
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                       27
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary        28
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Eaming Project Entities, or Financial Summary   29
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                     30
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                   37
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                 38
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                39
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                          41
MAP(S)
IBRD No. 31738



SOUTH AFRICA
Municipal Financial Management Technical Assistance Project
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Regional Office
AFTUI
Date: August 12, 2002                            Team Leader: David G. DeGroot
Sector Manager/Director: Alain Locussol          Sector(s): Central government administration (67%),
Country Manager/Director: Fayez S. Omar          Sub-national government administration (33%)
Project ID: P076901                              Theme(s): Municipal finance (P), Oiher public sector
Lending Instrument: Technical Assistance Loan (TAL)  governance (S)
Project Firiancing Data" '   '                      -               -
[X] Loan    [ 1 Credit.    j Grant    1 Guarantee      [ ] Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (USSm): $15.0
Borrower Rationale for Choice of Loan Terms Available on File: 0 Yes
Proposed Terms (IBRD): Fixed-Spread Loan (FSL)
Grace period (years): 5
Commitment fee: 0.85% the first 4 years; 0.75%  Front end fee (FEF) on Bank loan: 1.00%
thereafter
Initial choice of Interest-rate basis:
Type of repayment schedule:
[  Fixed at Commitment, with the following repayment method (choose one):
pq. Linked to Disbursement
Financing Plan(S$m):      Source                            Local -      Foreign'        Total
BORROWER                                                      5.00           0.00          5.00
IBRD                                                          0.00          15.00         15.00
Total:                                                        5.00          15.00         20.00
Borrower: REPUJBLIC OF SOUJTH AFRICA
Responsible agency: SOUTH AFRICA NATIONAL TREASURY WITH ASSISTANCE OF DBSA.
Address: 40 Church Square, Pretoria, South Africa
Contact Person: Mr. Ismael Momoniat, Deputy Director General
Tel: (012) 315 5165          Fax: (012) 315 5045          Email: ismail.momoniat@treasury.gov.za
Estimated Disbursement In US$m Equivalent (Bank FY/Semesters):
F4Y  2003_'-'- --2004- -  2005   -2006-    -    i      _   _     _
Source        Se-m 1    'Sm. 1 -  Sm. 1     Sem 1, -'-  - r  M >      l-              i
Sem.2-    Sem. 2_ -Sem. 2     Sem.2-   - -           -     -.
IBRD                2.00      6.10      5.70      1.20
Cumulative         $2.00     $8.10    $13.80    $15.00
Project implementation period: 4 years
Expected effectiveness date: 12/12/2002  Expected closing date:  06/30/2006
OCS PADFUTTt R .v  .



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
In the context of the Government's overall public finance reform and local govermment transformation
program, the project will support selected municipalities in implementing the new budgeting and
financial management system and assist the National government to complete selected analytic work on
policy reforms. Achievement of the project objective is necessary to create a platform for efficient and
equitable delivery of services at local government level.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
(a) Implementation of the new budgeting and municipal financial management systems in at least 15
municipalities
(b) Design and Implementation of Municipal Financial Management monitoring system
(c) Completion of selected analytical reports and strategic implementation plans
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: [R99-29/1] Date of latest CAS discussion: 03/23/1999
Capacity building and knowledge sharing are the CAS goals supported by MFMTAP. The South African
government has managed the macro economy very effectively, leading to diminishing deficits and rapid
revenue growth. Delivery of services to the poor majority, however, is not improving as rapidly.
Therefore, the government wishes to tap the World Bank's international experience to assist it to more
effectively and efficiently deliver public services. The Bank has unparalleled experience with local
government capacity building and delivery issues, and MFMTAP finances technical assistance to support
the implementation of best practices that will lead to improved and expanded services for the poor.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
The main sector issues are to assist local governments to be more effective financial managers, planners
and providers of basic services, and to assist central government in more effectively targeting fiscal
resources to support local service provision to the poor, including mobilization of private resources.
2.1 Public Infrastructure Investment Policy
The policy context for MFMTAP is clear. Three key policy statements outline Government's vision for
infrastructure investment, namely the Reconstruction and Development Program (RDP), Growth,
Equality and Redistribution (GEAR), and the draft National Infrastructure Investment Framework (NIIF).
The three documents jointly argue that social and economic infrastructure delivery contributes to the
redistribution of opportunities and income, and to increasing the productivity of labor and business and
thus the achievement of higher growth rates.
The RDP saw infrastructure as essential to growth, to meeting basic needs and to alleviating poverty. It
made a case for integrated regional, urban and rural development as the basis for removing backlogs and
creating viable communities and dynamic local economies. The RDP White Paper of 1994 emphasizes
the need for Government to plan, coordinate, drive and monitor programs. While the RDP never equated
development purely with infrastructure investment, it deemed more and better service delivery as
essential aspects of the development process, and thus directed considerable funds towards meeting basic
- 2 -



infrastructure needs.
GEAR contends that higher economic growth is a prerequisite for sustainable development. An average
3% growth rate is insufficient to reverse the unemployment crisis and to provide resources for the
expansion of social service delivery and redistribution of income and wealth. To overcome current
economic conditions it calls for, among other things, a climate of fiscal discipline, alongside accelerated
public sector investment. This should include an increase in "infrastructure.development and service
delivery making intensive use of labor-based techniques". The policy framework suggests that an
increase of about 8 percent per year in discretionary RDP-related capital spending could be accomplished
within the GEAR framework. In the absence of accelerated growth, such spending would increase with
little more than 2 percent per year in real terms. The GEAR model assumes average real increases of
between 2 percent and 3 percent per year in general government investment and capital formation by
public corporations.
The draft National Infrastructure Investment Framework (NIF), developed in 1996, indicated that South
Africa currently faces a backlog in infrastructure of at least R170 billion. It accorded infrastructure a key
role in ensuring productivity and growth, and also contended that more growth and production would
lead to more investment in infrastructure as well as wealth redistribution. Considering the country's
infrastructure requirements per sector (e.g. energy, water and sanitation, transport), it proposed integrated
investment programs for municipal, rural, social, economic and 'consolidated' infrastructure development.
Its reform proposals were primarily institutional and financial as it called for better coordination of
investment to ensure optimal sequencing, spatial allocation and sectoral balance. It saw a new dynamic
public-private relationship as crucial, leaving Government with the challenge to get the signals and
incentives right that would facilitate such a partnership. Hence, it argued, the need was for a stable
financial environment to enable long-term planning and lower risk. NIIF called for medium-term fiscal
guidelines, the quantification of public sector borrowing requirements, clearer utility pricing policies, the
rationalization of intergovernmental fiscal relations and a regulatory framework for private sector
investment.
2.2    Municipal Sector Policy
Municipalities are fast emerging as the fulcrum of South Africa's newly created system of multi-tiered
government. First, the Constitution recognizes local government as an independent sphere with its own
unique set of roles and importance. Second, it is central to the implementation of Government's growth
strategies. For example, over 80% of the nation's Gross Domestic Product (GDP) is urban based, with
the economic nodes concentrated in the country's metropolitan centers. The govemance and management
of these areas is obviously critical to achieving government's broader economic objectives. Similarly,
there is greater recognition that non-urban local governments will play an essential role in facilitating
Government's push for integrated rural development. Third, the delivery of basic municipal services to
all communities - urban and rural - is dependent on the effective performance of local government.
Finally, at the political level, the 1999 national.election campaign revealed the importance communities
gave to their interface with local councils and administration - an interface that may well signal the
strength of South Africa's new democracy. In sum, the final shape, capacity and performance of local
governments in South Africa will have direct implications for the political, social and economic fabric of
the society.
- 3-



Recognizing this, government published the White Paper on Local Government in March 1998. The
intention of that document was to provide a general framework for the formulation of more detailed
policies and legislation on a range of matters, including the fiscal and financial structure of the local
sphere. As with the document on fiscal transfers from central to local government ("The Introduction of
an Equitable Share of National Revenue for Local Government", published by the Department of Finance
in 1998). Recently, government published a policy framework for municipal borrowing, which is a
detailed follow-up to the White Paper. It expands on the framework for municipal finance and focuses,
in particular, on the design of the regulatory framework for local government borrowing. In addition it
deals in detail with the related matter of central government's response to the financial and fiscal
difficulties that the municipal sector confronts.
As outlined in the White Paper, local government in South Africa is undergoing a major process of
restructuring and transformation in a number of different areas. The overall objective is to give
municipalities sufficient resources and capacity to carry out their extensive responsibilities in respect of
the development and management of the services for which they are accountable. There are five key
dimensions to this transformation.
*   At the administrative level, the process has involved the amalgamation of the racially fragmented
local authorities and the creation of democratic and unified municipal governments. The recently
completed demarcation process redefined the boundaries and numbers of the local governments.
This had lead to the creation of 47 district councils, 243 local councils and six metropolitan uni-cities
covering the entire country. In addition, legislation such as the Municipal Systems Act has recently
been enacted. Finally, outside the metropolitan nodes, the roles and functions of district councils are
being redefined especially in relation to smaller primary municipalities and rural local governments.
*   Following the administrative mergers and demarcation, elections of the new government units were
held in December 2000.
*   At the institutional level local governments have the mandate and discretion, supported by important
legislation, to restructure their systems to bring communities and the private sector into partnerships
to tackle the challenge of delivery. As such, the legislation supports the role of local governments as
enablers of service provision while leaving the direct delivery of services in hands of communities,
private sector, and others - as needed, feasible, and deemed necessary. In particular, the legislative
environment of the Municipal Systems Act provides a tool for participatory Integrated Development
Planning (IDPs) to assist municipalities in conceptualizing and executing their developmental
mandates.
*   Supporting this overall institutional change is the evolving fiscal framework for the local sphere.
This includes the preservation and strengthening of the local tax bases (rates and levies) and the
rationalization of municipal authority to change tax rates and implement user-charges. In addition,
Government has replaced the ad-hoc intergovernmental grants of the apartheid era with a more
efficient, equitable, and predictable system of recurrent ("equitable share") and capital (CMIP)
transfers. Changes to the municipal accounting system (the introduction of the Generally Accepted
Municipal Accounting Practices - GAMAP) are also gradually being introduced and will soon be
mandatory as part of the Municipal Finance Management Bill (MFMB), 2001. Finally, the local
budgeting process is being developed to ensure that local governments are placed in the overall
Medium-Term Economic Framework (MTEF) and budgetary framework as an independent third
sphere of government. Such changes will facilitate greater transparency in the fiscal management of
local governments.
*   The financial framework, which is the focus of the policy framework for municipal borrowing, sets
out the policy and regulatory environment that will guide and structure access by local governments
- 4 -



to debt finance.
Taken together, the administrative, institutional, fiscal, and financial frameworks form the policy basis
for the establishment of an independent and accountable tier of local government as envisioned in the
Constitution and the White Paper. These four dimensions are closely connected. For example, without
clarity on the institutional aspects of the demarcation and amalgamation process, local governments will
find it difficult to access private finance. The demarcation and amalgamation process will determine the
potential fiscal base of the new municipalities and will hence have a major impact on their
creditworthiness. Similarly, the fiscal framework will determine the overall revenues of the local
government and hence the level of fiscal resources that are potentially available to gear in private
finance.
2.3    The Next Phase - Translating Policy into Implementation
The South African municipal sector is therefore at a unique point in the country's history. The entire
municipal sector, therefore, is poised to move forward from political, functional and jurisdictional
reforms, to a strong focus on promoting growth and equity. In this context, local government
transformation is now shifting into another phase in which the focus is moving towards building the
capacity of municipalities to expand sustainable delivery capacity to underpin real growth. Central
government can assist this capacity building process in a number of ways, and a broad approach to the
sector as a whole should guide such assistance.
Central government, particularly the National Treasury and the Department of Provincial and Local
Government (DPLG), have supported the municipal sector transformation process over the last five years
focusing on stabilizing municipalities operational and delivery capacities. That phase of the
transformation process is well underway. The second phase of municipal transformation now needs to
commence following completion of the demarcation exercise and election of new local leaders. In this
second phase, the focus must shift to building the capacity of municipalities to expand sustainable
delivery capacity to underpin real growth. Central government can assist this capacity building process
in a number of ways, and a broad approach to the sector as a whole should guide such assistance.
A crucial area for near term assistance is the adoption by municipalities of innovative municipal
management systems. At present, municipal financial management systems, for instance, are diverse,
noncomparable and, frequently, opaque. Accurate information on municipal finances can be difficult to
obtain, compare and understand. This situation has at least three negative impacts on a municipality's
development potential. First, elected officials and the public in general have difficulty understanding
their municipality's finances. This can lead to a lack of transparency and accountability at the local
level. Second, without clear information on municipal finances, central govermment encounters
difficulties in efficiently targeting fiscal transfers and preventing local financial crises. Third, in the
absence of clear financial information private financiers cannot properly assess the creditworthiness of
municipalities and will, therefore, be less likely to lend to municipalities or will charge premiums on
loans.
In short, one of the cornerstones of a new era of sustainable growth in South Africa's municipal sector
must be a transparent, consistent system of financial management. The municipal amalgamation process
that has emerge from final demarcation of district and metropolitan boundaries in SA presents a golden
opportunity for introduction of a sector wide, uniform system of accounting and budgeting that meets
international standards.
-5 -



In preparation for this key opportunity the Intergovernmental Relations Branch of the National Treasury
has prepared the Municipal Financial Management Bill (MFMB). The Bill delineates standard
accounting and budgeting guidelines to be adopted by all local authorities in SA following the Bill's
ratification in Parliament. The new systems prescribed in the Bill are currently being piloted in 7 cities
around the country.
In this context, several points need to be emphasized. First, the focus on capacity building follows
intemational best practice which suggest that capacity building of local governments is best done in the
context of an ongoing decentralization process. This enables all levels of govenmment to benefit from the
potential synergy between capacity building and decentralization. Second, the focus on financial
management as an important vehicle for capacity building is a strategic choice. It provides a necessary
and powerful plank to induce changes in the institutional and planning mechanisms of local govermment.
In that sense, financial management offers a key entry point into broader local government
transformation and ultimately improvement in service delivery. In other words, focus on financial
management capacity enables central govermnent to catalyze coordination on overall capacity building
approaches because financial sustainability is a key driver for ensuring broader local govenmment
transformation.
2.4    Fiscal and Financial Issues
Govemment believes that access by municipalities to private capital markets is an important element of
ensuring an efficient system of local government. Ultimately govemment wishes to promote the
emergence of a vibrant and innovative primary and secondary market for short and long term municipal
debt. It is important to stress, however, that in pursuing this goal, central govemment wishes to avoid the
apartheid-era practice of generally underwriting municipal borrowing and, in effect, transferring
municipal liabilities onto itself. Govenmment's central objective is not to produce a short-term inflow of
"soft" or subsidized funds to municipalities. It is, rather, to develop a sustainable market for municipal
debt where risk is properly priced. In this overall policy context for local govemments in which access to
capital markets is essential for financing improved service delivery, particularly to the poor, the emphasis
on financial management budgeting capacity is of paramount importance.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The project addresses the key issues of: (a) strengthening local govermment's capacity for financial
management and (b) supporting central government's capacity to more effectively target fiscal transfers
to achieve equitable development goals. The main strategic choice embodied in the project is the
exclusive focus on technical assistance, in keeping with the CAS objective of capacity building through
knowledge sharing. Understanding the strategic nature of this aspect of the project is essential.
- 6 -



The objective of accessing global experience and expertise from within and outside the Bank rather than
accessing finance through the Bank system has defined the relationship between South Africa and the
World Bank Group since the early nineties. This relationship and its focus on access to knowledge as
distinct from finance started around the time the Bank itself was beginning to define the "knowledge
Bank." Indeed, South Africa's re-entry into the Bank and the ensuing relationship was a major learning
ground for the Bank in formally institutionalizing the "knowledge Bank." The relationship has helped
sharpen the concept of the knowledge bank within the country team: a process by which the Bank's
knowledge resources are used to support and complement the capacity of our clients to undertake
institutional change. The shifts are from finance to knowledge and from directly supporting projects and
programs to complementing the capacity of the clients to engage in institutional reform.
Three elements have defined the operationalization of this principle. First, an emerging trust that ideas
and approaches drawn from the international experience are fire-walled from a lending agenda. Second,
that to best deliver the knowledge Bank, capacity on the ground for "real time" delivery is needed. It is
therefore not a surprise that the shift to "knowledge bank" happened at the same time as the Bank's shift
to a policy of decentralizing its services. Third, was the establishment of innovative linkages between
the country office in South Africa and global expertise within and outside the Bank and the use of
flexible TA resources to deliver this expertise in various ways.
In deciding to access a Technical Assistance (TA) loan, SANT and Government of South Africa are
exploring an important step to institutionalize the "knowledge" engagement with the Bank that has
successfully defined the relationship for over a decade. This presents an important turning point for the
Bank's relationship with South Africa and throws open a distinct challenge. Irnportant because it is a
step in the institutionalization of a unique country relationship. In addition, Government of South Africa
is assuming that by institutionalizing the relationship through a financial instrument, SANT and other
departments within Govermment will gain access to knowledge that goes well beyond the expertise to be
directly financed through MFMTAP. The challenge for the Bank therefore, is to ensure that the demand
for global experience and expertise is met efficiently and effectively on a continuous basis for furthering
the relationship between South Africa and the World Bank. The Bank's South Africa country team is
fully aware of the new institutional relationship that is emerging through this proposed loan and accepts
the challenge and is committed to ensuring that international best practices and expertise are accessed by
South Africa as the country seeks to continue its agenda of institutional reform. Recognition of this
strategic approach is key to understanding the role of this proposed TA loan in the overall relationship
with South Africa.
An important policy challenge in delivering the knowledge bank is to broaden its scope to beyond just
technical assistance. Creative mechanisms must be developed to ensure that the capacity residing in
Bank managed-programs and members of the Bank group such as Cities Alliance Program, Water and
Sanitation Program and most importantly the World Bank Institute are leveraged to directly support the
local governments in South Africa. The South Africa Country Team will need to explore these linkages
in order to deliver the knowledge bank successfully to South Africa.
Finally, it is important to stress that the choice of the local government sector to initiate a proposal for a
TA loan is not an accident. It is in this sector that the Bank has been the most successful in initiating a
comprehensive approach to implementing its knowledge bank function.
-7 -



C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
r          L_       'v       In'licative,; - -,-;-    Bank- - - -- %,of
Comp,oneit                      C%ots    .    , o .fnan.cing- - --Bnk-
! ,-  (S.,;.             - * $M()US T .ota l (US$M)i financing
a. Implementing Reforms                              10.00      50.0     10.00       66.7
b. Design and Implementation of a Municipal Sector    4.85      24.3       1.85      12.3
Monitoring and Early Warning System
c. Additional Policy Reforms - technical assistance   5.00      25.0      3.00       20.0
Total Project Costs  19.85     99.3     14.85      99.0
Front-end fee   0.15       0.8       0.15       1.0
Total Financing Required   20.00     100.0     15.00      100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
a.    Implementation of Municipal Financial Management Bill/Act (MFMB/A)
b.     Design and implementation of a municipal financial management monitoring system
c.     Additional intergovernmental fiscal policy reforms.
3. Benefits and target population:
The main project benefits will be improved financial management in the largest cities of SA leading to
increases in provision of basic services and infrastructure. The primary beneficiaries of these services
and infrastructure will be the poor and those discriminated under the apartheid system.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Several important implementation issues underpin the strategic nature of the proposed loan. First is the
need to ensure that the administrative arrangements are not cumbersome and do not impose
administrative burdens on the host country. Second, institutional mechanisms must be created to
facilitate the operationalization of the "knowledge bank" concept. Third, greater access to grant funding
for sustaining access to global expertise must be ensured. SANT has overall responsibility for project
implementation. SANT will contract the DBSA to manage the day to day project operations and
financial management as governed by the Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) between SANT and
DBSA.
Given the emphasis of the project on knowledge management, the Bank will assign appropriate skills in
the field and at headquarters as necessary for the duration of the project to assist SANT in management
and implementation of the project. The Bank will support SANT in defining and implementing
mechanisms for identifying key areas of TA support and access to global expertise from within and
outside the Bank. In this task, the Bank will support SANT to identify sources of grant financing from
the donor community and support the Government's access to these funds. This role is not one of donor
coordination - which is the prerogative and responsibility of Government - but one of supporting
Government where possible.
The Bank and SANT will jointly commission an independent review team that will periodically assess
the utility of the project and make recommendations to improve its implementation. A commitment to
- 8 -



such a periodic review in addition to internal Bank project review is one signal that the Bank is accepting
the challenge of meeting its commitment to the operationalization and implementation of the "knowledge
bank" function.
In terms of the project design, it is important to emphasize that there several layers of incentives
embedded in the implementation arrangements of the project. First, GOSA has instituted a fiscal grant as
an incentive. It will reward those local governments on the basis of performance, thus creating an
incentive for local governments to avail of the capacity vehicles to improve their operations. Second, the
contracts for financial advisers will have explicit incentives structures to reward good performance or
penalize poor performance of the consultants. In this context, part of the bid criteria will seek to have the
bidders propose mechanisms through which local capacity within councils will be expanded. Third, the
monitoring and evaluation component of the project will be an important mechanism for central
government to assess the performance of local governments. It will also allow local governments
benchmark each other, thus creating competition and further incentives to improve service delivery.
For the M&E system to play this positive role, however, will require the institutional design of the
systems is appropriately structured. For example, the design will need to ensure that the M& E system is
managed independent of local governments and that the data is publicly available. In addition, the M&E
system to be effective, it will be critical to ensure that baseline survey is carried out across the selected
local governments up front.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
As elaborated in Section 2.2, South Africa has implemented a bold policy framework for
decentralizing powers to local government. The challenge now is translate this policy framework
into implementation. In this phase, policy focus would need to shift to supporting the capacity of
local governments to implement service delivery and take on their mandated role as developmental
local governments.
In 99/00 the Bank, in response to a request from the Department of Provincial and Local Government
(DPLG) prepared the Municipal Sector Support Project (MSSP). This project addressed a broad
array of local govermment capacity building requirements-including municipal financial
management-and proposed to provide budget support for the intergovernmental infrastructure grant
system. This project was not pursued further by DPLG which did not, at the time, feel prepared to
engage in a large Bank-supported operation.
MFMTAP was, then, "extracted" from MSSP by SANT to meet the urgent need for experienced
international advice to implement financial management reforms. More importantly, as described in
Section 2.2, it was recognized that capacity support in the area of financial management is a logical
and necessary entry point into crowding in broader capacity support for local government
transformation. In addition, given that SANT is providing a Financial Management Grant (FMG) -
350 million rands- over four years beginning in FY2001, technical assistance to local governments to
effectively use this resource is an important complement to overall policy framework.
Finally, a focussed TA loan was deemed more suitable as a way to manage the institutionalization of
the "knowledge bank" relationship that has characterized the relationship between South Africa and
the World Bank.
-9-



2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
.      Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                     Project                 (PSR) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation  Development
Bank-financed                                                 Progress (IP)  Objective (DO)
NONE
Other development agencies
USAID                             Support to Local Government
Transformation Project
EU, DFII), GTZ                    Local Government Capacity
Building
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The project design will build on key lessons leamed in the region and intemationally, which include:
*      For decentralization to succeed, the intergovernmental "rules of the game" must be clear and
predictable. Sub-national governments can become successful facilitators of local economic
development-and thereby significant contributors to national growth-only when assignment of
expenditure responsibilities, authority to raise revenues and systems of accountability to citizens are
transparent and accessible.
*      Capacity building efforts in sub-national govemments are more successful when a "learning by
doing" approach is adopted. This approach requires that councils have access to both technical
assistance/training and to investment capital in order to leam how to plan, implement and manage
services that respond to local priorities.
*      To ensure that local govermments make optimal use of capacity building vehicles, it is important
to design a incentive program that rewards tangible improvements in service delivery and other areas of
local govermment performance.
*      Since sub-national govemments have a variable range of responsibilities and capacities in all
countries, a sectoral capacity building initiative must be flexible and responsive. Basic skills may need
to be supplied to weaker councils, while stronger councils may demand more sophisticated and
specialized inputs.
The ultimate goal for all municipalities in a decentralized system must be achievement of good
govemance. A proxy for this in many municipalities will be their "creditworthiness". That is, a
creditworthy-council will, by definition, be well managed, autonomous, fiscally and financially sound,
transparent and responsive to citizen's priorities. In other municipalities where market access is unlikely
in the medium term, a proxy of creditworthiness may be possible when supported by appropriate levels of
fiscal transfers.
- 10 -



4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
SANT's commitment to and ownership of the process of transforming local government financiai
management capacity is clear and long-standing. With support from USAID, AusAid and the Bank,
SANT has, over the last 6 years, been methodically overhauling the intergovernmental fiscal framework
to focus resources on the poor. SANT has chosen to invite Bank support into this ongoing process in an
area in which the Bank's international comparative advantage is very clear. This strong commitment is
further demonstrated by the fact that SANT has invited Bank support through a loan.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank's value added through MFMTAP is based on its long interaction with government in framing
the policy context, and to now assist government through the National Treasury to facilitate the
institutional reforms needed to translate policy into benefits on the ground. The core issue is not one of
finance, but one of knowledge and implementation, and it is in this latter respect that the Bank's
assistance is being sought through a technical assistance operation. Specific technical assistance will be
provided by the World Bank through:
a)    the provision of municipal financial management specialists for municipalities, to provide long
term advisory support to municipal reforms;
b)    the provision of various international experts to assist in policy reform processes, and the
implementation of monitoring and evaluation systems;
c)    leveraging the capacity of Bank- managed programs-Cities Alliance and Water and Sanitation
Program-other members of the Bank group-WBI, DEC and Bankwide networks - and regional
programs.
d)    leveraging additional support from the donor community.
In addition, this project will provide an important testing ground for the future of the Bank's involvement
in SA. The actual value added to SA of involvement with the Bank will be readily assessable through
implementation of the project. Key factors will include the degree to which the project provides SANT
with the desired inputs without imposing unacceptable levels of management burden, determination of
the effective costs of borrowing from the Bank, and identification of benefits resulting from the lending
relationship. The Bank's country management is strongly committed to demonstration, throughout
project implementation, that substantial added value will accrue to SA providing the basis for a growing
program of interaction in key areas in which the Bank's comparative advantage is clear and valuable to
SA in meeting its national development objectives.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
o Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
o Cost effectiveness
* Other (specify)
Local governments are responsible for several services including water and sanitation, solid waste
management, local roads, public transport, etc. Economic benefit analysis carried out for these type of
services and infrastructure in the sub-Saharan region typically yield rates of return in excess of 20%.
Thus, while the project will not directly support provisions of these local services, it will build critical
capacity that will eventually result in more efficient and effective service provision. Therefore, the
benefits of the project are estimated on par with the benefits of similar projects that directly support
provision of these local services and infrastructure.
- 1 1 -



2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
Implementation of the MFMA will greatly enhance local government financial control systems and,
thereby, the accountability of local authorities to their constituents and to central government.
Fiscal Impact:
Improved municipal financial management will, in turn, improve the effectiveness of cental fiscal
transfers to the local level. Further, the municipal financial management monitoring system to be
designed and implemented with MFMTAP support will significantly enhance the capability of SANT to
more efficiently target central fiscal transfers.
3. Technical:
None
4. Institutional:
The key institutional issue is the development of improved financial management in local govermments.
This will be addressed through the establishment of an effective monitoring system for local government
financial performance.
4.1 Executing agencies:
South Africa National Treasury
4.2 Project management:
The project will be implemented by the Intergovernmental Relations Branch in the National Treasury.
4.3 Procurement issues:
There are no major procurement issues envisaged under this project, as (i) DBSA will be contracted by
SANT to handle all procurement and contract management activities; and (ii) DBSA, who have prior
experience in handling a PHRD grant, will follow the Bank's procurement guidelines for implementation.
4.4 Financial management issues:
The Development Bank of South Africa (DBSA) will be contracted by the Government to manage the
day-to-day operations under the project encompassing the procurement, management of project funds,
record keeping and reporting, and preparation of application for withdrawal from the loan account. The
audit of the project accounts and financial statements will be carried out by the extemal auditors of
DBSA, but separate audit reports and opinions will be issued for the project.
5. Environmental:                Environmental Category: C (Not Required)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
None, since this is technical assistance loan. While the project is purely a technical assistance operation,
the Bank has determined that the environmental regulatory framework followed by all South African
govermnent agencies is robust and adequate.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
N/A
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft:
- 12 -



5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe
mechanisms of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
N/A
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
N/A
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
N/A
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
Officials from the Department of Provincial and Local Government will participate in the appraisal
process of the project and up to 30 local governments throughout South Africa will participate on a
demand basis in the implementation of the MFMB/A systems to be supported by MFMTAP.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
N/A
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
N/A
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
N/A
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
=P_o= '-L'S'.li                          A ,;', l,, ,Spplicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)          _ Yes @ No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                  (9 Yes a No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                   U Yes 7 No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                     ( Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                 (V Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                 (U Yes * No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                         (9 Yes * No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                             (9 Yes * No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)  (9 Yes * No
Projects In Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*       () Yes * No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
N/A
- 13 -



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
1. The key issue related to sustainability revolves around the resolve of local governments in South
Africa to undertake necessary reforms, build appropriate capacity, and establish effective social contracts
with constituents.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                   Risk Rating            Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Adoption of reforms by local government    N         Implementation of Municipal Financial
Management Bill/Act
Risk of municipal insolvency               N         Design and Implementation of a Municipal
Financial Management Monitoring System
Greater creditworthiness in local          N         Municipal Financial Management and
governments and access to private                   Intergovernmental Fiscal Policy Reforms
markets
From Components to Outputs
LGs willingness to adopt reforms and       N         Implementation of Municipal Financial
successful transfer of knowledge to                  Management Bill/Act
government counterparts by intemational
and national experts
Establishment of an effective monitoring   N         Design and Inplementation of a Municipal
system by SANT                                       Financial Management Monitoring System
Overall Risk Rating                        N
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
None
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
(a) Submission of the signed MOU between SANT and DBSA
(b) The Government has adopted a Project Implementation Plan and Operational Manual
- 14 -



2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Other: (classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements)
Accounts and Audits: (a) The Government would submit to the Bank not later than six months of the
end of each fiscal year certified copies of the audited financial and an opinion on such statements,
records and accounts and report of such audit by the auditors; and (b) Government to submit quarterly
Financial Monitoring Reports in fornmats and with content as agreed during negotiations.
Monitoring, Review and Reporting: (a) The Government would undertake a Mid-Term Review of the
Project no later than September 30, 2004; and (b) submit semi-annual progress reports to the Bank.
Implementation: The Government would carry out MFMTAP in accordance with the Project
Implementation Plan (PIP).
H. Readiness for Implementation
FII 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the
start of project implementation.
z 1. b) Not applicable.
El12. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
[1 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
ID 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
E: 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
C: 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies
with all other applicable Bank policies.
Da'vidG. De,0i mot                ;   Aocussol  / -1
Tea7 Lea,                                     8 IrMngrDrctor      Country Manager/Director
- 15-



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
SOUTH AFRICA: Municipal Financial Management Technical Assistance Project
.  .'-  -- |  Il 2 Key Per frnance.  Da aColletion Strateg,
'arHiecahy of Objectives    ;       ndictor;   - i-                      -Crtical              umpti
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:          Sector/ country reports:   (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Capacity building and        * Adoption of intemational  * Annual budget           * Continued central and
knowledge transfer             best practices to improve  performance evaluations    local commitment to
public sector efficiency   and intergovernmental       improving performance
fiscal review (already     and services
prepared annually by
SANT)
Project Development        Outcome / Impact            Project reports:           (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                 Indicators:
In the context of the      Impact Indicators:           * Bi-annual monitoring     *   Continuing local
Govermment's overall public                               reports                     commitment to reform
finance reform and local     *  Implementation of the   * Bi annual evaluation        and improved central
government transformation      new budgeting and          reports                     capacity to support and
program, the project will      municipal financial      * Mid-Term evaluation         incentivize reform
support selected municipalities  management systems in at  * Implementation        * Continued local
in implementing the new        least 15 municipalities    Completion Report           commitment to reform
budgeting and financial      *  Design and                                            and adopt best practices.
management system and assist   Implementation of                                    * Central capacity to design
the National govermnent to     Municipal Financial                                    and enact required
complete selected analytic     Management monitoring                                  systems
work on policy reforms.        system
Achievement of the project   * Completion of selected
objective is necessary to create  analytical reports and
a platform for efficient and   strategic implementation
equitable delivery of services  plans
at local govermment level.
Outcome Indicators:
* LGs implementation a
three year rolling budget
* LGs implementation of
GAMAP
* Improved information and
regular reporting of LF
financial management
performance
-16-



ia y Objectives   Ke    P aerormn                           I Oc e  - Critical  suptions
Output from each           Output Indicators:         Project reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
1. Implementation of        * Implementation of        * Bi-annual monitoring    *    Financial and fiscal
Reforms- Well elaborated       Municipal Financial       reports                 stability will improve in local
municipal financial            Management Bill in at   * Bi annual evaluation    governments due to adoption
management and budgeting       least 15 municipalities   reports                 of reforms, enabling extension
policies will not have the   * Technology transfers to  * Mid-Term evaluation    of services to the poor.
intended effect unless         LG financial management  * Implementation
implemented throughout the     teams                     Completion Report
sector. The National Treasury
is, therefore, seeking
assistance to fully implement
at the municipal level the core
reforms contained in the
Municipal Financial
Management Act (uniform
budget, reporting and
accounting procedures for all
local governments), design
and application of disclosure
regulations and guidelines, and
capacity building to improve
the creditworthiness of
municipalities to encourage
private sector participation.
2. Design and               * Improved monitoring                                 0   Risk of municipal
Implementation of a            system in place                                       insolvency, and therefore
Municipal Sector            * Improve information                                    failure of service delivery,
Monitoring and Early           available on LG financial                             lessened due to improved
Warning System -               management perfornance                                information flows and
The second key area for     * Improved ability to asses                             ability to address
support stems from the         financial risks at                                    problems as they begin to
National Treasury's            municipal level                                       emerge.
appreciation that the efficiency
of sub-national investments is
not, at present, readily
monitorable and that,
therefore, the efficiency with
which fiscal and financial
resources are being employed
may be significantly
sub-optimal. This area of
support will focus, therefore,
on the design and
implementation of monitoring
and regulatory frameworks
that provide critical
information related to budgets,
debt, intergovernmental
transfers, and other key
comparators. This element of
the work will support design
- 17 -



and installation of the
appropriate systems.
3. Additional Policy       *     Strategic Plans to                               * Reforms lead to greater
Reforms - While the        implement result of the                                  creditworthiness in local
macro-policy context is well  analytical work                                        governments, thereby
elaborated, specific sectoral                                                        enabling access to private
issues remain to be resolved.                                                        markets to expand capital
These include reforms to                                                            investments particularly
encourage competitiveness                                                           for services to the poor.
within the financial sector and
stimulate municipal debt
markets, the regulatory
framework for sub-national
service provision, the policy
framework for dealing with
weak/failing municipalities,
and the reform of key fiscal
instruments to improve
municipal investment and
provision efficiency.
-18-



, :-                        Key,1 , ,,., '.'6P.erforman'ce 'n DataCollection Strategy-, ..
Hie*0Ly' of Objectives        -Inidlctor                              - .     ,      tIasumptl      s.
Project Components        Inpu-k(bud&et for each     Project reports:           (from Components to
Sub-components:            component)                                           Outputs)
1. Implementation of reforms  USS1O.OAm1llon             * Bi-annual monitoring *   LGs willingness to
reports, including  adopt the reforms and
contracts, and     successful transfer of
performance        knowledge by experts.
management and
financial reports
2. Design and Implementation US$5.0 millon                                       * Establishment of
of a Municipal Sector                                                               monitoring system by
Monitoring and Early Warning                                                        SANT
System
3.Additional Policy reforms  USS5.0 million                                      * Reforms enacted by
Government and adopted
by LGs
19-



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
SOUTH AFRICA: Municipal Financial Management Technical Assistance Project
The project will finance technical assistance required to continue the reorganization of the South
African municipal sector that has been underway for more than 5 years. The National Treasury's
request for Bank fmancing of technical assistance is not based on financial need. Rather, the
National Treasury is securing continued access to Bank expertise, management capacity, and
implementation experience to support completion of the municipal sector restructuring exercise.
In addition the Bank is expected to mobilize significant additional grant finance, both from its
internal sources and from donors, to complement the loan financed technical assistance.
The technical assistance to be financed through the project will be tightly managed in a focused,
programmatic fashion. The reform, implementation and monitoring tasks will be carefully
constructed and sequenced to produce real impact rather than additional reports. Project
management will be a truly joint endeavor, based on close communications and timely delivery
of resources, human and financial, by both the Bank and the National Treasury. The final
outcome supported by the project will be a complete, well-established, and readily monitorable
framework for municipal financial operations and service delivery in the country.
By Component:
Project Component I - US$10.00 million
Implementing Reforms
Two areas for technical assistance are required under this sub-component: (i) assistance in
implementing existing reforms; and (ii) assistance in implementing reforms outlined above.
(a)   Implementation of the Municipal Finance Management BiWAct. The Municipal
Finance Management Bill (MFMB) -- expected to be enacted during the parliamentary session in
2001-- prescribes budgeting, accounting and financial reporting systems, based on international
best practices, for all local governments in SA. The National Treasury's municipal financial
reform program, soon to be mandated through the MFMB, will be implemented through a
three-phase process.
Phase 1 - initial testing of reform program over a three month period in seven municipalities
(focused on metros and large Category "B"s). This phase, completed in December 2000, was
supported through SANT's municipalfinance management grant and donor assistance.
AusAid provided a local government finance expert to each of the pilot municipalities. Pilot
municipalities made substantial progress toward three-year budgeting, GAMAP
implementation, and financial system improvements. Pilot experience provided SANT with
experiential data to modify and fine-tune the overall reform program.
Phase 2 - extension of the pilot program in four of the phase one municipalities and the
addition of six new municipalities to the pilot program will take place in the 2001/02 fiscal
year. An additional four municipalities will be added to the pilot program in the 2002/03
fiscal year. This phase of the program will focus on implementing the improved reform
program in Category "A", Category "C" and larger Category "B" municipalities. A key
- 20 -



component of this phase is the secondment of a local government finance expert to each pilot
municipality for a two year period. Assistance from the World Bank will allow this program
to be speeded up. Phase two will also include a local government finance internship program
that will focus on training recent graduates in modern municipal finance through hands on
experience in the National Treasury and pilot municipalities. Detailed implementation
manual, training, and case studies will be developed based on lessons learned in phases one
and two to be used in nation-wide implementation.
Phase 3 - nation-wide financial management reform implementation in the remaining
municipalities over a three-year period.
Support in the rollout of this program is the most significant assistance required by the
National Treasury through World Bank technical assistance, and is required for
implementation of all three phases of the reform program. The detailed program design is
attached in the document "Operational Manualfor the Implementation of Financial
Management Reforms ". The National Treasury will require the services of at least 15 highly
experienced municipal finance experts, to be placed in municipalities for a period of 24
months from January 2002. The total cost over the four-year period is approximately USD
1O million.
(b)   Implementation of Additional Reforms
The additional reforms will also require implementation assistance, although definition of the
precise scope and scale of required assistance will be possible only upon finalization of the
reforms. For instance, it is very likely that implementation of regulatory reforms will benefit
greatly from access over time to experienced regulators to advise the new bodies. Reforms to
encourage the development of municipal finance markets may also be supported by advisory
services to municipalities that are new entrants to this market. The same is likely to be true for
reformed intergovernmental fiscal transfer programs, particularly with regard to assisting
municipalities to meet performance benchmarks. A provision for two person-years of this type
of assistance is, therefore, included in the project with detailed terms of reference to be stipulated
in due course.
Project Component 2 - US$5.00 million
Design and Implementation of a Municipal Sector Monitoring and Early Warning System
There is a growing consensus on the critical requirement for coordinated monitoring and
evaluation of performance in the local government sector. Capacity to monitor key performance
indicators will be particularly crucial over the 18 months or so following completion of the
demarcation exercise. During this time period, all 47 district and 243 local municipalities should
be actively trantsforming their corporate structures. The efficiency with which these
transformations are implemented will, to a very large extent, determine the sustainability of local
service delivery and should inform the intergovernmental fiscal transfer system, particularly with
regard to access to CMIP funds.
The National Treasury currently monitors all municipal budgets in order to assess compliance
-21 -



with annual expenditure growth limits. It is recognized that the current form of monitoring has a
number of severe limitations, in both design and execution. The National Treasury is currently
reviewing its approach and developing a more appropriate model for monitoring municipal
finances. This review has two components:
a)    the monitoring of municipal budgets and financial statements, in accordance with the
budget reform program;
b)    the monitoring of intergovernmental transfers, in association with government's
Vulindlela information system, and in compliance with the Division of Revenue Act
Both these exercises require linkages to appropriate social, economic and demographic
information to permit adequate policy analysis and evaluation to occur, and in order to track local
transformation processes. Much of this data is available from Statistics South Africa for the
newly demarcated municipalities. Additional baseline data may still need to be captured,
however further details on the design and implementation of the M & E component will be
forthcoming by the end of year 1.
Project Component 3 - USS 5.00 million
Additional Policy Reforms
RSA has initiated a number of key policy reforms in the municipal sector over the last 5 years.
These include the recent re-demarcation of all municipal jurisdictions in the country, and drafting
of the municipal systems and structures legislation. Taken together, these reforms have created
an entirely new framework within which SA municipalities will carry out their responsibilities.
Establishment of this complete framework, covering the entire country, is a signal achievement.
However, this comprehensive framework alone is not sufficient to ensure equitable and
sustainable improvements in municipal and sub-national service provision to the poor and
formerly disenfranchised population. Within this framework, municipalities must be able to
access adequate resources to meet service needs. The National Treasury, specifically through the
Intergovernmental Relations Branch, has clear, constitutionally mandated responsibilities to
ensure that the financing and provision of necessary services is carried out in a sustainable
manner.
First, the terms and conditions under which municipalities access resources is a central concem
of the National Treasury, both from the fiduciary and enabling points of view. In order to
support municipalities in the attainment of actual service improvements, responsible policies
enabling municipal access to resources, both fiscal and financial, must be in place.
Second, it is also the National Treasury's responsibility to ensure that municipal access to
finance, particularly through private markets, is adequately regulated with clear remedies and
incentives for participation. Without these clear "rules of the game" broad municipal capital
markets will not develop fully.
Third, intergovernrnental fiscal policy must focus upon enabling all newly demarcated
municipalities to become, in essence, creditworthy by balancing own source and transferred
-22-



revenues with expenditure responsibilities. Improved accuracy in targeting of intergovernmental
grants (IGGs) is required to achieve this end.
Finally, the National Treasury has a clear mandate to ensure that services provided by all
sub-national entities, including municipalities, utilities, and quasi-public corporations, are
efficiently delivered and fairly priced. Policies regarding regulation of basic service provision
across all key sub-sectors requires thorough review and reform.
Taken together, these areas for work constitute the main unfinished policy reform agenda for the
municipal/sub-national sector in SA. Through MFMTAP, the National Treasury will draw upon
international best practices and expertise to design the policies that will provide an appropriate
operating environment within the structural framework created for SA's municipalities. A brief
description of the scopes of work for these tasks is provided below.
(a)   Accessing Resources
National govermnent's controls on sub-national entities' access to finance, especially from
private markets, must be delicately balanced to meet at least two basic objectives. First, the
national government's position on sub-national finance must be clearly and consistently
articulated across the full range of sub-national entities. In many developing countries this clarity
of vision is difficult to achieve due to the lack of real world alternatives imposed by i)
undeveloped capital markets; ii) ambivalent or contradictory legislative delegation of functions
and powers and iii) unclear or contradictory approaches to the pursuit of equity objectives
between spheres of government. The latter two factors continue to be of concem in RSA.
Second, the national government's policy in this regard must be carefully crafted to neither
impede where unjustified nor disable fiduciary oversight where necessary. International
experience abounds with situations in which clearly stated policies on access have been negated
by either i) unnecessary centrally imposed impediments or ii) lax oversight resulting in liabilities
to the center.
Hence this task will focus on clearly and concisely stating the position of Governnent with
regard to the responsibilities of sub-national entities in accessing finance for provision of basic
services particularly for the poor, building on existing policy frameworks on municipal
borrowing, the subsidization of service delivery to poor households and the allocation of powers
and functions. In order to clearly enunciate such a policy a team of cross-sectoral, international
and domestic experts will be required to engage in a process of review, consultation, and
formulation. This team, working across ministries, will focus on the key sub-national
infrastructure investment policy gaps, which have been broadly characterized by the National
Treasury as follows:
*     Between policy and strategy: Government has developed several policy statements, but
has not generated clear implementation strategies that are data driven and make the hard choices
necessary. Policies and plans are often merely "wish lists", and thus provide no useful guide to
implementation, through making choices and allocating responsibilities.
- 23 -



*     Between strategy and institutional design: Even with a good policy/plan and strategy,
there is no guarantee of implementation or delivery. This is due to inappropriate or insufficient
institutional capacities and incentives to actually deliver.
*     Between institutional design and appropriate management Well-designed
institutions will not deliver in the absence of good management. Key problems include managers
not being held accountable for outcomes, and a lack of effective regulation of service delivery
agencies, particularly at the supra-local/regional level.
*     Between strategy / institutions / management and regulation: The current regulatory
environment is incoherent and overlapping, creating both gaps and duplications. This ultimately
undermines effective delivery, even with the right strategy, institutions and management. This
problem is a function of the way in which policy and legislation is put together, where each
sector department tries to exercise full regulatory control, regardless of other sectors. This is
even the case with independent regulatory agencies, as departments often treat these as
sub-agencies and interfere extensively in decision-making.
*     Between strategy and finance. While financing alternatives are more or less clear for
utilities and metros, the same is not true for local authorities below the metro level. Clear policy
is required to direct the majority of municipalities as to the requirements for accessing finance,
and the conditions and remedies for continued access.
Through an increasingly high level consultative process spanning up to one year, the team will
forge a consensus on (i) the strategy for financing sub-national public infrastructure investment
and (ii) the detailed reform implementation agenda required to bring this strategy to fruition. The
product of this process will be a clear national policy statement of the responsibilities of
sub-national entities and municipalities in financing specific services and infrastructure, and the
rules of the game for accessing that finance.
(b)   Supporting Municipal Finance Market Development
To enable the full development of municipal financial markets, the National Treasury again has a
clear constitutional mandate to promulgate supportive policies, and has recently articulated this
in a policy statement on municipal borrowing.
There is a strong argument to be made that the private financial sector in South Africa is fully
capable of developing municipal finance markets. To a certain degree this development is
already taking place with one specialized intermediary organization and several banks active in
the market. However, lending to local governments is largely restricted to the largest cities, and
incentives could expand this scope.
While the Policy Framework for Municipal Borrowing clearly establishes the framework within
which borrowing should take place, implementation of this framework on the ground requires
significant additional work. This is particularly true with regard to issues around disclosure,
-24 -



regulation and risk management. Therefore, a significant technical assistance input, leveraged
with World Bank assistance, will be required over several years to translate the provisions of the
Policy Framework into working systems on the ground.
(c)    Fine Tuning Intergovernmental Fiscal Policy
Completion of the municipal re-demarcation exercise in the country presents an excellent
opportunity to more tightly focus intergovernmental fiscal policy. Over the past five years a
variety of Intergovermnental Grants (IGGs) have been utilized to stabilize local governments
throughout the country during the process of amalgamation. The re-demarcation exercise has
completed the structural amalgamation process and reduced the number of local governnents.
Working from the established base provided by the Equitable Share program,
Key issues to be addressed in this regard include:
*     Accurate definition of newly demarcated municipalities that do not have adequate own
resources to meet assigned expenditure responsibilities even under optimal operating conditions.
*     Definition of performance benchmarks required for municipal access to central fiscal
resources.
*     Identification of all fiscal resources across sectors and ministries currently being
expended at the local/community level, and analysis of the efficiency and utility with which these
resources are being deployed.
*     Analysis of opportunities to simplify and amalgamate the various central resources
expended at the local level to achieve greater efficiency and support decentralization.
*     Analysis of the need for, potential benefits from, and avenues to extend restructuring
grants to additional municipalities beyond those now covered.
*     Examination of new intergovernmental fiscal instruments that may be utilized to promote
national development goals.
Completion of these and related tasks will bring South Africa's intergovernmental fiscal regime
to a virtually unparalleled status in terms of coverage, equity and clarity. Again, a mixed team of
international and local experts will be required to carry out these analyses over a period of up to
24 months resulting in a comprehensive restatement of intergovernmental fiscal policy and
instruments.
(d)   Regulation
As noted earlier, the regulation of service provision by sub-national entities, including both
supra-local utility companies and municipalities, is somewhat fragmented across sectoral and
ministerial boundaries. In some cases, line ministries with limited technical expertise have
acquired oversight and executive regulatory powers that are inappropriate and potentially
injurious to consumers and investors alike.
In addition, sectoral regulatory arrangements vary widely with, as noted, regulators in some
sectors operating as virtual line departments of parent ministries and utilities. This lack of
- 25 -



functional "firewalls" between providers and regulators places consumers at real risk for
unsustainable and unjustifiable tariff increases and renders the regulatory function virtually moot.
Again, a fine line must be drawn between over- and under-regulation of critical basic services.
Consistency in regulatory arrangements across sectors should not be pursued for its own sake.
Rather, consistent and transparent regulatory arrangements are required to provide consumers
with regular avenues for public participation. Potential investors in municipal services
partnerships (MSPs) will also gain comfort from clear regulatory arrangements.
The requirement is, therefore, for a cross-sectoral review of all critical regulatory activities
resulting in:
*     A clear overall government policy on regulation, including statements of principles,
objectives, and operating guidelines.
*     Specific sectoral reviews to establish the preferred, appropriate means of regulation
drawing upon international best practices.
*     Legislative amendments required to enact the desired regulatory reforms.
This task will be complicated and time consuming, and will require a multi-disciplinary team of
experts working in a consultative manner across sectors over a significant period of time.
Evaluation and selection of international best practices will, in particular, require a significant
investment of time and resources. Analytical work will probably require up to two years,
followed by at least a year of consultation and drafting of necessary amendments.
(e)   Strategic Plans for Linking Budgeting and Planning
There is a strong emphasis in the current policy on the linkage between municipal Integrated
Development Planning (IDP) and multi-year budgets. Reforms have been introduced to support
the development of both management tools by municipalities, though the operationalisation of
this link in municipalities remain tenuous. The project will investigate appropriate policy and
practice, as well as develop appropriate local guidelines and support to implement multi-year
budgets linked to IDPs within a broader strategy to build capacity in the local government sphere.
- 26 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
SOUTH AFRICA: MunicipaliFinanclal Management Technical Assistance Project
,;I--, Local-      -Foreign   -     TotdI
,, , ProjectJCostJBy Coinponent;-           UJS$million   US,$million   US$million
Implementation of Reforns                                     3.00         10.00         13.00
Design and Implementation of a Municipal Sector Monitoring    1.00          2.55          3.55
and Early Warning System
Additional Policy Reforms                                     1.00          2.30          3.30
Total Baseline Cost                                           5.00         14.85         19.85
Physical Contingencies                                       0.00          0.00          0.00
Price Contingencies                                          0.00          0.00          0.00
Total Project Costs1                5.00         14.85         19.85
Front-end fee                      0.15          0.15
Total Financing Required                 5.00         15.00         20.00
Identifiable taxes and duties are 0 (US$m) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 20 (USSm). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 75% of
total project cost net of taxes.
-27 -



Annex 4Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary
SOUTH AFRICA: Municipal Financial Management Technical Assistance Project
N/A
- 28 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
SOUTH AFRICA: Municipai Financial Management Technical Assistance Project
Years Ending
Year I    Year 2  | Year 3    Year4       ear 5  | Year6     Year7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs          3.7        7.7       7.3       1.1       0.0        0.0      0.0
Recurrent Costs            0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Total Project Costs         3.7        7.7       7.3       1.1       0.0       0.0       0.0
Front-end fee    0.2       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
.Total Financing             ^.9       7.7       7.3        1.1       0.0       0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRD/IDA                  2.2       6.1        5.7       1.1       0.0       0.0       0.0
Government                1.7        1.6       1.6       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Central                1.7       1.6        1.6       0.0       0.0      0.0        0.0
Provincial             0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Co-financiers             0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries     0.0        0.0       0.0       O 0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Other                       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Total Project Financing    3.9        7.7       7.3       1.1       0.0       0.0       0.0
Main assumptions:
- 29 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
SOUTH AFRICA: Municipal Financial Management Technical Assistance Project
Procurement
Procurement of Consulting Services.
General
The entire procurement under this project involves selection and employment of consultants in
the following broad areas:
*   Implementing Municipal Reforms (an advisory team of 20 - 30 municipal finance advisers in
separate locations throughout South Africa, for average periods of 18 months, coordinated by a Lead
Adviser based in the National Treasury in Pretoria).
*   Design and Implementation of a Municipal Sector Monitoring and Early Warning System (an
advisory team for approximately 2 - 3 years).
*   Additional Policy Reforms (intermittent consulting inputs on policy reforms related to municipal
finance).
Procurement Guidelines
The total cost of Bank-financed consultants will be about US$15.0 million. Contracts for
Consulting services by firms or individuals will be awarded in accordance with the Bank's
Guidelines for Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (January
1997; Revised September 1997 and January 1999).
The Bank's Standard Request for Proposals (RFP), the appropriate Forms of Contracts (lump
sum, time-based, and/or simplified contracts for short-term assignments and individual
consultants) as well as the Sample Form of Evaluation Report for the Selection of Consultants
will be used.
Procurement Methods
Consultant selection for assignments will be awarded using the Quality and Cost Based Selection
(QCBS) procedures, following requests for expression of interest advertised internationally,
preparation of a short list by the implementing agency, and technical and financial evaluation of
proposals. In addition, selection for specific assignments will also be done based on Consultants'
Qualifications (CQ) and Individual Consultants (IC). Contracts costing less than US$100,000
each for finns, and US$50,000 each for individuals, may be contracted on the basis of CQ and IC
respectively.
Advertising and Procurement Planning
- 30 -



The General Procurement Notice (GPN) will be published in the United Nations Development
Businessand the local newspapers on January 16, 2002. Specific Procurement Notice (SPN)
seeking expressions of interest will be published for large value contracts for consulting services
(above US$ 200,000 equivalent). A procurement plan was discussed and agreed during
negotiations. An Operational Manual (which will include procurement arrangements) will be
finalized before Credit effectiveness.
Procurement CaDacity and Implementation Arran2ements.
SANT will contract out the day to day management of the project (including all the procurement
activities under the Project) to the Development Bank of South Africa Ltd. (DBSA). DBSA is a
quasi-public institution which was established by an Act of Parliament (Act No. 13 of 1997)
which is responsible for development assistance projects. There will be a Memorandum of
Understanding between the SANT and DBSA. SANT will use its own resources to finance the
management contract with DBSA.
DBSA will be responsible for all the procurement activities including contract management.
Procurement Capacity assessment of DBSA was done during project appraisal. The following
summarizes the findings from the assessment.
*   During the year 1997-1999, DBSA successfully administered PHRD Grant No. TF027018 amounting
to US$1 million. All procurements under the Grant were done using the Bank's Procurement
Guidelines. The total number of contracts handled were 12, and this included handling of all
contract management issues.
*   All Procurement activities will be handled by a team of three professionals, who have adequate
experience in handling Bank financed contracts. They will be responsible for handling all financial
and accounting aspects of contract management.
*   The specific responsibilities of DBSA will be clearly spelt out in the MOU between SANT and
DBSA. Prior to Credit effectiveness, the Bank team will ensure that the MOU between SANT and
DBSA (and the Operational Manual) have clear division of responsibilities, which will ensure
smooth contract management and implementation.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
,=' ,, ...........  , - .  ,,, =.  - ^  Procurement Me,thod           ,.
Expenitur -Catego    .    -- - ICB        ,NCB', , .. -  Other                To-  I  Co t
1. Works                         0.00           0.00         0.00        0.00       0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)     (0.00)
2. Goods                         0.00           0.00         0.00        0.00       0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)     (0.00)
3. Services                      0.00           0.00         19.85       0.00       19.85
- 31 -



(0.00)          (0.00)        (14.85)        (0.00)     (14.85)
4. Miscellaneous                      0.00            0.00          0.00          0.00        0.00
(0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)      (0.00)
5. Front-end fee                     0.00             0.00          0.15          0.00        0.15
(0.00)           (0.00)        (0.15)        (0.00)      (0.15)
Total                              0.00            0.00          20.00         0.00        20.00
I___   (0.00)          (0.00)        (15.00)        (0.00)     (15.00)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2'Covers selection of consultants for technical assistance services and training.
- 32 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Taking full cognizance of the existing procurement capacity at DBSA (who will be acting as
agents for SANT), the Bank will prior review contracts above US$ 200,000 for consulting firms
and above US$ 50,000 for individual consultants. Prior Bank review will apply for: (i) Terms of
Reference (TOR) for all consultancy services; (ii) selection procedures, short-lists and Request
for Proposals (RFP), technical evaluation reports, final evaluation reports, and draft contracts
when the estimated cost of the contract exceeds US$ 50,000 for individual consultants and US$
200,000 for firms; and (iii) contract amendrnents as per para 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Contracts not subject to prior review will be post reviewed in accordance with Appendix 1 of the
Guidelines.
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
- ;  ,, ., I.,. ,, .l .,  ,  ,  '= ' - 'Co'ntract.Value "   .  ,'  . A ,,,  ,  Contracts Subject to
Threshold'            Procurement            Prior Review
Expenditu're Category   (US$ thousands),  x        Method             . (US$ millions)
1. Works
2. Goods
3. Services                 >$200,000             QCBS (firms)       Approx. US$10 million
>$50,000             IC (individual)      All contracts above
US$50,000
<$100,000              CQ (firms)            Post Review
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Low
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment rating is subject to an acceptable MOU between SANT
and DBSA, which will ensure clear division of responsibilities to enable smooth contract
management and implementation activities.
'Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 33 -



Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
The proposed Bank loan of US$15.0 million would be disbursed over four years from FY2003
through FY2006. The annual estimated disbursements are indicated in a table on the first page of
the Project Appraisal Document. The Project Completion Date is December 31, 2005 and the
Closing Date is June 30, 2006. The proposed allocation of loan proceeds is shown in Table C.
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure CategoryJ - -  '_ " 'Am ount`in US$millions  -Financing Percentage-,- ,7
(1) Consultant Services              ___
(a) Foreign                           11.85                      86%
(b) Local                              3.00                      61%
(2) Front End Fee                      0.15         Amount due under Section 2.04 of this
Agreement
Total Project Costs                    15.00
Front-end fee       0.00
Total                                  15.00
Arrangements for Financial Management and Reporting
The MFMTAP will be implemented by the Intergovernmental Relations Branch in the
National Treasury. Under an agency agreement, the Development Bank of South Africa (DBSA)
will be contracted by the Government to manage the day to day activities under the project which
will include the procurement of consultants and financial management of the project. SANT will
have overall responsibility for guiding, supervising, monitoring, evaluating and reporting on
project activities. This project exclusively involves employment of and payment to consultants.
DBSA will be responsible for the procurement, contract management, management of the
project funds, and accounting and reporting activities of the project. DBSA has experience with
the Bank through the management of the PHRD Grant for the South Africa Urban Infrastructure.
DBSA will provide quarterly Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs) to the Bank. Format and
timing of these reports were discussed and agreed during negotiations. The International
Accounting standards will be used for this project.
The Project Implementation Plan (PIP) will provide details of the financial arrangements
under the project. DBSA will maintain separate books of accounts to enable it to record,
account and report on all financial resources received and disbursed under the project. DBSA
will submit financial reports and all supporting documentation to SANT as described in the PIP.
DBSA will be responsible for the preparation of interim and the annual financial statements of
the project. The financial statements will be prepared in accordance with International
Accounting Standards and with other Bank requirements. The financial statements will include at
least Statements of sources and uses of funds,cash-flow statement, and a balance sheet and
- 34 -



accompanying notes and schedules. The format of FMRs was agreed during negotiations.
External Audit Arrangements: The accounts and annual financial statements of the project
will be audited by an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank, appointed in sufficient time in
advance to carry out the audit. It was agreed that the extemal auditor of DBSA will be the
project extemal auditor as well, and will produce audit reports and opinions separate from that
for the institution. The audit will be carried out in accordance with intemational standards. The
TOR for audit was discussed and agreed during negotiations. The Borrower has selected to use
the traditional disbursement procedure as explained above, under Disbursement. Therefore, the
auditors shall provide an overall opinion on the project financial statements as described above
and appropriate schedules classifying project expenditures by component and loan disbursement
categories showing yearly and cumulative balances and variances and notes to the financial
statements. In addition to the audit report, auditors will provide a management letter containing,
inter-alia, their assessment of the intemal controls and, when necessary, recommendations for
improvement. Audited financial statements, the audit opinions, and a copy of the management
letter will be submitted to the Bank by the borrower within 6 months of the close of each Fiscal
Year. At present, there are no audit reports outstanding under this sector.
Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs)
An assessment will be carried out before effectiveness to ensure that the project will be able to
produce the full set of FMRs by loan effective date. The format and content of FMRs and
different models have been discussed during appraisal with the following content: (i) summary of
sources and uses of funds; (ii) uses of funds by project activities; (iii) physical progress reports -
physical outputs and status of large services; (iii) cash withdrawals (disbursements); and (iv)
procurement monitoring reports.
Financial Management Assessment.
An assessment of the DBSA capacity to carry out its responsibilities under the project,
including an assessment of the financial management systems and procedures and intemal
controls, was carried out during appraisal. Except for the vacancy of the position of the manager
of the unit in charge of the project, the capacity of DBSA is adequate for the project (details of
the assessment and questionnaire are in project files). Furthermore, as part of improvements,
DBSA is upgrading the existing FMS which is already capable of producing the required
financial management reports. It was agreed that DBSA will finalize the PIP before effectiveness
with adequate details including the confirmation that the normal intemal control procedures of
DBSA will also apply to the project. By effectiveness, the project would be in full compliance
with BP/OP 10.02 and be able to produce periodic FMRs. In summary, the financial
management risk of the project is considered as minimal.
The SANT will not handle the day to day operations of the project and its functions will
be limited to ensuring that DBSA is complying with the terms of the MOU. Furthermore, it will
ensure adequate budget for the project and will countersign the documentation sent to the Bank
(i.e. withdrawal applications). Since the SANT has a track record of management of the
borrower's national budget and has already budgeted adequate amounts for the project for the
- 35 -



next three years, no assessment of the SANT was felt necessary. In order to minimize the risk of
confusion in relation to the roles and responsibilities of each party, the draft MOU was reviewed
and will be further discussed during negotiations. The PIP will also present the salient features
of the financial management system and describe in detail the roles and responsibilities and
procedures to be followed.
- 36 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
SOUTH AFRICA: Municipal Financial Management Technical Assistance Project
Project Schedule--            --- Planned                          Actual:
Time taken to prepare the project (months)     4
First Bank mission (identIfication)            09/01/2001
Appraisal mission departure                    12/13/2001                   12/13/2001
Negotlations                                   01/30/2002                   01/30/2002
Planned Date of Effectiveness                  12/26/2002
Prepared by:
Government of South Africa - SANT/DBSA
Preparation assistance:
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                    Speciality
David DeGroot                     Team Leader
Junaid Ahmad                      Task Manager
Rowena Martinez                   Operations Officer
Iraj Talai                        Lead Financial Management Specialist
V. Krishnakumar                   Lead Procurement Specialist
Aberra Zerabruk                   Lead Counsel
William Marke                     Disbursement Officer
Serigne Fye                       Lead Environmental Specialist
Lu Kang                           Program Assistant
Nothando Nyathi                   Program Assistant
- 37 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
SOUTH AFRICA: Municipal Financial Management Technical Assistance Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
Revised draft PIP dated July 25, 2002
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Operational Manual
Terms of Reference for the Municipal Advisor
Financial Management Assessment
Procurement Assessment
C. Other
White Paper on Local Government, March 1998
Municipal Financial Management Bill, 2001
Policy Framework for Municipal Borrowing and Financial Emergencies
*Including electronic files
- 38 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
SOUTHAFRICA: -Municipal Financial Management Technical Assistance Project
07-Aug-2002
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions                              disbursements
Project ID     FY   Purpose                                       IBRD         IDA                 GEF     Cancel.    Undisb.      Orig   Fnm Revd
P035923        1998 CAPEPENINSUIA                                      0.00      0.00                12.30       0.00      1.61      11.05      0.00
P048606        1997 IND.COMPET&JOBCREAT                               46.00      0.00                 0.00      21.53     13.78      35.31     10.80
Total:       46.00       0.00              12.30       21.53       15.39     46.36      10.80
- 39 -



SOUTH AFRICA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
April 30 - 2002
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                      Disbursed
IFC                            IFC
FY Approval        Company                      Loan  Equity   Quasi   Partic  Loan   Equity   Quasi  Partic
0                  AEF Bulwer                   0.00    0.00    0.19    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.19   0.00
1996               AEF Carosa Farm              0.00    0.09    0.08    0.00   0.00    0.09    0.08    0.00
2000               AEF DBS                      0.00    0.00    0.75    0.00    0.00   0.00     0.75   0.00
1999               AEF Dargle Timbr             0.24    0.00    0.00   0.00    0.24    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997/98            AEF E.R. Medical             0.00    0.18    0.00   0.00    0.00    0.18    0.00    0.00
1999               AEF FOXTROT MEAT             0.23    0.00   0.00    0.00    0.23    0.00    0.00    0.00
2001               AEF Freecom                  0.00    0.00    0.31    0.00    0.00   0.00     0.31   0.00
1999               AEF IHS Techno               0.24    0.00    0.65    0.00   0.24    0.00     0.65   0.00
1998               AEF Lesedi Hosp              0.11    0.00   0.00     0.00   0.11    0.00     0.00   0.00
1998               AEF Sordale                  0.00    0.00    0.23    0.00    0.00   0.00     0.23   0.00
2000               AEFTusk                      1.11    0.10    0.00    0.00    1.11   0.10     0.00   0.00
1995/96/99         AFLIFE                       0.00    5.94    0.00    0.00    0.00   5.94     0.00   0.00
2002               Bioventures                  0.0O    1.86    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.03    0.00    0.00
1996/98            Cashbank                     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00     0.00   0.00
2000               EDU LOAN                     2.05    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.05    0.00    0.00    0.00
1999               Energy Afr Ltd               0.00   38.02    0.00    0.00    0.00   38.02    0.00    0.00
0                  FRBI                        27.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   27.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
2000               KIWANE                       0.00    0.00    6.51    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.98    0.00
2001               Printability                 3.61    1.50    2.36    0.00    3.61    1.50    2.36    0.00
2001               Rubico                       0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    5.00    0.00    0.C0
1995               SACGF                        0.00    2.61    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.61    0.00    0.00
1995               SAFCF                        0.00    1.30    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.30    0.00    0.00
1995               SAFFM (Mgmt)                 0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
2000/02            SAHL                         0.00    0.00    1.40    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.40    0.00
1999               SAPEF                        0.00   33.11    0.00    0.00    0.00   16.02    0.00    0.00
2001               Spier                        0.00    1.87    9.97    0.00    0.00    1.87    9.97    0.00
Total Portfolio:       34.59   91.58   22.45    0.00    34.59   72.66   18.92   0.00
Approvals Pending Commnitment
FY Approval       Company                         Loan    Equity    Quasi     Partic
2001              AEF Fin-X                        0.00     0.00      1.00     0.00
2000              KIWANE ASSET MGT                 0.00     0.00      0.44     0.00
2000              EDU LOAN                         0.00     1.62      0.00     0.00
2001              Spier Estate                     0.00     7.50     0.00      0.00
2001              AEF Cornerstone                  0.28     0.00     0.00      0.00
2001              Franpart                         0.00     2.50      0.00     0.00
2002              Brait Bank                      15.00     0.00      0.00     0.00
Total Pending Commitment:       15.28    11.62      1.44     0.00
-40 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
SOUTH AFRICA: Municipal Financial Management Technical Assistance Project
Sub-    Upper-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                  South  Saharan    middle-
Africa    Africa   Income      Development dlamond'
2000
Population. mid-year (mllions)                      42.8       659      647                  Litfe expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, USS)                  3.020       480     4.620
GN I (Atlas method, US$ billions)                   129.2       313     2.986
Average annual growth, 199440
Popuiation I(%)                                       1.9       2.6       1.3     GN
Labor force (%)                                       2.3       2.6       2.0     GNI                             Gross
per                      --Iprimary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1994-00)                             capia                       enrollment
Poverty (X of population below national poverty line)
Urban populaton ( olftotalpopulation)                 50        34        76
Life expectancy at birth (years)                       55        47        69
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)               51        92        28
Child malnutrition (X of children under 5)              9         ..       ..          Access to improved water source
Access to an Improved water source (5 of populat on)   70        S5        87
Ililteracy (% ofpopulation age 15J)                    15        38        10
Gross primary enrollment ( of school-age population)  133        78       107              South Africa
Male                                                135        85       106              Upper-middle-income group
Female                                              131        71       105
KEY ECONOMIC RATiOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1980     1990      1999      2000
Economic ratios'
GDP (US$ billions)                          80.5    112.0     130.2     125.9
Gross domestic lnvestmentVGDP               23.4     11.8      14.6      15.0                     Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP           35.1     24.4      25.9      29.1
Gross domestic savings/GDP                  31.4     176        17.3     18.0
Gross national savings/GDP                  27.3     13.7      14.3      14.6
Current account balance/GDP                  4.4      1.8      -0.3      -0.4      Domestic
Interest paymentb/GDP                                           0.7       1.0                                 Investment
Total debt/GDP                                                  18.6     19.7     savings
Total debt service/exports                                      13.7      9.3     !
Present value of debt/GDP                                       18.6
Present value of debtexports                                   68.6
Indebtedness
1980-90  1990-00     1999      2000   200044
(average annual growth)
GDP                                 1.0      2.0      1.9       3.1       3.3         -     South Africa
GDP per capita                     -1.5      0.0      0.2       1.4       2.1               Upper-middie-income group
Exports of goods and services       1.9      5.3      1.3       8.2       5.0
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1980     1990      1999      2000      Growth ot Investment and GOP (%)
(% of GDP)                                                                        20
Agriculture                                  6.2      4.6       3 4       3.2      0
Industry                                    48.2     40.1      30.8      30.9     is
Manufacturing                              21.6     23.6      18.8      18.8
Services                                    45.6     55.3      65.8      65.9   o    _
Private consumption                         54.3     62.8      63.3      63.6     -10
Generalgovemmentconsumptlon                 14.3     19.7      19.4      18.4               -oGD           COGDP
Imports of goods and services               27.1     18.6      23.1      26.1
1980-90  199040       1999      2000     Growth of exports and Imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                  2.9      0.6       3.4       2.5     20
Industry                                     0.7      1.0      -0.4       2.3
Manufacturing                               1.1      1.2      -0.2       3.6     o_
Services                                     2.4      2.6       3.3       3.6
Private consumption                          2.4      2.6       1.1       3.2      9      5    go   57   9e a5
General govemment consumption                3.5      0.5      -1.9       3.0    1s0
Gross domestic investment                   -5.3      2.7      -3.5       6.5               -Exports    -     Imports
Imports ot goods and services               -0.6      7.3      -7.4       8.0
Note: 2000 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators In the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average, if data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
- 41 -



South Africa
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1980     1990      1999     2000     Inflation
DomestUc prices                                                                 15
( change)
Consumer prices                             13.8    14.4       5.2      5.3    10
implicit GDP deflator                      22.0     15.5       6.2      6.5
Govenment financer
(% of GDP, mncudes curmrntgants)                                                0
Current revenue                             6.0     26.1      30.8     30.5            96    95    97    99    99    00
Current budget balance                     -11.9     0.0       0.3      0 6                 GOP defaior   :  CP
Overall surplusldefict                    -18.0    -3.1      -4.7     -3.7
TRADE
1980     1990      1999     2000     Export and import levels (USS mill.)
(USS millions)
Total exports (fob)                      28.267   23,488    28,625   35.766     40,ce
Gold                                    13,021   6,038      3.974    4,446
Food, beverages. and tobacco             2,741    1,707    2,516     3.144    30,m.0
Manufactures                             3,548   6,100     10,018   12.517
Total imports (cif)                      21.838   17,267    24A477   30,937     2oco
Food                                      933      945      1.585    2.003    10_ _ 
Fuel and energy                          7,555   6,373     2,877    3.636
Capital goods                                             11,830    14,952       0
ExportpriceIndex(1995=100J                    .      59        111      114           94   9S   98  97   98   9    00
Import priceindex (1995g100)                         59       100       101                UEXports     *impois
Tennsof rsde(1995=5100)                              100       111      113
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(1.15$ millions)  and  1980  1990  1999  2000  Current account balance to GDP (%)
(US$ mawios)
Exports of goods and services            28,627   27,119    33,699   41.543     1T
Importsofgoodsandservices                22,073   21,017    30122    37.305
Resource balance                          6.554    6,102     3,577    4,238
Net income                                -3,285  -4,096    -3.206    -3,686 8
Net current transfers                       239       60      -618    -1:051                 I*    *
Current account balanoe                   3,508    2,C65      -447     -499    | 
Financing ftems (net)                    -2,693     4649    -3,787    7,444
Changes In net reserves                    -815   -1.416     4.234    -6,945   -2
Memo:
Reserves induding gold (US$ miMlions)     7,442    2,807    11,311   13.785
Conversion rate (DEC, localUSS)             0.8      2.6       6.1      6.9
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1980    1990       1999     2000
(USS milions)                                                                   Compostion of 2000 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed                        24.158   24.861
IBRD                                                          11       21                   A.:21 0: 1
IDA                                                           0         0
Total debt service                                           4,839    4.094                               x
IBRD                                                          0         1                      _.
IDA                                                           0         0     G: 10927
Compositon of net resource flows                                                                          -     F: 13.512
Ofcial grants                                               244                                 - 
Official aeditors                          I.                  1                       -              ..
Private creditors                          ..        ,.       0         0
Foreign direct investment                 -19       -5     1,376       ..
Portfolio equity                                           3,855
World Bank program
Commitments                                                   0         0     A- BORD                    E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                                11        10     B-IDA    0-OOtherrmiblateral  F-Prrvata
Principal repayments                                          0         0     C - IMF                    G - Short-term
Netflows                                                     11        10
Interest payrnents                                            0         1
Net transfers                                                 10        9
Development Economics                                                                                           9117/01
-42 -



IBRD 31 723
20-                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~25'                                                                            DISTRICT COUNCIL CODES & NAMES
r ---                                                                                 ZIMBABWE                                            KOIAATTIJ NATAL   NORTHRN060 RONLEI
SOUTH     AFRICA                                                                                                                                                  KIN  2ntZ'v
MUNICIPAL FINANCIAL                                                                                                                                                       DC4MOAMIQE  (-
MANAGEMENT TECHNICAL                                                                                                                                                          X11~ Tj  70  C30Co  
ASSISTANCE            PROJECT                          BOTSWANA                                  T40,012R70                                                    .   -      00032
NORTL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-R                             Ca~~~~~~~ORHR CR7
A PROVINCE CAPITALS                                                                                                                                                   CEOCT N  CS
*  NATIONAL CAPITALS                                                                          rXO CT                                                                         oKoo
Tomo,DISTRICT MANAGEMENT                                                                                                                                                OCW, -l
AREAS                                                                                                                                                       LOCAL MUNICIPALITY CODES & NAMRES
__--LOCAL MUNICIPALITIES    .                                                       '7o                                      (CO                                       P27    -002WOIN
DISTRICT COUNCILS                                                                                                                                                   K . ~  rCN0,0  ATR AELWZALA N.-ATA.oToOl 10000 AEo,oooA
I  'L                                     I                                                                                  7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D3  222  Toom c06c67 
-   co:.. TK'AiL-R.  I    ,.t-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-..                                                           22          B(eC'oooRooo  72224  TooMA   NOTANOR -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~....  24
21''' 'CL  06~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                        72225 (0kohIoobo  6(0TANOR -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KZ4  OR14ANIRV'c
Obn  METROPOLITAN DISTRICT               ~,'',o                            ,-ATO42                                                                             h        24                OTENPOIC
COUNCIL  I'  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~   ~   ~  ~   ~  ~   ~  ~  ~  ~       o.~~~~~~~~                         7OIOTOT0070010IOT  P2244  ToooAgo ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~00E0ON0~S ~   R ,~1P  K2
COUNCIL                                                                                                                                          B-          KZ?15H - ~ 9A  222  Tooh  (0CCR  Oo-okoTo0oooo
PROVINCE BOUNDARIES       ''4                      1"~o~                                     f       J'T     ~     I-o~                                              2 K   oo22of    2200(  GooNodOooOo
INTERNATIONAL                                                                                                                                                       K N'T0I1IP25  A64-bo.  CR106
BOUNDARIES                                                                                        - 0 <'                                                GON0,P22         oToogoN0A o.oo
o  S   LAO  TSO  OTT  250                                  NIIo                                                                                                oKEeob    227    oo,o       NO22 M3oB o
DC2O~~~~~~~                         )E4YOoA0A                               W,1WA       Nf
-~~~~  _  C               C            TOONO                         I                        'T       P22RT  OoTbooooto  P17242  RAoAoog~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E~L ,  N3  1
LI  'TAVT7E  TOTES                                  P2202  TDC27                EoooAALoo.  72202  N,o,otooooo  N7252~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C  ~u KZ2   N. -.  P35
OCTET  COOCT                   3'                      60434                                    obo~~~~~~~~~~F20  72200  T,odoToo  NP3752 
TOTRO   049~~~~~~~~C2S ~~ DC26?4'                  Eloo        EnRO  NT]f0       125  0 
NAMIBIA              -                              O                        0C              -ct02''                       S26I2                 .                29 I  OO&oo     NT172T
KM  DC                                                                               U~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~24  N0724
J  -?  0                                             OVR        F                                            02~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Z.5  NORTH WE000
720453            CR10I  Koloo-T4- E
02066622     01CRLC  NE~.0000oOG2
NOONAHO  /  ,NOOHR   72172/0072/                                                                        P~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~K~20622  000704
_heRh            0Z230  Toohbooo   NW712T NooL
0  TU  Afl~~~~~~~~~~~~~-  o~~~~~~                                                                     Too54,    CR0062           020272 Roooohoo0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5 ~' CBNW73RuW
DCI 6                                                                 a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RC  60W375  .*.
CB(1( 5    Goe 70u62   NW73623 .
~~~~  C4  o ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~304            -.i CR0,04                   38  Z-
202  2                           ToloLogo~  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 747202 THE39170E  P1r64
BC112                                                     30~      ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~747  07041  NooI d
wo, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~022N70090 1 
77.212                  NVA42 0 *
300 6715              60040    oI
Ogoofo.  747220       70~-STR6OR  CAPT
EC13                                                     MP3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0724  W(01 2  (odooho-
OCEAN              -E'DOCR      .CI3,                                                                                                                           70ooA.oo,                       3    =o"o.f B.
NOR700 (AR        4(2   W-oobo
INDIAN     OCEAN            ''   NoeoTooo    CROCI  oooMfo,o    002  O0AA
AoMloo      OCOTOT Ooooooo    7(05Eoo 60
!I          NCC045  oIoCo 0(02
DC2                                                                                                                              NCO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~___7(0  fooCo,O7(24  0 
p                                                                                               d by,h~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(0 apoo oCDo yho200  00oCooho  000.oZ0
Ifa-1                                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Mop D-oog OoO of The WooldS-Rk  TCT 0N1,00W2LCT4  Toyooo B
70071 7ICE  04..      70C22  eoTWo
Th. b-olTOo  f - 01000(,T 01 .CT05             Rod-olo t-22ANT    =
E-     CORE  W6-Looo     05370    W."
p yo doooo.o  -,h.00042  o-f            70(00 1  AlTobKooleyo
020                                    200                                                                               300           _oh Z-boodooo.                             602 Th0o000









IMAGINAG
Report No.:        23291  SA
Type:     PAD



