Report No. 23326
Report No: I076901 <--Please check for duplicates!
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Initial)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 12/03/2001
Section I - Basic Information
A. Basic Project Data
Country: SOUTH AFRICA    Project ID: P076901
Project: Municipal Financial Management Support Project           Task Team Leader:
David G. De Groot
Appraisal Date: December 6, 2001         IBRD Amount ($m): 15.00
Board Date: February 28, 2002    IDA Amount ($m):
Managing Unit: AFTUl     Sector: UM - Urban Management
Lending Instrument: Technical Assistance Loan (TAL)       Status: Lending
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
The Municipal Financial Management Support Project (MFMSP) will support
RSA's program of decentralization to develop the capacity of local
authorities to plan, implement and manage critical services within a sound
fiscal and financial framework.
I.A.3. Project Description:
Components:
A. Implementing Municipal Reforms
Technical Assistance will be required in implementing the existing reforms
& implementation of the following reforms:
(a) Implementation of the Municipal Finance Management Bill/Act. The
Municipal Finance Management Bill (MFMB) -- expected to be enacted during
the parliamentary session in 2001-- prescribes budgeting, accounting and
financial reporting systems, based on international best practices, for
all local governments in SA. The National Treasury's municipal financial
reform program, soon to be mandated through the MFMB, will be implemented
through a three-phase process.
(b) Implementation of Additional Reforms. The additional reforms will
also require implementation assistance, although definition of the precise
scope and scale of required assistance will be possible only upon
finalization of the reforms. For instance, it is very likely that
implementation of regulatory reforms will benefit greatly from access over
time to experienced regulators to advise the new bodies. Reforms to
encourage the development of municipal finance markets may also be
supported by advisory services to municipalities that are new entrants to
this market. The same is likely to be true for reformed intergovernmental
fiscal transfer programs, particularly with regard to assisting
municipalities to meet performance benchmarks. A provision for two
person-years of this type of assistance is, therefore, included in the
project with detailed terms of reference to be stipulated in due course.
B. Design and Implementation of a Municipal Sector Monitoring and Early



Warning System
There is a growing consensus on the critical requirement for coordinated
monitoring and evaluation of performance in the local government sector.
Capacity to monitor key performance indicators will be particularly
crucial over the 18 months or so following completion of the demarcation
exercise. During this time period, all 47 district and 243 local
municipalities should be actively transforming their corporate structures.
The efficiency with which these transformations are implemented will, to a
very large extent, determine the sustainability of local service delivery
and should inform the intergovernmental fiscal transfer system,
particularly with regard to access to CMIP funds.
The National Treasury currently monitors all municipal budgets in order to
assess compliance with annual expenditure growth limits. It is recognized
that the current form of monitoring has a number of severe limitations, in
both design and execution. The National Treasury is currently reviewing
its approach and developing a more appropriate model for monitoring
municipal finances. This review has two components:
a) the monitoring of municipal budgets and financial statements, in
accordance with the budget reform program;
b) the monitoring of intergovernmental transfers, in association with
government's Vulindlela information system, and in compliance with the
Division of Revenue Act
Both these exercises require linkages to appropriate social, economic and
demographic information to permit adequate policy analysis and evaluation
to occur, and in order to track local transformation processes. Much of
this data is available from Statistics South Africa for the newly
demarcated municipalities. Additional baseline data may still need to be
captured, however further details on the design and implementation of the
M & E component will be forthcoming by appraisal.
C. Additional Policy Reforms
RSA has initiated a number of key policy reforms in the municipal sector
over the last 5 years. These include the recent re-demarcation of all
municipal jurisdictions in the country, and drafting of the municipal
systems and structures legislation. Taken together, these reforms have
created an entirely new framework within which SA municipalities will
carry out their responsibilities. Establishment of this complete
framework, covering the entire country, is a signal achievement.
However, this comprehensive framework alone is not sufficient to ensure
equitable and sustainable improvements in municipal and sub-national
service provision to the poor and formerly disenfranchised population.
Within this framework, municipalities must be able to access adequate
resources to meet service needs. The National Treasury, specifically
through the Intergovernmental Relations Branch, has clear,
constitutionally mandated responsibilities to ensure that the financing
and provision of necessary services is carried out in a sustainable
manner. The scope of work are as follows:
(a) Accessing resources
-2-



(b) Supporting Municipal Financial Market Development
(c) Fine Tuning Intergovernmental Fiscal Policy
(d) Regulation
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key
environmental and social characteristics of the area and population likely
to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites or critical
natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
31 municipalities all over the country.
B. Check Environmental Classification: ERROR: Invalid UNID; UNID must be
a 32-digit hex string.
Comments:
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)
Pest Management (OP 4.09)
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)
Cultural Property (OP 4.11)
Projects in Disputed Territories (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice
the final determination of the parties' claims on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions.
If information is not available, describe steps to be taken to obtain
necessary data.
II.D.la. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the
proposed project. Identify and describe any potential large scale,
significant and/or irreversible impacts.
N/A
II.D.lb. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of
more than one safeguard policy or due to multiple project component.
N/A
II.D.lc Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future
activities in the project area.
N/A
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if
required)
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
N/A
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for
-3 -



consultation and disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on
potentially affected people.
N/A
E. Safeguards Classification. Category is determined by the highest impact
in any policy. Or on basis of cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards.
Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the provisions of
that policy apply.
I S1. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or
significant technical and institutional risks in management of one or more
safeguard areas
I S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are
limited in their impact and are technically and institutionally manageable
[XI S3. - No safeguard issues
I SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds,
community driven development or similar projects which require a safeguard
framework or programmatic approach to address safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management
Plan:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED
(For category A projects)
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:      Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Pest Management Plan:    Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Dam Safety Management Plan:      Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected,
please explain why.
Signed and submitted by          Name    Date
Task Team Leader:        David G. De Groot        11/29/01
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:     Name    Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator:         Serigne Omar Fye         11/29/01
Sector Manager/Director:         Jeffrey S. Racki         11/29/01
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
- 4 -



