Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7146 SA 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Municipal Financial Management Technical Assistance Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated September 25, 2002  
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7146 SA 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated
 
September 25, 2002, between REPUBLIC OF SOUTH 
AFRICA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS: (A) the Bank has received from the Borrower a letter, dated 
 June 25, 2002, describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to assist 
in the Borrower’s efforts in supporting municipalities and local governments to 
implement sound financial management systems for the efficient delivery of basic 
services (hereinafter called the Program); 
(B) 
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank dated September 1, 1999 (the General 
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a) 
“Contract Management Unit” means the Contract Management Unit 
within DBSA (as hereinafter defined); 
Page  3
-
2
-
(b) 
“DBSA” means the Development Bank of Southern Africa Limited, 
established and operating as a statutory quasi-public institution under the Borrower’s Act 
No. 13 of 1997; 
(c) 
“Disbursed Amount” means, in respect of each Interest Period, the 
aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account in said 
Interest Period; 
(d) 
“Financial Management System” means a system of planning, budgeting 
and accounting for financial resource management in accordance with international 
accounting standards, to be carried out by DBSA pursuant to paragraph 2 (b) of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
 
(e) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” mean each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(f) 
“Maturity Fixing Date” means, for each Disbursed Amount, the date on 
which the amortization schedule for said Disbursed Amount is established, such date 
being the first day of the Interest Period next following the Interest Period in which said 
Disbursed Amount is withdrawn; 
(g) 
“MFM Bill” means the Borrower’s Municipal Financial Management 
Bill, 2001, intended to be enacted by the Borrower as the legal framework to regulate 
financial management in the local sphere of government; to require that all revenue, 
expenditure, assets and liabilities of municipalities and municipal entities are managed 
economically, efficiently and effectively; to determine the responsibilities of persons 
entrusted with local sphere financial management; to regulate municipal borrowing and 
to provide for other related matters; 
(h) 
“Memorandum of Understanding” means the Memorandum of 
Understanding to be executed between the Borrower and DBSA, referred to in 
paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(i) 
“Operational Manual” means the manual in the Project Implementation 
Plan (as hereinafter defined) which provides details of all procedural arrangements for the 
implementation of the Project, including procurement, monitoring and evaluation process 
and financial management arrangements to be carried out by DBSA;
 
(j) 
“Project Implementation Plan” means the Project Implementation Plan 
referred to in paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, to be adopted by the 
Borrower which contains, 
inter alia
,
the operating procedures for carrying out the 
Project, the procurement plan and details of the financial arrangements under the Project, 
Page  4
-
3
-
as the same may be amended from time to time and such term includes any schedules to 
the Project Implementation Plan; 
(k) 
“SANT” means the Borrower’s National Treasury; and 
(l) “
Vulindlela
 Information System” means the Borrower’s Government-
wide information technology system.
 
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to fifteen million 
United States dollars ($15,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time 
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 of this 
Agreement. 
Section 2.02.  The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made 
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of services 
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and in respect 
of charges in respect of the Loan, the front-end fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2006 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan. On or promptly after the Effective 
Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and 
pay to itself the amount of such fee. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: 
(i) eighty five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
the General Conditions to, but not including, the fourth anniversary of such date; and 
(ii) seventy five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter. 
Page  5
-
4
-
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at 
the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on 
such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in arrears 
on February 15 and August 15 in each year. 
Section 2.08. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraph (b) of this Section, the 
Borrower shall repay each Disbursed Amount of the Loan in full on the eleventh (11
t
h
)
Interest Payment Date following the Maturity Fixing Date for said Disbursed Amount. 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, if any 
Disbursed Amount would, pursuant to the provisions of such paragraph (a), be payable 
after February 15,
 
2011,
the Borrower shall also pay on such date the aggregate amount 
of all such Disbursed Amounts. 
(c) 
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of the amortization schedule for each 
Disbursed Amount promptly after the Maturity Fixing Date for said Disbursed Amount. 
(d) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs (a) through (c) of this 
Section, in the event of a Currency Conversion of all or any portion of a Disbursed 
Amount to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency 
that shall be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that 
reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank under 
the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so 
determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component 
of the Screen Rate. 
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency; 
Page  6
-
5
-
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and 
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on said Variable Rate. 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in 
Section 2.01 (7) of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  
(c) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, the 
Borrower and the Bank hereby agree that unless otherwise notified by the Borrower in 
accordance with the provisions of the Conversion Guidelines, the interest rate basis 
applicable to the aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn during each Interest 
Period shall be changed from the initial Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate for the full maturity 
of such amount in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions 
and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
(d) 
The provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to Conversions agreed 
between the Borrower and the Bank pursuant to paragraph (c) of this Section. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and 
in conformity with appropriate administrative and financial practices, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the 
Project. 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry 
out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement. 
Page  7
-
6
-
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.  
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed to ensure 
sustainability of the Project; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to 
the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the 
Project. 
(b) The 
Borrower 
shall: 
(i) 
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, 
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified 
copies of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section for such year as so audited, and (B) an opinion on 
such statements, records and accounts and report of such audit, 
by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank 
shall have reasonably requested; and 
Page  8
-
7
-
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Bank may from time to time reasonably request. 
Section 4.02. Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in paragraph 3 (b) of 
 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement, the Borrower 
shall prepare, in accordance with terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter, a Financial 
Monitoring Report for such period, which: 
(a) 
sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing separately funds 
provided under the Loan, and explains variances between the projected and actual 
sources and uses of such funds; 
(b) 
(i) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and (ii) explains variances 
between the actual and previously forecast implementation targets; and 
(c) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the end of the 
period covered by said report.
 
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Bank 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which shall 
make it improbable that the Program or a significant part thereof will be carried out. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination
 
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions, namely, that: 
Page  9
-
8
-
(a) 
the Memorandum of Understanding for the administration of the Project, 
in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, has been concluded between the Borrower 
and DBSA; and 
(b) 
the Borrower has adopted a Project Implementation Plan and Operational 
Manual, in a form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
Section 6.02. 
The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purpose of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
40
Church Square 
 
Pretoria 
 
Republic of South Africa 
 
Cable address:   
Facsimile: 
 
(271) 23155111 
   (271) 23155045 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD  
   248423 (MCI) or 
   (202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
     64145 (MCI) 
Page  10
-
9
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA 
 
By 
   /s/ 
Sheila 
Sisulu 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By 
  /s/ 
Theodore 
Ahlers 
Acting Regional Vice President, Africa 
 
Page  11
-
10
-
SCHEDULE 1  
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
Dollars)
to be Financed
(1) 
Consultants’ Services 
 
(a) Foreign 
 
11,850,000 
86% 
 (b) 
Local 
3,000,000 
61% 
 
(2) 
Front End fee 
150,000 
Amount due under 
 
Section 2.04 of this 
 
Agreement 
 
_________ 
 
TOTAL 15,000,000 
======== 
Page  12
-
11
-
SCHEDULE 2
 
Description of the Project 
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower
’s efforts to: (i) support 
selected municipalities in implementing its new budgeting and financial management 
system; and (ii) complete selected analytic work on policy reforms at the local 
government level.   
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part A
:
Implementing Reforms
Assistance in implementing: (i) existing reforms in the local government; and (ii) 
reforms for municipal financial operations and service delivery, including: (a) reforms 
anticipated under the MFM Bill, which contains provisions based on international best 
practices in budgeting, accounting and financial reporting systems and lays down the 
basis for the implementation of municipal finance reform program in three phases; and 
(b) additional reforms such as regulatory reforms, reforms designed to encourage the 
development of a municipal finance market and support to reformed intergovernmental 
fiscal transfer programs, all through the provision of technical advisory services. 
Part B
:
Design and Implementation of a Municipal Sector Monitoring and Early 
Warning System
Support the SANT in developing an appropriate model for monitoring municipal 
finances and creating linkages in the two identified components, namely: (i) the 
monitoring of municipal budgets and financial statements, in accordance with the budget 
reform program; and (ii) the monitoring of intergovernmental transfers, in association 
with the Borrower’s 
Vulindlela
 Information System, and in compliance with the 
Borrower’s Division of Revenue Act, through the provision of technical advisory 
services. 
Part C
:
Additional Policy Reforms
1. 
Implementing reform policies to enable municipalities to access both fiscal and 
financial resources, including drafting legislation for the regulation of municipal systems 
and structures, to clearly stipulate the Borrower’s position on: (i) the responsibilities of 
sub-national entities in accessing finance for provision of basic services; (ii) the existing 
Page  13
-
12
-
policy framework on municipal borrowing; (iii) subsidizing poor households; and (iv) 
allocation of powers and functions, all through provision of technical advisory services. 
2. 
Supporting the development of municipal capital markets to create incentives and 
provide remedies, which would encourage the municipalities to participate and seek 
access to finance through private markets, including implementing the policy framework 
within which borrowing by municipalities should take place, through provision of 
technical advisory services.  
3. 
Re-focusing accuracy in targeting intergovernmental grants in order to enable 
municipalities to improve their creditworthiness by: (i) accurately defining municipalities 
which lack adequate resources to meet their expenditure on minimum operations;  (ii) 
identifying fiscal resources currently being expended at local or community level, and 
analyzing the efficiency for utilization of such resources; (iii) analyzing opportunities for 
simplifying and amalgamation of central resources expended at local levels for greater 
efficiency and support to decentralization; (iv) analyzing the need for, potential benefits 
from, and avenues for extending restructuring grants to additional municipalities; and (v) 
examining new intergovernmental fiscal instruments that may be used in promoting the 
national development goals, all through provision of technical advisory services.  
4. 
Reviewing and reforming policies on regulation of basic service provision to 
ensure efficient delivery and fair pricing of the services provided by the sub-national 
entities, including municipalities, by clearly defining the limits of regulation of critical 
basic services, and to ensure consistent and transparent regulatory arrangements, which 
would provide consumers with regular avenues for public participation, through 
provision of technical advisory services.  
5. 
Supporting the development of management tools by municipalities to link the 
integrated development plans and multi-year budgets, including review of appropriate 
policy and practice, as well as develop appropriate local guidelines and support to 
implement multi-year budgets linked to integrated development plans within a broader 
strategy to build capacity in the local government sphere, through provision of technical 
advisory services. 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2005. 
Page  14
-
13
-
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement 
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and 
revised in September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines) and 
the following provisions of this Schedule. 
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-
based selection of consultants. 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services under the Project estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per 
contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. Individual 
Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
Page  15
-
14
-
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for 
its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 
to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with 
the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 
to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraph 5.2 of the Consultant Guidelines.  The contract shall be awarded only after 
the said approval shall have been given. 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
 
Page  16
-
15
-
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Program
 
Part A
:
Project Implementation
1. 
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Project 
Implementation Plan and shall not amend it or waive any provisions thereof, if in the 
opinion of the Bank, such amendment or waiver may materially or adversely affect the 
implementation of the Project or the achievement of the objectives thereof. 
Part B
:
Memorandum of Understanding 
2. 
For the purpose of the administration of the proceeds of the Loan, the 
Memorandum of Understanding to be concluded between the Borrower and DBSA 
pursuant to Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall include the following terms and 
conditions: 
(a) 
DBSA will be required to: (i) carry out the Project with due diligence and 
efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, administrative, financial and managerial 
standards; and (ii) maintain adequate records to reflect, in accordance with sound 
accounting practices, the operations, resources and expenditures relating to the Project; 
(b) 
DBSA will be required to adopt a Financial Management System of 
planning, budgeting and accounting for financial resource management in accordance with 
international accounting standards; 
(c) 
the services to be financed from the proceeds of the Loan shall: (i) be 
procured in accordance with procedures ensuring efficiency and economy and in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and (ii) be used 
exclusively in the carrying out the Project; and 
(d) 
reserve for the Borrower the right to: 
(i) 
inspect by itself, or jointly with the Bank, if the Bank shall so 
request, any relevant records and documents;
 
(ii) 
obtain all information as the Borrower or the Bank shall 
reasonably request regarding the administration, operation and 
financial conditions of DBSA; and 
Page  17
-
16
-
(iii) 
suspend or terminate the right of DBSA to administer the proceeds 
of the Loan, upon the failure by DBSA to perform its obligations 
under the Memorandum of Understanding. 
Part C
:
Monitoring, Evaluation, Review and Reporting
3. The 
Borrower 
shall: 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in Schedule 5 to 
this Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and achievement of the objectives thereof; 
(b) 
without limitation upon the provisions of Section 9.07 of the General 
Conditions, not later than January 31 and  July 31 of each calendar year, commencing on 
January 31, 2003 and until the Project completion, prepare and furnish to the Bank for its 
review, semi-annual progress reports, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall 
reasonably request;  
(c) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, not later than July 31, 2004, a report integrating the results of the monitoring 
and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the 
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date 
of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying 
out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period 
following such date; and 
(d) 
review with the Bank, by September 30, 2004, or such later date as the 
Bank shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (c) of this Section, and, thereafter, 
take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of 
the said report and the Bank’s view on the matter.   
 
Page  18
-
17
-
SCHEDULE 5 
Performance Indicators 
The performance indicators of the Project shall include the following, said 
indicators being subject to modifications by agreement between the Recipient and the 
Bank: 
Indicators
Target Date
1. 
Design and implementation of municipal  
 
 
February 2005 
financial 
monitoring 
system 
     
 
2. 
Implementation of the new budgeting and  
 
 
June 2006 
municipal financial management systems in  
 
at least 15 municipalities 
 
3. 
Completion of selected analytical report   
 
 
June 2006 
 
and strategic implementation plans 
 
