                               Document of
                             The World Bank




                                                   Report No: ICR0000782




          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                              (IBRD-71460)




                                 ON A

                                 LOAN

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 15.0 MILLION

                                 TO THE

                        REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA

                                 FOR A

MUNICIPAL FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT




                            December 31, 2008




Water and Urban 1
Country Department 1
Africa Region




                                    1

                       CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                  (Exchange Rate Effective June 30 2008)

                     Currency Unit = South African Rand
                           ZAR 1.00 = US$0. 127
                           US$ 1.00 = ZAR 7.85
                             April 1 ­ March 31


                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AsgiSA Accelerated and Shared Growth Initiative for South Africa
CAS    Country Assistance Strategy
CMIP   Consolidated Municipal Infrastructure Program
CPS    Country Partnership Strategy
CQ     Consultant's Qualification
DBSA   Development Bank of Southern Africa
DORA   Division of Revenue Act
DPLG   Department of Provincial and Local Government
ESW    Economic and Sector Work
FMG    Finance Management Grant
FMR    Financial Monitoring Reports
GAMAP  Generally Accepted Municipal Accounting Practices
GDP    Gross Domestic Product
GEAR   Growth, Equality And Redistribution
GoSA   Government of South Africa
GPN    General Procurement Notice
GTZ    Deutsche Gesellschaft für Technische Zusammenarbeit GmbH
GRAP   Generally Recognized Accounting Practices
IBRD   International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IC     Individual Consultant
IDP    Integrated Development Planning
LG     Local Government
M&E    Monitoring and Evaluation
MFMA   Municipal Finance Management Act
MFMB   Municipal Finance Management Bill
MFMTAP Municipal Financial Management Technical Assistance Project
MOU    Memorandum Of Understanding
MSIG   Municipal Systems Improvement Grant
MSP    Municipal Services Partnerships
MSSP   Municipal Sector Support Project
MTEF   Medium Term Expenditure Framework
MTR    Mid Term Review
NIIF   National Infrastructure Investment Framework
NT     National Treasury



                                      2

PAD   Project Appraisal Document
PDO   Project Development Objective
QCBS  Quality and Cost Based Selection
RDP   Reconstruction and Development Program
TA    Technical Assistance




                     Vice President: Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
                   Country Director: Ruth Kagia
                    Sector Manager: Jaime Biderman
               Project Team Leader: Dave DeGroot
                  ICR Team Leader: Ntombini Marrengane/ Barjor Mehta




                                    3

                                       SOUTH AFRICA
        Municipal Financial Management Technical Assistance Project




                                            CONTENTS


1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 5
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ............................................ 13
3. Assessment of Outcomes.......................................................................................... 16
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 24
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 25
6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 26
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 27
Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 29
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 33
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................... 35
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................... 35
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR..................... 37
MAP no. zaf31738




                                                      4

A. Basic Information

                                                                    Municipal Financial
Country:                South Africa          Project Name:         Management Technical
                                                                    Assistance Project
Project ID:             P076901               L/C/TF Number(s):     IBRD-71460
ICR Date:               12/23/2008            ICR Type:             Core ICR
                                                                    REPUBLIC OF
Lending Instrument:     TAL                   Borrower:
                                                                    SOUTH AFRICA
Original Total
                        USD 15.0M             Disbursed Amount:     USD 11.1M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
National Treasury, South Africa
Development Bank of Southern Africa
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process             Date             Process         Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                               Date(s)
Concept Review:                      Effectiveness:       06/18/2003         06/18/2003
Appraisal:             12/13/2001    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              09/12/2002    Mid-term Review:                        06/23/2005
                                     Closing:             06/30/2006         06/30/2008


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                     Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                  Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                             Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                         Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings              Borrower               Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory          Government:           Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory          Implementing
                                              Agency/Agencies:      Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                  Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory          Performance:          Satisfactory




                                              i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                             QAG Assessments
      Performance              Indicators            (if any)               Rating

Potential Problem Project No                  Quality at Entry
                                                                    None
at any time (Yes/No):                         (QEA):
Problem Project at any                        Quality of
                          No                                        None
time (Yes/No):                                Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                          Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                             Original          Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                              67                 33
Sub-national government administration                         33                 67


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Municipal finance                                             Primary          Primary
Other public sector governance                               Secondary        Secondary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                     At ICR                         At Approval
Vice President:           Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili       Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:        Gerard A. Byam                    Fayez S. Omar
Sector Manager:           Jaime M. Biderman                Alain R. Locussol
Project Team Leader:      David G. De Groot                David G. De Groot
ICR Team Leader:          Ntombini Marrengane
ICR Primary Author:       Ntombini Marrengane
                          Barjor E. Mehta



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
In the context of the Government's overall public finance reform and local government
transformation program, the project will support selected municipalities in implementing
the new budgeting and financial management system and assist the National government
to complete selected analytic work on policy reforms. Achievement of the project
objective is necessary to create a platform for efficient and equitable delivery of services
at local government level.




                                             ii

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)




(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target       Formally      Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value          Values (from        Revised        Achieved at
                                               approval           Target      Completion or
                                             documents)           Values       Target Years

Indicator 1 :   Implementation of the new budgeting and municipal financial management
                systems in at least 15 municipalities.
Value
quantitative or 0                         15                                 41
Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/18/2003                  06/30/2005                         06/30/2008
Comments        Achieved- The number of municipalities implementing the new budgeting and
(incl. %        financial management systems by the end of the Project exceeded the original
achievement)    targets by two hundred percent.

Indicator 2 :   Design and Implementation of Municipal Financial Management monitoring
                system.
Value
quantitative or 0                         1                                  1
Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/18/2003                  06/30/2005                         06/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %        Achieved- The monitoring system was designed and implemented using NT and

achievement)   Bank budget resources and without project loan funds.

Indicator 3 :   Completion of selected analytical reports and strategic implementation plans.
Value
quantitative or 0                         5                                  6
Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/18/2003                  06/30/2005                         06/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %        Achieved- Analytical work prioritized by NT has been successfully completed

achievement)   and the target surpassed.


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target       Formally      Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value          Values (from                       Achieved at
                                               approval          Revised       Completion or
                                             documents)       Target Values    Target Years

Indicator 1 :   Implementation of the new budgeting and municipal financial management
                systems in at least 15 municipalities
Value
(quantitative   0                         15                                 41
or Qualitative)



                                               iii

Date achieved 06/18/2003                  06/30/2005                      06/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %       Achieved#The target value was 15 municipalities by the end of the project 41

achievement)   municipalities had registered implementation of the new system.


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                Actual
 No.    Date ISR
        Archived                DO                        IP               Disbursements
                                                                            (USD millions)
  1     10/23/2002          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     0.00
  2     05/20/2003          Satisfactory          Highly Satisfactory                  0.00
  3     11/18/2003          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     0.15
  4     05/18/2004          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     0.15
  5     11/09/2004          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     1.63
  6     04/18/2005          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     1.63
  7     08/25/2005          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     5.90
  8     03/17/2006          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     7.96
  9     12/08/2006          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     7.96
  10    06/28/2007          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     7.96
  11    11/29/2007          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     7.96
  12    05/20/2008          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                    10.91



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




I. Disbursement Profile




                                              iv

v

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 National Context at Appraisal


Since the early 1990s South Africa has undergone a major process of restructuring and
transformation in government at all levels. With the watershed election of the first
democratic and non-racial government in 1994, the priorities of the state were sharply
focused on three critical areas: i) maintaining macroeconomic stability; ii) implementing
a range of pro-poor and developmental programs aimed at redressing the historical and
systemic inequalities of the apartheid system; and iii) creating an accountable and well
capacitated administration. This transformative period was marked by the introduction of
a series of legislation which set the stage for wide ranging reforms aimed at expressing
the new dispensation and entrenching democratic values and representative government
processes.

The macroeconomic context in the 1990s was characterized by a series of critical policy
statements illustrating the Government of South Africa's (GoSA) focus on pro-poor
development, reduction of deficits and rapid revenue growth. The Reconstruction and
Development Program (RDP) followed by the Growth, Equality and Redistribution
(GEAR) policy, and the draft National Infrastructure Investment Framework (NIIF)
argued that social and economic delivery would contribute to the redistribution of
opportunities and income, to increasing productivity and the achievement of higher
growth rates. All three policy documents saw infrastructure and public sector investment
as key levers for economic growth and sustainable development.

Recognizing this, GoSA published the White Paper on Local Government in March 1998.
The intention of that document was to provide a general framework for the formulation of
more detailed policies and legislation on a range of matters, including the fiscal and
financial structure of the local sphere. GoSA also published a policy framework for
municipal borrowing which was a detailed follow-up to the White Paper. It expanded on
the framework for municipal finance and focused, in particular, on the design of the
regulatory framework for local government borrowing. In addition it dealt in detail with
the related matter of central government's response to the financial and fiscal difficulties
that the municipal sector was confronted with.


Municipal context

In this same period, municipalities were rapidly emerging as the fulcrum of South
Africa's newly created system of multi-tiered government. First, the 1996 Constitution
recognized local government as an independent sphere with its own unique set of roles
and importance. Second, it was determined that effective and efficient local government
was critical to the implementation of the GoSA's service delivery priorities. For example,



                                             5

over 80% of the nation's Gross Domestic Product (GDP) is urban based.* The governance
and management of these areas was and still is critical to achieving GoSA's broader
economic objectives. Similarly, there was greater recognition that non-urban local
governments had an essential role in facilitating GoSA's push for integrated rural
development. Third, the delivery of basic municipal services to all communities - urban
and rural ­was dependent on the effective performance of local government. Finally, at
the political level, the 1999 national election campaign revealed the importance that
communities placed on their interface with local councils and administration - an
interface that signaled the strength of South Africa's new democracy. In sum, the final
shape, capacity and performance of local governments in South Africa had direct
implications for the political, social and economic fabric of the society.

As outlined in the White Paper, local government in South Africa has undergone a major
process of restructuring and transformation in a number of different areas. A major
objective of the reforms was to provide municipalities with sufficient resources and
capacity to carry out their extensive responsibilities in respect of the development and
management of the services for which they are accountable. There were six key
dimensions to this transformation:
· At the administrative level, the process involved the amalgamation of the racially
   fragmented local authorities and the creation of democratic and unified municipal
   governments. The demarcation process redefined the boundaries and numbers of the
   local governments. This led to the creation of 283 municipalities, inclusive of 47
   districts, 230 local councils and 6 metropolitan cities covering the entire country. This
   transformation also provided for changes in the roles and functions of municipalities
   in relation to the provision of basic services, such as water, sanitation, electricity and
   refuse removal.
· Following the administrative mergers and demarcation, elections of the new
   government units were held in December 2000 followed by a successful second term
   of election for local government in 2006.
· At the institutional level, local governments were provided with the scope to decide
   on the best mechanism to deliver services to their communities. This was supported
   by legislation to allow municipalities to restructure their operations for more effective
   service delivery. In particular, the legislative environment of the Municipal Systems
   Act provided a tool for participatory governance and development of Integrated
   Development Planning (IDPs) to assist municipalities in conceptualizing and
   executing their developmental mandates.
· Supporting this overall institutional change was the evolving fiscal framework for the
   local sphere. This included the preservation and strengthening of the local tax bases
   (rates and levies) and the rationalization of municipal authority to change tax rates
   and      implement        user-charges.      In   addition,  GoSA replaced  the    ad-hoc
   intergovernmental grants of the apartheid era with a more efficient, equitable, and
   predictable system of recurrent ("equitable share") and consolidated municipal



*State of the Cities Report, South African Cities Network, 2004




                                                     6

    infrastructure program (CMIP) transfers. Changes to the municipal accounting system
    such as the introduction of the Generally Recognized Accounting Practices (GRAP)
    were also gradually being introduced and were soon made mandatory as part of the
    Municipal Finance Management Act (MFMA) in 2003. Finally, the local budgeting
    process was developed to ensure that local governments were placed in the overall
    Medium-Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF) and budgetary framework as an
    independent third sphere of government, consisting of national, provincial and local
    government. Such changes facilitated greater transparency in the fiscal management
    of all three spheres of governments.
· Specific changes to the financial framework included the introduction of the
      following legislation:
      -   Annual Division of Revenue Act (DORA) in 1998, which announced the multi
          year allocations for the three spheres of government
      -   Public Finance Management Act (PFMA) in 1999 legislating the financial
          affairs of national and provincial government, and
      -   Municipal Finance Management Act (MFMA) in 2003 which legislated the
          financial affairs of local government.
· The focus of the MFMA is on budget reforms, improved reporting, transparency and
    efficiency and effective use of public resources at the local level. The reforms also
    focused on the policy framework for municipal borrowing and set out the policy and
    regulatory environment that guided and structured access by local governments to
    debt finance. Taken together, the administrative, institutional, fiscal, and financial
    frameworks form the policy basis for the establishment of an independent and
    accountable sphere of local government as envisioned in the Constitution and the
    White Paper. These four dimensions are closely connected. For example, without
    clarity on the institutional aspects of the demarcation and amalgamation process, local
    governments would find it difficult to access private finance. The demarcation and
    amalgamation process determined the potential fiscal base of the new municipalities
    and had a major impact on their creditworthiness. Similarly, the fiscal framework
    determined the overall revenues of the local government and hence the level of fiscal
    resources that were potentially available to gear up private finance.

At the time of appraisal of the Municipal Financial Management Technical Assistance
Project (MFMTAP) the South African municipal sector was at a unique point in the
country's history. Local government transformation was shifting into a phase in which
the focus was moving towards building the capacity of municipalities to expand
sustainable delivery capacity to underpin real growth. However, given the range of
management capacities at the time, the new local governments required a flexible
capacity building program anchored by policy reforms and new standards of service
delivery. In order to achieve development goals, South Africa needed to develop systems
and capacity to: i) implement policy reforms; ii) entrench the new intergovernmental
fiscal transfer system and iii) monitor performance.

The financial reforms introduced by South African National Treasury (NT) that were
legislated in the MFMA were aimed at improving municipal financial management
practices. These reforms were comprehensive and mostly based on international best



                                               7

practice. However, certain reforms represented innovations for South African local
government. As a result, more focused policy development and access to international
expertise were required for their successful implementation. In addition, NT had to
develop national information databases to enable it to focus on its expanded roles in
terms of the legislation, particularly around monitoring and evaluation of municipal
finances. It is this assistance that informed the development of the MFMTAP which was
aimed at strengthening the new local government system that was being established.


Project Rationale

The project evolved from ongoing dialogue between the Bank and the GoSA on the
primary challenges to implementation of a development program based on growth and
equity for all South Africans. Preparatory work was carried out in order to shape a
program aimed at supporting the structural and functional transformation of local
government. Having agreed that local government was the most effective conduit to
deliver basic services, the dialogue then turned to the identification of barriers and
opportunities for improved service delivery. This included focus on what measures would
be required to strengthen the capacity of local authorities to sustain services within a
sound fiscal framework. As part of these initial discussions, the Bank engaged with
several national departments including the Department of Provincial and Local
Government (DPLG) and the NT to seek solutions. In partnership with these agencies, a
preliminary assessment entitled: Assessing Municipal Capacity in South Africa: Problems
and Proposals was completed in mid-2000. The report found that while local
governments had undergone corporate restructuring and administrative amalgamation,
capacity constraints continued to exist and risked making the creation of accountable and
participatory local government unsustainable. The GoSA then worked with the Bank to
develop a project, the Municipal Sector Support Project (MSSP) to address these specific
needs. During the course of the preparation of MSSP, several departments were consulted
including DPLG. However ultimately the Bank and NT worked closely to define the
parameters of the technical assistance project and sharpen the project objectives to give
dedicated focus to municipal finance reform.

At the time of MFMTAP preparation there were existing donor programs of support from
bilateral agencies such as the Department for International Development, UK (DFID) and
the Deutsche Gesellschaft für Technische Zusammenarbeit GmbH (GTZ) to support the
transformation of local government. However, the GoSA sought to go beyond bilateral
assistance and develop a comprehensive program to harness international experience and
networks such those available through the Bank. The GoSA required that a technical
assistance project be focused, programmatic and carefully sequenced in order to produce
real impact.

In addition, there was a desire by the Bank to demonstrate that lending could be an
effective instrument for cooperation with a high capacity middle income country (MIC)
and an entry point for operationalization of the knowledge agenda. Specifically, despite
the existence of broad administrative capacity and expertise in post-apartheid South



                                              8

Africa there was a need for assistance in developing a democratic and integrated local
government system. Democratic local government only came into existence in December
2000, thus at the time of project design, it was in its infancy. The GoSA recognized the
need for significant resources to build the capacity of new institutions that would be at
the coalface of service delivery. Furthermore, the project presented an opportunity for the
Bank to assist in partnering for the development of the new system, to address
development challenges and to confirm the benefits of continued engagement with the
Bank.


1.2 Original Project Development Objective (PDO) and Key Indicators (as
approved)

In the context of the GoSA's overall public finance reform and local government
transformation program, the project supported selected municipalities in implementing
the new budgeting and financial management system and assisted the GoSA to complete
selected analytic work on policy reforms. Achievement of the project objective was
necessary to create a platform for efficient and equitable delivery of services at the local
government level.

The key performance indicators from the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) focused on
the implementation and monitoring of key policy reforms aimed at strengthening the
performance and equitable delivery of services by local governments.




                                             9

                Component                                    Key Indicators
                                              Implementation of the new budgeting and
                                              municipal financial management systems
 1. Implementation of Reforms                 in at least 15 municipalities

                                              Technology transfers to local government
                                              financial management teams

                                              Improve monitoring system in place

 2. Design and Implementation of a            Improve information available on local
    Municipal Sector Monitoring and           government financial management
    Early Warning System                      performance

                                              Improved ability to assess financial risk at
                                              municipal level

 3. Additional Policy Reforms                 Strategic plans to implement results of
                                              analytical work



1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification

The Project Development Objective and indicators were not revised during the
implementation of the project.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The nation's largest municipalities were the primary target group for this project. The
beneficiaries from the technical assistance provided under the project as articulated in the
PAD were the poor and previously underserved communities excluded from service
delivery under the discriminatory practices of apartheid. The regional distribution of
municipalities initially included under the scope of MFMTAP was as follows:

                           Province             Number of municipalities
                           Eastern Cape                      7
                           Kwa Zulu Natal                    7
                           Gauteng                           6
                           Free State                        3
                           Mpumalanga                        5
                           Limpopo                           3
                           Western Cape                      5
                           North West                        3
                           Northern Cape                     2
                           Total                             41



                                             10

The list is inclusive of all six metropolitan municipalities which at the time of project
preparation constituted 65% of the entire local government budget.  



1.5 Original Components (as approved)

The project was designed to support the GoSA's implementation of policy reforms and to
enable the adoption of the financial management and budget reforms across sector
departments to improve the efficiency of service delivery to the poor. The approved
project components as articulated in the loan agreement are:

(1) Implementation of Reforms (US$10.00 million). The objective of this component
was to support selected municipalities in implementing their new budgeting and financial
management system. This was to be achieved through the implementation of: i) existing
reforms in the local governments; and ii) reforms for municipal financial operations and
service delivery, including:
        a) reforms anticipated under the MFMA, which contains provisions based on
        international best practices in budgeting, accounting and financial reporting
        systems and lays down the basis for the implementation of municipal finance
        reform program in three phases; and
        b) additional reforms such adoption of new regulations, facilitation of the
        development of a municipal finance market and improvements to the
        intergovernmental fiscal transfer programs, all through the provision of technical
        advisory services.

(2) Design and Implementation of a Municipal Sector Monitoring and Early
Warning System (US$1.85 million). This component was to support the NT to develop
an appropriate model for monitoring municipal finances and creating linkages in the two
identified areas, namely: i) the monitoring of municipal budgets and financial statements
in accordance with the budget reform program; and ii) the monitoring of
intergovernmental transfers in association with the Treasury's Vulindlela Information
System, and in compliance with the DORA, through the provision of advisor services.

(3) Additional Policy Reforms (US$3.00 million). This component was to complete
selected analytical work on policy reforms at the local government level. This objective
was to be achieved through the implementation of reforms enabling municipalities to
access both fiscal and financial resources. This included assistance in drafting legislation
for the regulation of municipal systems and structures to clearly stipulate the NT's
position on: i) responsibilities of sub-national entities in accessing finance for the
provision of basic services; ii) existing policy framework on municipal borrowing; iii)
subsidizing poor households; and iv) allocation of powers and functions all through the
provision of technical advisory services.



 2004 South African States of the Cities p.26



                                             11

Further areas of policy reform included:
a) Support for the development of municipal capital markets to create incentives and
    remedies which would encourage the municipalities to participate and seek access to
    finance through private markets, including implementing the policy framework within
    which borrowing by municipalities should take place.
b) Refocusing intergovernmental grants in order to enable municipalities to improve
    their creditworthiness by: i) accurately defining municipalities which lack adequate
    resources to meet their expenditure on minimum operations; ii) identifying fiscal
    resources currently being expended at local or community level and analyzing the
    efficiency for utilization of such resources; iii) analyzing opportunities for
    simplifying and amalgamating central resources expended at local levels for greater
    efficiency; iv) analyzing the potential benefits from and avenues for extending
    restructuring grants to additional municipalities; and v) examining new
    intergovernmental fiscal instruments that may be used in promoting the national
    development goals.
c) Reviewing and reforming policies on regulation of basic service provision to ensure
    efficient delivery and fair pricing of services provided by the sub-national entities,
    including municipalities.
d) Clearly defining the limits of regulation of critical basic services and ensuring
    consistent and transparent regulatory arrangements which would provide consumers
    with regular avenues for public participation.
e) Supporting the development of management tools by municipalities to link the
    integrated development plans and multi-year budgets, including review of appropriate
    policy and practice, as well as develop appropriate local guidelines and support to
    implement multi-year budgets linked to integrated development plans within a
    broader strategy to build capacity in the local government sphere.

Project management was handled by the Development Bank of Southern Africa (DBSA)
based on a memorandum of understanding (MOU) signed by NT.

1.6 Revised Components

Revision of the project components was not required.

1.7 Other significant changes

There were three noteworthy changes in the implementation of the project. The first
significant change in implementation was related to the project schedule. The original
project closing date was anticipated June 30, 2006, however as this was the first loan of
its nature obtained by the GoSA, effectiveness was delayed as a result of parliamentary
processes required for approval of MFMTAP. Due to the delays at the commencement of
the loan and the success of the program, an extension was agreed with NT to ensure that
the project covered the entire period originally envisaged at preparation.




                                             12

The second significant shift in Bank operations was that the client was assertive in
requesting that the Bank demonstrate its value as a knowledge institution as well as a
funding institution. This request was explicitly communicated in correspondence from
the Minister of Finance in agreeing to the loan. In an effort to meet client expectations,
the project team leveraged an additional US$4.9 million in knowledge resources in the
form of trust funds and Bank budget to compliment the loan (see Annex 9). The
knowledge resources consisted of dedicated advisory services to support urban local
authorities to address key development challenges including capacity for long term
participatory planning and research for improved policy decisions at local level. This
additional set of resources resulted, in part, in the third change in project implementation.

The third significant change was in the implementation and funding allocations of the
project. Although the components were not formally revised, the NT undertook
significant work on Component Two to design and implement a municipal sector
monitoring and early warning system using non project funds. Thus this project
component was completed without Bank loan financing. As the disbursement modality
was reimbursement, it was therefore agreed with the GoSA during the Mid-Term Review
(MTR) in 2005 that the funds earmarked for this component be refocused to Component
One. A reallocation of loan proceeds was approved in a letter dated 19 December 2005
cleared by the Regional Vice President to that effect. All activities as envisaged under
Component Two were successfully delivered.


2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

The project design built on key lessons learned in the region and internationally, which
include:

· For decentralization to succeed, the intergovernmental "rules of the game" must be
    clear and predictable. Sub-national governments can become successful facilitators of
    local economic development- and thereby significant contributors to national growth
    only when assignment of expenditure responsibilities, authority to raise revenues and
    systems of accountability to citizens are transparent and accessible.
· Capacity building efforts in sub-national governments are more successful when a
    "learning by doing" approach is adopted. This approach requires that local
    government councils have access to both technical assistance/training and to
    investment capital in order to learn how to plan, implement and manage services that
    respond to local priorities.
· To ensure that local governments make optimal use of capacity building vehicles, it is
    important to design an incentive program that rewards tangible improvements in
    service delivery and other areas of local government performance.
· Since sub-national governments have a variable range of responsibilities and
    capacities in all countries, a sectoral capacity building initiative must be flexible and




                                               13

    responsive. Basic skills may need to be supplied to weaker municipal councils, while
    stronger councils may demand more sophisticated and specialized inputs.

Despite the fact that democratic local government in South Africa was still in its
formative years during project design and appraisal, it was determined that the risks to
the project were negligible for the following reasons: i) demonstrated commitment by the
GoSA's to stabilize its economy; ii) the consistent implementation of economic growth
policies by the GoSA and iii) ongoing support received from donor countries since 1996
to implement the reforms reflective of good intergovernmental principles and pro-poor
policies.

Moreover, as a middle income country, South Africa's primary need in entering into a
lending relationship with Bank was knowledge banking and technical assistance rather
than traditional finance. Therefore the design of the loan was based on reimbursable
technical assistance model. Based on this approach, the GoSA was able to access
international experts with a practical understanding of municipal finance reforms and the
challenges of implementation.




2.2 Implementation

There were a number of unique features to this project which effected implementation.
The first was that the implementation arrangements were based on a memorandum of
understanding (MOU) between the DBSA and the NT due to existing capacity within
DBSA to manage and execute Bank projects. This option was preferred by NT and the
Bank rather than the creation of new agencies to undertake the management of the loan.

The second was that as the Bank Task Team Leader (TTL) was based in the South Africa
Country Office and there was capacity within the NT and its agent DBSA to manage loan
operation. Therefore, in addition to World Bank supervision missions there was also
supervision by DBSA on a continuous basis with active interaction with the World Bank
country office.

Third, at the mid-term review (MTR) in 2005 it was observed that GoSA did not request
the funds originally allocated under Component Two for the design and implementation
of a municipal sector monitoring and early warning system. The MTR also confirmed,
retrospectively, that work on the grant framework and monitoring system was undertaken
during 2003 and 2004. This review resulted in recommendations for effective monitoring,
coordination, feed-back, process and systems modification. The review also provided
areas for prioritization, examined the phased approach and suggested performance
monitoring measures beyond the initial phases to assist in promoting decentralized
reporting and accountability. Subsequent to the review, limited work was undertaken on
Component Two using MFMTAP funding. However, the NT undertook further work in
the interim using its own resources as well leveraged resources from the Bank which
were not directly from the loan. The design of the monitoring system was carried out with



                                            14

economic and sector work (ESW) and grant resources mobilized by the TTL. The
implementation was financed by NT and as a result the allocation to support Component
Two was refocused to Component One thus enabling the Project to expand its reach
beyond the original 15 target municipalities to reach a total of 41 local authorities with
technical assistance. It must be emphasized that MFMTAP was designed as a
reimbursable TA project; the main benefit for the GoSA was access to international
technical assistance, rather than financial assistance.


2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

Several mechanisms for monitoring and evaluation of project results and impacts were
utilized over the life of the project by the GoSA and the Bank. GoSA carried out its own
monitoring and evaluation activities through out the life of the project and which
included:
· Baseline assessment by NT at the inception of the project;
· Selection of pilot sites for early implementation of the MFMA reforms in preparation
    for national coverage of the technical assistance project for reform;
· Workshops;
· Questionnaires;
· Interviews;
· Monthly reports on the performance of international advisors and of each
    municipality on its progress towards implementation of the MFMA;
· End of project evaluation.

In terms of Bank requirements for monitoring and evaluation, the four main tools utilized
include: i) semi annual reports from the GoSA; ii) annual audits; iii) a mid term review;
and iv) implementation status and results reports (ISR). The semi annual reports from the
GoSA were prepared and submitted by the project management team at DBSA. The
reports contained narratives and detailed expenditure reports which included procurement
tables and summaries of procurement actions undertaken during the previous six months.
These reports supplemented regular communication with the field-based TTL and
consistent engagement by the TTL to ensure that all requirements were fulfilled. Annual
audits were also submitted to the Bank financial management specialists as required by
the loan agreement.


2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Procurement Issues. The procurement for the project was contracted out by the NT to
an Implementing Agency, the DBSA.             The DBSA was established by an Act of
Parliament (Act No. 13 of 1997). Its mandate includes: i) investment in infrastructure and
facilitation of the provision of infrastructure development finance; and ii) mobilizing
expertise for infrastructure to improve the quality of life of the people of Southern Africa.
At appraisal it was determined that based on previous experience with Bank financing
and the cadre of available experts with a track record of managing Bank financed


                                              15

contracts, the DBSA would on behalf of NT be responsible for day to day management of
the project as determined by a MOU between the NT and DBSA.

Procurement was carried out competitively and in accordance with consultant's
qualifications (CQ), quality and cost based selection (QCBS) and individual consultant
(IC) methods as outlined in the Guidelines for Selection and Employment of Consultants
with World Bank Borrowers throughout the life of the project. However at the end of the
project there was one instance of late submission by the DBSA to the Bank of its requests
for no-objections for contract variations. The variations were due to unanticipated
changes in project personnel. The consequence of delays in submission of the requests for
no-objections was that related claims were ineligible for reimbursement. As a result not
all withdrawal applications could be honored and part of the loan was not disbursed.

Safeguards: As the project was focused on technical assistance for financial
management, budgeting and policy reforms, safeguard policies were not applicable.




2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

The NT has committed to sustaining the reforms enacted under MFMTAP and continuing
to support their implementation nationally. The following critical steps have been
undertaken to ensure sustainability of the project gains:
· The adoption and mainstreaming of the Finance Management Grant designed under
    the project into the national budget as part of the MTEF;
· The expansion of MFMA training including the accreditation of learning materials by
    the South African Qualifications Authority. The training includes tailored learning
    for: i) Accounting Officers; ii ) Chief Financial Officers; iii) Senior Managers; iv)
    Finance Officials; and v) Supply Chain Management;
· Establishment of an internship program piloted in municipalities participating in
    MFMTAP to build capacity amongst new graduates and enlarge the pool of qualified
    and experienced municipal practitioners.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)

The project objectives were and remain relevant to South Africa's national development
goals as articulated in the 1999 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS). At the time of
project design, MFMTAP built on the desire by the GoSA to implement its vision of
inclusive growth by accessing the knowledge resources of the Bank in addition to its
financial resources. The project design was crafted in dialogue with GoSA counterparts
and reflected an emphasis on fiscal discipline and debt management as a means to create
sustainable local governments. Specifically, the project enabled the GoSA to move
beyond the short-term interventions of bilateral doors and develop a systematic and



                                            16

structured methodology for building capacity and transferring skills in the following
areas:
    · Financial management reforms;
    · Implementation of new budgeting and reporting systems;
    · Debt management and monitoring.

The relevance of the project was affirmed in             2006 when the GoSA launched the
Accelerated and Shared Growth Initiative for South Africa (AsgiSA) program which
identified six key "binding constraints" to growth and poverty reduction. Capacity
remains high on the list of constraints which includes a shortage of skilled labor and
deficiencies in state organization, capacity and leadership.

In the period 2006- 2007, a new Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) was developed and
approved which continues to build on the engagement between the Bank and the GoSA
on a knowledge agenda. The new CPS has two pillars: i) urban and rural development;
and ii) regional integration. Capacity building also remains a cross cutting theme in the
CPS as was the case in the 1999 CAS. Towards a 15 Year Review, a policy document
published by the Presidency in 2008 affirms the importance of local government as a
mechanism for enhancing public participation in the democratic life of the country as
well as poverty reduction. The Review also emphasizes the need for public sector
capacity building broadly, and municipalities in particular, to remain a priority in order to
increase the availability of skills in technical, senior management and leadership
positions thereby enabling sustainable service delivery.


3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
(Details on outputs in Annex 2)

Achievement of PDO is rated satisfactory.              The achievements by component are
summarized below.

3.2.1 Component 1: The Technical Assistance to implement the financial
        management reforms.(US10 million; US$ 10.5 million actual) --Satisfactory.

The overall objective of Component One was to support the implementation of financial
management reform in at least 15 pilot municipalities through the provision of municipal
financial management advisors placed directly in those municipalities; and to use their
experience to guide the subsequent roll-out of the reforms to all municipalities nationally.
The Minister determined that certain sections of the MFMA would become effective
based on the existing capacity to implement the new legislation. For example, high
capacity municipalities were required to implement the new accounting standards with
effect from 1 July 2005. Medium capacity municipalities were required to implement the



 Towards a Fifteen Year Review, 2008, Presidency, The Republic of South Africa p.15




                                                 17

accounting standards with effect from 1 July 2006, whilst low capacity municipalities
were required to implement these standards with effect from 1 July 2007. It should be
noted that this classification related only to compliance with the MFMA and is not a
general classification of the capacity of municipalities within South Africa. In devising a
methodology for the selection and placement of technical advisors municipalities
responsible for the largest share of the annual turnover in the local government sphere
were deemed priority areas for the MFMTAP support given their significance to the
national economy. Advisors were placed within municipalities that accounted for
approximately R73 billion of the total annual budgets and approximately 27.5 million of
the country's total population of approximately 45 million people.§

The implementation of the new budgeting and financial management systems was
prioritized in the initial phase of the project. The specific program of activity under this
component included:
· Assisting pilot municipalities with improving budget and consultation processes;
· Preparing multi-year budgets, in-year reporting and refinement of reporting standards;
· Creating models and case studies for budget preparation for replication nationwide;
· Building awareness on the steps to attaining and retaining creditworthiness;
· Modernizing supply chain management policies and practices;
· Assisting with accounting reforms and the introduction of GRAP;
· Ensuring compliance with uniform norms and standards for reporting financial data;
· Publishing budgetary information to improve the transparency and the accountability
    of public funds.

The other area of work included rendering advice on municipal borrowing. During this
time, the City of Johannesburg was the first South African municipality to issue
municipal bonds in accordance with the new municipal borrowing framework. Based on
the success of the technical assistance component, NT received further requests for
support from other municipalities in both urban and rural localities thereby increasing the
number of municipalities benefiting from the program to 41 municipalities. These
municipalities represent approximately 75 percent of the budgets of the local government
sphere. Municipalities which benefited from the technical assistance demonstrated
significant improvement in the quality of budget framework papers, development plans
and monitoring of flow of public funds at local level. The consistency of reporting to NT
also improved as early as 2006 in pilot sites. The project target of 15 municipalities was
achieved early in the project cycle and its lessons replicated during the remaining life of
the project in an additional 26 municipalities.

During the life of the project, in an effort to accelerate reforms and expand beyond the
technical assistance to the original pilot municipalities, the NT developed two
instruments to support high, medium and low capacity local governments to implement



§Information on population statistics has been obtained from the Division of Revenue Act, Act no 1 of
2005




                                                    18

MFMA reforms. The two instruments were: i) the Municipal Systems Improvement
Grant (MSIG), and ii) the Finance Management Grant (FMG). In the period including
2004/05-2010/11, the NT has committed a budget of ZAR1.2 billion and ZAR 1.4 billion
to each grant respectively. The financial commitment demonstrated by the NT is
characteristic of the GoSA's complete ownership of the effort.

             Period         Finance Management              Municipal Systems
                                    Grant                  Improvement Grant
                                  (R million)                    (R million)
             2003/04                  212                           150
             2004/05                  198                           182
             2005/06                  199                           200
             2006/07                  199                           200
             2007/08                  145                           200
               Total                  953                           932
Source: 2008 Budget Review, National Treasury, p134 and 2004 Budget Review,
National Treasury, p164

3.2.2 Component 2: Design and Implementation of Municipal Financial
       Management monitoring system---Satisfactory. The component achieved its
       objective. (US$1.85million, US$0 actual)

This component was a requirement arising from the conditional and unconditional grant
programs the processes and procedures in monitoring grants and the alignment with
provisions as promulgated in the MFMA. At the time of project design, the reforms to
the municipal financial management monitoring system were already underway led by
NT. However, it was recognized that the system required refinement, specifically in the
areas of conceptual framework and design.

Much of the work was concluded without funding from the MFMTAP. The work
contributed to the development of the Africa Region Working Paper Series No 98, issued
in May 2006, entitled Measuring Intergovernmental Fiscal Performance in South Africa
and was co-authored by NT and Bank staff. This also provided the Bank with an
opportunity to share globally the knowledge gained through progress made in South
Africa. The monitoring system was designed and implemented using NT resources and
Bank budget resources mobilized by the project team without using project funding. The
monitoring system was just one example of the leveraging of knowledge resources
performed by the project team to strengthen the quality of the Project outputs.**




       ** See section 1.7 and Annex 9.




                                          19

3.2.3 Component 3: Selected Research and Analytical reports--Satisfactory. This
       component achieved its objective.(US$3 million; US$1.05 million actual)

The objective of Component Three was to contribute towards the unfinished financial
management policy reform agenda for the local government sector in South Africa. This
component was achieved through the use of international expertise to design appropriate
policies for operating within the South African municipal environment. Research and
analytical work carried out under this component included:
· Further development and refinement of the unconditional and conditional grant
    systems;
· Improvement to the equitable share model for redistribution of national resources to
    municipalities, addressing policy priorities of universal access to basic services, in the
    water, sanitation, refuse removal, and electricity sectors;
· Reponses to the expansion of municipal infrastructure to under-served areas of the
    country;
· Challenges to implementation of the Property Rates Act;
· Alternative sources of revenue to replace the discontinued Regional Services Levies.

Analytical papers were produced and public comments received to the various proposals,
which are now being considered by GoSA for implementation in the near future.
Generally, the overall contribution to the various projects has resulted in policy
refinement to the allocation system and recommendations are captured in the supporting
documentation to the National Budget of the Republic of South Africa. A table detailing
resources mobilized as well as knowledge products developed during the life of the
Project related to the South African local government agenda can be found in Annex 9.


3.3 Efficiency
(Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, cost effectiveness, e.g., unit rate norms,
least cost, and comparisons; and Financial Rate of Return)

As the project was based on technical assistance not investment, no cost-benefit or cost
effectiveness analysis was conducted during project appraisal. The MFMTAP was
developed as a vehicle to support the GoSA to introduce municipal finance reforms to a
defined number of newly created local authorities, based on a pilot­case completed
before national-wide implementation. The reforms were based upon a wide sweeping set
of legislative changes aimed at increasing the transparency and accountability of local
government as part of the democratic transformation process. The MFMTAP supported
the GoSA to systematically and incrementally introduce the needed reforms within a five
year window.

This approach had two important and measurable consequences. First was that the
process enabled the GoSA to quickly identify challenges in the reform process, thereby
enabling adaptation where required and increasing efficiency in the introduction of the
reform package. Moreover it facilitated the early attainment of the PDO indicators.
Second, in parallel to this process was the financing of a series of reform support



                                             20

programs by GoSA through the creation of new financial instruments that further
entrenched municipal finance reforms. While meeting its own targets, the project created
momentum for the GoSA to introduce and scale up various institutional capacity building
programs to ensure that investments made during the life of the project would be
sustainable into the future.

Over the period of the project, efficiency in managing tasks associated with municipal
finance markedly improved. For example, participating local governments were able to
increase budget expenditure by 50% thus demonstrating a greater capacity to plan and
execute municipal budgets, just one area of reform. This milestone is significant when
recalling that prior to December 2000, democratic and accountable local governments did
not exist in South Africa. Another example of reforms implemented that has resulted in
efficiency at local government level is the improved record of participating local
governments in the tabling and approval of municipal budgets within the annual
deadlines as well as preparation of annual audited statements. Both of these practices
were introduced with MFMTAP and participating municipalities have demonstrated
compliance.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(combining relevance, achievement of PDOs, and efficiency)
Rating: Satisfactory

The project was driven by the country's strategic development needs as articulated in the
1999 CAS and amplified in the 2008 CPS. Despite under-spending of Bank funds, all
project components were achieved within the life of the project. The lessons learned
through the execution of each component have continued to inform municipal financial
management reforms and further investments by the GoSA dedicated towards
accelerating the building of skills in municipalities for improved sustainability and
delivery. Specific achievements over the life of the project include implementation of the
following milestones in all participating municipalities, in accordance with the MFMA:
· Establishment of supply chain management committees and audit committees as
    legislated;
· Adoption of the GAMAP/GRAP in advance of October 2007 deadline;
· Tabling and approval of budgets in all municipalities prior to the start of the budget
    year.

The above milestones provide concrete examples of how the technical assistance loan
supported the implementation of reforms to improve municipal financial management.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

The impact of the project on poverty, gender and social development is best demonstrated
in two ways. Firstly, the project supported the entrenchment of a representative local
government system as articulated in the watershed post-apartheid Constitution. This new



                                           21

system of democratic and non-racial governance was newly established at the time of
project design and, as a result, the project was able to build on the momentum and
commitment of the GoSA and its stakeholders to implement far reaching and strategic
reforms to address historical inequalities based on race, ethnicity and gender. Secondly,
the project's focus on the deployment of technical assistance has contributed to the
enhancement of the application and measurement of the reform process critical to
ensuring equity and accountability in service delivery.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

The main achievement of the project has been its contribution to strengthening central
and local government institutions in the planning, budgeting and implementation of best
practice in financial management. The progress made in public expenditure by many of
the municipalities that participated in the program is ongoing and constantly improving as
reflected by the comparisons on the levels of expenditure when compared to provisions
made in municipal budgets. The NT also benefited by expanding its ability to respond
effectively to the implementation of the package of financial reforms targeted at
municipalities. The program also assisted in identifying a number of skills gaps that
needed to be addressed through specialized training initiatives. The constant
improvement to the information and data base of knowledge has also contributed to the
publications of NT which are used to build capacity in Parliament to be able to provide
effective oversight over utilization of public funds.

The project has strengthened the GoSA's program of equity and service delivery for
reconstruction and development at two levels. At an institutional level, by supporting the
design, resourcing and implementation of the MFMTAP, the project created a platform
from which the GoSA could identify, adapt and entrench a new administrative and
qualitative standard for local government services. This has included:
· Implementation of the new accounting standards GRAP;
· Creation of mechanisms for systematic inclusion of community perspective in budget
    preparation, planning and review prior to approval;
· Greater transparency in reporting, tracking and monitoring of expenditure, debt and
    supply chain management.

All of these reforms have facilitated a higher level of spending and accountability in local
governments. Below is a graph which illustrates the improvement in spending in the 41
municipalities over the life of the project. The expenditures are divided into two
categories ­ operational and capital. Operational expenditures include bulk purchase of
water and electricity as well as infrastructure repairs and maintenance. Capital
expenditure includes creation of water, sanitation, and road infrastructure.




                                              22

                     Municipal Expenditure for Selected Municipalities

                7000000
                6000000
    ds)         5000000
                4000000                                                      Operational Expenditure
       usan
                3000000                                                      Capital Expenditure
           Tho( 2000000
           R 1000000
                      0
                        04         05         06         07         08
                          03/        04/        05/        06/        07/
                             20         20         20         20         20

Source: 2008 Intergovernmental Fiscal Review: Local Government Budget and
Expenditure Review: 2003/04 - 2009/10.

Furthermore, the project demonstrated a concerted effort to ensure skills transfer as part
of the reform and technical assistance process. Work was carried out in the following
areas:
· Transfer of the administrative and technical skills required to meet new standards of
   financial and performance management by technical advisors;
· Establishment of an experiential internship and recruitment of new graduates in
   finance and economics to build applied skills for municipal administration with the
   goal of increasing the pool of local government practitioners in the country;
· Clarification of roles and responsibilities among senior municipal management in
   order to ensure integrity of processes;
· Creation of accredited training programs for municipal officials to strengthen the
   institutional knowledge and implementation of reforms.

During the course of the project as per agreement with NT, the Bank, in collaboration
with bilateral donors, was able to leverage an additional US$4.9 million in resources to
support the strengthening local governments to deliver on their constitutional mandate
through a program of research, technical assistance as well as knowledge dissemination.
The primary donors of these additional resources have included the Cities Alliance and
the Public Private Infrastructure Advisory Facility (PPIAF). A parallel impact was that
the project created additional platforms from which other critical reforms could be
launched, these included:
· Support for improved municipal creditworthiness;
· Newly established knowledge networks for improved governance at local government
   level;
· Capacity building for long term planning;
· Regional platforms for dissemination of lessons on the fiscal reforms introduced and
   executed in South Africa.




                                                       23

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

There have been several positive unintended outcomes of the MFMTAP. These included
i) requests from other countries to NT to learn and exchange ideas on the implementation
of similar financial management reforms and ii) establishment and utilization of the
MFMA website to share the knowledge gained has been a supporting tool for local and
international practitioners.

In addition, the project has enhanced the development of uniform norms and standards,
especially as it relates to better access to information from municipalities on its allocation
towards developmental priorities. More specifically:
· This contribution also allowed municipalities to publish in-year revenue and
    expenditure performance against budget.
· The information generated from this reform has empowered local councilors, national
    and provincial legislature members and public office bearers to play a meaningful
    oversight role over local government programs based on the improved information
    systems.
· The information produced by the financial reforms also allow sector departments to
    engage with municipalities effectively on their performance to achieve delivery
    targets agreed to with national and international institutions.
· GoSA's program on sustainable human settlements have been given a boost with the
    budget information now available to policy makers.

Looking at the success of the loan, the GoSA realized that the urban agenda was an
effective platform for engagement with the Bank. As a result, in the new CPS which has
two pillars, focus on urban development is starting to gain momentum. The project has
also assisted in the fostering of partnerships with the private sector on municipal projects
and the leveraging of private sector funding for public infrastructure. This has resulted in
large cities such as Johannesburg and the City of Cape Town, entering the municipal
bond market, which has been dormant since the early 1970s.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
N/A


4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Negligible to low (For all components of the project)

The NT continues to fully own, drive and adequately fund the process of strengthening
local governments. Additionally, service delivery through local governments continues to
be a major focus of the GoSA. Therefore, there is no foreseeable risk to the development
outcomes of the project.




                                               24

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry: Satisfactory
Through a longstanding and evolving relationship with GoSA since reengagement by the
Bank in the early 1990s, there has been a substantial effort towards building trust,
creating networks and increasing options for Bank support during the South African
transition. The MFMTAP design and execution was built on an existing partnership with
the GoSA to strengthen the institutional reforms in the municipal sector resulting from
the transformation process. The Bank provided a range of instruments to GoSA including
ESW, grants and lending. The Bank has remained a steadfast
partner in the GoSA-driven reform process and has provided flexible support to ensure a
successful outcome.

(b) Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory
Supervision was delivered on a continuous basis throughout the life of the project. The
project TTL was based in the World Bank Mission in South Africa and as a result was
available to meet with the Implementing Agency, the DBSA as well as NT at consistent
intervals and on-demand. When problems arose with procurement during the course of
implementation the TTL was able to react quickly and work closely with the DBSA to
resolve the outstanding issues.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance: Satisfactory
The project builds on a well nurtured relationship with the GoSA and an understanding of
the imperatives faced by a democratic government in post-apartheid South Africa. The
existing body of analytical work enabled the Bank to prove its ability to meet the
knowledge requirements of a new government and the decentralization of the task
manager ensured a constant dialogue with the client and a level of flexibility that enabled
a satisfactory result. The strong ownership of the GoSA including the MOU with the
DBSA to provide project management support ensured that the client's needs and
priorities were always in focus.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance: Satisfactory
The GoSA was a highly committed counterpart and displayed strong ownership of the
project. The GoSA was a highly capacitated and well resourced counterpart for this
project and as such was able, on an ongoing basis, to extract lessons and use them to
inform GoSA initiated capacity building and skills development programs for the
municipal sector. In addition, the GoSA has committed substantial financial resources
towards the expansion of the technical assistance program to include municipalities
outside of the initial pilot group.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance: Satisfactory




                                            25

The DBSA was a highly experienced and well functioning implementing agency. The
DBSA was well organized to manage Bank procurement, reporting and administrative
requirements. The DBSA was able to provide consistent and timely advice to the GoSA
in the implementation of MFMTAP. The DBSA also played a critical role in ensuring the
there was close communication between the GoSA and the Bank as well as timely
delivery and human and financial resources.

Supervision
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance: Satisfactory
The GoSA was highly committed to the objectives of the project as evidenced by the
sweeping legislative and administrative reforms undertaken prior to project effectiveness.
The ability of the GoSA to reach targets well in advance of project timelines
demonstrates their full support for the technical assistance project as does the increasing
financial commitment to the municipal sector based a series of parallel investments by
the GoSA in programs to improve municipal performance.

6. Lessons Learned

Lessons for General Application

While technical assistance projects can provide key inputs to capacity building
initiatives at the local government level, sustained efforts by key national agencies
(such as the NT) are critical and essential to build on progress made. This is
particularly important in the local government sector because of risks posed by continued
mobility of skills from the smaller / rural local governments to the larger urban centers.

A TA loan facility is a sound instrument to assist a country to implement and roll out key
reforms. A targeted sector-specific TA loan with clear linkages to national reform
efforts is an effective means for the Bank to engage with MICs. However, the Bank
may need to review the process involved in accessing TA facilities as the standard
processes for a TA loan are often questioned by highly capacitated MICs. A new model
to facilitate TA is essential and required such that the Bank can be more relevant and
responsive to the needs of MIC recipients.

Capacity building of local government officials in a clearly determined reform area
through mentoring and on-the-job inputs by resident international experts is a
viable strategy. To be successful, such an approach requires that the level of expertise
and experience of the international experts substantially exceeds that of the national staff.
Regular feedback from staff being mentored on the quality of inputs provided by
international experts is essential to maintain confidence and forward movement.
Furthermore mentorship as a modality for building capacity is a sound approach to
ensure that skills are transferred and for sustainability of project achievements.

Developing capacity to implement reforms and increase the skills base for local
government is a long-term commitment. The unique and sweeping range of reforms
enacted by the GoSA required multi-phase implementation and although the Bank project



                                              26

was for a cumulative 5 years a longer time horizon was required. Capacity building
needs to be designed to unfold in a systematic and ongoing manner to ensure
realistic and measurable results.

Lessons for Middle Income Countries

In MICs, sourcing of project management from high-capacity national agencies
should be encouraged. Such arrangements are not only cost and process efficient, they
also allow the Bank and government counterparts to enhance their focus on substantial
technical issues. However, national agencies which have strong project management
capacities may find the Bank's normal project supervision and other related requirements
to be overly constraining. In such circumstances, the Bank teams and their national
counterparts need to establish suitable working arrangements that satisfy their respective
policies and procedures.

In MICs where financial resources are not a priority for the Government but
technical assistance or specialized expertise is in demand, lending can be a point of
access for the Bank's knowledge resources. The process to conclude technical
assistance support may need to be re-examined. The Bank may need to differentiate
between countries that have project management capabilities from those with limited
management capacity.


7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

See Annex 7.

(b) Cofinanciers
N/A

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society) N/A




                                           27

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                       Appraisal            Actual/Latest
         Components                 Estimate (USD          Estimate (USD           Percentage of

                                        millions)              millions)             Appraisal

A. IMPLEMENTING
REFORMS                                      10.00               14.85                 148.5

B. DESIGN AND
IMPLEMENTATION OF A
MUNICIPAL SECTOR                               4.85                 0                     0
MONITORING AND EARLY
WARNING SYSTEM
C. ADDITIONAL POLICY
REFORMS - TECHNICAL                            5.00               1.1                   .22
ASSISTANCE



         Total Baseline Cost                 19.85               15.95                  80.3

Physical Contingencies                         0.00              0.00                   0.00

Price Contingencies                            0.00              0.00                   0.00
          Total Project Costs                19.85               15.95                  80.3
Front-end fee PPF                              0.00              0.00                   0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                             0.15              0.15                   100
  Total Financing Required                   20.00               16.1                   80.5




(b) Financing

                                         Type of         Appraisal Actual/Late

        Source of Funds                     Co-           Estimate     st Estimate Percentage

                                        financing          (USD            (USD       of Appraisal
                                                          millions)      millions)
Borrower                                                    5.00            5.00            100
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development                              15.00           11.1             .74




  The South African Government had a parallel financing program dedicated to the implementation of the
MFMA and improved capacity for local government performance over the same period.




                                                 28

Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component One: Implementation of the new budgeting and municipal financial
management systems in at least 15 municipalities

Deployment of International Advisors

The overall objective of Component One was to support the implementation of financial
management reform in at least 15 municipalities through the provision of municipal
financial management advisors placed directly in those municipalities; and to use their
experience to guide the subsequent roll-out of the reforms to all municipalities nationally.
Direct support was provided to 41 municipalities over the project life cycle.

Specific objectives of this component were to:
· Assist municipalities develop and regularly review MFMA implementation plans ,
· Review, consolidate and build on the financial reform foundation;
· Assist the pilot municipalities with improving budget and consultation processes,
    preparing multi-year budgets, introducing GAMAP/GRAP, in-year reporting and
    refine reporting standards;
· Create models and case studies for budget preparation that can be replicated
    throughout the country;
· Create awareness of the steps required to attain financial sustainability and improve
    creditworthiness;
· Build and enhance municipal financial capacity amongst councilors, officials and
    interns.

The key deliverables were to assist and advise each municipality to implement the
provisions of the MFMA through the modernization and automation of their financial
management systems. More specifically, this entailed:
· The guidance and support in developing new processes, procedures, systems to cover
    budget reforms, financial reporting, accounting procedures and revenue enhancement;
· Training in budget preparation, accounting, financial planning and performance
    measurement at all levels within the municipality;
· Comment on reforms and recommend improvements before implementation on a
    national basis;
· Develop models and best practices to assist in implementation, including case studies
    and training workshops.

The first municipal finance advisors were placed in January 2003 and subsequently a
total of 35 advisors, with assistance and donor support from the United Kingdom and
Germany, were procured through two international consulting firms and four individual
local contracts. The consulting firms were asked not to recruit replacements for the
advisors in the City of Cape Town Metropolitan Municipality, where the contracts of the
advisor were terminated early due to internal dynamics in the municipality. The contracts


                                            29

of eight advisors were extended beyond early 2005 for periods of between five and
twelve months, based on the need of the beneficiary municipalities and the availability of
the advisors.

From November 2004, National Treasury also assisted with capacity building in other
municipalities where advisors had not been placed on a regional basis. Four local
advisors were appointed to assist such municipalities develop implementation plans for
the reforms and improve municipalities' understanding of the MFMA, amongst other
responsibilities. Three of those advisors were funded by the MFMTAP on one year
contracts; the fourth advisor was funded by the DBSA and was seconded to National
Treasury.

Four local advisors were procured competitively and contracted to provide a roving
capacity building function on a provincial-wide basis in the following provinces:

             Limpopo                   North-West
             Mpumalanga                Free State

German government donor support was used to leverage a further two advisors to serve
in the Eastern Cape Province due to the size of the area and its challenges. This was a
cost-effective way of rolling out the benefits of this project to smaller municipalities. A
second and longer term component of the capacity building work carried out by the NT
with the assistance of the international technical advisors was the development of an
internship program explained in detail in the next section.


Component Two: Design and Implementation of a Municipal Sector Monitoring and
Early Warning System

The objective of this component was to develop an appropriate model for monitoring
municipal    finances,  including    municipal    budgets,    financial   statements   and
intergovernmental transfers, in order to measure performance and provide early warnings
of potential problems. The review of the transfer system, documenting past practices and
highlighting current measures and how to shape the new monitoring system with the
development of the regulatory framework, formed part of this component.

A study was undertaken on Municipal Grant Monitoring in South Africa. The initial
municipal monitoring system that has been implemented focused on accountability
reporting by municipalities to national and provincial government departments that had
allocated grants in terms of the DORA. This study examined monitoring opportunities,
other than those included in DORA, including the possibility of conducting household
surveys to monitor the effectiveness of service delivery. This study has recently been
completed and the report is in the process of being signed off.

There was also a review undertaken of the grant framework and monitoring system
during 2003 and 2004 that covered the historical context, the reformed legal framework



                                            30

and current systems in operation. The review resulted in recommendations in effective
monitoring, coordination, feed-back, and process and systems modification. The review
also provided areas for prioritization, examined the phased approach and suggested
performance monitoring measures beyond the initial phases to assist in promoting
decentralized reporting and accountability. There has been limited work subsequent to the
review on this component using MFMTAP funding. However, the NT undertook in-
house work in the interim using it Bank budget and its own resources. As a result, the
funds allocated for this component were redirected to support the implementation of
Component One.


Component Three: Selected analytical reports and strategic policy reforms

Various initiatives were undertaken to conduct selected analysis and provide inputs into
policy formulation. These initiatives encompassed undertaking research into and
contribute towards the unfinished financial policy reform agenda for the municipal/sub-
national sector in South Africa through the use of international best practices and
expertise to design policies that will provide an appropriate operating environment within
a structural framework specific to South Africa's municipalities.

The Review of the Local Government Fiscal Framework Project commenced at the end
of July 2004 and was concluded during early 2007. The projects were broken into a
number of separate studies in order to be able to manage the different pieces more
effectively and ensure that the areas of priority were undertaken accordingly. The
projects were therefore sequenced to yield recommendations in time for the national
budget process during 2005, 2006 and 2007 financial years.


With inception of the project, the NT requested that priority be given to the reform of
regional services council levies, and macro-economic impact of the new property
valuation and rating system as contained in the Municipal Property Rating Act, 2004. The
recommendations on the reform of regional services council levies were incorporated into
a discussion document entitled "Options for the Replacement of RSC levies" which was
placed on the NT website for consultation purposes. The second phase of the project
primarily focused on the development of proposals on the local government fiscal
framework; a matrix to assist in functions of Metropolitan, District and Local
municipalities; and the development of a detailed quantitative study to ascertain the
potential macro-economic impact of the property valuation and rating system mentioned
earlier.


All the projects that have been concluded and recommendations approved have assisted
in shaping the fiscal framework since 2005. Information on the specific changes is
contained in the Annual Division of Revenue Act, and Budget Review documentation
tabled in Parliament and published on the NT website each year with the National Budget.




                                             31

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
N/A.




                                     32

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members

Names                   Title                           Unit   Responsibility/
                                                               Specialty
Lending
Dave DeGroot            Sr Urban Specialist             WBISD Team Leader

Supervision/ICR
Dave DeGroot            Sr Urban Specialist             WBISD Team Leader

Jonathan Nyamukapa      Sr Financial Management                 Financial
                        Specialist                      AFTFM  Management

Ntombini Marrengane     Urban Specialist               AFTU1   Local
                                                               Government
Rowena J. Martinez      Consultant                     SASDS Operations

Barjor E. Mehta         Sr Urban Spec.                 WBISD   Local
                                                               Government

V.S. Krishnakumar       Manager                        AFTPC   Procurement
                                                               Specialist
Jean Okolla Owino       Finance Assistant              LOADMFinance Assistant

Fenwick Chitalu         Financial Management Specialist AFTFM  Financial
                                                               Management
Suzanne Morris          Sr Finance Officer             LOAFC Finance Officer
Christiaan Nieuwoudt    Financial Analyst              LOADMFinance Analyst




(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                   Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)

Stage of Project Cycle                                      USD Thousands
                                  No. of staff weeks     (including travel and
                                                            consultant costs)
Lending
  FY02                                   27                      172.88
  FY03                                     5                      27.51
  FY04                                                             0.00
  FY05                                                             0.00
  FY06                                                             0.00
  FY07                                                             0.00
  FY08                                                             0.00



                                      33

                  Total:     32    200.39
Supervision/ICR
 FY02                                0.00
 FY03                        11     61.65
 FY04                        10     62.04
 FY05                         9     77.24
 FY06                         8     47.56
 FY07                        10     42.09
 FY08                        17     37.74

                  Total:     65    328.32




                           34

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
Not applicable.




                                    35

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
Not applicable.




                                     36

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

Introduction

The Municipal Financial Management Technical Assistance Project (MFMTAP) was
introduced to support selected municipalities in implementing the budgeting and financial
management reforms emanating from the MFMA. There were three components to
MFMTAP, of which the placement of advisors at municipalities was part of one
component. The primary objective of this report is to assess the outcomes and
achievements of MFMTAP so as to assist in the planning and structuring of future
support and to provide inputs to other reporting and evaluation requirements.

In summary, international advisors were placed in selected municipalities to assist in the
implementation of the MFMA and associated reforms. The reforms emanating from the
MFMA were significantly different, and far more comprehensive, than those contained in
the previous legislative frameworks. International advisors were selected for two key
reasons; the experience that they gained from being practitioners in municipalities and
utilities which had undergone significant financial reforms, secondly, they were not part
of the former dispensation which was very adverse to change from a best practice
perspective.

Assessment of Work Undertaken

In order to evaluate the MFMTAP program, the following tasks were undertaken:
· Convening of a number of meetings with Advisors, including site visits to
    municipalities and attendance of MTMTAP advisors with municipal officials at a
    workshop held in November 2007;
· Compilation and submission of questionnaires to municipal officials, advisors and
    councilors;
· Evaluation of the completed questionnaires and all available supporting
    documentation verifying the reforms;
· Due to poor municipal responses, telephonic interviews were held with certain
    councilors and municipal officials;
· Visits were made to certain municipalities and interviews held with the municipal
    officials and ;
· Documentation maintained at NT and those published by the municipalities was
    reviewed to ascertain the status of implementation and to confirm the research
    findings.

    Separate questionnaires were compiled for each of the following:

· Councilors responsible for finance at municipalities that benefitted from MFMTAP;
· International advisors placed at municipalities in terms of MFMTAP;
· Municipal officials of municipalities that benefited from MFMTAP; and
· Municipal officials of municipalities that did not benefit from MFMTAP.



                                            37

         Questionnaires              Responses       Telephonic     Municipal
                                      received       interviews         visits
Advisor                            21
Councilor                          4                 2
Municipal official (MFMTAP)        19                2             6
Municipal official (non-           3
MFMTAP)

Municipalities Included in the Program

Advisors were placed in 41 municipalities over the 5-year duration of the program. This
represents approximately 14% of the total number of municipalities. The program
targeted mainly metropolitan and high capacity municipalities because these
municipalities had to implement the reforms earlier than medium and low capacity
municipalities. High capacity municipalities had a greater capacity to pilot some of the
reforms prior to their inclusion in the MFMA and the related regulations and MFMA
circulars, and high capacity municipalities tended to have strong financial management
systems in place. Therefore, of the 41 municipalities on the program, 33 or 80% were
classified as high capacity, 6 municipalities that benefited from MFMTAP were medium
capacity and 2 were low capacity.

Advisors were usually placed at municipalities for a period of two years. If significant
progress had been made a municipality, a new advisor was placed at the municipality for
a further two years. Most municipalities participated in the program for a period of two
years although there are some municipalities that have had as many as three different
advisors placed at their municipality.

Program Management

The program was managed by NT in conjunction with the beneficiary municipality. An
induction workshop was held for the advisors thus providing them with an overview of
the local government environment. Each municipality was introduced to the relevant
advisor and provided with the necessary information and documentation relating to the
program.

A project log frame was compiled which set out the objectives of the program. Advisors
were also requested to compile a baseline assessment of the municipalities. These reports
were updated quarterly and submitted to NT and served as project monitoring tools.

Outcomes of the Program: Status of MFMA implementation

The international advisors were placed in the municipalities prior to the enactment of the
MFMA. This enabled NT to pilot and refine some of the reforms. This also assisted with
the compilation of guidelines and circulars which were made available to all the
municipalities.




                                            38

A large number of the high capacity municipalities were selected for the program. These
municipalities as well as the medium and low that were selected have achieved a
relatively high level of implementation and compliance with the MFMA due to support
received under the program. The non MFMTAP municipalities were also able to achieve
some success in implementing the reforms but not to the level of those municipalities that
benefited from the program.

Capacity Building

One of the key outcomes of the program was to ensure that officials and to certain extent
councilors are fully capacitated with regard to the reforms. The advisor played a strategic
role in implementing and facilitating the reforms and was not required to carry out
administrative functions. As a result, skills were transferred to officials thus ensuring that
the reforms were implemented. The advisor also played a key role in the internship
program. The advisor played an active role in the selection and appointment of the interns
and served a mentor to the interns.

Sustainability

A key success of the program is to ensure that the municipality is able to sustain the
reforms without the support of the international advisor. This will be possible due to the
skills transferred by the advisor. However a key challenge for many municipalities is the
retention of competent personnel.

NT will in future be able to monitor the sustainability of the reforms by reviewing the
documents submitted by the municipality such as budgets, annual reports and end year
reports and confirming that they comply with the MFMA.

Comparison with non MFMTAP municipalities

The non MFMTAP municipalities were not required to implement reforms as early as the
high capacity municipalities and such the level of implementation is lower. These
municipalities were able to implement certain sections of the MFMA but this was mainly
done for compliance purposes and in certain instances were lacking in quality and content.
The non MFMTAP municipalities were able to implement the reforms with minimum
support form external service providers. Support was mainly provided by NT and the
relevant provincial treasuries.

Successes

The above assessment indicates that the MFMTAP program was a success. Major
successes identified were:
· Municipalities that benefited from the program were focused and able to implement
    the MFMA in a structured way thus ensuring the Act is fully functional.
· These municipalities have made significant progress in the improvement of their
    budget processes and the compilation of compliant multi year budgets



                                              39

· Municipalities have also effectively implemented other areas of the Act such as
   supply chain management in year reporting. The advisors were able to provide
   guidance and assisted with the compilation of templates for reporting purposes;
· There has been an improvement in the annual report and the oversight process due to
   the guidance and training from the advisor;
· The advisor played a critical role in building the capacity of both officials and
   councilors. The advisor was involved in the internship program by assisting with the
   screening and appointment of interns and served as a mentor to the interns. There are
   rare incidents whereby interns resigned from the municipality. In most instances the
   interns were placed within the municipalities or appointed to another municipality;
· The advisor was seen as an additional resource for the municipality and served as an
   intermediary between the municipality and NT;
· Stable management positions existed at municipalities that are successful in
   implementing the reforms.

Challenges

Some of the challenges highlighted under the program can be summarized as follows:
· Readiness of the municipality to implement the reforms as some municipalities were
   faced with significant challenges relating to systems and internal controls;
· The period of involvement of the advisor was considered too short by certain
   municipalities. In addition, certain municipalities required advisors with specific
   skills;
· High turnover of personnel resulted in key positions being vacant from time to time;
· Challenges have been experienced in the recruitment, selection, appointment and
   retention of appropriately skilled and experienced personnel, especially in the Finance
   Departments of municipalities;
· In certain instances there was a lack of commitment and accountability by municipal
   officials to the reform process;
· The sustainability of the internship program will become a challenge in the absence
   of mentors.

Lessons Learned

The following lessons can be considered when developing similar programs:
· The municipality must commit and be willing to participate in the program prior to
   the placement of the advisor. This is critical as firstly the municipality would see this
   as a lack of skills on the side of the municipality and secondly the focus area of the
   advisor may not be what is required by the municipality. This is key to the success of
   the program;
· The municipal environment is at times volatile and it is critical to ensure that the right
   advisor is placed in the right municipality. This ensures that the program begins on a
   sound basis;
· The necessary resources should be made available for the advisor. The advisor is
   there to provide guidance and advice and should not be assigned technical tasks;
· Advisor should serve on decision making bodies;


                                            40

· The municipality should ensure that they have suitably qualified personnel to absorb
   the reforms;
· The MFMA is in its fourth year of implementation and the status of implementation
   at the smaller municipalities needs to be determined prior to the roll out of support
   programs.

Conclusion

The MFMTAP program was a success and played a key role at a critical time in the
transformation and reforms at municipalities. Municipalities that benefited from the
program have been able to implement the Act much more effectively. Given the status of
the implementation, they need not deal with compliance matters but can now focus on
quality and improving the content of the reports. Should the program continue or be
replicated, municipalities would have to be identified that are lagging behind with
implementation of the MFMA and these municipalities can be targeted for support.




                                          41

Annex 8. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders
Not applicable.




                                     42

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents


WB/WBI Urban and Local Government South Africa Knowledge Program



                                                    16. MFMTAP
       0. Restructuring Grant                           (2002)
                                                      $15m loan


        1. Johannesburg CDS
           (1999) $0.35m
                                                    17. NT-PPIAF                 20. PPIAF
                                                    Municipal PPP                   PPI
                                                      Guidelines                  Appraisal
                                                        (2006)                    (2006)
         SA Cities Network                             $0.462m
         2.             3.

        (2002)       (2005)
       $0.75m        $0.5m

                                                                18. Sedibeng      21. PPI
                                                                PPIAF (2008)      Appraisal
                                                                  $0.25m          DBSA
                                                                                  (2008)
                                                                                  $0.32m

        10. National         11. Tshwane    12. Ekurhuleni
         Upgrading           Sustainable    Upgrading for
          Support              Human        Growth (2005)
          Program            Settlements        $0.5m
           (2007)              (2005)                                   19.
           $0.5m               $0.53m                               Municipal
                                                                   PPP Rollout
                                                                      (2008)
                                                                     $0.346m
                                               15.
                                          PPIAF/SACN
                                            Regional
                                            Municipal
                                          Finance (2008)
                                             $0.4m




                        TOTAL Grant FUNDING: $4.908m




                                          43

Girsishankar, N., D. DeGroot and T. Pillay. (2006). Measuring Intergovernmental Fiscal
Performance in South Africa: Issues in Municipal Grant Monitoring. Africa Region
Working Paper Series Number 98, World Bank Publication: Washington, DC.

National Treasury (2004): An Introduction to the Municipal Finance Management Act,
MFMA Circular No.1, Pretoria, South Africa.

National Treasury (2004): Supply Chain Management, MFMA Circular No. 2, Pretoria,
South Africa.

National Treasury (2004): MFMA Supporting Materials, MFMA Circular No. 3, Pretoria,
South Africa.

National Treasury (2004): Specimen Annual Financial Statements, MFMA Circular No. 4,
Pretoria, South Africa.

National Treasury (2004): Workshop Invitation - Supply Chain Management, MFMA
Circular No. 6, Pretoria, South Africa.

National Treasury (2004): MFMA Implementation Plan Template, MFMA Circular No. 7,
Pretoria, South Africa.

National Treasury (2004): Forbidden Loans, MFMA Circular No. 8, Pretoria, South
Africa.

National Treasury (2004): Training, MFMA Circular No. 9, Pretoria, South Africa.

National Treasury (2004): Time Budget Process 2005/06, MFMA Circular No. 10,
Pretoria, South Africa.

National Treasury (2005): Definition of "Vote" in MFMA, MFMA Circular No. 12,
Pretoria, South Africa.

National Treasury (2005): Service Delivery & Budget Implementation Plan, MFMA
Circular No. 13, Pretoria, South Africa.

National Treasury (2005): 2005 Division f Revenue Bill and Municipal Budgets, MFMA
Circular No. 14, Pretoria, South Africa.

National Treasury (2005): Budget Submission 2005/06, MFMA Circular No. 15, Pretoria,
South Africa.

National Treasury (2005): Municipal Supply Chain Management Training, MFMA
Circular No. 16, Pretoria, South Africa.




                                           44

National Treasury (2005): Qualifications and Training, MFMA Circular No. 17, Pretoria,
South Africa.

National Treasury (2005): Budget Process 2007/07, MFMA Circular No. 19, Pretoria,
South Africa.

National Treasury (2005): Delegations, MFMA Circular No. 20, Pretoria, South Africa.

National Treasury (2005): Disputes Between Organs of State, MFMA Circular No. 21,
Pretoria, South Africa.

National Treasury (2005): Model Policy Supply Chain Management, MFMA Circular No.
22, Pretoria, South Africa.

National Treasury (2005): Bulk Resources for Municipal Services, MFMA Circular No.
23, Pretoria, South Africa.

National Treasury (2005): Training, MFMA Circular No. 24, Pretoria, South Africa.

National Treasury (2005): Supply Chain Management Guide, General Conditions of
Contract and Municipal Bidding Documents, MFMA Circular No. 25, Pretoria, South
Africa.

National Treasury (2005): Long Term Borrowing, MFMA Circular No. 26, Pretoria,
South Africa.

National Treasury (2005): Medium Term Budget Policy Statement 2005, MFMA Circular
No. 27, Pretoria, South Africa.

National Treasury (2006): Budget Content and Format, MFMA Circular No. 28, Pretoria,
South Africa.

National Treasury (2006): Supply Chain Management Issues, MFMA Circular No. 29,
Pretoria, South Africa.

National Treasury (2006): 2006 Division of Revenue Bill, MFMA Circular No. 30,
Pretoria, South Africa.

National Treasury (2006): Budget Tabling and Adoption, MFMA Circular No. 31,
Pretoria, South Africa.

National Treasury (2006): The Oversight Report, MFMA Circular No. 32, Pretoria, South
Africa.

National Treasury (2006): Supply Chain Management Issues, MFMA Circular No. 33,
Pretoria, South Africa.



                                          45

National Treasury (2006): Supply Chain Management Issues, MFMA Circular No. 34,
Pretoria, South Africa.

National Treasury (2006): Interactive Multimedia Learning, MFMA Circular No. 35,
Pretoria, South Africa.

National Treasury (2006): Annual Financial Statements for 2005/06, MFMA Circular No.
36, Pretoria, South Africa.

National Treasury (2006): Municipal Public Private Partnerships, MFMA Circular No.
37, Pretoria, South Africa.

National Treasury (2006): Implementation Priorities, MFMA Circular No. 38, Pretoria,
South Africa.

National Treasury (2006): MFMA Learning - DVD Launched, MFMA Circular No. 39,
Pretoria, South Africa.

National Treasury (2006): Supply Chain Management Implementation Checklist, MFMA
Circular No. 40, Pretoria, South Africa.

National Treasury (2007): 2006/07 Medium Term Revenue and Expenditure Framework
Budget Update, MFMA Circular No. 41, Pretoria, South Africa.

National Treasury (2007): Funding a Municipal Budget, MFMA Circular No. 42, Pretoria,
South Africa.

National Treasury (2007): Restriction of Suppliers and BBBEE Objectives, MFMA
Circular No. 43, Pretoria, South Africa.

National Treasury (2007): Preparation of Annual Financial Statements based on the
Exemption Gazette 30013, MFMA Circular No. 44, Pretoria, South Africa.

National Treasury (2008): 2008/09 Medium Term Revenue and Expenditure Framework,
MFMA Circular No. 45, Pretoria, South Africa.

National Treasury (2008): Supply Chain Management Checking the prohibition status of
recommended bidders, MFMA Circular No. 46, Pretoria, South Africa.




                                           46

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         IBRD 31738R
                                                20°                                                                  25°                                                                                                                                                  PROVINCES, District Councils, and Local Municipality codes and names
                                                                                                                                                                                                      ZIMBABWE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     EASTERN CAPE                     (KWAZULU NATAL continued)        NORTHERN CAPE
                      SOUTH AFRICA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    DC10    Cacadu                    KZN235  Okhahlamba             DC06   Namakwa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       EC101   Camdeboo                KZN236   Imbabazane              NC061  Richtersveld
                                                                                                                                                                                                  LIM341                                                               EC102   Blue Crane Route       DC24     Umzinyathi               NC062  Nama Khoi
         MUNICIPAL FINANCIAL                                                                                                                                                                                        LIM342        MOZAMBIQUE                           EC103   Ikwezi                  KZN241   Endumeni                NC064  Kamiesberg
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       EC104   Makana                  KZN242   Nqutu                   NC065  Hantam
                                                                                                                                                                                                     DC34                                                              EC105   Ndlambe                 KZN244   Msinga                  NC066  Karoo Hoogland
    MANAGEMENT TECHNICAL                                                                                                                                                                                          LIM343                                               EC106   Sunday's River Valley   KZN245   Umvoti                  NC067  Khai-Ma
                                                                                                                                                                                  LIM351         LIM344                                                                EC107   Baviaans               DC25     Amajuba                 DC07   Pixley Ka Seme
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       EC108   Kouga                   KZN252   Newcastle               NC071  Ubuntu
          ASSISTANCE PROJECT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           EC109   Kou-Kamma               KZN253   eMadlengeni             NC072  Umsobomvu
                                                                                         BOTSWANA                                                                               LIMPOPO                                   LIMDMA33                                    DC12    Amatole                  KZN254   Dannhauser              NC073  Enthanjeni
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       EC121   Mbhashe                DC26     Zululand                 NC074  Kareeberg
                                                                                                                                                               LIM362                         LIM353      LIM332     LIM331                                            EC122   Mnquma                  KZN261   eDumbe                  NC075  Renosterberg
                                                                                                                                                                                         DC35                                                                          EC123   Great Kei               KZN262   uPhongolo               NC076  Thembelihle
                                                                                                                                                                            LIM367   LIM352                    DC33                                                    EC124   Amahlathi               KZN263   Abaqulusi               NC077  Siyathemba
                  PROVINCE CAPITALS                                                                                                                                                             PolokwaneLIM333                                                        EC125   Buffalo City            KZN265   Nongoma                 NC078  Siyancuma
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    LIM334
                                                                                                                                                                   DC36                         (Pietersburg)                                                          EC126   Ngqushwa                KZN266   Ulundi                 DC08   Siyanda
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       EC127   Nkonkobe               DC27     Umkhanyakude             NC081  Mier
                  NATIONAL CAPITALS                                                                                                                                                        LIM354                                                                      EC128   Nxuba                   KZN271   Umhlabuyalingana        NC082  Kai Garib
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      DC13    Chris Hani               KZN272   Jozini                  NC083  Khara Hais
                                                                                                                                                                     LIM365                 LIM355                 LIM335                                              EC131   Inxuba Yethemba         KZN273   The Big Five False Bay  NC084  Kheis
                                                                                                                                                       LIM361                                     LIM474                                                               EC132   Tsolwana                KZN274   Hlabisa                 NC085  Tsantsabane
        NCDMA08   DISTRICT MANAGEMENT                                                                                                                                            LIM364                     LIM475                                                     EC133   Inkwanca                KZN275   Mtubatuba               NC086  Kgatelopele
                   AREAS                                                                                                                                                         CBDMA3         LIM473                    MP325                                        EC134   Lukanji                DC28     Uthungulu               DC09   Frances Baard
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       EC135   Intsika Yethu           KZN281   Mbonambi                NC091  Sol Plaatje
                                                                                                                                                                                          LIM471DC47                           MPDMA32                                 EC136   Emalahleni              KZN282   uMhlathuze              NC092  Dikgatlong
                  LOCAL MUNICIPALITY                                                                                                                                     LIM366
                                                                                                                                                NW375                           MP316                  MPDMA32                                                         EC137   Engcobo                 KZN283   Ntambanana              NC093  Magareng
                   BOUNDARIES                                                                                                      NW385                         NW371                                         MP321     DC32                                          EC138   Sakhisizwe              KZN284   uMlalazi                NC094  Phokwane
                                                                                                                                         NWDMA37                                             LIM472                                                             25°   DC14    Ukwahlamba               KZN285   Mthonjaneni            DC45   Kgalagadi
                                                                                                                                                                                    MPDMA31
                  DISTRICT MUNICIPALITY                                                                                                            DC37      NW372                                                                                                     EC141   Elundini                KZN286   Nkandla                 NC451  Moshaweng
                                                                                                                                                                         GT461   MP315                                 MP322                                           EC142   Senqu                  DC29     iLembe                   NC452  Ga-Segonyana
                   BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                         NW373          TSH                                         Nelspruit
                                                                                                                               Mmabatho       NW374                                                                                                                    EC143   Maletswai               KZN291   Mandeni                 NC453  Gamagara
                                                                                                                                                                                          MP313     MP314
                                                                                                 NW395                                                       Pretoria                                             MPDMA32        MP324
                                                                                                                                                    GTDMA48               DC46                                                                                         EC144   Gariep                  KZN292   KwaDukuza
                  METROPOLITAN DISTRICT                                                                                     NW383                                   GAUTENG                 DC31                      MP323                                           DC15    O.R.Tambo                KZN293   Ndwedwe                NCDMA06    -
                   COUNCILS                                                                                          NW381   DC38                           DC48            GT462   MP312                                                                              EC151   Mbizana                 KZN294   Maphumulo              NCDMA07    -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            MPDMA32                                    EC152   Ntabankulu             DC43     Sisonke                 NCDMA08    -
                                                                                                                                   NW384                     GT481   Johannesburg  MPUMALANGA                                                                          EC153   Qaukeni                 KZN431   Ingwe                  NCDMA09    -
                  PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                      GT482 JHB          MP311
                                                                                                                                                                       EKU                                       MP301                                                 EC154   Port St. Johns          KZN432   Kwa Sani               NCDMA45    -
                                                                                                                                                NW401       GT483                                                                                                      EC155   Nyandeni                KZN433   Greater Kokstad
                  INTERNATIONAL                                                                      NW391     NORTH WEST                             NW405                GT423                                                                                       EC156   Mhlontlo                KZN434   Ubuhlebezwe
                   BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                                       DC42             MP307           MP302                                                             EC157   King Sabata Dalindyebo  KZN435   Umzimkhulu             NORTH WEST
                                                                                                                           NW382           DC40                                                                                                                       DC44    Alfred Nzo                                               DC37   Bojanala Platinum
                                                     NC081                                                DC39                                    NW402      GT421  GT422                                            SWAZILAND                                         EC441   Matatiele              KZNDMA22     -                    NW371  Morotele
                                                                                 NCDMA45     NC451                                      NW403                                                  DC30
                                                                                                                                                                           MP306
       0     50     100   150   200   250                                                                       NW392                                             FS204                                                                                                EC442   Umzimvubu              KZNDMA23     -                    NW372  Madibeng
                                                                                         DC45                                                                                          MP305                                                                                                          KZNDMA27     -                    NW373  Rustenburg
                                                                                                                                                                                                              MP303                                                   ECDMA10     -                   KZNDMA43     -                    NW374  Kgetlengrivier
                   KILOMETERS                                                                                          NW393      NW404                     DC20                                  MP304                                                               ECDMA13     -                   ETH      eThekwini                NW375  Moses Kotane
                                                                                                                                                                            FS205                                                            KZN271    KZNDMA27       ECDMA14     -                                                    DC38   Ngaka Modiri Molema
                                                                    NCDMA08                                                                                   FS203                                                                                                   NMA     Nelson Mandela Bay                                        NW381  Ratlou
                                                                                                            NW394       NW396                                                                                                                                                                        LIMPOPO                            NW382  Tswaing
                                                                                        NC453   NC452                                  FS185                                                          KZN253     KZN261                  DC27
                                                                                                                                                     FS201                                                                   KZN262                                                                   DC33     Mopani                   NW383  Mafikeng
                                                                                                                NC094                                                                              DC25                                KZN272
                                                                                                                                                                                      FS195                                                                          FREE STATE                         LIM331  Greater Giyani          NW384  Ditsobotla
                                                                       DC8                                                                                           FS193                      KZN252                 DC26               KZNDMA27                    DC16    Xhariep                  LIM332   Greater Letaba          NW385  Ramotshere Moiloa
                                                                                                 NC086                                        FS184                                                                                                                    FS161   Letsemeng               LIM333   Greater Tzaneen        DC39   Bophirima
                                                                                                      NCDMA09                   FS183                                                                               KZN263    KZN265                                   FS162   Kopanong                LIM334   Ba-Phalaborwa           NW391  Kagisano
                                                                                                                NC093                  DC18                            DC19                         KZN254                              KZN273
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       FS163   Mohokare                LIM335   Maruleng                NW392  Naledi
                           NAMIBIA                                                       NC085            DC9                                                                    FS194                KZN241 KZN242                                                   DC17    Motheo                  DC34     Vhembe                   NW393  Mamusa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       KZN266
                                                                                                           NC092                       FREE STATE                   FS192                                                                                              FS171   Naledi                  LIM341   Musina                  NW394  Greater Taung
                                                                                                                         FS182                                                FSDMA19        KZN232    DC24                 Ulundi KZNDMA27
                                                                     NC083                                                                                                                                                                                             FS172   Mangaung                LIM342   Mutale                  NW395  Molopo
                                                                                                                                              Bloemfontein                              KWAZULU-NATALKZN281                         KZN274
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           KZN275                      FS173   Mantsopa                LIM343   Thulamela               NW396  Lekwa-Teemane
                                                             NC082                                       Kimberley                        FS181           FS191                                    KZN233                                                             DC18    Lejweleputswa            LIM344   Makhado                DC40   Southern
                                                                                                              NC091                                                                 KZN235
                                                                                                                                                                                      DC23              KZN244    KZN286KZN285KZN283                                   FS181   Masilonyana            DC35     Capricorn                NW401  Ventersdorp
              NC061                                                     NC084    NCDMA07
                                                                                                                                                                                                KZN234                  DC28                                           FS182   Tokologo                LIM351   Blouberg                NW402  Tlokwe
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  KZN282                               FS183   Tswelopele              LIM352   Aganang                 NW403  Matlosana
                                                                                                     NC078                                                                                                               KZN284
                                                                                                                                                                                          KZN236                                                                       FS184   Matjhabeng              LIM353   Molemole                NW404  Maquassi Hills
                                                     NCDMA06                                                                             FS172      FS173
                                                                                                                                                                           KZNDMA23                         KZN245
                                           NC067                                                                                                                                                                                                                       FS185   Nala                    LIM354   Polokwane               NW405  Merafong City
                                                                                                                                           DC17                                                    KZN223          KZN294KZN291                                       DC19    Thabo Mofutsanyane       LIM355   Lepele-Nkumpi
                                                                                    NC077                         FS161                                                                          KZNDMA22            DC29                                              FS191   Setsoto                DC36     Waterberg
                                                                                                                                            FS171           LESOTHO                              KZN222  KZN221
                                                                                                                                                                                                                KZN293 KZN292                                          FS192   Dihlabeng               LIM361   Thabazimbi             WESTERN CAPE
                       NC062                            NORTHERN CAPE                                                                                                                       KZN224  DC22                                                               FS193   Nketoana                LIM362   Lephalale              DC01   West Coast
                                                                                                    NC076                   DC16                                        KZNDMA43                     KZN225                                                            FS194   Maluti a Phofung        LIM364   Mookgopong              WC011  Matzikama
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       FS195   Phumelela               LIM365   Modimolle               WC012  Cederberg
                                                                                NCDMA06                                                                                                KZN432
                                                                                                                              FS162                                                                  KZN227           eThekwini                                       DC20    Fezile Dabi              LIM366   Bela Bela               WC013  Bergrivier
                                          NCDMA06                                                                                                                                           KZN431       KZN226
                                                                                                                                                                                       DC43                           ETH                                              FS201   Moqhaka                 LIM367   Mogalakwena             WC014  Saidhanha Bay
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       FS203   Ngwathe                DC47     Sekhukhune               WC015  Swartland
 30°                                                                                                       NC075                           FS163           ECDMA44
                                                       DC6                                                                                                                          KZN433        KZN434KZN211                                                  30°    FS204   Metsimaholo             LIM471   Greater Marble Hall    DC02   Cape Winelands
                                                                                                                                                                           EC441           KZN435                                                                      FS205   Mafube                  LIM472   Elias Motsoaledi        WC022  Witzenberg
                          NC064                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        LIM473   Makhuduthamaga          WC023  Drakenstein
                                                                              NC074               DC7                                                                                                KZN213 KZN212
                                                                                                                                                                           DC44                                                                                       FSDMA19     -                    LIM474   Fetakgomo               WC024  Stellenbosch
                                                                                                       NC073                      ECDMA14                                                     KZN214 DC21                                                                                              LIM475   Greater Tubatse         WC025  Breede Valley
                                                                                                                                                                              EC442
                                                                                                                     NC072                              EC142                                    KZN215                                                                                                                                 WC026  Breede River/Winelands
                                                                                                                                  EC144    DC14                                                                                                                      GAUTENG                                                           DC03   Overberg
                                                                                                                                                                   EC141                                                                                                                              LIMDMA33     -
                                                                                                                                                                                  EC152              KZN216
                                                                                                                                                                                             EC151                                                                    DC42    Sedibeng                                                  WC031  Theewaterskloof
                               WCDMA01                                                                                                        EC143                                                                                                                    GT421   Emfuleni                                                 WC032  Overstrand
                                                  NC065                                                                                                                     EC156                                                                                      GT422   Midvaal               MPUMALANGA                         WC033  Cape Agulhas
                                                                                           NC071                                                                                         EC153
                                                                                                                                                            EC138                                                                                                      GT423   Lesedi                 DC30     Gert Sibande             WC034  Swellendam
                                                                                                                                                                               DC15                                                                                   DC46    Metsweding                MP301   Albert Luthuli         DC04   Eden
                                                                                                                                        EC133
                                                                                                                                                  EC136                        EC155                                                                                   GT461   Nokeng tsa Taemane      MP302    Msukaligwa              WC041  Kannaland
                                                                                                                                                               EC137                 EC154
     AT L A N T I C                 WC011                                                                                                                                                                                                                              GT462   Kungwini                MP303    Mkhondo                 WC042  Langeberg
                                                                   NC066                                                         EC132    DC13                          EC157                                                                                         DC48    West Rand                MP304    Seme                    WC043  Mossel Bay
                                                                                                WCDMA05                EC131                             EC135                                                                                                         GT481   Mogale City             MP305    Lekwa                   WC044  George
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       GT482   Randfontein             MP306    Dipaleseng              WC045  Oudtshoorn
      O C E A N                       DC1                                                                                                     EC134
                                                                                                                              ECDMA13                                                                                                                                  GT483   Westonaria              MP307    Govan Mbeki             WC047  Plettenberg Bay
                                                 NCDMA06                                                   EC101                                                       EC121                                                                                                                          DC31     Nkangala                 WC048  Knysna
                                 WCDMA01                                                                                     EASTERN CAPE                                                                                                                             GTDMA48    -                     MP311    Delmas                 DC05   Central Karoo
                                     WC012                                                                                                                       EC122                                                                                                EKU     Ekurhuleni               MP312    Emalahleni              WC051  Laingsburg
                                                                                   WC053                                            EC128           EC124                                                          I N D I A N         O C E A N                      JHB     Johannesburg             MP313    Steve Tshwete           WC052  Prince Albert
                                                                                                                                                  DC12        EC123                                                                                                   TSH     Tshwane                  MP314    Emakhazeni              WC053  Beaufort West
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       MP315    Thembisile
                                     WC013                                  DC5                   ECDMA10                 EC102            EC127
                                                                                                                                                         Bisho                                                                                                                                         MP316    Dr JS Moroka           WCDMA01    -
                                                 WCDMA02                                                       EC103                                                                                                                                                 KWAZULU-NATAL                    DC32     Ehlanzeni               WCDMA02    -
                                WC014                             WC051        WC052                                                                     EC125
                                                                                                               DC10                                                                                                                                                   DC21    Ugu                      MP321    Thaba Chweu            WCDMA03    -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       KZN211  Vulamehlo               MP322    Mbombela               WCDMA04    -
                                                   DC2                                                                                EC104      EC126
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       KZN212  Umdoni                  MP323    Umjindi                WCDMA05    -
                           WCDMA01          WC022
                                     WC015                                                             EC107             EC106                                                                                                                                         KZN213  Umzumbe                 MP324    Nkomazi                CPT    Cape Town
                                              WESTERN CAPE                     WC045                                                                                                                                                                                   KZN214  uMuziwabantu            MP325    Bushbuckridge
                                                                                                                  ECDMA10                 EC105                                                                                                                        KZN215  Ezingoleni
                                                                      WC041              WCDMA04                                                                                                                                                                       KZN216  Hibiscus Coast         MPDMA32      -
                                         WC023 WC025                         DC4                                                                                                                                         This map was produced by the                 DC22    Umgungundlovu
                         Cape Town                   WC026                                                                     Nelson Mandela Bay
                                                                                   WC044 WC048WC047   EC109       EC108                                                                                                  Map Design Unit of The World Bank.            KZN221  uMshwathi
                                CPT       WC024                              WC043                                             NMA                                                                                       The boundaries, colors, denominations         KZN222  uMngeni
                                                                     WC042                                                                                                                                                                                             KZN223  Mpofana
                                               WC031      WC034                                                                                                                                                          and any other information shown on            KZN224  Impendle
                                                    DC3                                                                                                                                                                  this map do not imply, on the part of         KZN225  The Msunduzi
                                                       WC033                                                                                                                                                                                                           KZN226  Mkhambathini
                                                WC032        WCDMA03                                                                                                                                                     The World Bank Group, any judgment            KZN227  Richmond
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         on the legal status of any territory, or     DC23    Uthukela
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         any endorsement or acceptance of              KZN232  Emnambithi-Ladysmith
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       KZN233  Indaka
15°                                                    20°                                                          25°                                                                      30°                         such boundaries.                              KZN234  Umtshezi

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       DECEMBER 2008

