DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use
FILE COPY
Rep3rt No. 76a-GN
APPRAISAL OF A
FIRST HIGHWAY PROJECT
GHANA
June 29, 1973
Western Africa Projects Department
Transportation Division
|This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published, quoted|
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accuracy or completeness of the report.



Currency Equivalents
Ourrency Unit - Cedi (0)
US$1.00        = g1.15
01.00          . 100 pesewas
01 million     . US$870,000
Fiscal Year
July 1 - June 30
System of Weights and Nbasures: British/TUS
British/US               Metric
1 foot (ft)           a 0.305 motor (im)
1 mile (mi)           - 1.61 kilometers (kb)
1 square mile (sq mi) - 2.59 square kilometers oaa2)
1 ton (long ton)      - 1.016 metric tons (m ton)
Abbreviations, and Acronym
ODA - Overseas Development Administration (UK)
PWD - PUblic Works Department
SWUP- Scott, Wilson, Kirkpatrick and Partners (UK)
vpd - vehicles per day



GHANA
APPRAISAL OF A FIRST HIGHWAY PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY    .      ...... .............*..*......**.  iii
1.  INTRODUCTION ....................                             1
2.   THE TRANSPORT SECTOR          ................               2
A.   General................                                 2
B.   The Transport System                   ..............**  2
C.   Transport Policy and Coordination.......                4
3.    TGMHWAYS ....... *. .......                  ......*so    6
A.   The Road Network and its Traffic 6...............       6
B.   Administration      ........   .. ......                7
C.  Recent Developments and Reorganization of FWD ...        8
D.  Financing .........      ..    ....................    9
E.   Planning  ..............I              ....10
F.   Engineering and Construction ....................    10
G.   Maintenance .         ...........                      11
4.  THE PROJECT .............................   ........    13
A.   General Description ............                       13
- Rehabilitation and Improvement of Trunk Roads .   13
- Supervision of Construction     ........ ....    14
- Pre-Investment Studies for Future Rehabilita-
tion and Improvement Projects .................    14
- Formulation of Highway Maintenance Program ....    15
- Equipment for Traffic Control and Pavement
Survey   .....*....      .....15
B.  Cost Estimates             ...      ...                 15
C. Execution........                                        17
D.   Financing and Disbursement ...........   18
5.   ECONOMIC EVALUATION. ..                 ...   .19
6.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ................    22
This report was initially prepared by "essrs. r. ". "ossberg (wngineer) and
B. Shields (Economist) in January 1972, and was subsequenitly revised and up-
dated by Mr. J. Doyen (Engineer/Economist, PMWA) following his re-appraisal
mission in November 1972.



Table of Contents (Continued)
TABLES
1.   Estimated Road and Rail Output, 1969
2.   Estimates of Budgeted and Actual Highway Expenditures, 1968-72
3.   List of Project Roads
4.   Cost Estimates and Financing Plan
5.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
6.   Economic Evaluation of Project Roads
7.   Savings in Vehicle Operating Costs
ANNEXES
I.   Description of the Project Roads
II.   Preinvestment Studies:  Proposed List of Road Sections
PLATE     Operating Costs (Financial) for Typical Vehicles at Various Speeds.
MAP       Second Highway Project - IBRD 3691 RI.



GHA1NA
APPRAISAL OF A FIRST HIGHWAY PROJECT
SUMMARY
i.        The national road network of Ghana was at one time probably the
best in West Africa. All essential sections have been built, and no major
new links are needed at this time. However, the roads have now deteriorated
considerably because of poor maintenance, and because consitruction standards
(particulariy for the pavements) were too low for present-day loads. Highway
investment over the next three or four years is therefore oxpected to concen-
trace on restoring trunk roads and strengthlening maintenance; rehabilitation
work should be considered as particularly urgent so as to avoid future in-
creases in vehicle operating costs and major reconstructioan.
ii.       The Bank Group's first activity in the highway sector in Ghana was
an engineering Credit (S7-Gi, US$1.5 million, 1969) which helped finance the
design of two highways between Accra and Kumasi, and between Kumasi and
Takoradi; this design work was compl(tted in 1971. However, in view of the
estimated cost of construction being higher, and the rates of traffic growth
lower than expected, and because of improvements (proposed or underway) to
existing roads along the two corridors, the Government has taken the sound
decision to defer construction of the highways for some yetars.
iii.      This report appraises a project for rehabilitation of about 345
mi of roads on 13 sections located primarily in the south on main traffic
routes between the principal cities. The project is based on feasibility
studies and engineering, following terms of reference prepared by the Bank
Group, and undertaken by a British firm of consultants with financing by the
Government of the United Kingdom (UK). The project also includes preparation
of a program to improve highway maintenance, as well as pre-investeent studies
and engineering for further road rehabilitation.
iv.       The cost of the project -  including consulting services for con-
struction supervision and for preparing programs for road maintenance and
further rehabilitation - is estimated at US$19.5 million equivalent, with an
estimated foreign exchange cost of about US$11 million, or 56%. The proposed
Credit of US$13.0 million would finance the foreign exchange costs and about
20% of the local costs of the project. Provision is made for retroactive
financing of up to US$25,000 for the foreign cost of the services of consul-
tants who would assist the Government in preparing a plan for implementation
of the project, and in prequalifying contractors.
v.        The project is technically and economically sound.  The economic
return of the different works ranges from 12% to 36%, with a weighted average
return of about 22%.



- ii -
vi.       The project will be accompanied by the implementation of measures
agreed during negotiations for strengthening highway planning and for better
control of road maintenance expenditures, as well as for improving weight
control of vehicles. The Government has also agreed to consult with the
Association on implementation of the highway maintenance program to be prepared
under the project.
vii.      Construction contracts will be awarded on the basis of international
competitive bidding in accordance with Bank/IDA guidelines. Execution of the
project is expected to take four years, and will be the responsibility of
the Public Works Department (PWD), assisted by the consultants who prepared
the engineering. The equipment will be procured following competitive bid-
ding in accordance with Bank/IDA guidelines.
viii.     The project is suitable for a Credit of US$13 million equivalent
to the Government of Ghana on conventional IDA terms.



GHANA
APPRAISAL OF
A FIRST HIGHWAY PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      Bank Group missions to Ghana in 1969 and 1970 identified the main
problem in the transport sector as the need to restore to serviceable condi-
tion many badly deteriorated sections of trunk roads. The Government used
financial assIstance provided by the Overseas Development Administration
(ODA, UK) to retain consultants Scott, Wilson, Kirkpatrick and Partners
(SWKP, UK) who undertook economic and engineering studies of about 2,100 mi
of trunk roads, following terms of reference prepared by the Bank Group.
The consultants recommended a high priority rehabilitation and improvement
program covering about 750 mi of these roads, and prepared engieering and
contract documents.
1.02      In October/November 1971, the Bank Group used the SWKP study as a
basis in appraising a project for rehabilitation and improvement of 20 road
sections totalling about 580 mi. With the change of governtment in Ghana in
early 1972, processing of the proposed project was deferred until the invest-
ment policy for highways was redefined, and until the country's economic
situation was determined. In September 1972, the Government requested that
the project be reactivated, and submitted a revised list of about 500 mi
of roads which it wished the Association to consider financing.  The proposed
revisions in the scope of the project and changes in cost estimates neces-
sitated re-appraisal of the project in November 1972.
1.03      The revised project now proposed consists of rehabilitation of 13
high priority sections of trunk roads (totalling about 345 mi), consulting
services for construction supervision and for formulating a program to improve
road maintenance, and procurement of equipment for traffic control and pave-
ment survey. The project also provides for economic and engineering studies
for further rehabilitation of trunk roads. Most of the proposed road works
are on routes which serve the densely populated south of the country, notably
on the Accra-Kumasi and Accra-Takoradi highways, Ghana's most important trans-
port corridors.
1.04      The project is estimated to cost about US$19.5 million equivalent,
of which the foreign exchange cost would be about US$11 million, or 56%. The
proposed Credit of US$13 million would finance the entire foreign exchange
component, plus about 20% of the local costs of the project; the Government
will provide the remaining local costs.



-2-
1.05          An engineering Credit (S7-GH) of US$1.5 million equivalent made by
the Association in 1969 helped finance detailed design of the new Accra-Kumasi
and Takoradi-Kumasi highways, The design work was completed in 1971, but
construction of the highways will be deferred for some years because estimated
costs of construction are higher and traffic growth rates lower than estimated
in the feasibility study. Considering also the improvements to existing roads
along these corridors -- some made recently and some included in the present
project -- construction of the new highways is not warranted at this time.
1.06          This report is based on the abovementioned SWKP studies (para.
1.01), on the findings of the initial appraisal mission of October/November
1971 comprising Messrs. P.E. Fossberg (Engineer) and B. Shields (Economist),
and on those of the re-appraisal mission of November 1972 by Messrs. J.H.
Doyen (Engineer/Economist, PHWA) and R. Viapree (Highway Consultant, SWKP).
2. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. General
2.01          With an area of just over 92,000 sq mi, the Republic of Ghana is
about the size of Great Britain. In the main, the topography is flat or
rolling, and presents no major obstacles to transport. High forest in the
south-west and poor road-making soils make road construction there expensive.
Economic activities and population are concentrated in the southern third of
the country where mineral deposits, timber stands, and cocoa plantations are
located. The population of Ghana is just tinder nine million, and currently
growing at about 3% p,a. Annual per capita income is about US$260, the same
in constant terms as in 1960.
B. The Transport System
2,02          The Bank Group's present knowledge of transport in Ghana derives
mostly from the Transport Sector Study carried out during 1969-70 by the
consultants Robert R. Nathan Associates, Inc. (US) with financing from the
United States Agency for International Development (USAID). The Nathan
Study was a general exercise which considered all transport modes from the
aspects of coordination, management, investment priorities, and budgeting.
It did not attempt to assess priorities in road maintenance and improvement,
organization and staffing of PWD, and its needs for plant and equipment.
To help do this, the Government of Ghana, with financial assistance from the
UK, engaged consultants SWKP to undertake a study of highway rehabilitation
which has led to the present project; at the same time, the Crown Agents (UK)
were commissioned to carry out a study of highway maintenance.
2.03          Transport infrastructure is generally adequate to support a much
higher level of economic activity than at present, but considerable renova-
tion must be effected, and a greater maintenance effort applied. Highways
represent the most important mode, accounting for about 70% of total freight
transport, and 90% of passenger movements (Table 1).  Railways are used



- 3 -
almost exclusively for transporting timber, cocoa, and mineral ores. Internal
air transport accounts for probably less than one percent of total passenger
movements. Coastal shipping and river transport are negligible, and Volta
Lake transport is of only local significance.
Highways
2.04      Highway infrastructure and administration, as well as the char-
acteristics of the road transport industry, are discussed in Chapter 3.
Railways
2.05      Railways in Ghana are run by the semi-autonomous Ghana Railway
and Ports Corporation, which is responsible to the Minisitry of Transport
and Communications. The railway network is about 800 mi including 592 mi of
main line, all but 19 mi being single-track. The network is essentially a
triangle connecting Ghana's three main cities - Accra, ]Kumasi, and Takoradi
- with several branches to mines and to the port of Tema. The longest haul
possible is about 200 mi; the average freight haul is 1210 mi, and the average
passenger journey 40 mi. The physical plant, particularly rolling stock,
track, and signalling and telecommunications equipment, is aging and generally
in poor condition.
2.06      The railway is specialized, and four commodities -  timber, cocoa,
manganese ore, and bauxite - constitute 93% of its traffic, of which almost
one-half is timber transport. Eighty percent of the railway traffic goes to
the port of Takoradi for export. Over the last few years, both freight and
passenger traffic have fluctuated considerably. Trends for the period 1964-71
show that passenger traffic increased at an average of more than 6% per
annum, but that freight traffic stagnated as a result both of depressed
economic conditions and loss of traffic to road transport.
2.07      The real price of both rail freight and passenger movement declined
over the sixties because tariffs were not raised to match changes in the cost
of living. However, some freight traffic, especially cocoa, is charged far
more than the full cost of movement, while passenger services have been
heavily subsidized. In July 1971, railway tariffs and fares were raised by
25%, the first increase since 1958. Financial results have deteriorated since
1966, and the annual deficit has reached about 05 million. The railway's
reserves, about 030 million only three years ago, are being rapidly depleted.
in spite of declining revenues and traffic volumes, however, the railway's
labor force has been growing at 5% per annum since 1965, and is now almost
12,000.
2.08      The 1971-75 railway plan focusses heavily on track rehabilitation
and rolling stock replacement as recommended in various recent analyses.
Recent motive power acquisition and the planned rehabil:Ltation program should
enable the railways to reverse the deterioration in services. The structure



- 4 -
of the rail network and the prohibitive cost of a complete realignment pro-
gram will, however, limit what can be achieved to reduce operating costs by
investment. The railway has retained since 1972 the services of a group of
experts provided by Transmark (oonsultant agency of the British Railways)
to assist in implementing rationalization measures and in preparing a new
investment plan. The railway can be made viable by a program for ration-
alization of services which would concentrate on freight traffic, closing
down stations which have lost traffic to the improved road system, reducing
staff levels, and improving management and operation control.
Ports
2.09      Ghana has two major ports, Takoradi and Tema, which together handle
about 5 million tons of goods per year. Almost all of the country's bulk
exports, such as bauxite, manganese and timber, are shipped through Takoradi,
while Tema receives most of Ghana's imports. Tema is a fairly new and modern
port, but Takoradi port is over 40 years old. Both are well connected by road
and rail to their hinterland, and no port extension is required in the fore-
seeable future, except for the development of fishing ports.
Inland Waterways
2.10      Ghana's rivers, important before the development of the road and
rail systems, now carry negligible traffic. The man-made Volta Lake created
by construction of the Bank-financed Volta Dam, has severed main road links,
thus causing problems of north-south movement in the country, and of commu-
nication for communities surrounding the Lake. The Volta River Authority
runs a limited boat service on the Lake. Several more ambitious schemes have
been advanced for providing lake transport services, but these have all
foundered for lack of demand. The population centers served by the Lake are
scattered and competitive rather than complementary, and there is little
traffic between them.
Air Transport
2.11      The Department of Civil Aviation of the Ministry of Transport and
Communications is responsible for maintaining and operating dr fields; main-
tenance of runways is delegated to PWD. Only the international airport at
Accra can accommodate long-distance jets; the airports at Kumasi, Temale,
and Takoradi have adequate facilities for medium-sized two-engine turbo prop
aircraft. These are the only airports used by scheduled carriers, and their
capacity is more than enough for present traffic.
C.   Transport Policy and Coordination
Institutional Responsibilities
2.12      Transport organization and planning involves several Government
departments and agencies. The Ministry of Transport and Communications is
in charge of transport policy and regulations, and controls the agencies (the
Railway and Ports Administration, and the Department of Civil Aviation) and
the various state-owned corporations which supply transport services. The



-5-
Omnibus Services Authority is responsible for inter-city bus transport, and
reports to the Ministry of Local Administration; the Volta River Authority
reports directly to the Prime Minister's Office. The PubLic Works Department
(PWD) of the Ministry of Works and Housing has charge of the trunk road net-
work; responsibility for feeder roads and local roads is shared between PWD,
the Ministry of Social Welfare and Rural Development, and local councils.
The Government is planning to coordinate the responsibililty for trunk and
feeder roads at the regional level under PWD, and to reoriganize the department's
head office to enable the efficient handling of this new function (para. 3.09).
Coordination and Planning
2.13      Transport planning is weak at all levels, and suffers from lack
of coordination among the various Government agencies and departments. Far
more economic analysis is required in the decision-making process. None of
the agencies mentioned above (para. 2.12) keeps up-to-date financial and
statistical information on its activities. The Infrastructure and Planning
Division in the Ministry of Finance and Planning screens budget requests
for transport infrastructure, but lacks the capacity for project evalua-
tion. As recommended by the Nathan Study (para. 2.02), a Transport Planning
and Budget Division was created in the Ministry of Transport and Coumunica-
tions, and is expected in the future to screen budget requests for agencies
responsible to the Ministry. This new Division also provides_the secretariat
for a newly created Transport Planning Comittee,   one of several sectoral _ -
planning comittees established to assist in preparing a new five-year plan.
In order to overcome the lack of trained personnel, the Division has initi-
ated a program to send staff abroad for post-graduate training. A senior
transport adviner provided by the Canadian International Development Agency
(CIDA) will head the Division over a two-year period, penLding the avail-
ability of qualified Ghanaian staff. The Government has agreed at negotia-
tions that it will improve highway planning under the proposed project
(paras. 3.09 and 3.15).
2.14      The new Government has not yet formulated an explicit transport
policy, but it has acknowledged that the main problems are restoration and
better maintenance of the existing infrastructure. The budget estimates for
1972/73 and its accompanying statement reflect the high priority given to
rehabilitation and to improved maintenance of existing trunk and feeder roads,
as well as the emphasis placed on satisfying transport re!quirements directly
related to agricultural development. The Government has also indicated its
intention to improve railway operations, as well as to achieve a sound finan-
cial policy for the various state corporations engaged iTn transport (para.
2.12). Steps are also being taken to encourage investmenit in commercial
passenger transport rather than in private cars (para. 3.02).
2.15      The planning situation should improve markedly in the near future
as a result of recent and prospective developments described above. However,
there have been several instances in the past of investment decisions being
taken in spite of economic analysis demonstrating the low priority of certain
projects. It is hoped that Government will soon begin to follow its declared
intention to investigate the economic and technical feasibility of all major
investment orojects, and to evaluate their Justification in relation to Ghanat.



-6 -
development objectives. This question was discussed at negotiations, and the
Government agreed that the PWD Planning Unit would in future submit to such
an evaluation highway projects which are of major importance (i.e. projects
expected to cost about C 300,000 (US$260,000) or more).
3. HIGHWAYS
A.   The Road Network and Its Traffic
3.01      The road network in Ghana totals about 20,000 mi, of which about
2,600 mi are paved and 6,300 mi gravel or laterite surfaced; the remainder
are earth roads. The rather extensive trunk road system has been built over
the past 20 years at low cost to standards adequate for that time; but many
roads have now reached the end of their service life, are structurally defi-
cient for present traffic, and require increasing maintenance and rehabilita-
tion. No major expansion of the trunk road network is required for several
years, but rehabilitation at this time is important to avoid future increases
in vehicle operating costs and major reconstruction. There is, however, a
continuing need for expanding the feeder road system to support the develop-
ment of agricultural production. To meet this priority, the Government has
over the past few years made considerable investments through the National
Feeder Road Program; since 1966, more than 2,000 mi of these roads have been
constructed or improved.
3.02      Statistics on fuel consumption and available information on the
vehicle population indicate that, over the past decade, motor vehicle traf-
fic grew only slowly at about 3-4% per annum. The expected low rate of growth
of the economy would suggest that this trend will persist at least over the
next five years. The motor vehicle fleet now numbers about 56,000 units,
of which about 50% are private cars and about 30% trucks (including the
typically Ghanaian "mammy wagons" used for combined goods and passenger
transport); the rest are buses and special purpose vehicles. The proportion
of public conveyance vehicles has increased over the last two years following
restrictions imposed on the importation of private cars, and purchases of
buses by the Government.
3.03      Traffic volumes in the country are generally low:  the highest levels
are reached in the Accra-Kumasi-Takoradi area (Golden Triangle) where figures
of 1,000 to 3,500 vehicles per day (vpd) have been recorded. Only 10% of
PWD's network (about 600 mi) carries more than 600 vpd, and practically no
road outside the main interurban routes in the south of the country carries
more than 350 vpd. The Nathan Study showed that although much of the trunk
road network is paved, road user costs in Ghana are still quite high; this
is attributable mainly to the considerable deterioration of the condition of
the network.
3.04      Most goods vehicles are of five-ton payload capacity, but there is
a tendency toward heavier vehicles. The Road Traffic Regulations introduced
in December 1970 provided for revision of the then 9-ton limit on axle load.
The maximum gross weight now permitted for any motor vehicle or trailer is
16 tons, for vehicles on three axles 22 tons, and for those on more than
three axels, 28 tons; for articulated vehicles, the maximum on three axles



-7-
is 24 tons, and on four or more axles, 32 tons. The new regulations do not
specify maximum permissible axle loads, and under the above overall weight
limitations, these may reach 12 tons on single axle and 20 tons on tandem
axles, levels which are clearly excessive for Ghana's present highway
system. The problem of vehicle weight limitation was reviewed during nego-
tiations, and the Government agreed tbat: (i) the existing vehicle weight
regulation would be supplemented by a provision to impose a reasonable limit
on axle loading - 10 tons for single axle would be adequate; and (ii) mea-
sures will be taken to assure implementation of these regulations. Weighing
scales will be provided under the project to assist in the enforcement of
weight limit regulations (para. 4.10).
B.   Administration
3.05      The highvay network can be divided into three categories, accord-
ing to the importance of the roads and the agencies responsible for their
construction and maintenance, as follows: (i) trunk roads; (ii) secondary
and feeder 1/roads; and (iii) local roads. PWD is in charge of trunk roads
(totalling about 6,300 mi, of which about 2,600 mi are paved), the only
category for which responsibilities are clearly defined, arnd which receive
continuing attention. Secondary and feeder roads (about 7,000 mi) are the
concern of regional authorities, the Department of Social Welfare and Rural
Development 2/, and local councils. Some lesser responsibi.lity for secondary
roads is also assigned to the following agencies: The Ministries of Agriculture
and of Forestry, the Volta River Authority, the Cocoa Marketing Board, and
private timber companies. Local roads are mostly unimprovet tracks and village
roads.
3.06      Although other agencies are involved in administering the road
network, PWD is clearly the controlling body. Until three years ago, the
organization of the Department followed the classic pattern of centralization:
a strong Head Office which included the usual departments for engineering,
construction, maintenance, and administration; and a pyram:Ldal field orga-
nization of regional and district offices. The regional offices carried
out the annual maintenance program, and were responsible for execution of
small projects; larger projects were the responsibility of Headquarters.
PWD's administrative structure was satisfactory, but its capacity was seri-
ously hindered by a shortage of qualified personnel at all levels.
1/   In the context of Ghana, the designation "feeder road' applies in a
strict sense to roads built under the National Feeder Road Program
(para. 3.01), and more generally to all secondary roads serving areas
of agricultural production.
2/   Formerly the Ministry of Youth and Rural Development.



-8-
C.   Recent Develozments and Reorganization of PWD
3.07      In 1969, the Government undertook to decentralize several agencies,
among them PWD. The Dpartment's nine regional offices, each headed by an
engineer, were strengthened and given some autonomy; regional engineers were
placed administratively under the Regional Chief Executive, but were expected
to take technical advice from PWD Headquarters. Proper control of expendi-
tures by PWD Headquarters was difficult since funds are channeled through the
Regional Administration. Generally speaking, the decentralization as proposed
had no clearly defined objectives. Feeder roads suffered particularly from
this situation, as responsibility for their construction and maintenance was
assigned to various agencies which did not necessarily have the required com-
petence or capacity.
3.08      While the feeder road program was underway, the Government also
allocated in 1969/70 increased amounts for maintenance and rehabilitation
of the deteriorating trunk road network. Overall, however, results were
disappointing, and did not reflect the amount of money expended. PWD lacked
the staff and equipment neccessary for much of the deferred maintenance on
the trunk roads, and had to resort increasingly to using small local contractors
who operated without enough technical and financial control. For the feeder
road program, too, the problems were the same; some of the roads, inadequately
maintained to withstand heavy rains and flooding, were washed away within two
or three years of construction.
3.09      The new military Government which came to power in January 1972 is
anxious to see the large allocations for highways used effectively, and has
undertaken extensive reorganization of PWD. The main lines of thrust of the
reorganization now underway are: (i) continuing the decentralization policy,
and regrouping all highway responsibilities within each region under the PWD
regional office; (ii) establishing the present Engineering Department of PWD
as an autonomous National Consultancy Corporation; and (iii)concentrating
PWD activities on the planning, construction, and maintenance of highways,
and divesting the Department of most of its non-highway responsibilities
(building maintenance, housing, hydrology, etc.). The Government is consider-
ing as a long-range plan the establishment of PWD as an autonomous Highway
Authority.
3.10      The proposed reorganization would lead to a strengthening of PWD's
role in highways, and as such, it appears to be a move in the right direction.
It is not yet possible, however, to assess with any certainty the impact it
would have on the Government's capacity to plan the road network, and to build
and maintain it adequately. During execution of the proposed project, the
Association will review the soundness of the new organizational arrangements,
and will consult with the Government on apparent deficiencies and possible
corrective measures. In this respect, particular attention will be paid to:
(i) improving the planning and supervision of highway investment; (ii) clari-
fying the allocation of responsibilities for secondary and feeder roads;
(iii) maintaining sufficient central authority to coordinate and supervise
highway maintenance and plant management; and (iv) exercising sufficient
financial and technical control over the regions' highway maintenance opera-
tions,



-9-
3.11      PWD's operations are hindered by a serious shortage of qualified
personnel at all levels. The professional staff establishment is about 300,
of which more than a third of the posts are vacant. The main reasons for this
shortage are the short supply of engineers and technicians, and the fact that
salaries offered by FWD compare poorly with those outside the public sector.
Aware of thig, the Government has undertaken, as part of the reorganization
of FWD, a review of the general policy concerning working conditions and com-
pensation for engineers and other technical staff. 1/ In order to allow PWD
and other Government departments to retain qualified and experienced staff, the
Government has directed the Income Commission to set reasonable limits on the
possible disparity between compensation offered to Government personnel, and
that offered by other public sector employers, e.g. state corporations and
autonomous agencies.
D. Financing
3.12      Funds for highway purposes are met mainly from the central Govern-
ment budget. For pre-investment studies, larger construction projects, and
for central workshop and equipment purchases, funds are allocated to the
PWD central administration; for small projects and for maintenance work,
allocation is direct to the regional administrations. Funds for the feeder
road program have until now been administered by various agencies, but as the
PWD regional offices take over this responsibility, future allocations will
be made to them.  Budgeting procedures appear acceptable, but control of
expenditures, especially for maintenance, has been inadequate, and is furtner
aggravated by the regionalization.
3.13      To accommodate the priority given to maintenance and rehabilitation
and to feeder roads, budget allocations for highways have increased substan-
tially over the past few years from a low ¢ 8.5 million in 1968/69 to about
C 30 million at present (Table 2). For maintenance alone, the allocation was
raised from about ¢ 2.1 million in 1968/69 to roughly C 10.5 million in 1969/70,
and to about 0 16 million in 1972/73. Actual expenditures were approxi-
mately as budgeted, except in 1971/72 when they were only about 70% of the
unrealistically high budgeted allocation.
3.14      Taxes on vehicle ownership and use are levied mainly through import
duties, purchase and sales taxes on equipment, fuel, spares, etc., and regis-
tration fees. A new regulation which came into effect in January 1973
1/ There are now about 300 Ghanaian civil engineers, and an annual addition
of about 20-30. Although these figures are high in comparison with other
African countries, civil engineers remain in short supply.



- 10 -
requires that all vehicles have a roadworthiness certificate, the fixed fee
for which includes an element of taxation similar to the license fee abol-
ished in July 1971.  Road user charges have in the past considerably exceeded
the amounts spent on highways, especia:Lly during the period 1963-68 when re-
venues more than doubled expenditures. The recent increase in road invest-
ment, combined with declining revenues, has narrowed this gap, and a balance
was achieved in 1970/71. This situation is likely to prevail over the next
few years.
E.   Planning
3.15      The highway planning normally undertaken by PWD has been insuf-
ficient for the substantial increase in highway operations over the past three
years (para. 3.13). The "Ghana Highway Study Unit" established within PWD
Headquarters to follow the recent highway rehabilitation and maintenance
studies (para. 1.01) can form the nucleus of a planning group. This unit
will be strengthened under the project, and will be made responsible for plan-
ning highway expenditures, establishing and maintaining an inventory of all
roads administered by NWD, and collecting and analyzing regularly the informa-
tion necessary to follow development of the road network and of its traffic.
The specific responsibilities of the PWD Planning Unit, and the deadline for
its full establishment (July 31, 1974) were agreed upon during negotiations.
The Government has requested CIDA to provide two experts for a period of
about two years to assist the PWD Planning Unit; CIDA is reported to be con-
sidering this request favorably.  In connection with transport planning, the
Government also agreed to complete an inventory of all PWD-administered roads,
and to keep it up-to-date in the future.
3.16      The 1972/73 budget reflects the continuing emphasis on maintenance
and rehabilitation of trunk roads. Government policy in respect of feeder
roads is to stress maintenance of existing ones, and to slow down new construc-
tion.  At the suggestion of the Bank Group, the Government has commissioned
the Building and Road Research Institute (BRRI) at the University of Sciences
and Technology at Kumasi to undertake a study of future requirements for
maintenance and construction of feeder roads. The findings of this study
would be used as a basis to formulate a highway maintenance program as pro-
posed under the project (paras. 4.08 and 4.09), and to define the feeder road
requirements for planned agricultural development projects in rice and oil-
palm production which are now under consideration by the Association.
F.   Engineering and Construction
3.17      Pre-investment studies for major highway projects are normally done
by international consultants, the notable exception being the feeder road
studies undertaken by BRRI (para 3.16). In line with its policy of self-
reliance, the Government is anxious to develop a local consulting organiza-
tion which can handle large projects, and hopes that the proposed National
Consultancy Corporation will satisfy this need. The Government does recog-
nize, however, that specialized foreign expertise will be required for some
years to carry out the feasibility studies, engineering, and supervision of
major highway projects.



- 11 -
3.18      The design of smaller road projects has been undertaken by local
consulting firms established mainly in structural engineering, and whose
capacity is limited at present to the simplest aspects of highway engineer-
ing. These firms have also provided field supervision of small- and medium-
sized construction contracts, notably for feeder roads, but the experience
in this field has been disappointing. Generally, the Government has not
worked towards grooming this infant industry. Selection cif consultants is
not always related to their past performance, and PWD has in several instances
been lax in supervising them and in providing the necessary guidance and
technical quality control. Following the discussions on this matter held
during negotiations, the Government indicated that it wil]L direct the Ministry
of Works and Housing and the Ghana Institute of Engineers to investigate the
procedures of selection, engagement, supervision, and remtneration of consult-
ants, with a view to proposing improvements which would create a proper setting
for the sound development of local consulting firms.
3.19      PWD does practically no force account construction work.  Major
contracts are normally awarded after competitive bidding on the basis of
bills of quantities. To be eligible to tender for Government works, con-
tractors are required to register with the Government. Nearly 200 contrac-
tors are registered to do road works in one of four classes, namely: (i)
exceeding C 250,000; (ii) C 100,000 - C 250,000; (iii) ¢ 25,000 - C 100,000;
and (iv) below C 25,000. 1/ There are seven or eight indigenous firms in the
highest class (the largest being the autonomous State Construction Corpora-
tion), and six or seven foreign contractors, only one of which is active.
Most contractors in the other classes are mainly building contractors who are
not equipped for high quality roadworks, and whose activity is thus limited
to regravelling and construction of small drainage structures.
3.20      PWD has supervised the most recent road construction jobs, but its
control is seriously hampered by inadequate staffing and equipment. Workman-
ship b-as been poor on the repair and maintenance works done recently. To
remedy this, more effective control is required, includinig proper authority
of the controlling agency to reject sub-standard work.
G. Maintenance
3.21      Soon after independence in 1957, the highway network was improved
by a major paving and upgrading program which made Ghana's road system one
of the best in West Africa. Some new roads were built or improved during the
1960's, but the system as a whole deteriorated because oE low budget allo-
cations for maintenance, late release of approved funds, lack of equipment
and spare parts, and understaffing of PWD. These problems were aggravated by
the combined effects of inadequate drainage structures, severe floods
(especially in 1968), and roads built to standards unsuited for present
tratfic.
1/ In US$ equivalents: (i) exceeding US$217,500; (ii) US$87,000 - US$217,500;
(iii) US$21,750 - US$87,000; and (iv) below US$21,750.



- 12 -
3.22      Since 1970/71, the allocations for highway maintenance have been
restored to a level which could be considered satisfactory under normal
conditions, i.e., if there were no accumulated backlog of equipment renewal
and deferred maintenance. The condition of the network, however, has hardly
improved in relation to these increases, primarily because PWD has been
unable to use the funds effectively. The main reasons for these shortcomings
have been: (i) insufficient personnel, particularly qualified staff; (ii)
lack of central control, both technical and financial, over expenditures;
and (iii) low efficiency of the now largely obsolete equipment fleet.
3.23      The Crown Agents completed in October 1972 the draft final report
of the highway maintenance study (para. 2.02). They recommend a four-year
highway maintenance program including: (i) measures for increasing staff
levels and training the labor force necessary to carry out a sufficient
volume of work; (ii) renewal and expansion of the equipment fleet, and
reconditioning of workshops and stores as necessary; and (iii) elimination
of the existing backlog of deferred maintenance of gravel roads. The Govern-
ment has confirnmed its intention to prepare and implement such a program.
Additional preparation work will be required to define adequately the proposed
highway maintenance program, notably to adapt the Crown Agents' recommenda-
tions to the proposed new organization, and to take into account the require-
ments for maintenance of feeder roads.
3.24      The additional work necessary to formulate a highway maintenance
program on the basis of the Crown Agents' study and of the BRRI Feeder Road
study will be undertaken under the project (paras. 4.08 and 4.09). The time-
tabla and the scope for preparation of the proposed maintenance program have
been discussed and agreed during negotiations. The Government has confirmed
that upon completion of the above preparation work, it will consult with the
Association on the scope and the timetable for implementing the proposed
highway maintenance program. The present project emphasizes rehabilitation,
together with the proposed program to improve maintenance of primary, secondary,
and feeder roads; as such, it will provide over the next four years the
essentials of a sound highway policy. The proposed maintenance program could
possibly form the basis for a future Bank Group operation.
3.25      The Crown Agents' study also confirmed the assessment of several
Bank Group missions that central control over highway maintenance expenditures
should be strengthened. Although the funds voted centrally for maintenance
could be adequate, they are sometimes diverted to other uses, and PWD
Headquarters is powerless to prevent this. This problem was discussed at
negotiations, and the Government agreed that it would strengthen the control
of highway maintenance funds administered by PWD regional offices, and would
direct these offices to account to PWD Headquarters for the use of such
funds.



- 13 -
4. THE PROJECT
A.  General Description
4.01      The proposed project consists of:
(i)  a three-year program for rehabilitation and improvement of 13
sections of trunk roads (totalling about 345 mi), including
consulting services for supervision of these works;
(ii) pre-investment studies to prepare future projects for reha-
bilitation and improvement of trunk roads;
(iii) formulation of a program to improve the maintenance of trunk,
secondary, and feeder roads; and
(iv) ac'quisition of equipment for traffic control and pavement survey.
Rebabilitation and Improvement of Trunk Roads
4.02      The proposed project includes road rehabilitation or improvement
works along the major transport corridors as follows: (a) Accra - Takoradi,
(b) Accra - Kumasi, and (c) Accra - Ho. It also provides for similar works
on some roads south of Kumasi, and in the rich agricultural region northwest
of Accra. The project roads and the works proposed are described in Annex I
a-nd summarized in Table 3.
4.03      The proposed project is based on economic and engineering studies
carried out in 1970/71 by SWKP (para. 1.01), and their recommendation of a
rehabilitation and improvement program for about 750 mi of roads. Of these,
the Government has with its own resources undertaken, directly or under con-
tract, the required works on about 215 mi; the 345 mi of roads now included
under the present project are those,of the remainder of the proposed program
which have highest priority.  The other roads (190 mi) left over from the
initial program comprise: (i) about 170 mi whose improvement could be
postponed for three or four years without the risk of irreparable deterioration,
and (ii) an isolated section of about 20 mi of timber road which the Govern-
ment prefers to consider later as part of a more comprehensive project,
including a link with the main road network.
4.04      SWKP has prepared for the project roads drawings and specifications,
as well as contract documents; these were all reviewed during appraisal, and
were found satisfactory for the works envisaged. Physical quantities for
rehabilitation and improvement works are based on engineers' estimates, and
are adequate to allow preparation of reliable cost estimates for all sections
included in the project. In the case of partial reconstruction - Winneba-
Swedru (11.3 mi) and Accra-Nsawam (19.4 mi)- some further detailed engineer-
ing is required to prepare final bill of quantities and itender documents,
and this will be carried out by the supervising consultants under the pro- - 
ject. The consultants will also re-assess the scope of lpavement repair works



- 14 -
required on the section Winneba Junction - Mankesim (28.5 mi) which has re-
ceived some emergency repairs since completion of the SWKP engineering studies
in 1971.
Supervision of Construction
4.05      The Government is planning to retain SWKP, the consultants who
prepared the project, to supervise the proposed highway rehabilitation pro-
gran, and to carry out the necessary complementary engineering. To take ad-
vantage of on-the-job training opportunities offered under the project, while
at the same time maintaining the necessary performance standards, the follow-
ing procedure will be used. SWKP would have full responsibility for the
staff to be employed for supervision, and would, to the extent possible, em-
ploy Ghanaian personnel at both professional and non-professional levels.
SWKP would organize on-the-job training for inspectors of works. The proposed
arrangements for employment and training of Ghanaian personnel are reflected
in the consultants' Terms of Reference and in their contract; final drafts
of these documents were reviewed and approved at negotiations.
4.06      Due to the special nature of the works and the large area to be
covered, the cost of supervision will be somewhat higher than for normal
road construction contracts. Although Ghanaian engineers and technicians
will be employed to the extent possible, a large contingent of foreign person-
nel will be required. The estimated manpower requirements are 19 engineers,
and 14 qualified technicians, of whom T)robably one-third would be Ghanaians.
Total requirements would be about 670 iban-months over three years, with
Ghanaian personnel accounting for about 30-35% of this total.
Pre-Investment Studies for Future Rehabilitation and Improvement Projects
4.07      By the time the present road rehabilitation and improvement program
is completed, many other roads will have become due for similar works. The
project includes economic and engineering studies to evaluate and, if justi-
fied, to prepare the rehabilitation and improvement of 1_4sections of trunk
_roads_totalling _about 750 mi (see Annex II). These roads offer prima facie
evidence of being economically justified over the period 1977-79.  The list
comprises the remainder from the initial SWKP program (para. 4.03), several
projects not found immediately justified at the time of the SWKP study, and
some reconstruction projects from Government's investment program. It is
anticipated that engineering and bidding documents will be prepared for
about 500 of the 750 mi of roads selected for feasibility study. The total
length of roads to be engineered for rehabilitation, improvement, or recon-
struction works, will be determined by the Government in agreement with the
Association; this determination will be made on the basis of conclusions of
the feasibility studies, and in relation to the amount of resources expected
to be made available for highways from both internal and external sources
over the period 1977-79.



- 15 -
Formulation of Highway Maintenance Program
4.08      As mentioned previously (paras. 3.24 and 3.25), there is need for
a program to strengthen the highway maintenance organization and to eliminate
a backlog of deferred maintenance. Such a program has been recom ended by
the Crown Agents, and is of high economic priority. _The aLdditional prepara-
tion work necessarv to define in detail the scope of each of the components
of the proposed maintenance program will be carried out under the project.
The Crown A.nts' _2posals will have to be revised and e:pap ded to take into
account the additional maintenance requirements of secondary and feeder roads
added tot_Je rresTonsIlth1IT      X xegional. offices.  Complementary prepara-
tion will also be required on the economic justification    the
program, as well as on its -oraiWIoALsy-tAlzg-sa;cs.  The scope
-f the proposed preparation works has been discussed and agreed during nego-
tiations, and the Government has undertaken to complete this part of the
project by May 31, 1974.
4.0g      The proposed preparation of a highway maintenanc:e program will be
as much as possible an in-house effort by PWD. It will be carried out by a
special maintenance task force established within PWD, and headed by an
experienced engineer of the Department. The proposed task force will be
assisted as necessary by individual consultants. The orgtnizational arrange-
ments for establishment of the proposed task force and the scope and duration
of the necessary advisory services (five experts for three months, i.e. 15 man-
months) were discussed and agreed during negotiations. In view of possible
future CIDA assistance for purchase of highway maintenance! equipment and for
staff training, the Government has requested that agency to provide the neces-
sary advisory services to assist the proposed task force. Although not in a
position to react officially to the Government's request, CIDA representatives
who met with the Ghana and Association delegations during negotiations indicated
that the request would be considered favorably, and an answer communicated
promptly. As CIDA assistance is not yet sure, however, a provision of
US$100,000 is included in the proposed Credit to finance the foreign exchange
cost of advisory services to assist the proposed task force.
Equipment for Traffic Control and Pavement Survey
4.10      As outlined previously (para. 3.15), the Government will proceed to
strengthen the existing PWD Planning Unit, to complete and maintain a road
inventory, and to establish systematic procedures to collect and analyze the
information necessary for monitoring evolution of the road network. To assist
in all this, the project will provide traffic counters and equipment for
testing the structural strength of existing pavements, as well as weighing
scales to assist in enforcing weight limit regulations (para. 3.04). The
detailed purchase program proposed by the Government is expected to be sub-
mitted to the Association by September/October 1973.
B.   Cost Estimates
4.11      The project is estimated to cost approximately US$20 million equiv-
alent, including foreign exchange costs of about US$11 million. Estimates



- 16 -
of project costs (based on prices at end-1972) are detailed in Table 4 and
summarized below:
1 '000           US$ '000 equivalent       Foreign
Local   Foreign   Total   Local   Foreign   Total  Component
(%)
(a) Rehabilitation
and improve-
ment of about 345
mi of trunk
roads            6,660    8,140   14,800   5,790   7,080   12,870    55
(b) Construction
supervision        410    1,05      1,435      380     890    1,270    70
(c) Pre-investment
studies      360       360       720     310      310      620    50
(d) Advisory services
for preparation of a
highway maintenance
program              20      110      130        15     100       115    85
(e) Equipment for traffic
control and pavement
survey              40       385      425        35     335       370    90
(f) Contingencies:
Physical            710      915    1,625       615     800    1,415
Price Escalation 1,700    1,570    3,270    1,480   1,365    2,845
TOTAL            9,900   12,505   22,405    8,625  10,880   19,505    56
(rounded)(10,000) (12,500) (22,500)  (8,500)(11,000) (19,500)
4.12      The cost estimates for rehabilitation and improvement works are
based on the SWKP studies, and revised to reflect changes in the parity of
the cedi,and price inflation over the period from mid-1971 to end-1972.
A quantity contingency allocation of 10% has been provided. The price es-
calation contingency has been estimated on the basis of an annual increase
of 6% for the foreign exchange component of the project, and 12% for local
cost; this takes account of the high rate of price escalation over the
period 1971/72.
4.13      Cost estimates for consulting services for construction supervision
and for advisory services for the maintenance task force are based on average
man-month rates for various levels of professional qualifications, and take
account of the higher cost of foreign personnel. Cost estimates for pre-
investment studies are based on an estimate of man-month requirements of
engineers and economists, and on per-mile estimates of the cost of specialized



- 17 -
technical works such as aerial photography, topographic surveys, and geotech-
nical tests. For the per-mile estimates, the low average figure of about
US$600 is adequate, because most of the projects consist of upgrading and
rehabilitation of existing roads, some of which have already been studied.
Most of the technical services will be provided locally (para. 4.19).
4.14      The foreign exchange component of road construction works is
estimated to be 47% for contracts executed by local contractors, and 62% in
the case of foreign contractors. Assuming that about half of the contracts
will be awarded locally, the overall foreign exchange comnponent is about 55%.
For consulting services, the estimated foreign exchange component takes into
account the anticipated participation of Ghanaian firms and personnel, and
is estimated at 70% for supervision, and at 50% for pre-investment studies.
The tax element of the rehabilitation works is estimated at 12%.
C.   Execution
4.15      The Ministry of Works and Housing will be responsible for exe-
cuting the project through the PWD, with consultants SWKP providing direct
field supervision. SWKP will also establish a central project unit to support
the resident staff, to coordinate execution of the proposed rehabilitation
and improvement program, and to organize and implement on-the-job training
of field supervisors. The Government will assign a qualified engineer to
follow the program and to provide the necessary liaison. This arrangement,
and the requirement that consultants be employed under terms and conditions
acceptable to the Association, was confirmed during negotiations; at that
time also, the draft supervision contract between the Government and SWKP
was reviewed and agreed (para. 4.05).
4.16      SWKP has already assisted the Government in preparation of prequali-
fication documents, and additional services may be requiLred prior to signature
of the proposed Credit for processing and evaluating prequalification appli-
cants. Retroactive financing in the amount of US$25,000 is provided to
cover the foreign exchange cost of these services from March 1, 1973.
4.17      Contracts for rehabilitation works will be awarded after prequal-
ification, on the basis of international competitive bidding following Bank/
IDA guidelines. The program includes contracts of various sizes ranging from
about US$400,000 to US$3 million, and with completion periods of between 9
and 21 months. The Government is now being assisted by SWKP in preparing
final proposals for appropriate phasing and grouping of contracts into pack-
ages.  The "packaging" will permit firms to bid at contract sizes which fit
their capacity. Contractors will be allowed to bid for a single road section
or for combinations; some of the contracts will enable local contractors to
compete. The preparation of prequalification documents has been completed,
and invitations to tender for the first "package" will be issued by November
1973. Construction is scheduled to start by early 1974. The Government has
confirmed that in accordance with the relevant existing laws and regulations,
it will arrange to facilitate contractors' registration, mobilizing of foreign
personnel, importing of equipment and materials, and transfer abroad  of
foreign exchange necessary for project execution.



- 18 -
4.18      The proposed rehabilitation and improvement works are spread widely
over the densely populated area of the country, which will facilitate con-
struction methods implying a high labor content. Because of heavy taxes
imposed on imported equipment, and the scarcity of foreign exchange, the
methods used by Ghana's road construction industry have been developed over
the past ten years under conditions favorable to the use of labor. Another
reason favoring such use is the fact that the construction industry includes
a large number of small contractors who have limited capacity for capital
investments in plant. Works under the project will provide employment for
about 1,000 persons over its three-year execution period.
4.19      The Government is planning to entrust the pre-investment studies
to the proposed National Consultancy Corporation (para. 3.09), but final
arrangements will be possible only after the Corporation has been established.
A judgment is not yet possible on whether the proposed Corporation will have
the capacity to carry out this assignment, particularly in economic analysis
and in pavement design, and the Corporation might seek cooperation with a
foreign consulting firm. As is usual with large pre-investment studies, the
Association and the Government would first agree on terms of reference, and
the Corporation would then be expected to submit a detailed proposal, includ-
ing staffing arrangements, for approval by the Association.
4.20      The equipment will be procured following competitive bidding in
accordance with Bank/IDA guidelines.
D.   Financing and Disbursement
4.21      Financing of the project will be as follows:
(a) IDA will finance:
(i)  65% of the total cost of rehabilitation and improvement
works; this represents about 74% of the cost of this
item net of taxes, and covers the entire foreign exchange
component and about 22% of local costs;
(ii)  70% of the total cost of consulting services.  For the
supervision contract, this proportion represents the
entire foreign exchange component; for the pre-investment
studies, it represents the foreign component and about
40% of local costs; and
(iii)  the actual foreign exchange cost of equipment purchases,
and of advisory services for assistance in preparation
of the highway maintenance program.
(b) Ghana will finance:
(i) 35% of the cost of rehabilitation and improvement works;
(ii) 30% of the cost of consulting services; and



- 19 -
(iii) the local cost of equipment purchases and of advisory
services for preparation of the highway maintenance program.
4.22      In the case of construction and consultant contracts, disbursement
will be based on a fixed percentage of 65% and 70% respectively of the cer-
tified monthly statements. Payment for the acquisition of equipment will be
based on the CIF cost.
4.23      It is expected that construction work will start by early 1974,
and will take three years to complete. Table 4 shows the financing plan for
the project, and Table 5 the estimated schedule of quarterly disbursements
from the Credit. With the prior agreement of the Association, any surplus
funds under the Credit Account would be allocated to further rehabilitation
works.
5. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
5.01      When the project was initially evaluated in November 1971, the
economic rates of return for individual improvements included in the present
project were found to range from 12% to 42%, with first-year benefits in
excess of 10%, indicating that the timing of construction over the period
1973-75 was appropriate. The November 1972 re-appraisal showed that the
conclusions of the initial analysis have essentially not been affected by
recent developments. Table 6 gives for each road section its traffic, brief
information on its economic context, and the economic return and first-year
benefit.
Traffic
5.02      Since the economy of Ghana is expected to grow slowly over the
next few years, similarly slow growth can be expected in the demand for road
transport. For passenger transport, this demand will rise more rapidly than
for goods transport, because of rapid population growth iLn the main urban
centers. On average, passenger traffic is expected to grow by 3% p.a. up to
1976, and by 4% p.a. thereafter.
5.03      The figures on traffic growth of cars and small buses used for the
economic analysis of the project roads varies from 1.5 - 5.5% p.a. between
1972-76, and from 2.0 - 6.5% between 1976-81. The higher rates were adopted
only for the main Accra-Kumasi route (Sections 20 B and 46, Table 3), and
reflected both the anticipated growth in inter-urban pasisenger movement, and
the fact that demand for truck transport is expected to grow at only 1%
p.a. as people use part of their increased income to pay for greater comfort
in travel, and switch from "mammy-wagons" to buses. The annual rate of
growth of goods traffic is expected to be between 1.5 - 2.0% up to 1976, and
3% thereafter. Passenger traffic is expected to grow much more slowly in the
north of the country than in the south; the reverse is true for goods traffic,
as the north will be the main source of future increases in production of



- 20 -
basic foodstuffs. Spot-checks conducted in November 1972 indicated increases
in daily traffic of 5% or more on selected important routes over the period
1971/72, suggesting that the above projections are conservative.
Level of Improvement
5.04      The project works will reduce high operating costs incurred by ve-
hicles using the project roads which are now in a poor state of repair. For
each road, two levels of rehabilitation were analyzed: the lower level con-
sists of repairing failures, and removing the causes of the failures; the
upper level includes upgrading roads to somewhat higher engineering standards.
The consultants selected for each road section the level of rehabilitation
which would minimize the net present value of total transport expenditures
(comprising for a given road section the vehicle operating costs, and
expenditures for improvement, repair, and maintenance) over the expected
economic life of the improvement and rehabilitation works proposed for each
section.
5.05      The review conducted in November 1972 has indicated the various
levels of improvement initially selected to be still appropriate, except for
the Accra-Nsawam road (Section 46, Table 3) which justifies a higher level
of improvement in view of the permanent rerouting to this road of most of
the traffic between Accra and Kumasi (see Annex I). The revised rate of
return for this road was estimated on the basis of the SWKP study, with
simplified assumptions to take account of the higher traffic levels. It was
also necessary to re-evaluate on the basis of simplified assumptions the
scope of works and the economic return to rehabilitation of the section
Mankesim - Winneba Junction (28.5 mi) which has received some emergency
pavement repairs since completion of the SWKP study.
5.06      The economic costs of rehabilitation used in the economic analysis
are the estimated costs of the work, including physical contingencies and
supervision. A ten-year economic life of the projects has been assumed, and
all periodic costs to be incurred during that time have been included in the
analysis. This duration of economic life is considered reasonable for the
rehabilitation work which comprises the bulk of the project, but appears
rather conservative for improvement and upgrading.
Benefits
5.07      The benefits of the proposed project have been quantified in terms
of cost savings, and have not been related directly to increases in produc-
tion; there is no doubt, however, that less expensive and more reliable
road transport on major primary roads will facilitate the development of
trade, and allow more efficient and increased production. The project roads
serve zones with relatively high agricultural activity and population den-
sity. Many of the roads are part of inter-regional transport routes. Table
6 provides qualitative information on the nature of traffic carried by the
project roads, and thereby gives an idea of the economic activities which are
likely to benefit from the project. Passenger traffic plays a dominant role
on most of the roads which are part of inter-city corridors. Important com-
modities by tonnage are petroleum products, foodstuffs, cocoa, and timber.



- 21 -
Given the fair degree of competition prevailing in the road transport in-
dustry, it can be reasonably assumed that the transport cost savings resulting
fron the project will be passed on to farmers, consumers, and passengers.
5.08      Directly quantifiable benefits from the improvements works consist
of savings in road transport costs and reductions in maintenance and repair
expenditures. To estimate these benefits, the consultants undertook extensive
field work, and costed the operation of four typical kinds of vehicles in
Ghana under different conditions with respect to surface type, road condition,
and alignment. Because of the relatively low traffic volume on the roads in
question (only five sections carry more than 1,000 vpd - Table 6), costs
due to congestion are not relevant.  The effect on operating costs of varia-
tions in operating speeds resulting from the road condition on each section
has been computed, and is shown graphically in the Plate. The savings in
vehicle operating costs for each of the project roads for various classes
of vehicles are shown in Table 7.
5.09      In addition to savings in vehicle operating costs, the consultants
calculated the savings in costs for recurrent and periodic maintenance which
the restoring of the project sections to good standards should allow.
Sensitivity Tests
5.10      The economic evaluation of each of the project roads relies on a
number of inputs which have been quantified with varying degrees of certainty.
The estimates of future traffic growth and savings in future road transport
costs appear well-founded and conservative. The estimates of the cost of
civil works proposed under the project appear, however, to include some
elements of uncertainty, due to the fact that there is in Ghana no recent
experience of large road construction contracts awarded on the basis of
international competition. The economic net rate of return of the various
project roads have therefore been tested for a 10% increase in road con-
struction costs (see Table 6).
5.11      It was not found necessary to use a shadow price! for labor costs,
as wage rates for skilled and semi-skilled workers appear to reflect oppor-
tunity costs. The opportunity costs of unskilled labor irn some parts of the
country is below the existing PWD rate, but the extent is unknown. No study
has been made to estimate the differential between total real income of PWD's
and other unskilled labor. A shadow rate for this labor would probably have
led to slightly higher estimates of the returns for each road section.
5.12      Another source of uncertainty arises from the difficulty in assessing
the equivalence between the local and foreign exchange comnponents of the pro-
ject cost. The conclusions of the economic analysis were therefore tested
for values of the exchange rate up to 140% of the officiaL rate of the cedi.
This sensitivity analysis showed that variations in the exchange rate af-
fected the rate of return of the different road sections only slightly, as in-
creases in benefits were very nearly compensated by increases in costs. The
structure of the construction cost (foreign exchange content and labor) is
largely similar to the structure of the benefits considered, namely reduced
vehicle operating costs, and savings in road maintenance expenditures.



- 22 -
Conclusion
5.13      The estimated rates of return for each road section resulting from
the analysis outlined above are conservative figures which provide a sound
basis for evaluating the economic justification of the project. The returns
on individual sections of the project range between 12% and 36%, to be com-
pared with an estimated opportunity ccst of capital in Ghana of about 10%;
the weighted average return of the project is estimated at about 22%. The
average return of the project with a 10% increase in road construction costs
is about 19.5%, with individual returns ranging between 10% and 33%. The
project is therefore economically justified.
6. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.01      During Credit negotiations between the Government and the Association,
the following principal items were discussed and agreed:
(i) the need for economic and technical evaluation by PWD of all
future highway projects of major importance, and for its assessing
the justification of such projects in relations to Ghana's
development objectives (para. 2.15);
(ii) supplementing the existing regulation on vehicle weight
control by a provision to impose a reasonable limit on
axle-loading (para. 3.04);
(iii) a time-table for formal establishment of a Planning Unit
within PWD, including details of its specific responsibilities
(para. 3.15); and
(iv) measures to be taken by the Government to ensure a proper
setting for sound development of the local consulting
industry (para. 3.18); and
(v) strengthening the control by PWD Headquarters of the use of
highway maintenance funds administered by its regional offices
(para. 3.25).
6.02      The project is suitable for a Credit of US$13 million equivalent
to the Government of Ghana on conventional IDA terms.
June 29, 1973



TABLE 1
GHANA
FIRST HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimated Road and Rail Output, 1969
(million ton-miles)
Road       %           Rail       %          Total
Timber                   83        53           75        47          158
Cocoa                   38         56           28       44            66
Manganese                 -         0           18      100            18
Bauxite                   -         0           39      100            39
Agricultural             86        97            3         3           89
Building Materials      61         95            3         5           64
Petroleum               50         96            2        4            52
Other                  103         96            4        4           107
TOTAL         421        71          172        29          593
Source: Transport Sector Study by Nathan Consortium, May 1970.
December 1971.



GHANA
FIRST HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimates of Budgeted and Actual Highway Expenditure 1968-72
(million cedis)
1968/69           1969/70           1970/71            1971/72         1972/73
Budgeted Actual                     Budgeted Actua   BugetActuaJl   Bu3dgete7Actual   Budgete
Trunk Road Construction         3.5        2.3   5.1      5.2       7.2     9.3       158F (9/5)         10.1
Feeder Road Construction        1.5    2.5        4.0     5.7       5.0     4.8       11.8    (7.1)e       2.8
Road Maintenance and
Rehabilitation                2.1    2.0      10.5      9.7      11.8   10.7       17.7   (13.3)e      16.1
Technical Services
(Consultants)                 0.1    0.1       1.3      1.2       0.1     -         2.0    (2.0)e       0. 4
Other Road Tr nsport
Investmentl                   1.3    1.1        2.1     1.6       2.9     2.5        2.7    (2.7)e     n.a.
TOTAL                           8.5    8.o       23.0    23.4      27.0    27.3       50.0   (34.6)e      29.4
i/ This includes ferry services, hydrological works, and conmunity development programs.
2/ Preliminary estimates based on rough evaluation of overall percentage of amounts spent compared with initial budget.
Source : PWD, November 1971
December 1971.



_G h A N A
PUtST HIGHIWAY PROJECT
List of Project Roads, Proposed Design Standards for Rehabilitation Works aod Construction Cost Escimates
Overall D     n  tandards                                             Construction Cost-
Length                                                     Width                        Width                  Design Speed                     (0 000, Nov. 1972 values)
Sub-Project Number               Road Name                           Scope of Proposed_iroveents                  of formation                 Pavement               (when appropriate)              Total                   Average per
mile
11 A                Teehi-an to Chira                  25.7      Improvement and paving of                      32 ft                       22 ft                      60 mph                     1,012                      35.,
existing gravel road
20 B                Anyinam to Kumasi                  81.0      Improvement of vertical alignment,             36 ft                       24 ft                          -                      4,216                      47.3
widening and partial reconstruc-
tion of pavement
21                  Kamasi to Anwiankwanta             15.3      Widening of formation improvement              36 ft                       24 ft                          -                        745                      44.4
of vertical alignment and draina-
ge widening of pavement
22                  Anviankwanta to Bekwai              5.0      Same as 21                                      34 ft                      24 ft                          -                        22B                      4,.5
35                  Yfamoranaa to Sekendi Jet          46.1      Reconstruction of shoulder and                  36 ft                      24 ft                          -                      2,213                      43.6
widening and repair of pavement
36                  Mankesim to Yamoransa              16.5      Same as 35                                      36 ft                      24 ft                          -                        510                      28.1
37                  Winneba Jct to Mankesim            28.5      Same as 35.  Scope of pavement                 36 ft                       29 ft                          -                        798                      282/
repair to be re-assessed under
the project
38                  Accra to Winneba Jct               34.0      Same as 35                                      36 ft                      24 ft                          -                      1,100                       29,1
39                  Winneba to Winneba Jet              2.5      Widening of the formation and                   36 ft                      24 ft                          -                        138                       50
widening and strengthening of
pavement
41                  Winneba Jct to Swedru              11.3      Reconstruction on the basis of                  36 ft                      24 ft                        60-70 mph                1,088                       87.5
deta1ied engineering to be carried
under the project
45                  Adaiso to Kade                     37.4      Reconstruction of the shoulders                 36-30 ft                   24-22 ft                       -                         818                      19.9
and widening and strengthening of
pavement
46                  Accra to Nsawam                    19.4      Reconstruction on the basis cf                  36 ft                      24 ft                       70 mph                    1,557                       72.9
detailed engineering to be carried
out under the project
50                  Trom Jct to Kpong                   9.8      Reconstruction of shoulders and                 30 ft mi.                  22 ft                          -                         515                      47,7
widening and strengthening of
pavement
51                  Kpong to Anyirawasi                36.2      Sameas 50                                       30 ft min.                 20-22 ft                       -                         860                      21.6
TOTAL       340.3 hk
l/  hot including engineering, sapervision and contingencies.
_/  Estitates based on updating of initial SWIGP estimates (037,70() per mi) to take into account more limited scope of pavement otrengthening and repair.
Source:  SWI4  Road Rehabilitation Program, September 1971
Mission estimates, November 1971 and November 1977
May 1973



GHANA
FIRST HIGHWAY PROJECT
Cost Estimates and Financing Plan
---------------Cost Estimates--------------------   Foreign            --------Financing Plan-------
-------- (o '000)-             -        (US$   000E) -------   Fxchange    --(¢ '000)---    -(LE  '000)--   IDA as %
Local   Foreign    Total       Local   Foreign    Total  Component         Govt.    IDA    Govt.         IDA   of Total
(a) Rehabilitation and
improvement of aLout 315
miles of trunk roads             6,660    8,1T0    l1l,800       5,790    7,080    12,870        55%         5,180    9,620   4,5 05    8,365        65%
(b) Consulting services for
construction suoervision           blo    1,025       1,435        380       89C      1,270      70%           Lbo    1,025       380       89C,    70%
(c) Consulting services for
pre-investment studies
for improvement of about
700 miles of roads                 360       360        720        310       310        620      50,%          215       505      185       135      70%
(d) Advisory services for
preparation of a highway
naintenance program                  20      110        130         15       100        115      85%            20       110       15       100      85%S
(e) Equipm.nt for traffic
control and pavement
survey                               40      385        425         35       335        370      90%            40       385       35       335      90%
(f) Contingency provisions for:
(i) increases in physical
quantities -- 10% on
(a) and (b)                    710       915      1,625        615       800     1,P15                     560    1,065       0185      930      65%
(ii) increases in prices
-(a) 10% p.a. local
7.5% p.a. foreign      1,655    1,070       3,125      1,4)30    1,280      2,720                  1,095    2,030
-(b), (c), (d), and
(e) 5%                         45       100        135         40        85        125                     35       105
Subtotal (ii)             1,700    1,5770                  1380              =2 01,365                 1,3      2,135      982    1,865       65%
Subtotal contingencies (f)       2,l10    2,485       3,895      2,095    2,165       )L,260                 1,690    3,200   1,465    2,795
TOTAL                  9,900   12,505    22,105        8,625   10,880    19,505        56%         7,555   1, 845   6,585   12,920         66%
(Rounded)             10,000   12,500    22,500        8,500   11,000    19,500                    7,500   15,000         650    13,000
12
Sources: SWKP Road Rehabilitation Program, September 1971
Mission estimates, November 1971 and November 1972
June 1973



TABLE 5
GHANA
FIRST HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IBRD/IDA Fiscal Year                           Cumulative Disbursements
and Quarter Ending                                 at endL of Quarter
(7US, 000 )
1973/74
December 31, 1973                                         50
March 31, 1974                                            50
June 30, 1974                                            700
1974/75
September 30, 1974                                     1,350
December 31, 1974                                      2,050
March 31, 1975                                         3,500
June 30, 1975                                          5,000
1975/76
September 30, 1975                                     6,500
December 31, 1975                                      8,000
March 31, 1976                                         9,500
June 30, 1976                                         10,500
1976/77
September 30, 1976                                    11,500
December 31, 1976                                     12,300
March 31, 1977                                        13,000
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
Source:   Mission estimates, November 1972.
June 1973.



GhANA
FIRST HI[GiwAY PROJECT
Economic Evaluation of Project Roads
Slb Projlects                                                 Traffin                                          Eco0001i Analytis          _                                    _            _  Economic Co onext
0 nsitivity
Traffic            Srroetoro af Traffi.1/                                                       Cons icct oin
Length             1971               by Vehicle Classos %          Economic                   First Yeer          Eoonuooi                                                      Mais Traffic o
N..                         Road Nane                (ni)               _.p.d.               (1)  (2   (3)  (4)           Rati  of Return 7          BRenefits i         Rate of Retuco %              Eromnoi  Role                 Co-oditien  (t.onaKs.)
20B                  Anyinam to Ku-asi               81.0                940                61    8   23    8                22.5                      19.3                    20.4                Aror-K-uen --corridur;            Manufactured goods,  cc,
inte-regional erode.              foodsetof. timber
prod-ce -ollettiom
21                  KCpasi to Awiasnk.anta           15.3              1,060                 58   15   21    6               12.1                      13.2                    10.3                Kumasi-Cape Coo-t-                Passeogers.  timber,  onoe,
Taboradi corridor, ineer          foodetui
regional tcado, produoe
22                   Anoinkb.anca to Bekiai           5.1                540                 50   17   26    7               27.3                      24                      24.5                collection
35                   Yenorones  to Sekondi
Jonction                        46.1               1,170               54    9   27   10                19.2                      1B                      17.1                Accra-Cape Coast-                 Passongers, petroleum prodocts
36                   Mamkeim in Vamaromee            16.5               1,250                57   14   25    4               36.3                      27                      33.5                Tokoradi corridor, inter          nmeufactured gRoda,tinber,
37                   Widipeb. Jct. tE  Mankeaim      28.5                  960               57   IJ1  25 o                  15.6                      31.5                    12.5                 t onora utrate enudntofi
38                   Acorn -t Winneba bJt.           34.0               1,700                58   18   31    3               30.3                      23                      27.2
39                  Winmeba ti  Winneba Jct           2.5               1,053               69   17   13    1                17.3                      17                      15.1                Linking Winmeba with               Possemgrrs, petroloum  products
Ac-ra-Cape Coart-Takoradi         nonuinctoced gooda timber
corridor                          foodstuff, fish
41                   Winneba Jot to Seden           13.3                  810               54   28   15    3               13.8                      14                      11.8                Regional link with Acorn-          Passeng-rs, c-coa, foodstuff
Takocadi nurridnr, produce
colle-tiom
45                   Adaiso to Kode                  37.4                  430               51   30   14    5               17.0                      19                      15.4                Produce - ollection                Cocos, maize, otec foodatuff;
in thb fCtae, palm oil from
proposed IDA-fimonced project
-- od Kwes
46                   Aclra to Nsawem                 19.4               3,400                61   16   18    5               26.8                      25                      24                  A-cra-Kofo-idua-Kunasi             Passengers, petroleum products,
corridor; inter-regional          manufactored goodcd,foodstuff
trade, supply of A-cra
50                   Tro-  Jot. To Kpong              9.8                  620               51   34   14    1               23.4                      21                      21                  Limk between Accre  -nd            Manufactured gOods, foodstuff
Volta region and Akononbn
eas, inter-re_Rioal trade
produlce collection
51                   Kpong to Anyirasasi             36.2                  610               58   10   28    4               23.1                      24                      20.32               Soto  as 50                        Sane as project no. 50 in
addition, petroleum praducts
1/ See Tablo 7, footrott 1/.
2/  Updahng L  initial SWKP ectierate.  S-oo, of uork  o  e re-. ssesred e.. ider the  jrojeor.
Source:  SWkP Road Rehabilitation Prograr,,eterher 1971
Miosion  estientes,Nl bmobec 1971 und Nlcv -er 1370
May 197J



GHANA
TABLE 7
FIRST HIGHdAY PROJJ,CT
Savings in Vehicle Operating Costs
(cedis per vehicle-mile per year, 1971 values)
Class of Vehicles 
Road Section No.                Class 1       Class 2       CLass 3       Class 4
11 A                       15.33         13.97         28.10         50.37
20 B                        4.38          2.19          5.84-        10.22
21                          2.19          1.09          2.92          4.74
22                        11.31           3.65        1L4.96         16.73
35                          3.65          1.83          4.74          7.66
36                          3.65          1.83          4.74          7.60
/2
37-                         2.19          1.09          2.92          4.74
38                          2.19          1.09          2.92          14.74
39                         4.01           2.64          6.93         11.68
41                        11.31           3.65         1L4.96        16.78
45                          6.20          2.64          6.93         12.04
46                          4.38          2.64          5.84         12.04
50                        11.31           3.65         1L4.96        16.78
51                          4.38         2.69           5.84        10.22
1/ Class 1:
(a) private cars, hire cars, and taxis;
(b) light buses with capacity of less than 22 people;
(c) light goods vehicles with two axles and single rear tires, including
pick-ups and vans.
Class 2: Mammy-wagons; 3-ton trucks with wooden bodies used for carrying
passengers, or mixed goods and passengers.
Class 3: Medium vehicles including:
(a) heavy buses with a capacity of more than 22 peop:Le;
(b) medium goods vehicles 5-ton and above.
Class 4: Heavy vehicles: goods vehicles with 3 or more axles,timber trucks,
tractors, trailers, assembly tankers, etc.
2/ Updating of initial SWKP estimates on basis of simplified assumptions.
See Note 2/ in Table 3.
Source: SWKP Road Rehabilitation Program, September 1971.
Mission estimates, November 1971.
May 1973.






ANNEX I
Page 1
GHANA
FIRST HIGHWAY PROJECT
Description of the Project Roads
A.   Accra - Kumasi
1.        The project includes two sections on the routes between Accra and
Kumasi:
Section 46         Accra - Nsawam      19.4 mi
Section 20B        Anyinam - Kumasi   81.0 mi
Total            100.4 mi
2.        A new high-standard road has recently been constructed between
Nsawam and Bunso; similar works are underway between Bunso and Anyinam. With
the proposed rehabilitation works, the link between Accra and Kumasi via
Nsawam will be of a satisfactory standard. The opening of the new route bet-
ween Nzawam and Bunso has increase;d the traffic flow along the Accra - Nsawam
section. On the basis of two-day moving car observer count in November 1972,
This traffic is estimated at about 3,500 vehicles per day (vpd), as compared
with a mid-1971 SWKP estimate of about 2,150 vpd.
3.        The Accra - Nsawam road has a fair horizontal alignment and gen-
erally adequate drainage, but poor vertical alignment and a weak pavement.
The road width is 22-24 ft over a 30 ft foundation.  Initially, a lower level
of rehabilitation was considered the most economic solution. However, with
the considerable increase in traffic over the past 12 months, and the result-
ant more rapid pavement deterioration than envisaged, the higher level of
rehabilitation would now be the optimum solution. The original computation
indicated that there would be a positive net present value for this solution.
The higher level of rehabilitation basically involves widening the platform
and constructing of a new 24 ft pavement, together with some re-alignments.
In view of the broader scope of works, full detailed engineering will be
carried out under the project prior to tendering.
4.        The Anyinam - Kumasi road which crosses undulating terrain is of
low construction standard, and has a bituminous surface that needs excessive
maintenance to keep it in fair condition. The horizontal alignment is reason-
able, but the vertical alignment requires some improvement. The formation
is narrovy in places, and additions or replacements to the drainage structures
are advisable. The pavement is generally badly deformed and requires
strengthening. The design for the road entails the addition of 6 inches of
new sub-base in some places, re-surfacing to a width of 24 ft, widening of
the formation where required, and some improvement to the vertical alignment
and the drainage system. The deterioration of the pavement over the past
12-18 months has been more rapid than anticipated by SWKP.



ANNEX I
Page 2
B.   Accra - Takoradi
The prolect includes three sections of this coastal road as follows;
Section 35    Sekondi Junction - Yamoransa        46.1 mi
Section 36    Yamoransa - Mankesim                16.5 mi
Section 38    Winneba Junction - Accra            34.0 mi
Total                       96.6 mi
The whole of the coastal road is of similar characteristics, standard
and condition. Its average width is 22 ft, with 3-6 ft wide verges on either
side. It is bituminous surfaced, with good alignment, generally adequate earth-
works and drainage, and acceptable pavement over most of its length. The
road is under continuous maintenance. However, failures and some deformation
of the pavement along its outer edges have been caused by soft and constantly
wet verges in the rainy season, by drainage inadequacies, and by the narrow
formation width in places.
7.        For the purpose of the economic analysis, only one level of reha-
bilitation was considered for all sections. The verges will be replaced with
suitable material, the pavement strengthened, and the formation widened as
required. In addition, a few small drainage structures will be added, and
resurfacing 24 ft wide, with minor improvements made to the vertical align-
ment by raising low-lying sections.
S.        SKIP initially recommended rehabilitation of the road Winneba
Junction-Mankesis (Section 37, 28.5 mi), along with the rest of the coastal
highway between Accra and Sekondi. Field inspection carried out during the
November 1972 re-appraisal mission showed that this section had received
emergency pavement repair, and that as a result its condition had not
deteriorated as rapidly as anticipated. The re-appraisal mission suggested that
rehabilitation of Winneba Junction-Mankesim should be postponed for three to
four years. During negotiations, the Government requested that this section
be included in the project in lieu of paving of the Techiman-Chira road
(25.7 mi) 1/.
9.        The Government would like to have all sections of the coastal
highway brought to common standards. This objective is sound. It will be
necessary to redefine the scope of the rehabilitation works initially pro-
posed by SWKP to take into account the emergency pavement repairs carried out
since 1970-71. SWKP will supervise construction, and will carry out the
proposed re-assessment of this section and revise the engineering documents
accordingly prior to tendering. The works to be undertaken for this section
1/   Paving of Techiman-Chira was initially included in the present project,
but the Government indicated at negotiations that it would prefer to
undertake this work with its own funds as a follow-up job for the con-
tractor who has just completed paving of the Sunyani-Tamale section.



ANNEX I
Page 3
would mainly include reconditioning of shoulders, and strengthening and
widening of the pavement edges to standard width. A simplified economic
analysis based on an updating of the initial SWKP evalualtion showed that
such work would be well justified.
10,       Another section (Section 34, Sekondi Junction - Takoradi, 10.4 mi)
itras i5nvestigated by the consultants, but rehabilitation was not found econom-
ically viable at this stage.
r. iAccra - Ho
11.       The project includes two road sections:
Section 50    Trom Junction - Kpong           9.8 mi
Section 51    Kpong - Anyirawasi             36.2 mi
Total                  46.0 mi
?2.       For the section extending 6.3 mi out of Accra,, rehabilitation was
found to be economically justified; this work is to be financed from the
Coverrment's own resources. For the next 24 mi section to Trom Junction,
the road is of only mediocre standard, but traffic densJity does not justify
rehabilitation at this stage. The remaining section Anyirawasi - Ho (11.7 mi)
is in good condition and needs no rehabilitation.
13.       The section Trom Junction - Kpong is a bituminous surfaced road on
a bad alignment, with poor earthworks and inadequate drainage. It is a
narrow road - 18 ft pavement width with 2 ft soft verges - whose surface
ia deformed and potholed. It passes through many built--up areas and is
frequently congested. The proposed design calls for replacing the verges
with suitable material, improving the vertical alignment, formation width
and drainage, strengthening the pavement, and surface dressing to a width
of 22 ft.
14.       The road Kpong - Anyirawasi is bituminized, bult several sections
contain deformations which require repair. The average width of the surfac-
ing is 20 ft, with some sections now partially reconstructed. The proposed
design entails strengthening the base where this reconstruction has failed,
widening the formation to 30 ft minimum where required, and resealing
throughout.
I).  Auxiliary Roads north-west of Accra
15.       The project includes three road sections in the region Mankesim -
Winneba - Swedru - Adaiso - Kade, as follows:



ANNEX I
Page 4
Section 41     Swedru - Winneba Jct.    11.3 mi
Section 39     Winneba Jct. - Winneba    2.5 mi
Section 45     Adaiso - Kade              37.4 mi
Total                51.2 mi
16.       The Swedru - Winneba road, the most expensive rehabilitation
section in the project, is bituminous surfaced, with reasonable horizontal
alignment but poor vertical alignment. It crosses undulating terrain with
light to medium forest vegetation, and passes through several villages and
towns at its northern end. The weak pavement, poor vertical alignment and
narrow formation width - 20 ft bitumen surface on 22 to 24 ft formation --
have caused deformation and deterioration of the road surface. The rehabil-
itation proposed includes widening the formation to 36 ft., improving the
vertical alignment and drainage, realigning three short sections of the road,
and constructing a new pavement, surface-dressed to 24 ft. In view of the
substantial alignment corrections, both vertical and horizontal detailed
engineering will be prepared under the project prior to tendering.
17.       The Adaiso - Kade section is a bituminous surfaced road with reason-
able alignment and drainage, but with a narrow formation width varying from
22 ft to 26 ft. The pavement deterioration has been more rapid than antici-
pated, and the deformation has developed into potholes. This road is the
main route for the exportation of products from the proposed palm oil project
centered at Kwae. Two levels of improvement were considered, but the lower
level proved the more economic. This entails replacing the soft verges with
suitable materials, reshaping and strengthening the pavement where deformed,
and resealing throughout.
18.       The initial project had also included the improvement of two addi-
tional sections, Mankesim - Swedru (Section 40, 37.8 mi) and Swedru - Adaiso
(Section 42, 24.8 mi) which have poor alignment and inadequate drainage. The
pavement, though deformed, is quite sound; it is 18 ft wide, with 2-3 ft soft
shoulders on either side. Although the lower level of rehabilitation proved
economically justified, it is felt that this work, although improving the
pavement, would leave a low-standard alignment. It was found preferable to
postpone rehabilitation of these two roads until traffic has increased, and
until a higher level of improvement is warranted.
E.   Kumasi - Takoradi - Roads south of Kumasi
19.       The project includes two sections, viz.:
Section 21   Kumasi - Anwiankwanta        15.3 mi
Section 22   Anwiankwanta - Bekwai         5.1 mi
Total                     20.4 mi



ANNEX I
Page 5
20.       The consultants SWKP carried out a study of highway priorities in
the Kumasi - Takoradi corridor, considering what improvements, if any, should
be made on the existing two alternative links via Tarkwa and via Cape Coast,
and whether construction of a new direct road between Dunkwa and Takoradi
was justified. They concluded that, at the estimated construction cost, a
new Dunkwa - Takoradi link was of low priority. It was determined that
improv;ement of the existing route via Tarkwa, particularly upgrading the bad
gravel road between Ayenfuri and Bawdia, would attract sufficient traffic to
make the latter an economically feasible solution. The Ghiana Government will
now finance rehabilitation of the sections Ayenfuri - Bawdia - Tarkwa, but
has requested IDA financing for two other sections totalling 20.4 mi: Kumasi -
Anwiankwanta (15.3 mi) and Anwiankwanta - Bekwai (5.1 mi). The remaining
sections of the route are in satisfactory condition.
21.       The first 9 mi of the Kumasi - Anwiankwanta road are of low con-
struction standard, 22 ft wide with 4 ft verges; the remaining 6.3 mi have
a 24 ft wide pavement with 6 ft verges. Only one level of rehabilitation
has been considered. On the first section, this would involve widening the
formation, improving the vertical aliignment and drainage, constructing 6
inches of new base, and siurface dressing.  The second section requires some
repairs to the pavement and replacement of the soft verges with suitable
material. The Obuasi - Dunkwa section is a bituminous surfaced road with
good alignment, adequate earthworks and drainage, and a 24 ft pavement in
good to fair condition. SWKP found, however, that the pavement was showing
signs of deterioration on the Obuasi - Dunkwa section which had not been as
rapid as anticipated by SWKP, and the minor potholing and deterioration of
the bituminous surface appears to have been adequately taken care of by
maintenance operations. This section was therefore omitted from the project.
22.       The Anwiankwanta - Bekwai road (Section 22, 5.1 mi) has been added
to the original project. The existing road crosses undulating terrain and
has a reasonable alignment, but with poor earthworks and drainage, and a
deformed pavement.  It forms the cross-link between the corridors Kumasi -
Tarkwa - Takoradi and Kumasi - Fosso - Yamoransa. The proposed rehabilitation
would include widening the formation to 34 ft, replacing the verges with
sub-base material, improving the vertical alignment and drainage, adding 6
inches of new base material, and resurfacing to 24 ft wide. This proposal
would give a positive net present value, and the section is therefore included
in the project.






OdANA                                                                          ANiAN II
FP.3ST II fl3IdaY PRiAJCT
o-i-.veat-ent Studies: Propose Loot of Sob-Projects
fNo.           Road                      Lenith    Prrsevt 'oadirlon                  laprr*emiot Works                        and issie       S              Preinvestmnet Studios
I     Kasrai        so Abofoor            26.4   Par-t  f nain roate rorth of        Peiobilitatloi, aide-ing,          Rood  -as iroaded ir SAKP          Updaot in  o econ.owi  f-osibllity
Kiasosi o  Toroiesod  O' scan    ood raroi  ret, Tetroorao            atudy Pl 7labt co  .o.nd           Itody ad crpleelaaoy eng-I-
bit_itntos sortoond rosd. It-                                         ieediote3y j_ntified.              eerin  as op.rop.a.oe. aith a oi-A
odeqoate altSnpeat,arrbwarhs,                                         - Sarvey, detailed design          to prep-ratben biddiog doo-tento
sod  earo  -e.  arteraortain                                          avoiloble - bo bill of qooo-    of p-ojeor foasd jantifaed.
rapidly.                                                              titles.
2     Ktuoti        to St-voi             75.7   (i) Komoa- to Bsohan (43 ni)    K--rati to Bethen: Rehbilito-   Sbrry and draiRI in pragre-s   Eoonoa fe-sibilty  stody
20' bitmimfoos s-rfatod road;    tics, eifenlng,ai   d parStil        corred  oot bv Ipoal c. ns.  -      oi foled by canpieseroaro en-
poor neetriGa and tonlmontal       rroaastocat os.                    teots 015-Ibaco C_oltas_ts         gir.eringosoyproorioa,esiii a visa
al iges1i t.                                                                                            to preparation bidding doanesoto
(ii) bRle;`  to Suny;pi            Beobeh  to S-nyn,i  nid-i.gf,                                         nf project foond juntifird.
(32.7  ilj 15' bitoni-ets ear-
f-ced rood.
3     TR-mae        to Yeodi              59.0    -oad arandaro gravel road          Upprading by copstrubction of       ortoy and desigs                  E.a.iable  Boconotic f-asiility stody fo!-
seenint nonrtkoasters fogies      biboRniort  povearot                                                  Sat ed hay aoynoenacro en5ioeebin5
bid iaf do ..ena if groject
(ocod josaiffll.
4     Ahonfuri      Lo Wiawasc            41.5   (i)  Ayeefaei-slfVi  Bekwbi         PartiIleonstioe cod                fuse.                              goonomic oathilicy stady an
(39.6 er) iS' vade  fretei upgradins awithatontacds prosistoary engteneriro,o be
road, poor conditior; parel-       paeiniat                                                              foiloand by detailed ensineering
iellitg roiway li-e; first                                                                              oan  preparcais at bidding  dot-
S mi being pored as part o                                                                              osrote if project fond li    s5sSid d.
Aypef-ni-keot a uacoast_ro_oti
proj eat
(ii) A-sno-Wiawaso (t16.9 et
R-a-el -ad b.ise malnainbod
at G--eenneets eopense by
Giktnio' Tinber Cospasy.
Seeder         to bankosim          37.5    F'aentioe and bitoniaous           Rehobilitoti-a. wittoina          La  levo  of r-h,it hI    ot        rdt  
6n    Swede,         to Adais             2.8         r v      aL     aorteontal                                        a pqt idth;te omp oe.. ator   =ears  stiii    to  oderkng i
anor                                                slignena.                                                            lWKP stody.  he panement           fetes of anpoert-_tv .   fo lIoad
7  idaSno  in teanata  is.o                                                                ouptoro> eaood,rrcjeot rote.    hyr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l IPi    1yr_opr-Sobei e deratetkl ;9
7  Adaisz   to d#akas   10.0                                                  'Ip   a otit   iAtra,se is traf-   ertoo  aid prepoereion of
Ibthotal          72.6                                                                          fir sasl narrast patilo                ingf irroarnas if boA
re onstructior.                   jootibifd.
8                                                                                                                                                                                       _~-  S-_f-l-i   -
d ekwal        to  loss             62.2   iircnierras a-fced rood ci          RehoilLrrilor, wioeoino,           Survep o tartione is need          bpdoli,g 0f SWKP st-dy to bh
and                                                naero' d-foorrdpaly ailgned         and parttco rnoooonstpoioo        of reoit5noo4t fe-gn ar-           foiiya1 d -s app-opriate bvde
9     Pose            or Pateeansa        44.9   foreactst.                                                             riedouteby PWD.                    taiiedeng_ineeraing ed preparoecon
SIbtasal         106.9                                                            _foor.d  o                                                         - Ei ed.
*n     keer           to Domega            48.0   tra in  eoad;naneneasooa 5             Inproronat  tealuding op        none.                              Osooaeoissonor atd .dentafl-
ilmk betomen eartehaessarn         srading by constructior                                               cation,followed us ecoonirs
tottors aeso and iwealel           of bito-ninoe pyavrpnt oeatib-al- stodo  and eng.ssertng
foosteant.                                                                                               ood pnrepcaui'oI   i bi0 di0 d
dot_setee it projeot found _astiliod.
IS     Ye-di          to kete Karachi   127.0   Liking  sendi with  creth-et         es e at 01U.                       Ooio.                              sv  as #I
olcoOno of PoSs ilak anod                                                                                  m
teats orooto read tor th
tooth located ease of Vite
1         d Baadta     e - Bnhi            66.9   Grea? rod 00 poorondi-              PeLtic) ratoetat bo                toavev aid ietild er-              Loonovia  tocebility asody to be
ti_0.                              end upgradiog hi too-              gineering aoaiiolsb.               f oei as   biproprlate ho roe-
Ienrot    o    iprepared by GteArkp.                                 Plg noteY engIeering cod op-
daat-g of biddio; d-csae,,5if
projeot frond jURti Fied.
13     Ta-ka           tO kogoso           23.0   Port af tma  Takoradi-              Rebabolitat-on ond                 ban.                               Psobilno road; to be frl]aee
tmaso  c-orrid-re  Badly  ne -     str-aghe-ne fn of Pave-                                               asappropiat  s by ddm bdocumends
p_=nnen.                                                                                                 iprjc fod jsfid.
14     Bimbila        so ih_bbluI          41.0    o           . rood  tprsean.t. few  dardcotton of bti tn-             loroap.                             Reonnaias n   ad odenaidi at,os
road  ikie  aate t      h          dtrra  graoi op.o bd                                                                         b oittea-
h east    r-d to Arke:              -fd rod.                                                             sitility  tatdy and praliminarp
sele of shte  itr  ILe                                                                                   liagiie-ridt (e-cept -ervy9;tj ire
no    n sneeool yesor-                                                                             foliowed as oppropriate  by detaIled
fee distance  hetotes Tan-                                                                               sengt perior cod prpepratcno cf hid-
aid -e d  in ora  t io  be  a h                                                                          d in 6  d ato ne nst  if  proje t  fo ond
-inrdi-,      aioaibjoatflled.
proieat eo.Sli:                                                                                           tt$i
15     Arare (Iegre) tb  Aburi             iLl0  E;ititng paed road is                osehbilitation and               RSode wepe included in              Updating af e-ieting SkTP
16and                                             aidt  ad detes   Pore-              strengtsvsng oi  non-             SWKP etudy  but yt re-             eresomia sttoo, ie vise of Poe-
in6a    h             noAde                ii   neathdy deterio-tieet, hld  * i_ tamed in vieo of lovers-                                                  sibiLity to -odetek hi
and                                        12.0   riding- cpdition. duer              of -  .tiders.                      nt plan ta go ehead              level ef ieprooseent followed
SOd    Aslofonia     to Bpnoridsa         L23,    rising  aro tio  doe tor-                                            tik woo- Anyin-     of_ hy mppropninte detailed engin-
d s      ua rs  .                                                                                kidding doronente if falcd
babtota ~          Rpsi an  inrovexena  o;                                                                                  ja.ethfked
ShIotetl          65.i  thin, rote he  eesosnId
seed sinoe the G-verneens
derided n blild direet
link A-eee-NIfeos-Anpiyia
to serve the thing9h-t-rnffk
between  2orea end K_dei.
TOTAL            752.C rAise
Souroe:  SWh'P' `peit., lans-ber 1971.
PFD, N-mberei   1972 and Jaoe 1973,






PLATE
GHANA
FIRST HIGWAY PROJECT
Operating Costs (financial) for Typical
Vehicles at Various Speeds
70
H~ ~~
c1>                X   ^>Vehicle type 4,
360                                         Heavy Trucks
20                                  t
) 0
Vehicle tYPe 3,
F     tMedium 1crucks
0
D30
*14
20
Vehicie type 2,
Passenger/
Freight Trucks
10            Vehicle type 1,
Light Vehicles
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
10          20           30          40          5O
Vehicle Speed, mph
December 1972.






IBRD -3691
~~ t i 7          u f~t Pz  Vr;@0 R                                  ;j
~~ nso   >                                                           ~          f                   @+umo  -  Neur-nr
BOLGTATNG   ZtottN b.
ow§ T 5 ,,p 5 f ¢ X R E o                                                        .           .  .............
U~~~~~P  PER    REGI               N                   -...                                      --~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~......
i % \ - 9 { j> ~~~~~~~~~~Gosmbgoqo                                                     -      -lffotI"s '
C£rcnulugu I.  .ov'' A    'vn   <           .            .      ..
I-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sb
.    ')                    -.                    Gaowompe>                                                                  t,J 
Palb ~ ~     ~       ~      ~       P
'1k                     T                    N                                        I  0     N
W:,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C I
lb~~~ Ab.fGd  
3*  I g; J r , ~,L,  . !;x  ..........tz



