CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 438 GH
Development Credit
Agreement
(First Highway Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED NOVEMBER 21, 1973


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 438 GH
Development Credit
Agreement
(First Highway Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED NOVEMBER 21, 1973


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated November 21 '973, between REPUBLIC OF GHANA
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the deletion of Sections 5.01 and
6.02(h) thereof and to the renumbering of Section 6.02(i) into 6.02(h) thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Developmnct Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "Ministry" means the Ministry of Works and Housing of the Borrower.
(b)   "Department" means the Public Works Department within the Ministry
comprising a head office and regional offices.
(c)   "Highway network" means the system of trunk, secondary and feeder
roads (including all related bridges, road structures and other facilities) in the
territories of the Borrower and all extensions, improvements and other works
relating thereto, for the planning, maintenance or administration of which the
Department, at the date of the Development Credit Agreement, is, and thereafter
may become, responsible.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to thirteen million dollars ($13,000,000).


﻿4
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed under the Development Credit Agreement; provided,
however, that, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall
be made on account of expenditures in the territories of any country which is
not a member of the Bank (other than Switzerland) or for goods produced in,
or services supplied from, such territories.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services (other than services of consultants) required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured on the basis of
international competition under procedures consistent with the Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published by the Bank
in April 1972 and revised in October 1972, and in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1977 or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on July 1 and
January 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each July 1 and January 1 commencing
January 1, 1984, and ending July 1, 2023, each installment to and including the
installment payable on July 1, 1993 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%)
of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and one-half
per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project through the
Ministry with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with proper technical,


﻿5
engineering, administrative and financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause the Department to assign from its staff a
suitably qualified and experienced highway engineer who shall be responsible on
a day to day basis for the administration of Part A of the Project, including the
coordination of the functions of the Department and of the consultants referred
to in Section 3.02(a) hereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall employ consultants acceptable to the Association upon terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association
(a)   in  order to   assist the Borrower in the preparation of detailed
engineering, plans and specifications for Part A of the Project, in the procurement
of goods and services therefor and in the supervision of construction thereof, and
to provide training in respect of such functions;
(b)   to carry out Part C of the Project; and
(c)   to assist the Borrower in carrying out Part D of the Project.
Section 3.03. In carrying out Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall employ
contractors acceptable to the Association upon terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Association.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall* furnish to the Association, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and
construction and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.


﻿6
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's accredited representatives to
examine the Project, the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all
such information as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall take all such action as shall be necessary
to acquire as and when needed all such land, or interest in land, and rights in
respect of land as shall be required for carrying out the Project and shall furnish
to the Association, promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the
Association that such land, or interest in land, and rights in respect of land are
available for purposes related to the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain, through the Department, records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures of the Borrower
in respect of the Project.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall, by not later than July 31, 1974, in a
manner satisfactory to the Association, vest in the highway planning unit of the
Department authority and responsibility for planning the future development of
the highway network and shall provide, or cause the Department to provide,
promptly as needed, the staff, funds, facilities, services and resources required for
the purpose.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall ensure that the highway network shall
be duly maintained in accordance with proper technical, engineering, administrative
and financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, equipment,
facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b)   Without limitation to sub-section (a) hereof, the Borrower shall carry
out Part D of the Project by May 31, 1974, or such other date as the Association
shall agree, and, upon formulation of the highway maintenance program therein


﻿7
provided for, shall consult with the Association with a view to agreeing upon such
program and the implementation thereof in a manner, and on the basis of a
timetable, mutually satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association.
(c)   The Borrower, through the Department, shall take appropriate
measures to ensure that all funds allocated for the maintenance of any part of
the highway network and expended by any regional office of the Department shall
be utilized for the purposes for which such allocation was made with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with proper technical, engineering, administrative
and financial practices, and that each such regional office shall properly account
to the head office of the Department in respect of such expenditures.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall cause the Department:
(a)   to collect and record, on a continuing basis in accordance with
appropriate statistical methods and precedents, such traffic data and technical,
economic and financial information as shall be reasonably required for the proper
planning, maintenance, improvement and extension of the highway network; and
(b)   to complete an inventory of all roads, for the maintenance of which
the Department is responsible as at the date of the Development Credit Agreement,
by not later than December 31, 1975, and thereafter, promptly as required, to
expand, review and update such inventory so as to include all roads comprising
the highway network.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall introduce as soon as practicable appropriate
regulations acceptable to the Association, supplemental to the Road Traffic
Regulations, 1970 of the Borrower, to limit the axle loads of vehicles using the
highway network to those consistent with the structural and geometric design
standards thereof, and shall ensure that all regulations relating to the dimensions,
weight and axle loads of such vehicles shall be effectively enforced.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit


﻿8
Agreement, the administration, operations, resources and expenditures in respect
of 'the Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out any part of the Project, and other matters relating to the purposes
of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the administration, operations, resources and expenditures of the
Borrower in respect of the Project.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof or the performance by either of them of its obligations under the
Development Credit Agreement.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of th Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.02. The Development Credit Agreement shall be free from any
taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery or registration thereof,
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regul: +ions, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
0


﻿9
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
shall occur and shall continue for the period, if any, therein set forth, then at
any subsequent time during th: continuance thereof, the Association, at its option,
may by notice to the Borrower declare the principal of the Credit then outstanding
to be due and payable immediately together with the service charges thereon, and
upon any such declaration such principal and service charges shall become due
and payable immediately, anything to the contrary in the Development Credit
Agreement notwithstanding.
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 8.01. The date February 19, 1974 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.02. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 4.01, 4.02,
4.03(a), 4.03(c), 4.04 and 4.05 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a
date 20 years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of -he Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. The Principal Secretary, Ministry of Finance and Economic
Planning, Budget Division of the Borrowef is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Principal Secretary
Ministry of Finance and Economic
Planning, Budget Division
P.O.Box M.40
Accra, Ghana


﻿10
Cable address:
PRUDENCE
Accra
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
By /s / H. R. Amonoo
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By   /s /  R. Chaufournier
Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿11
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each Category
and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
I.   Civil Works                    8,500,000         65% of total
expenditures
11,  Equipment                       350,000          100% of foreign
expenditures
1II.  Consultants'                   900,000          70% of total
services in                                     expenditures
respect of
Part A of the
Project
IV.  Consultants'                    450,000          70% of total
services in                                     expenditures
respect of
Part C of the
Project
V.   Consultants'                    100,000          100% of foreign
services in                                     expenditures
respect of
Part D of the
Project
VI.  Unallocated                    2,700,000
TOTAL             13,000,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the  term   "foreign  expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency, of
any country other than the Borrower; and


﻿(b)   the term   "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign
expenditures and of expenditures in the currency of the Borrower, or for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals may be made in respect of Category III on account of expenditures
incurred after March 1, 1973 in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent
of $25,000; and
(b)   payments for taxes imposed directly under the laws of the Borrower
or laws in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation,
manufacture, procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount
represented by the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph
I above in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable net of all
such taxes, such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the
Credit will be withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph 1 above:
(a)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category and no longer required
therefor will be reallocated by the Association by increasing correspondingly the
unallocated amount of the Credit; and
(b)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such increase,
and a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association, at the request
of the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the Credit,
subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the
Association, in respect of any other expenditures; and
(c)   if the Association  shall have reasonably   determined  that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set
forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement, no expenditures for such
item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Association may,
without in any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of
the Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the


﻿13
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as in the Association's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.
5.    Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third column of the table
in paragraph I above, if the estimate of total expenditures under Category I, III
or IV shall increase and no proceeds of the Credit are available for reallocation
to such Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust the
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have
been made.


﻿14
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A:
The rehabilitation and improvement of approximately 345 miles of trunk
road, as defined in the Annex to this Schedule.
Part B:
The provision and installation of counting, survey and weighing equipment
for data collection and the enforcement of road user regulations.
Part C:
The carrying out of feasibility studies relating to the rehabilitation,
improvement or construction of approximately 750 miles of trunk roads and, to
the extent justified by such studies, of detailed engineering relating thereto.
Part D:
The formulation of a program to improve the maintenance of the highway
network.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1977.


﻿15
ANNEX
Roads Included in Part A of the Project
Design Standards
Design Speed
Approximate Scope of Proposed   Wid th  of    Width         (when
Name        Length      Improvements     Formation    Pavement      appropriate)
(miles)                        (feet)      (feet)    (miles per hour)
Anyinam to         81.0   Improvement of           36         24
Kumasi                  vertical align-
ment, widening
and partial re-
construction of
pavement
Kumasi to          15.3   Widening of form-        36         24
Anwiankwanta            ation, improvement
of vertical align-
ment and drainage
widening of pave-
ment
Anwiankwanta        5.1    Widening of form-       34         24
to Bekwai               ation, improvement
of vertical align-
ment and drainage
widening of pave-
ment
Yamoransa to      46.1     Reconstruction of       36         24
Sekondi                shoulder and widen-
Junction               ing and repair of
pavement
Mankesim to        16.5    Reconstruction of       36         24
Yamoransa               shoulder and widen-
ing and repair of
pavement
Winneba           28.5    Reconstruction of        36         24
Junction to           shoulder, repair
Mankesim                and widening of
pavement
Accra to          34.0     Reconstruction of       36         24
Winneba                 shoulder, repair
Junction               and widening of
pavement
Winneba to          2.5   Widening of the          36         24
Winneba                 formation and
Junction               widening and
strengthening of
pavement


﻿16
Design Standards
Design Speed
Approximate Scope of Proposed   Wid th  of    Width         (when
Name        Length      Improvements     Formation    Pavement     appropriate)
(miles)                        (feet)     (feet)     (miles per hour)
Winneba            11.3    Reconstruction of       36         24         60 to 70
Junction               selected sections
to Swedra
Adaiso to          37.4    Reconstruction of    30 to 36   22 to 24
Kade                     the shoulders and
widening and
strengthening of
pavement
Accra to           19.4    Reconstruction of       36         24           70
Msawam                   selected sections
Trom Junction       9.8    Reconstruction          30         22
to Kpong                of shoulders and      minimum
widening and
strengthening of
pavement
Kpong to           36.2    Reconstruction          30       20 to 22
Anyirawasi             of shoulders and      minimum
widening and
strengthening of
pavement


﻿17
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.    Contracts Governed by Guidelines
1.    With respect to any contract to civil works estimated to cost the equivalent
of $100,000 or more, or to any contract for equipment estimated to cost the
equivalent of $40,000 or more:
(a)   in the case of all such civil works contracts and, where the Association
shall so require, such equipment contracts, bidders shall be required to prequalify.
(b)   If bidders are required to prequalify, the Borrower shall, before
qualification is invited, inform the Association in detail of the procedure to be
followed and shall introduce such modifications in said procedure as the Association
shall reasonably request. The list of prequalified bidders, together with a statement
of their qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for
prequalification, shall be furnished by the Borrower to the Association for its
comments before the applicants are notified and the Borrower shall make such
additions to or deletions from the said list as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(c)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and
other bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures
to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedure as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(d)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of
the bidder to whom it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the
Association, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report, by the consultants
referred to in Section 3.02(a) of this Agreement, on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, together with the recommendations for award of the said
consultants, and the reasons for the intended award. The Association shall, if it
determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the procedures
set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement, promptly inform the
Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.


﻿18
(e)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked.
(f)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the delivery to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect
of any such contract.
2.    With respect to any other contract for civil works, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association, promptly after its execution and prior to the delivery to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of any such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together
with the analysis of bids, recommendations for award and such other information
as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines
that the award of the contract is not consistent with the procedures set forth
or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement, promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for such determination.


