Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
FILE Copy
Report No. 10284-CHA
RePort No.  10284-CHA Type:  (:AR)
CUloJ   S.     X82145 / Y8 074/ A'TIN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHINA
TIANJIN URBAN DEVELOPMENT AND ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
MAY 22, 1992
Environment, Human Resources and
Urban Development Operations Division
Country Department II
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of February 1992)
Currency Name - Renminbi (RMB)
Currency Unit - Yuan (Y) - 100 Fen
Y 1.00 = US$0.18
US$1.00   Y 5.45
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CIB       China Investment Bank
CPD       Comprehensive Planning Division, URCC
CTMD      Construction and Transportation Management Division, URCC
EPB       Tianjin Environmental Protection Bureau
ERR       Economic Rate of Return
ESB       Tianjin Environmental Sanitation Bureau
ESEDRI    Tianjin Environmental Sanitation Engineering Design Research
Institute
FIPCON    (or the Fund) Tianjin Fund for Industrial Pollution Control
GIS       Geographical Irformation System
GOC       Government of China
ICB       International Competitive Bidding
IRR       Inner Ring Road
km        Kilometer(s), 1 mile = 1.609 km
LCB       Local Competitive Bidding
MEB       Municipal Engineering Bureau, Tianjin
MESDI     Municipal Engineering Survey and Design Institute, Tianjin
MIS       Management Information System
MOC       Ministry of Construction
MOF       Ministry of Finance
NEPA      National Environmental Protection Agency
PAMILG    Planning and Management Improvement Leading Group
PCBC      People's Construction Bank of China
PMO       Project Management Office
PTC       Public Transport Company, Tianjin
PUB       Public Utilities Bureau, Tianjin
SAA       State Audit Administration
SOE       Statement of Expenditure
TA        Technical Assistance
TFB       Tianjin Finance Bureau
TMG       Tianjin Municipal Government
TOR       Terms of Reference
TPC       Tianjin Planning Commission
TUCI      Tianjin Urban Construction Institute
UPB       Tianjin Urban Planning Bureau
URCC      Tianjin Urban and Rural Construction Commission



CHINA                    FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TIANJIN URBAN DEVELOPMENT AND ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
Credit and Proiect Summarv
Borrower:        People's Republic of China
Beneficiary:     Tianjin Municipal Government
Credit Amount:   SDR 73.3 million (US$100 million equivalent)
Terms:           Standard, with 35 years maturity
Onlending        From the Government of China to Tianjin Municipal Government
Terms:           (TMG): 15 years, including five years of grace, at a fixed
interest rate of 4.5% per annum. TIG will bear all foreign
exchange risks except those borne by the Fund for Industrial
Pollution Control (Fund).
From TMG to the Fund: for 15 years, including five years of
grace, at a fixed interest rate of 5.0% per annum for the
foreign exchange loans. The Fund will bear all foreign
exchange risks on the amount onlent, except those borne by the
final borrowers.
From the Fund to industrial enterprises: for 3 to 7 years,
including 1 to 2 years of grace. For foreign currency loans,
the interest will be a variable rate equal to the IBRD rate
plus a 1.2% p.a. spread. The borrowers will bear all foreign
exchange risks on the loan. For local currency loans, the
rates will be the same as those for fixed rate loans of the
same maturities made by the People's Construction Bank of
China.
Proiect          The project will support long-term improvement of the urban
Description:      infrastructure and environment of Tianjin, the third largest
c_ty in China, mainly by helping TMG to increase efficiency and
responsiveness of its infrastructure and environmental
management systems and to finance high priority investments.
In order to improve TMG's overall infrastructure planning and
management, the project will support technical assistance and
training to improve techniques and procedures for project
planning and evaluation, budgeting and management, and
monitoring of urban development and infrastructure operations.
The project will also support technical assistance and training
for improvement in sub-sectoral management, including solid
waste disposal and public transport management. The project
will support phvsical works to improve drainage, sewerage,
solid waste management, roads, traffic management, and public
bus operations. These works not only command high priorities
on their own merits but also complement and hence increase the
efficiency of existing assets. The project will also support
the resettlement of households as required for the physical
works, which will result in improving the housing and
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their officia' duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



environmental health conditions those resettled. As a
sustainable, market-oriented mechar.ism for industrial pollution
control, a line of credit for pollution control investments
will be provided under the project to help industrial
enterprises undertake waste minimization or other cost-
effective pollution reduction measures.
Benefits:        Benefits of only the project's urban transport and drainage
components and a small number of pollution control subprojects
can be reliably quantified. These components, which account
for about 40% of the total project costs, would have an average
economic rate of return of about 25X. Most of the physical
benefits of the project will be health and environmental
im77ovements - resulting from environmental sanitation,
relocation, and pcIlution control subprojects - which are
difficult to quantify. The managerial innovations and
improvements introduced under the project will have far
reaching effects over the long term by increasing efficiency
and accountability of public expenditure programs, making them
better suited to diverse needs tnd conatraints, and mobilizing
resources and initiatives for pollution control in a
sustainable way. These improvements will enhance TMG's
effectiveness in the increasingly diverse and decentralized
urban economy. Furtbi;r, improvements in Tianjin could
establish a model with wide demonstration effects for
municipalities across China, facilitating a needed transition
of the country's urban and environmental management system.
Risks:           Social and environmental risks associated with the project have
been identified and adequate mitigating measures have been
incorporated in the project design, from the provision of
special systems to control oil and chemical spills in the new
bus maintenance garages, to explicit financing and detailed
agreements to minimize possible disruptions in resettlement.
The principal implementation relate to the major institutional
innovations to be introduced for the financing of industrial
pollution control and for the overall planning and management
of the urban infrastructure.  To minimize these risks,
particular attention was giver. during project preparation, with
the ,lose involvement of TMG managers, to defining feasible
scope and details of the components and the necessary
organizationnal arrangements. Continued assistance to the
institutional aspects would be provided during project
implementation through the inclusion of substantial levels of
technical assistance by consult.nts and the Association staff.



- iii -
Estimated Costs*s                 Local     Foreign       Total
------- US$ Million --------
Planning, Management
and Technical Improvbent          2.7         5.9          8.6
Drainage and Sewerage              15.2         10.6        25.7
Solid Waste Management              2.3         10.1        12.4
Urban Transport                    18.4         14.9        33.3
Industrial Pollution Control        3.8        35.2         39.0
Resettlement                       24.6         10.1        34.7
Total Base Cost                  67.0        86.7        153.7
Physical Contingencies            8.4         10.8        19.2
Price Continger-cies              7.5         14.6        22.1
TOTAL                     82.9        112.1        195.0
Financing Plan:                   Local     Foreizn       Total
------- US$ Million --------
Tianjin Municipal Government       65.8         12.1        77.9
Industrial Enterprises             17.1           -         17.1
IDA                                  -         100.0       100.0
TOTAL                     82.9        112.1        195.0
Estimated Disbursements:
IDA Fiscal Year           1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998
------------- -US$ Million ------------
Annual                     4.5   13.0   29.0   27.0   16.5   10.0
Cumulative                 4.5   17.5   46.5   73.5   90.0  100.0
Economic Rate of Return:   A weighted average of about 25% for investment
components accounting for 40% of the total project
costs. The main project benefits, institutional
and environmental, could not be quantified.
* Net of taxes and duties.



CHINA
TIANJIN URBAN DEVELOPMENT AND ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY             ................................  i
I.    URBAN AND ENVIRONMENT SECTORS IN CHINA
A.  Urban Development Trends and Issues                    ......     .1
B.  Government Strategy  .......... ......... . ....                              2
C.  Bank Group Strategy  .... .... . ... ...................   ..                 3
D.  On-going Projects and Lessons Leazned   .... ...........    4
II.   URBAN AND ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT IN TIANJIN
A. Project Area... ...                                                            5
B  Status of Infrastructure and Environment.                                     5
C. Urban Planning and Management.                                                 8
III.  PROJECT DESCRIPTION
A.  Background and Rationale for IDA Involvement            .      .              9
B.  Project Objectives          .. .....                    .     .      ....   10
C. Planning and Management                          .... 10
D. Environmental Sanitation                    .        ...11
E. Industrial Pollution Control                         .      .        ..12
F. Urban Transport ... . .                     . . . .                           14
G. Resettlement                         .....14
IV. PROJECT COST AND FINANCING
A. Project Costs ....15
B.  Financing Arrangements.          ....... ..                 .    .17
C.  Financing of Municipal Services                              .      .17
D. Accounting                        ....20
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
China in May 1991. The project team included: Songsu Choi (Task Manager,
Urban Economist), Alain Bertaud (Urban Planner), Arthur Bruestle
(Environmental Engineer), William Krause (Consultant Financial Analyst), Paul
Stott (Operations Officer), William Thornhill (Consultant Transportation
Engineer), Peter Ware (Consultant Sanitary Engineer), Randall Vick
(Procurement Specialist), Mary Young (Public Health Specialist), and Chonghua
Zhang (Environmental Specialist). The peer reviewers were: Lawrence Hannah
(Economist), George Plant (Sanitary Engineer), and Richard Podolske (Urban
Planner). The managing Division (EA2EH) Chief is Zafer Ecevit, and the
Department Director is Shahid Javed Burki (EA2DR).



-v-
Page No.
V.    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS
A.  Project Preparation  .. ... .   . ........... ...   .... ............ 21
B.  Implementation Responsibilities                .     . .22
C.  Disbursement  ...  ........   .....           ........ .......... 23
D.   Procurement    ...........................24
E. Monitoring and Supervision        . . ...          ................................. 26
VI.   BENEFITS AND RISKS
A*    Benefits     o.......         ......    .......    ......27
B.  Risks and Mitigating Measures            ...      .     .......... 28
VII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION              ..........            31
TEXT TABLES
4.1 Summary of Project Costs ..16
4.2   Financing Plan.....                                                16
5.1 Procurement Arrangements   .             .25
ANNEXES
1.    Infrastructure Planning and Management IT.'provement: Action Plan
2.    Training Programs
3.    Sewerage and Drainage Development Program
4.    Terms of Reference for Planning and Design of Solid Waste
Treatment and Disposal
5.    Industrial Pollution Control
6.    Urban Transport: Project Details
7.    Terms of Reference for Public Transport Study
8.    Resettlement
9.    Estimated Project Conts
10.    Financial Projections for Infrastructure and Services
11.    Estimated Schedule of Disbursement
12.    Schedule of Procurement and Implementation
13.    List of Major Works and Goods Contracts
14.    Monitoring Indicators
15.    Supervision Plan
16.    Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
MAP   IBRD 23342  Proposed Project Sites



CHINA
TIANJIN URBAN DEVELOPMENT AND ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
I. URBAN AND ENVIRONMENT SECTORS IN CHINA
A. Urban Development Trends and Issues
1.1         Chinese cities have been undergoing remarkable growth and
transformation since the early 1980s, reflecting trends in the economy at
large. After two decades of stagnation, urban population and incomes have
been increasing rapidly along with industrial production. The urban
population has grown by about 5Z percent a year during the 1980s and now
represents about 30X of the total population of China. There are now more
than 150 cities with at least 200,000 residents and thousands of smaller
towns, which together are responsible for 702 of the country's industrial
production. The rapid urban growth is likely to continue, increasing the
urban population to about 500 million by the year 2000.
1.2         The rapid urban development of the past decade has been a direct
result of the macroeconomic and institutional reforms introduced, most notably
new incentive systems and decentralized decision making. Most local
governments and enterprises have come to see housing, health care and other
services as necessary infrastructure and incentives for production. They also
have recognized that transportation, water and other urban facilities as
essential infrastructure for economic expansion. The central government has
sanctioned these local priorities and large urban infrastructure investments
as an integral part of capital formation. The Government has also directed
increasing resources to arresting and reversing environmental deterioration.
The investment for urban infrastructure development and environmental
protection is likely to continue at high levels as substantial deficiencies
remain and growth in industrial production and population continues.
1.3         Decentralization and the high level of infrastructure expenditures
have drastically increased the authority and responsibilities of municipal
governments, calling for enlarged municipal capacity to plan and manage their
infrastructure and environment. However, the growth of the urban economy and
use of market mechanisms have changed patterns of demand for infrastructure
and supply constraints, reducing the effectiveness of the traditional
centralized planning system that emphasizes long-term supply targets. It is
therefore essential that the Chinese municipal governments reform and
strengthen their urban planning and management systems in order to respond
effectively to new and increasing challenges, including the following.
1.4         Efficiency in Resource Use.  As infrastructure and environmental
expenditures represent a large part of the nation's or a city's economy, their
marginal efficiency presents a significant public policy issue. This issue is
becoming more difficult to resolve as China's economy grows more diverse and
as development progress moves the urban agenda from obvious deficiencies and
priorities to a larger number of less obvious, conflicting ones. The static
plans and norms used by Chinese municipalities in planr.ing public expenditure
progr&ans provide little guidance for choices and trade-offs. The
municipalities need to allow market mechanisms to play a more active role
indetermining the provision and allocation of many urban facilities, including



-2^
housing. At the same time, the municipalities need improved tools to ensure
efficient provision of public and semi-public goods. In particular, they need
to coordinate and pha3e investments in a complementary fashion; maximize the
use of existing assets; maximize resource mobilization; and adopt appropriate
standards of investment and *peration rather than unrealistic norms.
1.5         Eauitv.  In Chinese cities, residents' cash incomes differ very
little and their basic needs are effectively met. Nevertheless, the issue of
equity is emerging gradually, mainly in the form of unequal access to services
such as health care, housing and related facilities. This principally
reflects the increasing use of incentives, offered through work units with
differing productivity and endowments. Public expenditure programs have yet
to take explicit account of this unfamiliar issue. Traditionally, municipal
governments have  cused cn aggregate levels of infrastructure and service
delivery for the city as a whole, paying little attention to differences
between small groups and areas. However, an overall doubling of housing space
per capita in a city could hide the fact that housing space has tripled for
half the population but remained unchanged for half the population but
remained unchanged for the other half. Continuation of aggregate planning
often leads to inadvertent exa-erbstion of the inequality rather than
mitigation.
1.6         Environmental Management.  Industrial production, particularly by
outdated plants and fuel systems, has generated serious pollution problems in
Chinese cities. Rapid industrial expansion and rising urban living standards
are adding to such pollution and excessive resource demand. These have
resulted in noticeably poor environme *al quality in the cities and threaten
the resource endowment, especially in the country's industrial northeast.
While the recent controls and active improvement programs of the Government
have at least stemmed the pace of environmental deterioration, the regulations
and investments need to be enhanced and better integrated with general
economic development and management, in particular allowing industrial
enterprises to participate more actively in pollution control programs. To do
so, munlcipalities, which are responsible for actual implementation of
regulations and programs, would need to set clear strategic focuses for their
environmental improvement plans and develop effective institutional and
financial frameworks to carry out increased and more diverse regulations and
investment programs for environmental improvement.
B. Government Strategy
1.7         As mentioned above, recent urban growth as well as the changes in
urban management are a direct reflection of the economic and institutional
reforms pursued by the Government of China. Recognizing infrastructure and
environmental improvement as an essential part of economic development, the
Government has established decentralized institutional and financial
frameworks and sanctioned large investments in the sector. While public
revenues in China consist predominantly of general tax revenues shared between
the central and local governments, the Government recently introduced several
new taxes and charges that local governments can fully use for urban and
environmental investment and operations, and has also been encouraging
increases in user charges and other means of financing urban services. For an
integrated framework for urban planning, the Government, in the mid-1980s,



-3-
formalized the use of municipal master plans for long-term urban and
environmental development.
1.8         Since the early 19809, the Government has been pursuing an acti,'e
policy for environmental protection. The framework established through the
Environmental rrotection Act of 1979 and subsequent regulations provides for:
environmental quality standards for different types of areas; environmental
improvement plans as part of the basic planning system; pollution discharge
standards and a levy for effluent exceeding the standards; and environmental
impact assessments and permits for most investment projects. To carry out
these policies, the Government established Environmental Protection Bureaus at
all levels of local governmerts, and at the center, the National Environmental
Protection Agency (NEPA) as a ministerial-level agency to provide policy and
technical guidance for the sector.  In addition, the Government has
established environmental offices in the economic sector ministries and in
corresponding bureaus at local governments to plan and implement sector-
specific pollution control measures.
1.9         Ufnder the current decentralized system, the central government
limits its role largely to guidance and inter-regional coordination, giving
local governments great latitude to manage local affairs. Sibject to tax
sharing arrangements and annual consultation, the local governments are
largely free to allocate resources according to their priorities. The
Ministry of Construction (MOC) and NEPA (both formerly under the Ministry of
Urban and Rural Construction and Environmental Protection) provide policy and
technical guidance for local governments on infrastructure and environmental
issues and sanction major investment projects. Even on technical and
regulatory matters, the central agencies no longer set rigid norms but allow
local agencies to adapt guidelines and standards to local circumstances. The
central government in fact encourages them to take initiatives and experiment
with new technical and management solutions, not only to allow local
adaptation of national guidelines but also to find "best practices" through
diverse experimentation and disseminate them in other parts of the country.
The reforms and experiments promoted include introduction of land lease, rent
increase and sale of housing, increases in public service tariffs, and loan
financing for pollution reduction investments. Various innovations and large-
scale investments for urban development and environmental improvement have
been pursued most actively in coastal areas, consistent with the central
government's development strategy that identifies these areas as the forefront
of economic growth and interaction with the rest of the world.
C. Bank Group Strategy
1.10        As Chinese municipalities rebuild their infrastructure and improve
their environment to recover from the deterioration sustained during the 1960s
and 1470s and to meet the demands of the growing economy, the Bank Group's
financial and technical assistance to the sector would make a significant
contribution to economic development and reform of the country. In view of
the country's transition from a planned economy to a market economy, the Bank
Group sees its principal role in the sector as facilitating the transition of
the municipal planning and management system toward one that is more
efficient, responsive to demands of the decentralized economy, and sensitive
to equity considerations and resource and environmental constraints. This



- 4 -
role would in'tolve supporting the Government policy to help municipalities to
improve investmeaxt planning and management, utilize existing facilities more
effectively, increase financial accountability and resource mobilization, and
establish an effective institutional and financial framework for
infrastructure and environmental management.
1.11        Toward these objeztives, the Bank Group is actively pursuing a
balanced program of sector work and lending operations. To provide guidance
for both poiicy dialogue and lending operations, the Bank Group has been
investing substantial resources to understanding issues and options.
Completed sector reports include: "Zhejiang: Challenges of Rapid r' .zation"
(Report No. 6612-CHAs 1987), "Urban Housing Reform: Issues and Imp.-wentation
Options" (Report No. 9222-CHA, 1991), and "Environmental Strategy Paper"
(Report No. 9669-CHA, 1992), and sector work on urban land management is in
progress. Lending support is targeted to projects that serve medium term
needs but more importantly that support institutional development objectives.
Given the large size of the urban sector and the high degree of
decentralization, a Bank Group lending operation typically involves one or a
few local governments, following the sele,tive spatial strategy of the
Government, giving priorities to large urban centers and rapidly
industrializing provinces, particularly those with a strong commitment to
reform and with visibility for the rest of the country.
D. On-goinx Projects and Lessons Learned
1.12        Following the strategy outlined above, the Bank Group has been
assisting environmental and urban development mainly in the country's largest
cities and industrial provinces through: Shanghai Sewerage Project
(Loan/Credit US$145 million approved in April 1987), Liaoning Urban
Infrastructure Project (Credit US$77.8 million approved in March 1991), and
Beijing Environmental Project (Loan/Credit US$125 million approved in November
1991). In order to help establish new models of municipal management for
smaller municipalities, the Bank Group is also assisting three cities
designated by the Government as "model cities" under the Medium-Sized Cities
Development Project (Loan/Credit US$160 million approved in January 1991).
1.13        Lessons Learned.  Although the Bank Group operations in the sector
started relatively recently in China, experience in preparing and implementing
the ,?rojects listed above points to several important similarities and
differences compared with urban sect..- operations in other countries. Despite
the wide ranging components under ea 1. project, quality and speed of phy3ical
implementation have generally been impressive, reflecting strong design and
implementation capacities. Further, actual expenditures for investment
components have often been substantially less than estimated, partly a benefit
of the competitive procedures used for procurement under Bank Group
operations. Introduction of the procedures, however, took considerable time
and effort, causing delays in start-up of some components. To reduce this
problem, the Government and the Bank Group have deployed substantial resources
for familiarizing local agencies with procurement and other procedures.
1.14        Our experience in introducing procedural innovations indicates the
unique challenges and opportunities for helping institutional transitions in
China. In sector work and lending operations, an unust-al amount of effort has



been necessary to understand the current systems as they differ across
localities and are closely integrated across sectors, and to design reforms
appropriate for specific circumstances and easily understood by the local
agencies. On the other hand, China's strong and unified local governments
have been able to take decisive steps to implement significant reforms,
particularly when they have been adapted and integrated into broad urban
management contexts. It has also been shown that the involvement of higher
level authorities in the municipal government, responsible for inter-sectoral
coordination, is essential even in reform efforts that are carried out by
sector bureaus. In view of the Jifficulties and benefits of institutional
development relative to physica. Investment, the Bank Group has been
concentrating its resources on assisting preparation and implementation of
broad institutional development components.
II. URBAN AND ENVTRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT IN TIANJIN
A. Prolect Area
2.1         Tianjin is the third largest city in China, with a population of
about five million. It is a major industrial and transportation center of
northern China, close to Beijing (about 150 km away) and the sea port of
Tanggu (40 km). The Tianjin Municipal Government (TMG), a provincial level
authority, manages not only the city itself ("city proper") but also oversees
the surrounding counties and districts (including Tanggu), which together form
the Tianjin Municipality with a total resident population of nine million.
The physical investment components under the project are located within the
boundary of Tianjin city proper, consisting of six districts spanning an area
2
of 260 km
B. Status of Infrastructure and Environment
2.2         Since its establishment as an international port in the late
nineteenth century, Tianjin was first built up in a fragmented way in eight
colonial concessions until World War II. Urban development efforts for the
next three decades focused on rehabilitation and integration of
infrastructure, largely within the boundary of the old city area. The main
city area, about 70 km , still exhibits the historical pattern of low density,
mixed land use. A major earthquake in 1976 destroyed much of the city's
assets and stimulated a strong thrust for integrated development. During the
ensuing years of rapid urban development in China overall, TMG not only
reconstructed but expanded its urban and industrial infrastructure remarkably
fast, following a comprehensive master plan. The current status and issues
for major sub-sectors are briefly discussed in the following paragraphs.
2.3         Housing and Land Use.  Poor conditions of housing and environment
and inefficient land use in the old city area present the most visible
infrastructure problems of the city. TMG has been cai.rying out an ambitious
program to improve housing conditions and land use efficiency of the main city
area. Residential developments, mainly in the new outskirts surrounding the
old city, almost doubled Tianjin's total housing floor space over the 1980s.
TMG relocated a large number of residents and industries to the newly
developed areas and redeveloped the central areas for higher density



-6-
residential and commercial uses more in line with environmental considerations
and locational values of the land. Despite these achievements, small row-
houses built as worker housing over the years (called 'pingfang') still
dominate the main city area and represent about 40Z of the city's total
housing stock. Their lack of adequate kitchens, toilets, and sewerage and
their proximity to industrial plants contribute to a relatively high incidence
of pulmonary and gastro-intestinal diseases. The scale and complexity of the
tasks for housing and land use improvement require a more effective mechanism
for resource mobilization and allocation than is currently employed. While
TMG has introduced several innovations such as establishment of a group of
autonomous development compan'.es and a mechanism for families to trade their
houses, further introduction of market mechanisms will be essential for
efficiert development and allocation of land and housing.
2.4         Urban Transport.  For the current demand level, Tianjin's
transportation system functions well. Average commuting time is less than
half an hour, traffic congestion is not yet significant, and the fatal
accident rate it, low (20 per year per million people). This success can be
attributed to several demand and supply factors. During the 1980s TMG devoted
more than half of urban infrastructure investments to increase transportation
capacity, completing most of the integrated primary road network, and has
maintained the road system adequately. On the other hand, the city's spatial
compactness and TMG's active management of travel demand, restricting
increases in passenger cars and providing special lanes and other supports for
bicycle use, has led to a widespread use of bicycles (which account for 75Z of
all person trips). In the face of the inevitable growth of motorized travel,
TMG is now focusing on strengthening public transportation and traffic
management to contain demand '.or road space and better utilize existing roads.
2.5         Water Supply. Tianjin shares water resources of the Haihe basin
with Beijing. Because of the semi-arid nature of the basin and the increasing
demand for water by the cities, water resource management is one of the most
critical issues facing the region (total population 23 million) and has drawn
much research and investment. In the early 1980s, TMG completed a large scale
project to bring water 230 km from the Luanhe River. However, demand is
projected to outstrip the current source in the near future and alternative
sources (Huanghe or langzhe) will be expensive to exploit. Several studies
have been completed and more are under way to explore ways to conserve and
reuse water in the region.
2.6         Environmental Sanitation.  As the city's terrain ie flat and low-
lying, local flooding and standing water pose serious health and economic
hazards, especially during the monsoon season when 80% of the rainfall occurs.
TMG has succeeded in containing the growth of the problems by enforcing a new
development regulation requiring adequate drainage and sewerage facilities,
and now concentrates its investment on three major areas of drainage and
sewerage system development. First, it is now allc sting large investment
resources to establish a city-wide system of sewage treatment consisting of
six treatment plants, the first of whicn has been in operation since 1984
andthe second is under construction. Untreated sewage is conveyed through two
regional sewage channels and discharged to the sea. Second, TMG is upgrading
the pumping stations and drainage channels in order to cope with the increases
in sewage and surface water run-off resulting from urban growth. Third, TMG



is carrying out a phased program to provide drainage and sewerage facilities
for unserved for older areas. At present about 60Z of the total city area
lacks sewerage services, and about 402 lacks drainage services. In view of
the large resources required for these programs, TMG needs an improved
financial planning and management system to balance the different needs and
better mobilize and manage the fin&ncial resources.
2.7         TMG has recently integrated and expauLded its solid waste
collection system and continues to develop it. While the system covers the
whole city area efficiently, resource constraints increasingly limit service
levels as the city area grows and waste generation increases. Along with
further expansion of the collection system, the city urgently needs to improve
the waste disposal system. Use of hygienic landfills is limited at present.
Instead, wastes are dumped and manually composted in scattered locations in
the city, and insufficiently composted nightsoil is used widely for farming.
These practices cannot be sustained both for economic and environmental
reasons, and TMG is studying various ways to modernize the disposal system.
2.8         Industrial Pollution.  Pollution poses a serious and continuing
concern in Tianjin, a major industrial city. However, TMG succeeded in
reversing the trend of environmental deterioration by the late 19808. For
example, it drastically reduced air pollution from coal burning, a principal
source of air pollution in Chinese cities, by establishing a city-wide gas
supply network and by modernizing a large number of coal furnaces. It has
improved the quality of water in major rivers and streams by strong control,
diversion and treatment of waste water. Industrial relocation and
modernization continue on a large scale, reducing pollution significantly.
The Tianjin Environmental Protection Bureau (EPB) plays strong regulatory and
coordinating roles. It monitors and sets targets for the city's environmental
quality and enforces pollution control regulations such as mandatory screening
of industrial investments. It collects relatively large amounts of pollution
levies, assessed an discharges above effluent standards, and uses the revenues
for various pollution control programs.
2.9         While these activities of Tianjin EPB are among the most active
and sophisticated in China, they need development in new directions to be
effective in the more diverse and dynamic economy. At present, its pollution
monitoring is largely stationary, and for regulatory enforcement, it relies
heavily on self-reporting and unsystematic spot checks. For more rigorous
control, it needs to strengthen its capacity to monitor pollution at source
through more mobile means and reliable sampling. In a program to assist
polluters to comply with the regulations, EPB has been using a part of the
pollution levy revenues to provide small-scale pollution control facilities in
industrial plants. While it represents a valuable complement to the major
anti-pollution investments described above, it tends to provide a narrow range
of end-of-pipe treatment facilities or other standard solutions such as
furnace modernization. On the other hand, their provision as grant assistance
limits their scope and the beneficiaries' motivation to optimize the
investments. Recognizing the limitations, EPB has been experimenting with
loan financing rather than grant assistance, but an effective operational
model for pollution control loans has yet to be establ.shed.



C. Urban Planning and Management
2.10        TMG is organized into a large number of bureaus which implement
TMG policies and programs in specific sectors, and 15 commissions which are
responsible for broad policy and coordination. Besides EPB, the bureaus
involved in the project include: the Municipal Engineering Bureau (MEB) with
divisions directly managing roads, drainage, sewerage, and other facilities;
Environmental Sanitation Bureau (ESB) which manages the solid waste services;
and the Public Utilities Bureau (PUB) which mainly supervises autonomous
public service companies, such as the public transport and water supply
companies. These bureaus report to and receive policy directions through the
Urban and Rural Construction Commission (URCC) which has broad planning and
appropriations authority for the infrastructure and environment sectors.
While the Planning Commission (TPC) has full authority for resource allocation
in most local governments in China, TMG recently devolved the resource
allocation function for the infrastructure and environment sectors to URCC and
the annual budgeting to the Finance Bureau (TFB).
2.11        The traditional infrastructure planning and management system
consists of an orderly hierarchy of plans and a set of detailed targets and
prescriptions. For investment planning, the long-term master plan and the
Five-Year Plans provide the authoritative but static reference. For operation
and maintenance (O&M), national guidelines prescribing detailed norms for the
repair and rehabilitation of various infrastructure are fo,llowed by
municipalities with minor adaptation to local conditions. The system has its
strengths as it provides consistent and relatively simple commands to follow,
well suited to a centrally planned economy. TMG has been a particularly
competent and faithful practitioner of the system, with a comprehensive set of
plans and a strong design and implementation capacity. It has used its
resources well for the successful reconstruction during the 1980s and for
maintaining high standards of infrastructure and services.
2.12        However, the traditional planning framework increasingly limits
TMG's effectiveness in responding to the diverse and changing needs of the
city. For investment programs, the master plan presents a set cf blueprints
which, though technically competent and internally consistent, have grown
inconsistent with Tianjin's rapid growth and changing needs. It presents
long-term goals but no priorities nor intermediate targets. In the absence of
specific criteria for allocating resources among a large number of investment
projects envisaged in the master plan, TMG has tended to emphasize aggregate
physical quantities that can be built at a given cost rather than judiciously
selecting specific projects according to specific benefits. This has often
resulted in an inefficient and inequitable pattern of infrastructure,
excessively high standards of infrastructure in some areas and neglect in
others. Similarly, TMG faithfully follows guidelines based mainly on abstract
engineering norms, taking little account of specific usage and conditions.
This practice, together with the first budgetary priority TMG gives to O&M,
results in expenditures and standards of services that are high overall but
not efficiently matched to the actual needs in different locations.
2.13        The imbalance between the heavy reliance on aggregate supply norms
and long-term targets, on one hand, and the scant attention to changing needs
and constrairts, on the other, characterizes all aspects of the current



- 9 -
infrastructure planning and management system of TNG. As the questions of
scale and location of investment or O&M programs are presumed to be determined
by central plans and norms, TMG's elaborate procedures for planning and
implementation of its programs tend to be used mainly for technical refinement
and budgetary negotiations. The information requirement and responsibilities
at each step, also, are yet to be defined clearly in line with the recent
decentralization. While TMG collects large amounts of various data, most
often they are used merely as aggregate statistics to compare with certain
overall standards, not for evaluating different benefits of services depending
upon location and timing. The implementation and financial reporting systems
also emphasize statistical details rather than analysis, making it difficult
for senior managers to predict and respond effectively and in a timely manner
to common implementation problems such as price changes.
2.14        Though large deficiencies presented obvious priorities in earlier
stages of reconstruction, TMG managers find it increasingly difficult to make
critical choices on the timing, location and scale of expenditure programs to
maximize their efficiency and equity. While they supplement the static plans
and central commands with rules of thumb and ad hoc procedures, the basic
incompatibility of the system with the decentralizing economy limits their
effectiveness. In order to respond effectively to complex and changing
demands, TMG would need a set of clear strategies and criteria to evaluate and
carry out actions based on specific needs and the constraints of resources and
the market. This would require constant and critical monitoring and re-
evaluation of development patterns, problems and TMG's own operations.
III. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
A. Background and Rationale for IDA Involvement
3.1         On-Roing Bank Group Operations in Tianiin.  The Bank Group is
currently assisting implementation of three infrastructure and industrial
development projects involving Tianjin, reflecting the city's strategic role
and location. The Tianjin Port Project (Loan US$130 million, approved in
1986) in Tanggu is being implemented satisfactorily and is close to
completion; more than half of the Beijing-Tianjin-Tanggu Expressway Project
(Loan/Credit of US$150 million approved in 1987 and close to completion) falls
within the Tianjin Municipality; and the Tianjin Light Industry Project (Loan
US$154 million, approved in 1989) is being implemented jointly by TMG and the
China Investment Bank. In 1988, the government requested assistance of the
Bank Group in financing a broad urban infrastructure investment program in
Tianjin, paralleling the lending operation for the light industry sector which
was under preparation. Noting TMG's strong design and implementation
capabilities as well as the need for enhanced financing and management of its
growing infrastructure and environmental investment programs, a mission in May
- June 1989 identified the proposed project substantially in the current form.
The project would be the first to improve the infrastructure and environment
in the city of Tianjin itself as well as their management by TMG.
3.2         Rationale for IDA Involvement.  Moving beyond reconstruction of
basic civic assets, TMG faces an increasingly complex task of balancing
diverse needs, to correct various remaining deficiencies, to operate growing



- 10 -
assets, and to meet growing demands for a better environment, infrastructure
and services. At the same time, the dynamic and decentralized economy is
rendering the traditional system of urban and environmental management less
effective in guiding difficult resource allocation choices. Therefore, TMG is
directing its efforts to reform its planning and management systems and pursue
efficient and balanced programs for urban and environmental development. The
Bank Group's resources and experience in assisting urban and institutional
development in market and mixed economies can contribute significantly to
these efforts. Such assistance would serve the core objective of the Bank
Group's sector strategy, to help a transition of the municipal planning and
management system to one that is responsive to needs and constraints.
Further, Tianjin's role in the Government's industrial development strategy
makes its reform and efficient development important to China's economic
development and opening to the rest of the world. TMG's demonstrated
technical and organizational competence and its commitment to institutional
reforms provide a productive ground for Bank Group assistance, and its
prominence in the country would help disseminate the innovations introduced
under the project.
B. Proiect Obiectives
3.3         The project will pursue two complementary objectives toward the
long-term improvement of Tianjin's urban infrastructure and environment.
Primarily, the project will help TMG improve its planning and management of
infrastructure and environment, so as to enhance its responsiveness to diverse
and changing demands and constraints. Specifically, TMG will aim to improve:
(a)   project identification, planning and evaluation;
(b)   budgeting and financial management;
(c)   monitoring and evaluation of urban development, environment, and
its own operations; and
(d)   resource mobilization and allocation for pollution control.
3.4         Secondly, the project will help finance a set of high priority
investments to meet medium-term needs in environmental sanitation, urban
transport, and industrial pollution control. Consistent with the
institutional development objective, these physical investments will
supplement and increase the efficiency of the existing assets and help remedy
the deficiencies that reflect weaknesses in the current planning and
management system.
C. Planning and Management
3.5         In order to enhance efficiency and responsiveness of its
infrastructure expenditure programs, TMG will carry out an action plan to
improve its monitoring, planning, budgeting and management systems as follows:
(a)   Urban Development Monitoring.  A set of geographical information
systems (GIS) will be developed to monitor land use, population,
quality of living, and infrastructure in different parts of the



city. Indicators and tools will be developed for analysis and
projection to be used tor assessing infrastructure needs;
(b)   Planning and Evaluation.  Irnproved criteria and techniques will be
developed to evaluate costs and benefits of investment and O&M
programs and to help optimize their scope, location, and timing;
(c)   Programming and Budgeting.  Techniques will be improved and
procedures streamlined for revenue tracking and forecasting,
cperational programming, rolling multi-year budgeting, annual
budgeting, and budgetary adjustments; and
(d)   Implementation Management and Monitoring.  Financial analysis and
project management tools will be improved and supervision
procedures will be streamlined to ensure efficient implementation
of expenditure programs and to respond effectively to
implementation problems.
3.6         The systems will be developed in a phased manner for use in all
three levels of TMG, with the main focus on the Urban and Rural Construction
Commission (URCC), the coordinating agency for all infrastructure and
environment sector activities. Systems for use at the bureau level will be
initially developed for and used by the Municipal Engineering Bureau (MEB) and
the Public Utilities Bureau (PUB); and for the implementing agency level,
systems development will be based on the specific needs of the Drainage
Division, the Roads Division, and the Public Transport Company. The systems
development efforts would also involve the Finance Bureau, the Planning
Commission, and the Urban Planning Bureau (UPB), to the extent that they are
involved in the planning and management of the agencies identified above. The
systems developed and tested under the component would be adopted in all
Bureaus reporting to URCC beginning from about the fifth year of the project
period, and later extended to TMG operations in other sectors. Assurances
were obtained during negotiations that TMG will carry out a plan of action,
satisfactory to the Association, to improve infrastructure planning and
management systems with the assistance of qualified consultants. Annex 1
details the plan of action - specific improvement goals, necessary technical
assistance, training and equipment, costs, and the implementation schedule.
3.7         A major focus of the action plan will be improvement in financial
monitoring and planning in all participating agencies. In conjunction with
the broad financial management improvement, other specific measures will be
taken to increase efficiency and accountability of the revenue earning
services, bus and sewerage, as discussed in Chapter IV below. For technical
and institutional issues specific to important subsectors, TMG will carry out
related but separate technical assistance and training for improvements in
environmental sanitation, urban transport, and pollution control, which are
described in Annex 2 and the sections below.
D. Environmental Sanitation
3.8         Sewerage and DrainaRe.  Approximately half of Tianjin's built-up
areas lack sewerage and/or drainage facilities. In order to contain the
growth of the service-deficiency, TMG has established a new regulation



- 12 -
mandating adequate drainage and sewerage facilities for all new land
development projects. At the same time, THG is carrying out a phased program
to extend and improve sewage collection and drainage facilities in already
developed areas which are deficient in these services (Annex 3). The project
will support implementation of the first phase of the program, including the
following that are the most cost-effective:
(a)   Provision of drainage and sewage collection systems in four
residential, industrial, and institutional areas. Three of these
areas now have incomplete and hence ineffective systems of
drainage and sewerage and another lacks them altogether.
(b)   Improvement of three controlled natural drainage channels which
convey storm flows from drainage basins of about 7,600 ha of the
city area. The improvements include: realigning selected channel
sections to ease flow restrictions; augmenting pumping stations
required to lift storm flows to the level of the Haihe, the main
natural drainage course; and extending the sewerage system to
serve riparian properties to prevent contamination of the Haihe.
3.9         Solid Waste Manazement.  TNG has developed a well-organized and
effective system of waste collection over the past decade, and has been
operating the system efficiently. However, the system capacity needs
continued renewal and expansion to keep pace with the growth of the city.
Therefore, the project will support renewal and limited expansion of the fleet
of waste collection and street cleaning vehicles and maintenance equipment.
In contrast to the well-functioning system to collect wastes, TMG is yet to
develop a satisfactory system to treat and dispose of the collected wastes.
The project will support technical assistance to formulate a plan for a sound
system of solid waste treatment and disposal and to train tecnnical and
managerial staff. The project will then support implementation of the first
phase of the plan, which is anticipated to consist of landfill, composting and
incineration of special wastes. Assurances were obtained during negotiations
that TMG will develop a plan to improve the solid waste treatment and disposal
system with the assistance of qualified consultants and according to the terms
of reference (Annex 4) satisfactory to the Association by the end of 1994; and
implement the first phase of the plan in a manner and according to a timetable
acceptable to the Association.
E. Industrial Pollution Control
3.10        The Fund for Industrial Pollution Control (the Fund), to be
established under the project, will finance small-scale (up to US$3 million)
investments for waste minimization by industrial enterprises, that yield both
pollution reduction and financial benefits. Subprojects would in general
involve modification of existing plants and addition of special equipment to
reduce or re-use wastes generated during the manufacturing process. One
example, already submitted for funding, is simple equipment that would capture
lubricant fumes escaping during the process of plasticising glass fiber
sheets, thereby reducing air pollution and allowing reuse of the lubricant.
The Fund will evaluate subproject proposals primarily on the basis of cost-
effectiveness of pollution reduction. As economic and financial values
frequently diverge, some subprojects which are highly effective in pollution



- 13 -
reduction may not generate sufficient financial returns to cover debt service
fully within the maximum maturity. For such subprojects, the Fund financing,
most of which will be loans (see below), would include up to 30Z (average 10%)
of the cost as grants.  Subprojects that would not be financially viable even
with the grants would not be financed. Annex 5 describes the details of
appraisal criteria and other operating principles of the Fund. Proposed
subprojects costing above the free limit of US$1 million will be subject to
prior review by the Association. The Fund will operate as an autonomous
entity managed by a seven-member board representing EPB, the Environmental
Commission, the Economic Commission (representing industries), and the Finance
Bureau. The board will be supported by about 25 full-time staff including
engineers and financial analysts. The Fund will retain the People's
Construction Bank of China (PCBC), Tianjin as agent to assist in economic and
financial appraisal, provide banking services for the Fund, and provide on-
the-job training of the Fund staff in these funczions. PCBC is the primary
capital financing institution in China, and its Tianjin branch has been
assisting TMG in its experimental loan program for industrial pollution
control (which will be replaced by the Fund).
3.11        The Fund will finance up to 902 (on average 65%) of the total cost
of the subprojects, and the borrowing enterprises the remainder. Most of the
financing by the Fund will be loans, repayable in 3 to 7 years (average 5
years) including up to 2 years' grace. The interest rates for local currency
(Renminbi) loans will be equal to those then prevailing for investment loans
of the same maturities made by PCBC, now ranging between 7.8% to 10.2% per
annum depending on maturity. In the case of foreign currency loans, the rate
will be 1.2% over the IBRD variable rate, and the borrower will bear all
foreign exchange risks associated with the loan. TMG will continue to
allocate 40% of the pollution levy revenues to the Fund as capital. During
the project period, it will also make the IDA credit proceeds available to the
Fund as subloans in the amount equal to 60% of the total amount financed by
the Fund, or about 40% of the subproject costs. The subloans are projected to
total US$19 million equivalent. Assuming moderate increases in pollution
levies and appropriate management of reserves, the Fund will be able to
sustain a growth of about 15% a year during and after the project period,
supporting pollution control investments worth more than US$100 million during
the period from 1992 to 2000 (refer to Annex 5). Assurances were obtained
during negotiations that TMG will establish and maintain the Fund as an
autonomous entity with its charter, organization, staffing, operating and
financing procedures satisfactory to the Association.
3.12        Institutional Strengthening.  The project will also support
technical assistance, training and equipment procurement to (refer to Annex 5
for details):
(a)   enhance EPB's capacity to monitor pollution at source to
strengthen its regulatory enforcement; and
(b)   upgrade the applied research capacity of the Environmental
Protection Technology Development Center and the Environmental
Protection Science Institute under EPB and the capacity for
financial and economic analysis by the Fund and related agencies.



- 14-
F. Urban Transport
3.13        Most of Tianjin's strategic transportation assets built up during
the past decade require complementary facilities and actions to function to
their potential. For example, the bus fleet has been expanded ten-fold over
the last decade and a modern railway station built, but the bus maintenance
capacity remains amall and the terminals scattered. Further, with the growth
of motorized transport, THM needs more sophisticated traffic management and
travel demand management. The project would therefore support the following
improvement measures (refer to Annex 6 for details):
(a)   Roads: Completion of the last 3.4 km of the Inner Ring Road, the
centerpiece of the primary road network, by adding bicycle lanes
and straightening the alignment at major intersections; and
construction of an overpass at the intersection of the Middle Ring
Road and the Beijing-Tianjin Highway;
(b)   Bus System: Construct:'on and equipment of two maintenance depots
for about 690 buses, and a bus/rail interface terminal near the
railway station consolidating several scattered bus terminals.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that THG will pass on
a part of the credit proceeds to PTC to carry out the above;
(c)   Public Transport Policy and Management Study: to help TMG evaluate
travel demand and supply factors - such as user preference,
pricing, financing, and management options - and define an
effective plan to develop public transport systems. Assurances
were obtained during negotiations that TMG will carry out the
study with the assistance of qualified consultants and according
to terms of reference (Annex 7) satisfactory to the Association by
December 31, 1995 and implement the recommendations in a manner
and according to a timetable acceptable to the Association;
(d)   Traffic Management: Introduction of an area traffic control system
in the central district of the city; improvement of traffic
junctions; and other equipment and training for improved traffic
flow and safety.
G. Resettlement
3.14        Many of the transport and drainage improvement components of the
project serve dual purposes, not only to improve the particular subsector
assets but also to improve land use and housing in the central city. In
particular, provision of better housing for the 4,046 households involved is
one of the most important aspects of these investment components. This effort
will be consistent with TMG's on-going program of land use and housing
improvement which has been the essential element of its overall urban
development programs. Under the resettlement program, the residents will move
from dilapidated "pingfang" houses, which are extremely crowded, and lack
kitchens and sanitary facilities, to larger, adequately equipped ones in six
new residential developments, on average about 4 km from current locations.
Recognizing the importance of the housing improvement objectives, the project
will support residential resettlement as an explicit component, introducing



- 15 -
improvements in resett'ement procedures, in order to help minimize the risk of
disruption a.,d maximize the housing improvement benefits.
3.15        TMG has extensive experience in demolition and resettlement
operations and has established effective regulatory and organizational
arrangements for these purposes. The displaced households are compensated by
new permanent housing units, the sizes of which are determined on the basis of
the size of the housing vacated and the household size and characteristics,
according to well-established guidelines. Residents relocating under the
project will get new housing which will be, on average, about 2.5 times the
size of the old units as well as small cash compensation for moving and other
expenses. While these arrangements have proven effective and well accepted by
the affected households, the existing practice of district governments'
allocating apartments for households does not allow residents freedom of
choice of new housing nor foster competition among housing developers.
3.16        Under the project, TMG agreed to introduce new procedures to allow
essentially market transactions for the new housing units, by allowing the
resettling households to choose their new housing from a much larger number of
apartments in six different locations offered by different housing companies.
The transaction would be conducted through the use of resettlement vouchers
bearing the value equivalent to the average cost of replacement housing of the
size to which the relocating households would be entitled as determined under
the standard practice. The households will be allowed to choose units that
are more expensive than their voucher values, due to size or location, by
making additional payments. Or. the other hand, they would also be allowed to
choose smaller or otherwise less expensive apartments than their entitlement
and take cash compensation. However, these variations would be limited to
within 20% of the voucher values (Annex 8). The verification procedures by the
housing companies and the resident registration system would check against
outright transfer of the vouchers. TMG would redeem the vouchers tendered by
the housing development companies, and the IDA credit will be applied toward
part of the construction cost of the new housing chosen by the relocating
households. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that TMG will carry
out resettlement of residents under the project according to standards,
procedures, and voucher regulations schedules satisfactory to the Association.
IV. PROJECT COST AND FINANCING
A. Prolect Costs
4.1         The total estimated cost of the project is about US$195 million,
including foreign exchange elements of US$112 million. Costs are summarized
by component in Table 4.1, and further details are shown in Annex 9. The base
costs are derived from engineering designs or feasibility studies, adjusted to
incorporate price changes up to March 1992. Total costs include physical
contingencies equal to 12.5% of the base costs. The price contingencies are
estimated on the basis of the disbursement schedule shown in Annex 11, except
for the land acquisition and resettlement which are expected to be completed
by the end of 1994. Price contingencies expressed in US dollars reflect
projected increases in prices of manufactured exports, 3.9% a year over the
project period.



- 16 -
Table 4.1                  Summary of Project Costs *
Component                     Local      Foreign        Total   Z of Total
------- US$ Million -------       Base Cost
Planning, Management
and Technical Improvement           2.7          5.9         8.6        5.6%
Drainage and Sewerage              15.2         10.5        25.7       16.7%
Solid Waste Management              2.3         10.1        12.4        8.1%
Urban Transport                    18.4         14.9        33.3       21.7%
Industrial Pollution Control        3.8         35.2        39.0       25.3%
Resettlement                       24.6         10.1        34.7       22.6%
Total Base Cost                  67.0        86.7        153.7      100.0%
Physical Contingencies            8.4         10.8        19.2       12.5%
Price Contingencies               7.5        14.6         22.1       14.3%
TOTAL PROJECT COST                 82.9        112.1       195.0      126.8%
* Net of duties and taxes.
Table 4.2               Financing Plan
Local      Foreign       Total
-------- US$ Million --------
Tianjin Municipal Government       65.8         12.1        77.9
Industrial Enterprises             17.1           -         17.1
IDA                                  -         100.0       100.0
Total                     82.9        112.1        195.0



- 17 -
B. Financing Arrangements
4.2         The proposed financing plan is summarized in Table 4.2.  The
Association will provide a credit of SDR 73.3 million, or US$100 million
equivalent, to the People's Republic of China on standard terms and
conditions, with the maturity of 35 years. The Government will onlend the
credit proceeds to TMG to be repaid over 15 years including 5 years of grace
at an interest rate of 4.5% per annum, with TMG bearing all foreign exchange
risks except those borne by the Fund. The industrial enterprises will finance
about US$17 million equivalent, about 35Z of the cost of industrial pollution
control subprojects. TMG will finance the rest of the project cost, about
US$78 million. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that TMG will
make available a part of the IDA credit proceeds (subloans) to the Fund for
Industrial Pollution Control on tcrms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association. The terms will include a maturity of 15 years including 5 years
grace and an interest rate of 5.0% per annum. The Fund will bear all foreign
exchange risks on its part of the credit, except those borne by enterprises
borrowlng from it. It is estimated that the total credit proceeds made
available as subloans will be about US$19 million. The Fund will provide
loans for eligible pollution control subprojects on commercial terms using the
subloans and other local funds, supplementing them with grants where warranted
under specified conditions (paras 3.10 and 3.11).
C. Financing of Municipal Services
4.3         Financial Resources for Infrastructure and Environment.  TMG's
budget for infrastructure and environmertal programs in 1990 amounted to about
Yuan 770 million (about US$165 million), or about US$110 per urban household,
high for the income level. Most of the funds consisted of tax revenues,
mainly those earmarked for infrastructure sectors (the Urban Maintenance and
Construction Tax and the Public Utilities Surtax), but also an additional
allocation from general tax revenues (Yuan 245 million out of Yuan 3,100
million in total). These funds form a part of the regular municipal budget
and are allocated by the Finance Bureau and URCC. The rest consist of
revenues from various quasi-taxes called "extra-budgetary" levies such as the
charges for pollution discharge, sewerage, groundwater use, and vehicle
registration, collected by sector bureaus and generally earmarked for specific
purposes approved by URCC. Not included above are the revenues of the
autonomous companies, such as water and bus tariffs, which are independently
managed subject to supervision of the Finance Bureau and URCC.
4.4         The general and earmarked tax revenues which finance the major
share of the infrastructure and environmental expenditures are elastic
revenues based on sales and income of the enterprises under TMG jurisdiction.
Therefore, they stagnated during the recent austerity period but are likely to
increase steadily along with the on-going economic recovery, given the current
tax rates and revenue sharing arrangements with the central government. The
extra-budgetary revenues derive mostly from unit charges. Hence, they would
increase with usage, which would generally parallel the real rate of economic
growth and the change in unit rates determined by TMG subject to national
guidelines. Revenue growth would translate directly into increased investment
expenditures, which accounted for the major part of the infrastructure budget
in the past. Given the growth prospects of resources, especially for capital



- 18 -
accounts, additional expenditures attributable to the project represent a
small portion of TMG's infrastructure budget: debt service for the project
proceeds would be about US$8.4 million equivalent a year, or less than 5% of
the total expenditures for infrastructure and environment, and additional O&M
expenses would be less than 0.3%. Table A10.1 in Annex 10 shows a proiection
of TMG's financial resources for the infrastructure and environment sectors.
4.5         Financing of Urban Services.  Since the 1980s TMG has introduced
or increased charges for urban public services, most of which used to be
provided free or at nominal charges. T7MG, however, continues to use tax
revenues to fund a large part of capital expenditures for many services and
even part of their current expenses. The subsidies for the urban services,
such as bus, water supply and sewerage, now claim about 10% of TMG's
infrastructure budget. While this level of subsidies appears sustainable at
least for the medium term, TMG continues to move toward full cost recovery as
part of the general economic systems reform. The progress, however, has been
constrained by conflicts between policy and financial goals for the services
under the current macro-economic system. As important as continued increases
in resource mobilization would be improving financial management to increase
efficiency and accountability in urban infrastructure and service provision.
Especially for revenue-earning services, it would be essential to define
financial goals and responsibilities clearly. In addition to the improvements
in financial reporting and planning to be introduced under the planning and
management component, TMG agreed to take additional measures described below
to improve finances of the Drainage Division and PTC.
4.6         Financial Management of Drainage and Sewerage Services.  Drainage
and sewerage services in Tianjin are managed by the Drainage Division under
MEB. The sewage treatment plant keeps a separate account, but accounts for
all other operations are combined mainly due to the prevalence of facilities
used jointly for drainage and sewerage operations. The Division remits all
revenues to TMG and draws budgetary allocations for all expenses. This system
makes it difficult to distinguish financial responsibilities for the sewerage
services, for which beneficiary charges apply (see below), from those for
drainage operations which are usually financed from general tax revenues. To
define the financial goals clearly, therefore, assurances were obtained during
negotiations that TMG will establish, by the end of 1993, an accounting system
which will, among others, distinguish sewerage operations from drainage (see
para 4.13 below); and further, by the end of 1995, TMG will establish an
institutional development plan, satisfactory to the Association, to transfer
all or part of the sewerage operations to an autonomous entity, and thereafter
implement the plan according to a timetable acceptable to the Association.
4.7         Since the early 1980s, TMG have been implementing accelerated
programs to improve drainage and sewerage services, including the
establishment of sewage treatment plants (pare 2.6). To secure resources for
these programs, it introduced in 1988 a new sewerage charge, 12 fen per cubic
meter (m3) of sewage, levied on all properties connected to the sewerage
system. In addition, it has levied a sewage treatment charge of 9 fen/mi3 on
those within the sewage treatment district (about 20% of the sewerage users),
and earmarked a part of the revenues from the pollution levy for sewage
treatment expenses. However, the sewage treatment charge is not accompanied
by any specific benefits to the users, imposing a potential disincentive for



- 19 -
location within the sewage treatment districts. In view of this, TMG is
reviewing whether to gStnt specific benefits in return for the charge, such as
higher limits for 3ffluent discharge, or to set a single sewerage charge
applicable to all users.  More seriously, the charge system has been
undermined by the exemptions granted by TMG to a large number of entities for
various reasons, which have grown to account for about a half of billable
charges. In order to remedy the problem, TMG has constituted a panel, chaired
by a Vice Mayor, to review and revise policy criteria for exemption from the
sewerage charges with a view toward revoking most of the current non-
residential exemptions. The panel has the sole authority to grant any
exemptions if justified, for which the Drainage Division will be compensated.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that, starting from January 1993,
TMG will cause the Finance Bureau to provide the Drainage Division with
specific compensation equal to sewerage charges that would have been due from
non-residential users but for the exemption.
4.8         With this measure and an increase of the sewerage charges by about
25X, the revenues are expected to be sufficient to cover full costs of the
sewerage services. However, since these costs cannot be monitored confidently
under the current accounting system (para 4.6 above), it was agreed that
revenue targets will be set in reference to the costs of drainage and sewage
collection instead, which are easily determined. It is projected that these
costs would be larger than the estimated costs of all sewerage operations
during the project period (Annex 10, Table A10.2 and Table A10.3).
Accordingly, assurances were obtained during negotiations that TMG will adjust
the sewerage charge (or charges) from time to time so that, starting from
1993, total revenues are sufficient to cover full operating costs for the
Drainage Division, including bonus and welfare payments, depreciation, and
interest payments, except thoee of sewage treatment.
4.9         Financing Public Bus Services.  The Public Transport Company
(PTC), which will carry out and benefit from project components estimated to
cost US$11 million, presents an example of acute conflicts between the policy
goal for the municipality as a whole and the financial goal at the company
level. Over the 1980s the share of passenger trips within the city carried by
public buses declined from about 11% to 82 as a result of an earlier TMG
policy to promote bicycle use and the increase of private and enterprise-owned
passenger vehicles. TMG has concluded that it is fiscally unsustainable to
provide road capacity to support a travel pattern dominated by private
transport modes. Since 1986, therefore, it has shifted its focus onto traffic
management and public transport improvements. In pursuing expansion of bus
capacity, however, TMC-'s subsidies increased to as much as 55Z of the total
operating costs of PTC. The high and increasing level of subsidies, although
affordable and cost-effective under the current circumstances, could threaten
not only the fiscal sustainability but also the financial accountability of
PTC, especially if continued on an as-needed basis.
4.10        In order to improve finances and management of PTC, therefore, TMG
has taken c number of steps including:
Raising daily bus ticket prices by 67% in April 1990, and doubling the
monthly pass prices (except student passes) in January 1991;



- 20 -
Introducing a new charge on passenger vehicle registration earmarked as
additional equity for PTC; in 1990, the first year, the revenues were
approximately Yuan 12 million, or about 82 of PTC's expenditures; and
Introducing express bus services in selected routes, with fares covering
full operating and capital costs.
4.11        Given the adverse impact of fare increases on ridership (over 20%
immediately following the fare increase in each category and more than 10%
over a period of a year after the increase), further drastic fare increases in
the immediate future would appear counter-productive under the current low-
wage system. TMG, h7wever, plans to continue enhancing bus services and
increasing fares to achieve efficiency pricing and financial self-sufficiency
of bus services, thereby eliminating subsidies, within the current 10-year
Plan period (1991-2000). TMG has agreed to formulate, through the planning
and management component as well as a separate study on public transport (para
3.13), and carry out a medium-term action plan to achieve this policy goal.
In the meantime, for near-term improvement, several immediate steps can be
taken to reduce cost, increase revenue, and make subsidies transparent.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that TMG will take the following
measures:
(a)   TMG will cause PTC to maintain the total number of its staff at or
below 23,575 persons (level as of May 1991) until June 30, 1996 (a
reduction of staff per bus by about 15% over the five years,
mainly by redeploying administrative and support staff to
operations);
(b)   Starting from 1993, TMG will determine the budgetary payment to
PTC solely on the basis of bus operating mileage, which is
mandated by TMG, and a unit cost index increasing at the
officially published inflation rate but decreasing by 5% annually
in real terms. It will revise the formula on the basis cf the
public transport study and the planning and management component
to better reflect efficiency pricing and the revenue limitations
imposed by TMG such as student discounts; and
(c)   Also starting from January 1, 1993, TMG will allow PTC to adjust
fares and operating routes so that its total revenues will be
sufficient to cover all operating expenses plus interest,
retirement payments and major rehabilitation expenses. It is
projected that this will require a fare increase of about 25%
during 1995, in addition to measures to increase ridership and
reduce costs (Annex 10, Table A10.4).
D. Accounting
4.12        TMG derartments and autonomous companies have adopted the improved
accounting and auditing systems introduced by the Ministry of Finance during
the 1980s, which generally conform to internationally accepted practices. PTC
keeps its accounts competently according to the standard enterprise accounting
system of China. The system is adequate overall, except that allocations in
and out of various special fund categories obscure clear understanding of



- 21 -
current and capital accounts especially as the system lacks fund flow
statements. Therefore, PTC would prepare a cash flow statement showing
sources and application of funds, a summary of regular accounts, and a
financial projection for three years in formats satisfactory to the
Association. PTC will submit them, along with audited regular accounts, to
TFB and URCC which will review them and forwa d the same with their comments
to the Association within six months after the fiscal year end, starting from
June 30, 1994.
4.13        Bureaus and divisiowis of TMG maintain their accounts on the basis
of budgetary allocations and cash expenditures, following the standard
administrative unit accounting system of China which has been used in projects
financed by the Association. However, the system does not allow ready
evaluation of financial performance of the Drainage Division as a revenue-
earning unit, as would be necessary to reorganize part of its function as an
autonomous company as planned. Therefore, the Division would start preparing
separate accounts for sewerage and sewage treatment operations according to
the standard enterprise system supplemented with cash flow statements starting
from fiscal year 1994. It will also prepare and submit the cash flow
statements, accounts summaries, and financial projections to the Association
through TMG, as described in para 4.12.
4.14        The new Fund for Industrial Pollution Control will establish and
maintain its accounts according to the standard financial institution
accounting system of China. The borrowing enterprises will submit their
financial accounts and projections to the Fund as part of the funding
application. The Fund will also require its borrowers to submit their project
accounts (see para 4.15 below) from time to time, but no later than one year
after subproject completion. It will be the main duty of PCBC to help the Fund
establish and maintain the accounts of the Fund, assist in evaluation of
financial statements of the applicants, and train the Fund staff in these
functions. The Fund will prepare and submit its cash flow statement, account
summary, and the financial projection as described in para 4.12.
4.15        All the implementing units will maintain project accounts,
separate from the regular operating accounts discussed above, according to the
State Construction Unit Accounting System which is adequate for the proposed
project. The Project Management Office, assisted by the Finance Bureau, will
maintain a consolidated account for the entire project. The six housing
development companies, offering apartment units for the relocating households
to choose, will also maintain project accounts under the same system. These
project accounts will be the basis for determining the unit cost of housing
for purposes of disbursement of the credit for -ivil works for resettlement.
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS
A. Prolect Preparation
5.1         In line with TMG's normal organizational responsibilities, the
sector bureaus (MEB, PUB, EPB, ESB, and Traffic Division) and their affiliated
design institutes have prepared individual components, including environmental
impact statements which have been reviewed and accepted by EPB. In addition,



- 22 -
TMG employed a team of foreign consultants to help finalize designs and
bidding documents for sewerage, drainage, and traffic management components.
URCC has coordinated the preparation efforts and served as the principal
counterpart to the Bank Group missions. By the end of 1991, all the final
engineering designs for environmental sanitation and transport components had
been completed, and the bidding documents were prepared for components
scheduled for implementation during the first two years of the project. All
the terms of reference for major technical assistance components (Annexes 1,
4, and 6) have been agreed upon. In addition, 28 industrial enterprises
submitted proposals for industrial pollution control subprojects. Of these,
17 proposals with an estimated total base cost of about US$3 million, close to
the investment planned for the Fund's first year of operation, have been
preliminarily appraised and found acceptable; one was found unac-eptable; and
the remaining ten provided insufficient information to be appraised and are
being revised. Compensation for resettlement has been determined and agreed
with the affected residents, and construction of housing for the first group
of residents to be relocated started in October 1991.
B. Implementation Responsibilities
5.2         The agencies which were responsible for project preparation will
carry out the components, assisted by the local design institutes which helped
design the components. In addition, two new bodies, the Leading Group for
Planning and Management Improvement (see para 5.3 below) and the Fund for
Industrial Pollution Control, are starting their operations under the
respective components of the project. For project coordination at the policy
level, TMG has established the Project Leading Group (steering committee)
chaired by the Director, URCC and including senior managers of URCC, the
Finance Bureau, the Planning Commission, and the implementing bureaus.  For
day-to-day management of the overall project and liaison with the Association,
TMG has established the Project Management Office (PMO) reporting to the
Leading Group, with 13 full-time staff. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that TMG will maintain the Project Leading Group and PMO with
functions and composition satisfactory to the Assc!iation.
5.3         To manage implementation of the planning and management component,
TMG has established the Leading Group for Planning and Management Improvement
(PAMILG). The Group consists of: Chief Engineer, URCC (chair); Deputy
Director, URCC; Chief Economist, Finance Bureau; and heads of the
participating Divisions of URCC, Planning Commission, MEB, PUb, and UPB. The
Group will have authority over scheduling all technical assistance and
training under the project, selecting and supervising consultants for the
component, and recommending proposed improvement measures to TMG. For
implementation of specific technical assistance and training involving more
than one agency, the Group will establish task forces led by members of the
Group and drawing on involved staff and consultants. The Group will be
supported by the Chief Technical Advisor to be recruited for the component and
a full-time Office with at least six staff members (Annex 1). Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that TMG will maintain the PAMILG and its office
with functions and composition satisfactory to the Association.
5.4         A transfer and operation agreement between TMG and PTC,
satisfactory to the Association, has been signed for implementation of the



- 23 -
public bus component (para 3.13) and the financial action plan for PTC (paras
4.11 and 4.12). Agreement was reached during negotiations that, as conditions
of effectiveness: (a) the Fund for Industrial Pollution Control will be
constituted with a charter, operating and lending procedures, and staffing
satisfactory to the Association; (b) the subsidiary loan agreement,
satisfactory to the Association, will be signed between TMG and the Fund for
implementation of the industrial pollution control component; and (c) a
contract, satisfactory to the Association, will be signed between the Fund and
PCBC for necessary technical services (paras 3.10 and 3.11).
C. Disbursement
5.5                For expenditures other than those for industrial pollution
control subprojects, the credit will be disbursed for: (a) 100l of foreign
expenditures for imported equipment and materials, 100% of the ex-factory cost
of equipment and materials manufactured locally, and 70% of local expenditures
for other equipment and material procured locally; (b) 65% of civil works
expenditures including those for resettlement; and (c) 100% of the costs of
consultant services and training. For industrial pollution control
subprojects financed by the Fund, the credit will be disbursed for 100% of
pollution control subloans. Under the procedures Lgreed for resettlement
under the project, the relocating households will choose new apartments built
by different development companies for them as well as other buyers. The
civil works expenditures for the apartments chosen for resettlement will be
determined by multiplying the unit cost of civil works per floor space (mi2) by
the total floor space of apartments taken up by the relocating households
according to agreed procedures (Annex 8). The unit cost will be determined,
before the start of each phase of resettlement and after construction of the
required housing, by averaging total civil works cost of the housing
development projects over total floor area built, excluding floor space of
public facilities provided free of charge, on the basis of a construction
account maintained by the housing development companies.
5.6         A Special Account will be established and maintained in US dollars
with an authorized allocation of US$6.7 million, on terms and conditions
acceptable to the Association. Replenishment applications would be submitted
monthly or when the balance falls under 50% of the initial deposit, whichever
comes first. Disbursements for training and goods supply and civil works
contracts valued at less than US$200,000 each will be made on the basis of
Statements of Expenditures (SOEs). Disbursement for others will be supported
with full documentation. TMG will ensure that implementing agencies will
retain the documents supporting the SOEs and make them available to the
Association missions for inspection.
5.7         Schedules.  The estimated disbursement schedule is shown in Annex
li. In view of the absence of a standard disbursement profile for the sector
in China, the estimated schedule is based on disbursement profiles for the
industry and transportation projects in China. The estimated project
completion date is June 30, 1998, and the credit closing date will be December
31, 1998.



- 24 -
5.8         Retroactive financing up to US$10 million equivalent will be
allowed for eligible expenditures made after April 30, 1991 (date of
appraisal) for:
(a)   consultant services to prepare final engineering designs and
bidding documents for sewerage, drainage, industrial pollution
reduction, and traffic signal systems;
(b)   consultant services, training, equipment, and office accommodation
necessary for implementation of the planning and management
component and for operation of the PMO; and
(c)   civil works for construction of housing to resettle about 2,020
houselholds.
D. Procurement
5.9         Goods.  All c-ontracts for goods costing more than US$200,000 will
be procured through international competitive bidding (ICB). The project
requires equipment and materials estimated to cost about US$29 million in
total, of which about 80Z or about US$23 million will be procured through ICB.
Limited international bidding (LIB) will be used in procuring certain
laboratory equipment and road monitoring equipment with estimated total cost
of about US$1.0 million, which are produced by a small number of firms. The
remaining goods, small quantities of minor tools and materials of assorted
types, each contract costing less than US$200,000, up to a total of US$5.0
million, will be procured through local competitive bidding (LCB). Direct
procurement will be used for some replacement parts for existing buses and
trucks up to a total of US$500,000 and local shopping will be used for other
small quantities not exceeding US$10,000 per order up to a total of
US$500,000.
5.10        Works.  The project will involve about 28 different civil works
contracts, costing about US$47 million in total (not including the civil works
costs for resettlement housing discussed in para 5.11 below), carried out in
more than 50 locations scattered around the city. None of the contracts has
an estimated contract value of more than US$5.0 million, except a road
upgrading work (US$6.7 million) and a sewerage-drainage improvement work
(US$5.1 million). Even these two largest contracts involve mainly labor-
intensive earthworks and require contractors to deal extensively with existing
utility facilities and residents, and hence are not likely to attract
international contractors. All civil works contracts, therefore, will be
awarded through LCB except those noted below which will be awarded through
direct contracting. The largest of the works to be let through direct
contracting will be about 7 contracts to install electricity mains, estimated
to cost US$1.5 million in total, to be carried out by the electricity
authority according to local regulations. Installation of communication lines
for a traffic signal system, costing about US$250,000 will be carried out by
the telephone authority. The remaining contracts to be let through direct
contracting are to install traffic signals and channelize intersections in
many scattered locations, costing less than US$500,000 in total, involving
specialized skills and risk of interruption.



- 25 -
Table 5.1            Procurement Arrangements
Procurement                 Procurement Method
Category              ICB      LCB      OTHER     NFI      TOTAL
----------  (US$ million) --------------
Goods                  23.2       3.8       1.6              28.5
(22.5)     (2.9)    (1.3)            (26.7)
Training and                                5.6               5.6
Technical Assistance                    (5.6)             (5.6)
Works                            45.1       2.2              47.3
(27.2)    (1.2)            (28.4)
Industrial Pollution                       48.7              48.7
Control                                 (19.0)            (19.0)
Works for Residential                      33.6              33.6
Resettlement                           (20.3)            (20.3)
Land Acquisition                                   21.6      21.6
(0.0)    (0.0)
Design, Supervision                                 9.7       9.7
and Management                                   (0.0)    (0.0)
TOTAL                  23.2     48.9      91.6    31.3    195.0
(22.5)   (30.1)   (47.4)   (       (100.0)
Note:    Figures in parentheses are the amounts financed by IDA.
Figures include physical and price contingencies.
NFI - Not financed by IDA.
5.11        Others.  The project involves resettling 4,046 households into new
apartments with a total estimated civil works cost of about US$34 million.
Under the procedures agreed for the project, the households will select their
apartments from among 7,200 apartments that are being built or will be built
in six locations by different development companies. The development
companies have been selected by TMG after evaluation of plans and cost
estimates submitted by 32 eligible companies, more than five for each of the
companies chosen. Under the industrial pollution control component,
industrial enterprises will procure specialized equipment and associated
services to modify their production plants to reduce pollution and conserve
production materials, each subproject not exceeding US$3 million. Following
the guidelines adopted for the Fifth China Investment Bank Project and the
Tianjin Light Industry Project, the borrowing enterprises will procure these
services and goods after solicitation and evaluation of written quotations
from at least three qualified suppliers. Consultant services required for the
project will be engaged in accordance with the "Guidelines for the Use of



- 26 -
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the Wlorld Bank as Executing
Agency."
5.12        Administration.  Foreign suppliers will be allowed to compete for
contracts let under LCB if they desire. Under ICB, domestic suppliers will be
allowed a margin of preference equal to 15Z of the c.i.f. price of imported
goods or actual customs duties and taxes, whichever is less. All goods
costing more than US$200,000 and works costing more than US$1 million will be
subject to the Bank Group's prior review. This is expected to cover 11 works
contracts accounting for almost 90% of the total value of civil works
contracts (other than resettlement housing), and 11 packages of goods
accounting for about 80% of the total value of goods. Table 5.1 summarizes
the procurement arrangements for the project and Annex 13 lists major
procurement packages. TMG has retained the China National Technical Import
and Export Corporation and the Tianjin Machinery and Electric Tendering
Corporation as the procurement agents for the goods required under the
project. The Tianjin Construction Engineering Tendering Office will be the
procurement agent for civil works. Model bidding documents agreed between the
Government of China and the Bank Group will be used for all applicable
procurement.
E.  Monitorinz and Supervision
5.13        Audit.  Assurances were obtained during negotiations that TMG will
submit to the Association annual audit reports on the following by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association within six months after the end of each
fiscal year: (a) the Special Account; (b) the consolidated project account
maintained by PM0; (c) statements of expenditures; and (d) the financial
statements of the Public Transport Company, the Drainage Division, and the
Fund for Industrial Pollution Control. It is expected that, in accordance
with the auditing framework of China, the State Audit Administration (SAA)
will have overall responsibility and direct the auditing work performed by the
Tianjin Audit Bureau (TAB).
5.14        Monitoring and Reporting.  Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that PM0 will provide quarterly progress reports in a format
satisfactory to the Association within six weeks after the end of each
quarter. Progress and impacts of physical investment components as well as
institutional development actions will be monitored against indicators listed
in Annex 14. The Fund for Industrial Pollution Control will monitor the
progress of the subprojects and submit the summaries to PM0 for inclusion in
the quarterly reports. It will also monitor financial and technical impacts
of the subprojects for at least three years after subproject completion, and
submit annual summaries to PMO for inclusion in the first quarterly report of
each year.
5.15        Supervision.  In view of the advanced status of preparation and
the demonstrated implementation capacity of TMG, the conventional physical
investment components of the project are likely to require about 30Z less
supervision input by the Association, compared with the annual norm. Proper
supervision of the institutional development and pollution control components,
on the other hand, will require significantly larger supervision input by the
Association than usual, in view of their importance to the project and



- 27 -
uniqueness in design (Annex 15). Representatives of central agencies
including MOF, MOC and NEPA will be invited to participate in certain
supervision missions to help disseminate innovation and experience under the
planning and management improvement, the Fund for Industrial Pollution
Control, and other technical assistance activities.
VI. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
6.1         Economic Benefits.  An economic rate of return for the entire
project could not be estimated because benefits from many components cannot be
fully quantified and because most of the subprojects for pollution control are
yet to be appraised. One of the most important economic benefits would be
efficiency gains from more intensive land use of the main city areas made
possible by improvements in roads, drainage, and sewerage in those areas as
well as integration of public transport terminals; these, however, will
materialize only some time after project completion. The roads improvement
itself will generate an economic rate of return (ERR) of about 20% due to
savings in travel time and vehicle operating costs. Benefits of the same type
will yield an ERR of about 25% for the traffic control signal system. The new
workshops and terminals will enable more efficient use of the buses and will
yield ERR of about 24%. The drainage improvement schemes would have ERRs
ranging from 18% to 52%, or an average of about 30%, counting only the
reduction in property damage from flooding. Seventeen industrial pollution
control subprojects that were already submitted and preliminarily appraised
would have an average ERR of about 19%, counting such benefits as savings in
production inputs but not counting pollution reduction benefits. These
components for which at least partial estimates of benefits are available,
account for about 40% of the total project cost, with a weighted average ERR
of about 25%. (Details of ERR estimation for the road components are
explained in Annex 6, and those for the other 16 subcomponents can be found in
the feasibility reports available Ln the project files listed in Annex 16.)
6.2         Environmental Benefits.  Most of the expected benefits of the
physical investment components will be health and environmental improvements.
The industrial pollution control subprojects would reduce pollution in cost-
effective ways, as this will be the primary criterion for selecting the
subprojects, although their economic and financial returns would also be
substantial as shown above. One sewerage improvement component would
intercept industrial sewage, currently discharged into an irrigation canal,
and convey it to the city's sewage canal, preventing further contamination of
farmland and crops. A drainage component would intercept sewage flows of the
combined system and prevent contamination of a main natural drainage channel
of the city. Other smaller sewerage and drainage improvement works would have
similar pollution control effects. The solid waste management improvements
financed under the project will support more effective solid waste collection
to reduce dumping of various wastes. Development of an environmentally
sustainable solid waste treatment and disposal system, with adequate measures
including leachate and gas control, will reduce contamination of the
environment and agricultural crops resulting from current disposal practices
(Annex 4). The bus maintenance garages will help buses run cleanly and reduce



- 28 -
the oil and other chemical spills of bus maintenance operations now performed
in several ill-equipped workshops by consolidating them in more efficient
workshops equipped with a facility to collect and dispose of the spills in a
controlled way.
6.3         Social Benefits.  The immediate and visible benefits of solid
waste management, drainage, and sewerage would be improvements in
environmental health conditions for the residents within or near the project
areas. A significant aspect of the drainage and sewerage improvements is that
a large part of some 400,000 people directly benefitting from those
improvements live in areas without most urban services but with relatively
poor environmental health conditions - important measures of poverty in
Chinese cities. Under the relocation component, more than 4,000 households
will move from crowded, unsanitary and dilapidated houses in old city areas to
larger, fully serviced apartments in residential areas.
6.4         Institutional Develoipment.  The primary intended benefit of the
project as a whole is long-term gains in efficiency and equity of TMG's
infrastructure and environmental programs. Under the planning and management
component, TMG will improve its methods and procedures for identifying,
planning, evaluating, budgeting and managing its investment and O&M p-.ograms
across a wide range of infrastructure sectors. As a result, THG will enhance
its ability to identify critical needs and respond to them in a more cost-
effective and balanced way than is possible under the traditional command
system emphasizing static plans and norms. Improved tools for diagnosis and
management specifically developed for roads, drainage, and sewerage operations
will allow the responsible agencies to find areas where they can safely reduce
unnecessarily high costs of O&M or investment and direct the savings to more
productive uses. Under the related, but more sector-specific studies, TMG
will evaluate various options to find more effective management methods for
public transport and solid waste disposal, based on resource constraints and
consumer choice, rather than fixed solutions.
6.5         The industrial pollution control component of the project will
directly support cost-effective pollution reduction investments. Of long-term
significance, it will also help increase TMG's capacity for regulatory control
and technical assistance for pollution reduction and establish a sustainable
mechanism for financing industrial pollution reduction, the Fund for
Industrial Pollution Control. The Fund will support investment projects that
will be financially beneficial for the industrial enterprises while
benefitting the public at large through pollution reduction, and thus mobilize
private initiatives and resources for larger and more efficient programs of
pollution reduction, without increasing public spending. The improvements in
infrastructure and environmental management are also expected to lead to wider
institutional reforms in THG. Further, due to the visibility of Tianjin as a
major coastal city in China, the improvements would have considerable
demonstration effect for the large urban sector of the country as a whole.
B. Risks and Mitiaatina Measures
6.6         Implementation Risks.  The Bank Group's experience elsewhere
indicates that project complexity in terms of the number of components and
agencies involved could lead to implementation difficulties. In China, and



- 29 -
particularly in Tianjin, the concerns and risks are reduced by the unified
local government organization and its demonstrated implementation capacity
(para 1.14). To keep the focus clear, however, the project scope has been
limited to those components that are strongly related to the main project
objective and the organizational scope limited to one central agency, URCC,
and subsector bureaus reporting to it. Since an attempt to improve overall
sector management needs to involve a reasonable range of subsectors, a still
narrower scope would have gained marginal reduction in coordination
requirements at the expense of an inter-agency perspective and cooperation
essential to achieving the project's main objective.
6.7         The only significant implementation risk remaining related to the
innovations to be introduced under the project. Success of the proposed
Industrial Pollution Control Fund will depend on the available technologies
for waste minimization, the willingness of enterprises to participate, and the
abilities and commitment of the Fund managers. Nevertheless, the substantial
number, variety, and quality of the proposals already received (see para 6.1)
reduce the first and second of the uncertainties considerably. In order to
alleviate the third risk, regarding the ability of the managers to deal with
the unfamiliar (mainly financial) aspects of the operations, the project
incorporates measures including: detailed definition of appraisal criteria and
methods the utilization as much as possible of concepts and procedures that
are already well established in Tianjin; staffing of the fund with full-time
personnel, including those with financial and economic expertise; entrusting
PCBC, the primary local bank specializing in investment projects, to assist
the Fund; technical assistance and training of the Fund's staff in project
evaluation and financial management by PCBC, consultants and institutions.
6.8         For the planning and management component, the risks would not
arise so much from technical problems related to the individual improvement
elements, but mainly from the difficulty of integrating such elements into the
overall management systems and sustaining the commitment of the managers to do
so. Experience of the Bank Group has shown that institutional development can
succeed only when feasible goals are clearly defined and only to the extent
that borrowers are committed to and involved in defining and implementing such
components. In view of this lesson, during project preparation TMG managers
and Bank Group staff directed a major effort to identify priority needs for
management system improvement and to define realistic goals and steps. TMG's
commitment to reform its planning and management systems has already been
demonstrated through such actions as the organizational decentralization,
devolving various elements of appropriations' authority formerly centralized
in the Planning Commission to URCC and the Finance Bureau, the establishment
of housing development corporations, and the use of contract systems for
municipal service providers. These factors significantly reduce, if not
eliminate, the risks involved.
6.9         Environmental and Social Risks.  The environmental impact analysis
by planners of the public bus system components identified two risks of
pollution. The first was the risk of oil and chemical spills in the two new
maintenance workshops. To control possible contamination, the floors and
drainage systems of the workshops have been designed so as to be able to
collect the possible spills and dispose of them in a controlled way. The
second risk was that the consolidated bus terminal would generate such a level



- 30 -
of traffic that under certain weather conditions the concentrations of
harmful emissions could increase beyond tolerable levels. In order to reduce
this risk, the plaza and approach ways to the terminal would have baffles of
trees. Also, partly for this reason, some 200 households in the neighborhood
bordering the terminal would be relocated along with those living on the site
of the terminal itself, though only the latter would normally be relocated.
6.10        The reduction of traffic congestion expected from the project's
roads improvement component could lead to higher accident rates as a result of
of faster vehicle speeds. However, this risk would be mitigated under the
project by the traffic management component, which includes installation of
traffic control signals and traffic message boards, and improvement of
intersection channels in the central city area encompassing the improved
roads. Often, monuments or other structures in the intersections block vision
or traffic flow. TMG has established a new regulation prohibiting erection of
such structures that might impair traffic, and an understanding was reached
with TMG during negotiations on measures to ensure enforcement of the
regulation.
6.11        Currently, only about a fifth of sewage collected in the city is
treated by the city's only existing treatment plant; and the rest is conveyed
through the regional sewerage canals originating from Beijing and discharging
into the ocean, after minimal sedimentation at the beach head. Under these
circumstances, any increase in sewage collection poses a risk of shifting some
of the pollutants from inland to the marine environment. However, about 601
of the additional sewage collection due to the project (27.7 million m3, about
5.51 of total current volume in the city) and the sewage intercepted from the
combined system will be treated by the existing plant and a new treatment
plant which will start operation in 1992. There will thus be a net reduction
in untreated sewage conveyed to the sea through natural drainage channels,
more than offsetting the amount of sewage collected from two of the sewerage
components that will be discharged to the sea without treatment. Further, TMG
is implementing an accelerated program to provide sewage treatment for the
whole city by 2010 (Annex 3).
6.12        Experience elsewhere suggests that resettlement of a large number
of families, as required for the project, could cause serious disruptions in
their housing, jobs, and social ties. TMG has been carrying out large-scale
relocations as much for improvement of the residents' housing conditions as
for associated public works, and accordingly, has established organizational
and regulatory arrangements for rapid, equitable resettlement. To ensure
adequate resettlement of the 4,046 households affected by project works,
explicit support has been included in the project for resettlement. The
residents will move from several of the project sites, mainly in overcrowded
and unsanitary central city areas of mixed land use, to new, much larger and
fully equipped apartments in environmentally sound residential areas. They
therefore clearly welcome the move. The risk of economic disruption in urban
resettlement relates primarily to commuting. The replacement housing under
the project is on average 4 km away from the current housing, a distance most
residents find acceptable, and closer to the city's industrial belt where the
largest part of the city's labor force are employed. Further, unlike the
standard resettlement procedure in China, the relocating households will have
freedom to choose their new apartments from a large selection in six different



- 31 -
locations, to optimize their housing and locational choice. This freedom of
choice may break up neighborhoods more than the current system of
administrative assignment, moving an entire neighborhood to a new apartment
block. However, such dispersal would be according to the residents' ovwn
wishes and of immaterial consequence within the urban area.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.1         During negotiations assurances were obtained from TMG that it
will:
(a)   carry out the planning and management improvement action plan with
the assistance of qualified consultants and according to plans and
schedules satisfactory to the Association (para 3.6);
(b)   develop a plan for solid waste treatment and disposal system
improvement with the assistance of qualified consultants and
according to terms of reference satisfactory to the Association by
December 31, 1994, and implement the first phase of the plan in a
manner and a schedule acceptable to the Association (para 3.9);
(c)   establish and maintain the Fund for Industrial Pollution Control
as an autonomous entity with a charter, organization, staffing,
operating and financing procedures satisfactory to the Association
(para 3.11);
(d)   carry out a study of public transport policy and management with
the assistance of qualified consultants and according to the terms
of reference satisfactory to the Association by December 31, 1995,
and implement the recommendations in a manner and according to a
timetabile acceptable to the Association (para 3.13);
(e)   pass on a part of the credit proceeds to PTC for the purposes of
carrying out the project (para 3.13);
(f)   carry out the resettlement of the households under the project
according to standards, procedures, schedules, and voucher
regulations satisfactory to the Association (para 3.16);
(g) make available a part of the credit proceeds to the Fund for
Industrial Pollution Control on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Association (para 4.2);
(h)   carry out steps to improve the finances and management of the
sewerage operations as agreed with the Association (paras 4.6, 4.7
and 4.8);
(i)   cause PTC to carry out necessary steps to improve   s finances as
agreed with the Association (para 4.11);



- 32 -
(j)   review the financial statements and projections of PTC, the
Drainage Division, and the Fund and submit the same to the
Association along with its comments within six months after the
end of each fiscal year (paras 4.12, 4.13, and 4.14);
(k)   maintain the Project Leading Group and the Planning and Management
Improvement Leading Group with functions and composition
satisfactory to the Association, and the Project Management Office
and the Planning and Management Improvement Office with functions,
staffing, and facilities satisfactory to the Association (paras
5.2 and 5.3);
(1)   provide the Association, within six months of each fiscal year,
audit reports on the project account, the Special Account,
expenditures, statements of expenditures, and the financial
statements of PTC, the Drainage Division, and the Fund for
Industrial Pollution Control, prepared by auditors acceptable to
the Association (para 5.13); and
(m)  will furnish the Association with quarterly project progress
report containing project information required by the Association
within six weeks after the end of each quarter (para 5.14).
7.2         An understanding was reached with TMG on measures to prevent any
structures or signs from being erected or placed in the road intersections
that may in any way impair the effectiveness of the traffic improvement
measures carried out under the project (para 6.10).
7.3         The conditions of credit effectiveness will be: that the Fund for
Industrial Pollution Control be established, with a charter, operating and
lending regulations, and staffing satisfactory to the Association; that a
subsidiary loan agreement, satisfactory to the Association, between TMG and
the Fund for implementation of the industrial pollution control component be
executed; and that a contract, satisfactory to the Association, be signed
between the Fund and PCBC for necessary technical services (para 5.4).
7.4         With the above agreements and conditions, the project would
provide a suitable basis for an IDA credit of SDR 73.3 million, equivalent to
US$100 million, to the People's Republic of China. The credit would be on
standard terms, with a 35-year maturity.



Annex 1
- 33 -                                page 1
CHINA
TIANJIN URBAN DEVELOPMENT AND ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
Infrastructure Planning and Management Improvement
Action Plan
I. Background: Current Status and Issues
1.          Organizational Structure.  Tianjin Municipal Government (TMG)
carries out its functions through two types of organizational units: sectoral
Bureaus of which there is a large number, and 15 Commissions charged with
policy level oversight and coordination across several sectors. The Bureaus
plan and carry out municipal programs in particular sectors through
constituent Divisions or through public enterprises. For example, Divisions
under the Municipal Engineering Bureau (MEB) build and operate roads and
drainage operations, and those under the Public Utilities Bureau (PUB)
supervise the Water Supply and Public Transport Companies. The Urban and
Rural Construction Commission (URCC) coordinates policies, programs and
budgets of these and 12 other Bureaus responsible for infrastructure and
environment sectors. URCC itself is organized into functional Divisions,
including the Comprehensive Planning Division (CPD) which coordinates
investment programs and the Construction and Transportation Management
Division (CTMD) which authorizes O&M expenditures.
2.          Many semi-autonomous technical institutions are affiliated with
TMG units. For example, the Tianjin Municipal Engineering Survey and Design
Institute (MESDI) acts as the in-house consultant for MEB, and the Urban
Planning Institute (UPI) for the Planning Bureau. A college-level teaching
institution, the Tianjin Urban Construction Institute (TUCI), is affiliated
with URCC.
3.          The Finance Bureau (TFB) and the Planning Commission (TPC) are
responsible for consolidation of TMG's overall annual budgets and the longer-
term (5 and 10-year) investment plans, respectively, subject to approval by
the Tianjin People's Congress. TFB also supervises financial management of
revenue earning public services. However, the main authority for project
approval and resource allocation among infrastructure sectors has recently
devolved to URCC. The Bureaus and URCC supervise budget implementation. The
People's Construction Bank of China and the Industry and Commerce Bank of
China monitor financial progress and disburses funds, for investment and O&M
respectively, under the supervision of TFB. The County and District
governments of the Tianjin Municipality have similar organizations as TMG,
reporting to corresponding departments of TMG. They exercise limited autonomy
mainly over recurrent expenditures.
4.          Planning and Budgeting Framework.  In all manners of planning, TMG
relies more on aggregate supply norms than consideration of actual needs and
constraints. In allocating annual budgets, TMG gives priority to operation
and maintenance, then on-going investment projects and those in the Five-Year
Plan, and the rest. The O&M programs are determined mainly on the basis of
asset (historical) values, national guidelines for maintenance intervals and
for input combination, with little regard to actual conditions and usage.



- 34 -                            Annex 1
page 2
Active monitoring and evaluation could allow differentiation of types and
schedules of maintenance and thereby increase efficiency of O&M operations.
5.          For investment planning, the master plan and the Five-Year Plan
serve as the statutory references. The unique historical background of
Tianjin's infrastructure, disjointed development during the colonial era and
its destruction by the 1976 earthquake, gave strong motivation for planned
reconstruction. The master plan, completed in early 1980s, has helped ensure
consistency among infrastructure investments. However, it presents static
blueprints that are not affordable nor relevant to the city's actual land use
and needs. They therefore provide TMG with .it best ambiguous and often
irrelevant guidance for selection and design of infrastructure investment.
The Five-Year Plans present coordinated sectoral development programs and
thereby add more specific guidance for resource allocation for the medium-
term. However, derived from the static master plans and fixed through the
plan periods, they suffer from similar limitations as the master plan.
6.          Investment projects follow elaborate procedures: proposal,
identification, pre-feasibility study, feasibility study, preliminary design,
final design, bidding, implementation and supervision, and acceptance. Each
step is carried out by sector Bureaus, subject to review and approval by URCC,
TFB, TPC, and the People's Construction Bank of China (PCBC). The procedures,
however, suffer from ambiguous definition of information requirement and
responsibilities of various reviewers. Accounts and design reports follow a
small number of formats that are often uniform across many different types of
activities and therefore provide unfocused or irrelevant details. Summary and
exception reports are not systematically used. The procedural opaqueness
reinforces the tendency to rely on static yet clear plans and norms.
7.          The reliance on the static plans and engineering standards amounts
effectively to an unbalanced least-cost strategy where results are measured in
terms of aggregate volume of assets than specific benefits. It would not be
productive, however, to attempt to produce a new, detailed master plan and use
them for more than a general reference framework. Instead TMG needs to
develop flexible strategies and criteria to determine timing, location, and
scale of expenditure programs in the light of actual needs and constraints.
This requires monitoring and analysis of urban development and implementation
and using them for planning and evaluation of specific actions. This will
also require clear definition of what information needs to be reviewed, how,
and by whom, in line with the recent decentralization and incorporating many
sound rules of thumb and informal procedures now employed by TMG managers to
better respond to current needs.
II. Objectives and Scopes of Improvement
8.          As the central component of the project, TMG will improve its
infrastructure planning and management systems consisting of procedures and
techniques for: planning and evaluation of projects; programming and budgeting
for infrastructure sectors; management and monitoring of budgetary
implementation; and monitoring of urban development. Section III below
describe the plans to improve these closely inter-related systems. Improving
each system will entail enrichment of relevant information and analysis, but



Annex 1
page 3
at the same time streamlining reporting and decision making. This will
require the following:
(a)   a management information system (MIS) including databases,
accounts, and indicators of performance and status; policies for
data input, storage, and access; information requirement and
formats at different levels emphasizing the use of summary and
exception reports;
(b)   analytical and forecasting tools including quantitative and
qualitative methods, decision criteria, common parameters,
computer software, and graphics to analyze trends and check
assumptions;
(c)   written procedures and manu.ls specifying: clear assignment of
responsibility, flow charts illustrating key processes, their
deadlines, and forms that provide the information needed for
consistent decisions;
(d)   staffing plan including definition of skill requirement and
training programs and manuals;
(e)   implementation plan including detailed schedules, budget, training
requirements;
(f)   plans to further refine and enrich the system improvement,
including criteria and methods for system performance review; and
(g)   recommendations for appropriate organizational and statutory
changes, although most of the improved systems should be
applicable within the existing broad frameworks.
9.          Organizational Scope.  URCC will be the focus of the component.
Its Comprehensive Planning Division (CPD) and Construction and Transportation
Management Division (CTMD) will lead development and be the main users of
investment and O&M management systems, respectively. The improvements will
involve part of the budgeting and financial management staff of TFB and the
Urban and Rural Construction and Transportation Division (UCTD) of TPC.
URCC's Planning and Design Division and Science and Tech-nology Division will
coordinate technical aspects of GIS and MIS development. URCC's Education
Division will coordinate all training activities under the project and lead
the effort to develop capacity for continuing training, especially at TUCI.
The Urban Planning Bureau will host the main part of the GIS systems. MEB and
its Drainage and Roads Divisions and MESDI will be the main users of systems
developed for Bureau and implementing agency levels, and they will undertake
most of the development efforts. These developments will provide the
consistent framework for and supplement the similar efforts for the Public
Transport Company (PTC) and its supervising Bureau, PUB, to be conducted under
the public transit study and bus maintenance garage component.



- 36 -                              Annex 1
page 4
III. Component Systems
10.         Planning and Evaluation.  URCC will develop improved framework for
planning and evaluation of investment and O&M expenditure programs. MEB and
MESDI will be responsible for necessary technical improvement, in close
consultation with Roads and Drainage Divisions and PTC. Evaluation goals at
each planning step will be clearly defined, particularly to improve screening
of expenditure programs at early stages of planning within the strategic
contexts of demand and overall infrastructure development. This will require
the following:
Expenditure Estimation system, including standard cost formats and
estimating guidelines appropriate for different stages of preparation of
investment and O&M plans, and consistent across sectors. The costs
would be shown by component activity to allow comparison of alternatives
and by input requirement such as labor, materials, foreign exchange,
etc. to allow sensitivity analysis. Common cost parameters would be
derived from market and implementation data, including physical and
price contingencies at different stages of design. Consistent methods
will be applied for estimating project life and operating costs.
Benefit Evaluation system, utilizing simple measures of benefits
reflecting urban development trends and demand indicators, and simple
techniques to analyze cost-benefit or cost-effectiveness and
sensitivity. Marginal analysis by component, rather than by aggregate
operation, will be used for comparison of alternatives. Risks will be
identified and evaluated especially for new technologies. Quantitative
rating system will be developed to rank priorities for similar
activities, and more heuristic rules to rank dissimilar activities.
Fiscal impact analysis will be introduced for evaluating broad urban
development programs.
Strategic Planning, to set criteria and context for identification and
selection of projects, ensuring that expenditure programs complement
each other as much as possible and meet strategic needs. Examples of
strategic criteria would include targets for meeting basic needs,
equitable distribution of services across areas, and reasonable planning
horizons. As part of the multi-year budgeting cycle, URCC would set
strategic plan and criteria for the infrastructure sectors as a whole in
consultation with TPC and TFB, and the Bureaus will set those for their
respective sectors.
11.         Budgeting System.  For more timely and systematic planning and
control of expenditures and revenues, URCC and TFB will develop a budgeting
system for infrastructure sectors as a whole. MEB and PUB will develop
programming and budgeting systems for roads, drainage, and bus operations as
elements of the infrastructure budget. The systems would include entire
aspects of infrastructure investment and O&M including the extra-budgetary
revenues and expenditures. The budget manual should clearly define: budget
policy; budget procedures specifying processing calendar and responsibilities
for drafting, review and coordination of budgets; budget formats specifying
minimum necessary information required for budgetary planning and monitoring.
The system will include the following inputs to annual budgeting.



Annex I
- 37 -                               page 5
Revenue Tracking and Forecasting systems at TMG, URCC, and implementing
agency levels, as a basic input for budgeting and control. Thej will
cover annual as well as multi-year budgeting cycles, updated quarterly
and annually, respectively. Revenue reports should clearly show
variance of actual billing and collection from projections. Simple
models will be developed to project revenue yield on the basis of key
variables such as business activities for which data are available or
experienced staff can make informed judgement. Different assumptions
could then be used to consider altern.tives. It will be essential to
integrate information from TPC and TFB.
Operational Programming system to coordinate scales and schedules of
works within each sector over a medium- to long-term. The sector
Bureaus will develop multi-year operational programs consisting of
investment plans and O&M schedule, taking into consideration not only
their priorities based on benefit measures but also their inter-
relationships. It would require analysis of regular O&M needs and
identification or pre-feasibility level studies of a large number of
investment projects instead of the linear progression from
identification to implementation.
Multi-Year Budgets, as a background for project preparation and for
annual budgeting. They will balance multi-year revenue forecasts and
sector operational programmes. The budgeting horizon, between 3 and 7
years, will be determined after planning and programming systems
development. The budget will be rolled each year, dropping a year and
adding another. Simple techniques of fiscal impact analysis will be
developed for expenditure and revenue forecast, especially for sectors
without medium-term sector programs.
12.         Implementation Management and Monitoring.  MEB and PUB, in
consultation with URCC and TFB, will improve systems to monitor and control
financial and physical progress of expenditure programs, to anticipate and
make necessary adjustments, and to evaluate the results as follows:
Proiect Management tools, including techniques to optimize scheduling,
deployment of staff, equipment and materials in carrying out expenditure
programs. Analytical techniques such as CPM and PERT will be introduced
and adapted for wide use. Value management tools will be developed.
Clear proccas indicators will be developed. Improved work order and
acceptance systems could allow better planning and control.
Progress reporting and supervision system, to he') managers understand
the extent and nature of variance between actual and planned progress in
terms of financial and physical indicators. The system would allow
staff of supervising agencies to analyze variances and recommend
corrective actions, including budgetary adjustments. The reporting
formats should be consistent with that required in planning and
budgeting. This will involve developing clear summary accounts that are
compatible with but not identical to statutory accounting systems, and
that include adequate funds flow statements.



Annex 1
- 38 -                               page 6
Cost accountina system, supplementing the statutory accounts to improve
cost control, analysis of cost trends, and cost estimates in future
planning and budgeting. For the latter two purposes, URCC would
establish a system to monitor market trends of common cost items as part
of its procurement function. The costs can be analyzed for particular
facilities as well as types of activities. The system will also
identify foreign exchange payments and use of equipment.
13.         Urban Monitoring.  To identify and forecast demand and supply of
infrastructure services in different parts of the city, TMG will develop a set
of geographical information systems (GIS) as follows:
Infrastructure monitoring systems, developed and maintained primarily by
implementing agencies to monitor and analyze usage, operational
performance and O&M records of facilities. These should provide
adequate bases for evaluating goals and results of O&M and investment
programs, and for their improved design and diagnosis.
Urban development monitorina system. developed and maintained by URCC
and the Urban Planning Bureau to identify and forecast overall socio-
economic and physical development patterns and trends. These should in
turn allow the managers to identify particular problem areas, to
evaluate project benefits within a broad context, and identify projects
that need coordination. For these purposes, TMG will establish
extensive use of graphics and indicators and develop simple versions of
analytical tools such as regression analysis, fiscal impact analysis and
trend surface analysis. The data base will include: population
characteristics, social facilities and services such as schools and
clinics, industrial and commercial facilities, housing by type, land use
by category (with more detailed classification of industrial and
institutional uses than now standard), and a summary of infrastructure
and their service levels and planned investment projects. The data will
be collected from concerned Bureaus, but some data may be collected
directly through sample surveys.
Data Format. The information would be at such levels of detail that are
directly useful for operational or planning purposes. The basic areal
unit for the urban development monitoring will be subdistrict and, in
the case of suburbs, appropriate data polygon. Some, such as housing
and population data, would be collected by street committee level. Data
such as health statistics will be by District level. The unit of
analysis for infrastructure such as roads and bus operations would be in
accordance to operational requirements of sectors. Such units, as road
segments, would be made common across sectors as much as possible.
These areal units will be referenced further by a city-wide grid system
(centroids). Base maps and land use maps for strategic planning will be
digitized at the scale of 1:10,000 and maps for policy analysis will be
prepared at 1:50,000. For infrastructure design and management, maps
will be prepared at 1:500.



Annex 1
- 39-                                page 7
IV. ImDlementation Arrangements
14.         Leading Group.  TMG has established the Planning and Management
Improvement Leading Group to coordinate implementation of the component. The
Chief Engineer, URCC chairs the Leading Group, which also includes a Deputy
Director of URCC, Chief Economist of the Finance Bureau, and Directors of
involved URCC Divisions as well as the Infrastructure Division of TPC. TMG
will establish, by the time of effectiveness, a full-time office consisting of
specialists in finance, management, municipal engineering, and systems
analysis to support the Leading Group. In addition, the Leading group will
establish task forces each chaired by a member of the Leading Group and
comprising staff members of the agencies involved in various aspects of the
component to manage systems development. A panel of local experts will assist
the task forces on technical matters.
15.         Experts and Consultants.  The component would require about 460
person-months of consultant services for systems development, evaluation, and
training (see Table Al.1). In addition, after the systems development under
the project, TMG will continue to need consultants to assist specialists
trained under the component to operate, expand and further develop the
systems. It is uelikely that a single consultant firm or a joint team of a
few under a single TOR could provide cost-effective assistance, primarily
because the nature of the component requires that consultant job definitions
should evolve as TMG reviews and defines its needs over the course of the
implementation. The large and continuing need of expert assistance suggests
that TMG would be best served by experts and consultants based in Tianjin or
nearby. TMG has designated the Tianjin Urban Construction Institute (TUCI) as
the lead in-house agency for training and MIS; the Urban Planning Institute
and the Survey and Mapping Institute for GIS and urban development monitoring;
and MESDI for operations monitoring, planning and management. TMG, with the
help of the Chief Advisor (see below) and the expert panel, will recruit other
local and international consultants to assist and train specialist staff and
the above institutes. International consultants will be primarily recruited
as a single firm; but a few may be recruited individually. Their main
responsibilities will be to introduce a range of techniques and options in
specific subject areas and provide hands-on assistance and training for the
local counterpart, consisting of local consultants and specialist TMG staff,
in systems review and development.
16.         Chief Advisor.  TMG will recruit an international expert as Chief
Advisor for the Leading Group to provide core technical assistance, lead the
panel of experts, and help manage other consultants (draft terms of reference
is attached to this Annex). He or she would have an advanced degree in fields
relevant to core specialties (see Table A.1) and more than 15 years' of broad
experience in urban management, and preferably some familiarity with the
Chinese language and large-scale computer applications. The Chief Advisor
will be recruited within six months after the start of the project and help
the Leading Group define detailed work schedules, including further consultant
needs. He or she will be resident in Tianjin for an average of six months
during each of the four implementation phases.



Annex 1
40 -                               page 8
Table A.1   Consultant Input by Specialty
----------------------------------------------------------------__--
Specialty*                        Foreign        Local
(person-month)
Financial Accounting and Management 12           50
Programming/Budgetitg                8           30
Urban/Engineering Economics          8           30
Construction/Operations Management   8           35
MIS/Manual/Computerization            7          50
GIS/CAD                              6           45
Urban Planning                       3           30
Sanitary Engineering                 3           35
Roads Engineering                    3           35
Organization/Training                4           30
Management Assistance **       4           25
66         395
* An expert may combine expertise spanning more than one specialty
as classified here; on the other hand, more than one expert may be
required under one specialty.
** Most of the foreign input for management assistance is
accounted for by the Chief Advisor, who will also provide 20
months of technical assistance in his or her specialties.
17.         Trainina.  The component will involve about 5,500 staff-weeks of
training in various topics and at various levels. The Leading Group has
established a Training Task Force, led by the Education Division of URCC, to
manage training activities under the component as well as coordinate all other
training activities under the project. More than a third of the training
under the component will be in the form of in-house workshops, instructions,
and on-the-job training conducted by local and international experts
participating in systems review and development, including advanced
specialists of TMG itself. Most of the staff in the participating units will
also receive training in basic skills such as computer use and writing. TUCI
will provide technical services and facilities for organization of in-house
training. Formal studies and tours will also be provided, particularly to
strengthen abilities of TMG specialists for systems development works during
and after the project. Managers and specialists will undertake observation
tours within China and overseas mainly before the start of each phase to
improve their planning and management of systems development works. TMG will
recruit an international specialist in organization and training to help
design the continuing training programs. Annex 2 outlines the management
principles and indicative plans for the training programs of the entire
project, including details of training under this component.
18.         Computer use will be developed and expanded gradually.  Although
it will be essential to tasks involving large amounts of data, all systems
should in theory be applicable manually. Most computer applications would be
based on micro-computers and software available off the shelf. Data files
would be on diskettes. Large-scale integration using mini-computers and
possibly local area networks would not begin until the third year of



- 41-                                page 9
implementation. The computing equipment would include about 250 micro
computers, 5 work stations or mini-computers, and peripherals.
19.         Costs of the component, in end 1991 prices, are summarized in
Table A1.2 below.
Table A1.2        Planning and Management Improvement
Estimated Base Costs
(Yuan million) *
Lccal        Foreign         Total
Consultants                        4.61**         5.40         10.01
Training                           1.20           2.55          3.75
Computers, Software                0.65           6.72          7.37
and Peripherals
Manuals and Forms                  0.60            -            0.60
Office and Equipment               2.73           0.65          3.38
Other Direct Costs                 0.15           0.15          0.30
TOTAL                              9.94          15.46         25.41
(US$4.66)
- at prices of end 1991. US$ - Yuan 5.45
** includes local consultant fees and local costs of foreign consultants
V. Implementation Schedule
20.         Implementation Phasing.  The systems will be developed in four
phases during project implementation, each lasting about a year to a year and
half, as below. Each phase will entail: diagnosis of existing systms
(lasting about two months); systems development (about three months); and
training and application (about six months). The next phase will start with
evaluation and modification of the systems developed in the preceding phase as
part of the existing system (the schedule chart on page 11 of this Annex).
21.         Preliminary works are now under progress.  TMG is compiling basic
urban development data and detailed descriptions of current budgeting and
monitoring systems. Current system diagnosis covers procedures, reports, data
requirements, data flow, decision points, and computer capabilities. In
addition, TMG is also identifying Chinese experts to serve as advisors during
the project implementation. These tasks are expected to be completed by early
1992. Within the first six months after the project becomes effective, TMG
will recruit a Chief Advisor to assist implementation of the component. With
assistance of the Chief Advisor, TMG will finalize the diagnostic reviews,
design a detailed plan for systems development. Most of the data for urban
development monitoring will be compiled in the form of computer files. Within



Annex I
- 42 -                              page 10
15 months of the project start, TMG will recruit and mobilize the consultants.
In the early months after the project start, senior managers leading the
component will conduct an observation tour to identify the most attractive and
feasible areas of planning and management improvement. Training in this phase
will also include basic computer literacy training for a large number of
involved staff, basic training of selected specialist staff in GIS,
quantitative analysis, project evaluation, and accounting.
22.         Phase I.  During the second phase, TMG will concentrate on
establishing or improving: progress (physical and financial) reporting system;
revenue tracking at implementing agencies; project management tools; cost and
benefit estimation; project proposal and review formats; use of indicators,
summary, and exception reports; GIS framework and basic indicators for urban
development and infrastructure operations. THG will begin to use these tools
on capital and O&M programs for drainage, roads, and public bus systems.
23.         Phase II.  In the third year, TMG will review the application
experience of the phase II improvements and further improve or modify them as
appropriate. In addition, TMG will improve or establish: cost accounting;
implementation monitoring system; operational programming; revenue tracking
and forecasting at all levels; strategic planning; budgeting manual, including
budget adjustment procedures; annual budgeting at implementing agency and
bureau levels; analytical techniques for urban development monitoring,
including fiscal impact analysis.
24.         Phase IV.  During the fourth phase, TMG will review the experience
with the phase II and III improvements and further improve or modify them.
Also it will establish a multi-year infrastructure budget and incorporate it
in TMG's annual budget; finalize and implement organizational changes that are
necessary; and modify improvements based on operating experiences to form a
consistent overall system. At this time, TMG will also prepare final versions
of operating manuals.
25.         The World Bank will review and comment on: selection of Chief
Advisor; draft structure and development plan for overall systems, including
the final TOR, based on this Action Plan, and the plan to recruit other
consultants (during the preliminary phase); proposals for the next phase of
systems development (at the end of each phase); cost-benefit evaluation and
revenue tracking application examples (by the end of phase I); sector
strategies and operation programs for drainage, roads, and public transport
(by the end of phase II); and multi-year infrastructure budget and
organizational development plan (by the end of phase III).



Annex I
-43                                  page 11
Planning and Management Improvement
Implementation Schedule
Month                                    i_Consultant Action and person-months
Pha        tiv                    Chief Advisor     Local
1   Preli-    Compile Data               (Earlier Recruitment
2   minary    and                           Actions)
3             Diagnose                       Contract     5.0
4              Systems                                    5.0
5                                                         5.0
6                                                1.0      7.0
7             Detail Plan for                    1.0      7.0
8              Implementation                    1.0      7.0
9                                                1.0  Terms of Reference
10             Further data                           Invitation for Bid
11              Compilation                                5.0
12             and Review                                  5.0
13                          .                     0.5    Evaluate
14                                                1.0    Negotiate
15      .                 .                       1.0      7.0
16   Phase I   System Design                      1.0     10.0          3.0
17                                                1.0     14.0          4.0
18                        *                       1.0     15.0          4.0
19                        .                       1.0     14.0          3.0
20             Training and                       1.0     10.0
21             Implementation                              5.0
22                        335.0
23                                                         5.0
24                                                         5.0
25                        ." .5.0
26             Evaluation                                  5.0
27                        ..                      0.5      6.0
28   Phase II   System Design                     1.0     11.0          3.0
29              and Redesign                      1.0     15.0          4.0
30                        "                       1.0     16.0          4.0
31                        .                       1.0     15.0          3.0
32             Training and                       0.5     10.0
33             Implementation                              6.0
34                                                         6.0
35                        .                                6.0
36                        336.0
37                        .3 "6.0
38             Evaluation                                  6.0
39                                                         6.0
40                        ..                      1.0      8.0
41   Phase III  System Design                     1.0     12.0          3.0
42              and Redesign                      1.0     16.0          4.0
43                        3                       1.0     17.0          4.0
44                        ..                      1.0     16.0          3.0
45             Training and                       0.5     11.0
46             Implementation                              7.0
47                        U'7.0
48                                                         7.0
49                        '                                7.0
50                        .                                7.0
51             Evaluation and                              7.0
52               Synthesis                        1.0      9.0
53                         "                      1.0      9.0



Annex 1
- 44 -                              page 12
Draft Terme of Reference
for the Chief Advisor
1.          Introduction.  Tianjin Municipal Government (TMG) will carry out
various technical assistance and training activities to improve the planning
and management system for infrastructure sectors according to the Improvement
Action Plan attached herein, as a central component of the Tianjin Urban
Development and Environment Project partly financed by the World Bank Group.
The Urban and Rural Construction Co mission (URCC), responsible for the
component, has established the Leading Group for Planning and Management
Improvement (PAMILG) and a full-time office supporting the Leading Group to
lead and manage the effort as described in para 13 of the Action Plan.
2.          General Description of Duties.  Your duty as the Chief Technical
Advisor is to assist TMG carry out the component by:
(a)   providing about 20 months of technical assistance in your areas of
specialization;
(b)   assisting PAMILG in identifying priority areas of improvement,
planning studies and training, reviewing the improvement
activities;
(c)   assisting PAMILG in recruiting and managing local and particularly
foreign consultants;
(d)   taking primary responsibiiity for preparing planning and progress
reports on the component and liaising with the World Bank; and
(e)   provide other assistance reasonably requested by PAMILG from time
to time.
3.          Specific Duties during the Preliminary Phase.  During your first
two visits in Tianjin, you should:
(a)   review the diagnostic data compiled of the procedures and methods
used in infrastructure planning, budgeting and management in
various departments of TMG and help PAMILG identify priority areas
of improvement which may or may not be the same as those
identified in the Action Plan;
(b)   evaluate the level of expertise available within TMG, its
affiliated institutes, and the panel of local experts;
(c)   based on the above reviews, formulate a detailed draft action plan
specifying, among others, sequences of actions, local and foreign
expertise required, and ways to organize staff and consultants;
(d)   based on the Action Plan agreed between TMG and the World Bank,
draft a set of detailed terms of reference for consultant services
clearly setting out specific responsibilities of various groups of
staff and consultants; and



Annex 1
- 45 -                              page 13
(e)   assist PAMILC in drawing a short list(s) of consultants, inviting
and evaluating their proposals, and negotiating with the selected
consultant(s).
4.          Specific Duties during Implementation Phases.  During the ensuing
phases, you should:
(a)   lead the final stage of review and evaluation of the experience of
the preceding phase, identify areas requiring substantial
modification with the assistance of international experts, and
prepare a detailed program for the upcoming systems design works;
(b)   lead the team of consultants in designing and redesigning the
systems and preparing training and operating manuals; and
(c)   at the end of the design stage, consolidate and if necessary
modify consultant recommendations, assist PAMILG start training in
and implementation of the improved systems, and advise PAMILG on
the appropriate focus and venues of observation tours by senior
managers and professionals in China and overseas in preparation of
the ensuing phase.
5.          At the end of Phase III, you should help PAMILG in: preparing a
summary evaluation of the project experience; start finalizing a set of
operating and :aining manuals; and making recommendations to TMG for
arrangements for long-term implementation and continued improvement of the
systems, including any organizational changes.
6.          You should work closely with the chairman of PAMILG and other
officials designated by him as your counterpart. You are required to work
about 24 months over a period of about four years, subject to review of need
and performance after the second year. Your duty station will be in Tianjin
unless specifically requested in writing by URCC to perform certain tasks in
other locations. TMG will provide you with an office located along with other
PAMILG offices, and if you desire, help arrange housing in Tianjin. TMG will
also provide five round trips from your normal residence to Tianjin. For
conduct of your duties, TMG will provide you with necessary equipment and
furnishing; at least one professional assistant; a personal assistant; and
transportation within the city.



Annex 2
46 -                               page 1
CHINA
TIANJIN URBAN DEVELOPMENT AND ENVItONMENT PROJECT
TRAINING PROGRAMS
1.          Introduction.  This Annex describes the general principles for
design and management of all training activities under the project. The
contents and scopes of spe_'fic training activities are described in
respective Annexes of this report.
2.          Obiectives of Traininz. Each training activity under the project
would have one or more of the following objectives:
a.    To enable TMG staff to understand and apply improved s7stems or
new equipment under the project;
b.    To help TMG managers to guide the design or procurement and
evaluation of systems development under the project; and
C.    To establish or strengthen local research and training capability
so as to sustain and enhance the improvements introduced.
3.          Scopes and Participants.  All staff of the units involved in
planning and management component and senior TMG managers overseeing them will
receive most of the training under the project. Some of the technical
assistance and training under the project are not directly related to this
component but more narrowly aimed at technical and management improvements in
sectoral bureaus and other agencies involved in the project.  These sector
training activities are discussed in respective annexes of this report.
However, all the training activities would follow the same general objectives
and principles described in this section.
4.          Types of Training and Trainees.  It would be important that
levels, methods and goals of training programs suit different needs of
trainees. Training activities can be classified as follows according to the
levels of training required for different users.
Introductory Trainina to enable general users and managers to understand
and use basic features of new techniques and procedures;
Intermediate or Specialist Training to enable a limited number of
operators or specialists who carry out the specific tasks concerned as
major part of their daily work to use the new systems to full extent;
Advanced Traininx to enable advanced specialists to train others through
workshops and on-the-job training, solve complex technical problems,
manage technical functions, and modify and update the systems with
limited help; and
Observation and Seminars to enable specialists, managers and policy
makers learn of different practices and techniques used elsewhere, and
to help them set directions for systems improvement.



Annex 2
- 47 -                               page 2
5.          Venues and Methods of training activities will be chosen on the
basis of cost-effectiveness of alternatives in achieving training goals.
Consideration of cost and the goal of strengthening local training capacity
leads to strong preference for institutions closer to TMG, i.e., in-house
specialist institutes, Tianjin Urban Construction Institute, and other local
research and education institutions in Tianjin, and then elsewhere in China.
These considerations, however, slould be balanced against the level of
expertise available from different sources. Types and venues of training
would be matched with types of training as follows.
In-house Trainint. Seminars, workshops, and on-the-job training should
be the main mode of training, especially for introductory and
intermediate level training. It will be conducted by staff, in-house
institutes, or consultants of TMG. Introductory training sessions would
normally not exceed one full week. The operators and specialists will
generally participate in the same introductory training and then proceed
to learn more details of the new system through intensive training for
two or three weeks and on-the-job training. Most of these training
would be provided by specialist staff or local consultants. For areas
in which expertise is not available locally, foreign experts will be
invited to provide training for, or in conjunction with, local experts.
Foreign consultants who participate in studies under the project will be
required to train the local counterpart experts in advanced techniques
and the newly proposed systems. Equipment vendors will also be required
to provide minimum necessary training for operation as part of the
supply contracts. In general foreign specialists will train a group of
senior specialists and local consultants, who will in turn train a large
number of other specialists and operators.
Formal Training in academic or training institutes or on-the-job
training in sector agencies would be a cost-effective means for training
in well-established basic and technical skill areas. These would
include introductory training in most of general skills such as computer
use, writing, and quantitative methods. Introductory level training
would typically be a quarter or semester course, a full-time equivalent
of about two to four weeks. Operators and advanced specialists would
take courses in established disciplines such as statistics, sanitary
engineering and accounting, in order to prepare themselves for work with
outside experts or to acquire broad knowledge of the related disciplines
to fully understand and develop systems developed by experts. While
institutions in Tianjin offer satisfactory courses in many of these
skill areas, TMG has identified several institutions elsewhere in China
that offer training in specialized areas including, for example, the
Chinese Academy of Science and Wuhan University of Survey and Mapping
for GIS, and Tongji University in Shanghai for computer aided design and
project evaluation.
Formal Trainina Overseas would be cost-effective for training of a
limited number of advanced specialists in several related areas for
which up-to-date expertise is not available locally. On the other hand,
inviting foreign consultants would be more cost-effective for narrow,
operational training of a substantial number of specialists and
operators. For example, foreign consultants who help develop an



Annex 2
-48 -                                 page 3
improved financial management system would train TMG specialists to
adequately understand and operate the system. However, it would not be
cost-effective for TMG to retain the consultants to train the staff in
all underlying principles and alternatives. In order to develop their
independent capacity to extend the benefit of the consultants' work for
fucure needs, TMG will select a limited number of senior specialists to
be trained in training institutions or in sector agencies overseas for
three months to two years. For overseas training to be cost-effective,
the trainees need to have stubstantial academic background and experience
as well as adequate language capability.
Study tours and seminars in other cities in China or overseas where
different systems and techniques are used would help spe-ialists and
managers to familiarize themselves with existing options and observe
their usefulness first hand. Some managers and specialists will conduct
the study tours before starting related studies or equipment procurement
process so that they can better manage them. A typical study tour would
consist of five to ten managers and specialists responsible for several
different areas of TMG operatiuns and would last two or three weeks.
6.          Coordination of Training.  As most training will be related to the
planning and management component directly or indirectly, all training
activities, including sector technical training, will be coordinated and
managed by tbe Planning and Management Leading Group, supported by the
Education Department of the Construction Commission. An international expert
in training will participate in Phase II of the planning and management
systems development to design overall structure of training and possibly in
later phases for review and redesign, if necessary. A tentative training
program for the project is summarized in Table A2.1. Training contents are
described in respective sector Annexes.
7.          Costs.  Total RaPA- Cost- ef varic's trainin&- aciv.Le  under the'
project is estimated to be about Yuan 6 million including foreign exchange
cost of about US$800,000. Training under the planning and management
component accounts for more thar half of this total. Costs will vary greatly
accross training courses of ditferent topics and types: materials, facilities,
and preparation required in the case of in-house training, and according to
venue and course fees for formal training. The following Table lists the unit
costs used for budgeting estimates.



Annex 2
- 49 -                               page 4
Table A2.1                 Training by Topic and Type
Staff-Weeks and Costs
Venue          Tianjin    China, Other        Overseas    Total
and           -------    ------------        --------    -----
Type         In-   Other  Formal Tour/  Formal Tour/  Staff  Cost
Topic                House  _       Inst. Seminar Inst. Seminar weeks YIOOO
----------------Staff-Weeks -----------------
PLANNING AND MANAGEMENT
Planning and Evaluation       361    254    281      31      96           1023    533
Budgeting a Programing        335    205    189      21      90            840    462
Operations Management         397    315    248      27      96           1083    537
Dev./Oper. Monitoring         327    187    294      32      55            895    385
MIS and General Skills        520    385    272       30     60           1267    461
Managerial Overview          135                   195             102    432   1367
Subtotal             2075   1346   1283    336    397    102   j539   3745
SUB-SECTORAL TRAINING
Environmental Sanitation
Drainage and Sewerage
Industrial Waste Water        80     60      60     20      40       3    263    223
Drainage Design, O&M         120     80      60     20               3    283    102
Solid Waste Management
Collection                   200     60      60     15       0       3    338    107
Treatment ard Disposal       150     50      70     15      20       6    311    203
Subtotal              550    250    250       70     60      15   1195    635
Urban TransDort
Traffic Management            150     60      80     20      60      12    382    416
rubViiCt iransport             3Dv 3v-   ou           -      - 2   -      v o i-2 -
Roads: Design, O&M            100     40      60     20      20       3    243    156
Subtotal              500    150    200       60    100      27   1037    863
Pollution Control
Monitoring                    200     40      70     20       0       5    335    134
Applied Research              120     40    100      20      60       6    346    341
Project Evaluation            100     30      80     20       0       4    234    108
Subtotal               420    110    250       60     60      15    915    583
Total, Subsectors             1470    510    700    190    220        57   3147   2081
TOTAL. PROJECT                3545   1856   1983    526    617    159   8686   5826
(Unit cost, Yuan/week           150    200    350    500   3270  12260)
Note:        Staff-weeks are in full-time equivalents.
The costs are in prices as of February 1992, with Y5.45 = US$1.00; they
do not include consultant fees or contingencies.



Annex 3
- 50 -                                page 1
CHINA
TIANJIN URBAN DEVELOPIIENT AND ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
SURFACE WATER DRAINAGE AND SEWERAGE
Development Program
I. Sector Policy and Planninz Framework
1.          The Drainage Division of the Municipal Engineering Bureau develops
and manages the surface water drainage and sewerage facilities serving the
Tianjin urban area, according to the sector plan which forms a part of the
urban master plan finalized early last decade. The drainage and sewerage plan
is based on an earlier sector framework developed in the 1950s and is
periodically revised. According to the plan, the urban area is divided into
six drainage basins, sewage from which will be ultimately treated by six
secondary treatment plants, one of which is now in operation and one is under
construction. In the meanwhile, untreated sewage and industrial wastes are
discharged into two sewage canals, to the north and the south of the city,
which convey the wastes to the Bohai Sea. Surface water is discharged into
the Haihe River which traverses the metropolitan area and is a source of water
for agriculture and limited industrial use.
2.          The overall framework is sound and cost-effective; reportedly,
alternatives were thoroughly researched in the early feasibility stages of the
plan. Recent legislation provides for quality standards for industrial liquid
waste discharges, and the Environmental Protection Bureau monitors effluent
quantity and quality for all major industries (some 4,000) and imposes
penalties for excessive pollution.
3.          Design Standards.  Sanitary sewer capacities are based on the year
>vuGraceficonsiizpr1On patterns and-surfacde'water drai'ns ar`e designed on a one
year storm frequency determined from the long term records of Tianjin.
However, as the design approach used in Tianjin makes no allowance for
surcharging of pipes, the true return period is probably two or three years.
While this is still a short return period, it appears adequate und'er the semi-
arid conditions of Tianjin by providing cost-effective relief as to frequency
and duration of local flooding. The performance of the system in those areas
which have the surface water drains has proved satisfactory. The topography
of the area is flat, requiring the provision of pumping facilities for the
removal of surface water to the Haihe river during periods of heavier than
average rainfall. A drainage system designed to provide a higher level of
protection, for example a one-in-five year storm, would require about a 60%
increase in capacity of drains and pumping stations at a considerably
increased cost. The design and the selection of design parameters for both
the sewerage and drainage systems appear appropriate to the nature and level
of the overall planned development. Nevertheless, under the planning and
management component, TMG will develop an enhanced system of monitoring and
evaluating the drainage and sewerage performance, and use the system to review
the current design parameters.



Annex 3
- 51 -                                  page 2
II. Current Status
4.          All sewerage facilities constructed since 1959 have separated
surface water from domestic and industrial wastes. An older, combined system
serves a relatively smuali area at t;e city center. Tha development of
sewerage and drainage systems to serve the urban area has been impressive.
Some 1,716 km of trunk sewers and drains have been constructed comprising: 510
km of sanitary sewers, 633 km of storm drains, 560 km of combined sewers and
13 km of interceptors.  At present, about 110 km2 and 140 km2 of the developed
urban area, or about 47% and 60%, are served by surface water drainage and
sewerage facilities, respectively. Average total sewage flow in the system is
1.3 million m3 per day, 52% of which is from industries. In addition to the
sewage canals mentioned above, large flood diversion canals have also been
constructed. The main natural drainage course, the Haihe River, is now
controlled by lock gates and provides water storage for storm drainage. Since
the completion of the Luanhe River water supply system in 1984, the natural.
flow of the Haihe, originally the main source of water for Tianjin, has been
systematically reduced so that it now provides water only for agriculture and
some industrial use. This water contains elements of sewage when flows from
the old combined system exceed the capacity of the interceptors.
5.           Sewage treatment started recently, with the completion of the Ji
Zhuang Zhi secondary treatment plant in 1984, as the first of a series of six
planned to be built by year 2010. The plant serves a population of about one
million and produces 260,000 m3/day of treated effluent. The design
parameters are in line with normally accepted practices for a plant of this
size and the works' operations are generally well managed. Minor economy
measures, now under study, could further reduce operating costs and improve
the efficiency of the process. Reuse of the effluent and more effective use
of the digested sludge would be feasible with closer inspection and monitoring
of the systems.
III. Issu,' and Strategy for Development
6.           TMG, as a general rule, allocates expenditures first to ensure
adequate operation and maintenance (O&M) of existing infrastructure and then
to investment for system expansion. While TMG has greatly increased overall
expenditures for sewerage and drainage since the early 1980s, much of the
increase has been absorbed by the new development of sewage treatment
facilities and the O&M needs of the growing collection and treatment systems.
The increasingly severe water shortage is also raising the need to develop
systems to allow reuse of sewage effluent. In view of the increased demands
for resources, TMG in mid-1980s started collecting sewerage charges and
shifted the burden of sewerage and drainage system development by requiring
such systems to be included as part of all new land developments.
7.          This has enabled TMG to focus its efforts on providing drainage
and sewage collection facilities for older areas lacking or otherwise
deficient in services. Among such areas, priorities are based on need. For
example, priority for surface water drainage development is given to areas
where most frequent and severe flooding occurs or where protection of major
roads is necessary. For sewage collection, the highest priority is given to



Annex 3
- 52 -                                page 3
areas with the most serious environmental sanitation problems or with the
largest number of beneficiaries. These criteria for establishing development
priorities are generally acceptable. TMG is further improving the criteria
for project selection, design and evaluation through more effective
intersectoral coordination. For example, existing and planned land use as
well as frequency, depth and duration of flooding are closely examined in
evaluating costs and benefits of sewerage and drainage investments.
8.          Based on such criteria, TMG has formulated a phased program to
eliminate all the service-deficient areas and complete five sewage treatment
plants by year 2010, as follows:
Year        1991-97      1998-2010         Total
Surface Water Drainage
Number of Areas                8             11          19
Population, 1000             345           457          802
Cost, Yuan million           519           641         1161
Sewerage
Number of Areas                6             7           13
Population, 1000             280           407          687
Cost, Yuan million           190            114         416
Sewage Treatment Plants
Number of Plants               2             3            5
Cost, Yuan million                                      510
IV. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
9.          The project will support TMG to implement part of its phased
program to improve drainage and sewerage, by financing the following
improvements:
(a)   Jiefanglu:  Both sewerage and surface water drainage would be
provided for this area which has been developed primarily for
industrial use. Main sewers would discharge to a treatment plant
now under construction. Surface water drains would discharge to
the Haihe. The beneficiaries in this area are primarily
*indussrial enterprises, in addition to which some 500 residents
would benefit.
(b)   Bin Guan:  Surface water drainage would be provided under the
project, discharging to main drains previously constructed. A
sewerage network for the area has been completed. This area has
been developed primarily for tourist facilities and educational
institutions. The estimated number of heneficiaries is 50,700.
(c)   Yuevahe Drainate System:  The Yueyahe is a controlled natural
drainage channel, east of the Haihe, which conveys storm flows
from an area of some 2,900 ha to the Haihe during periods of
rainfall.  The drainage areas and the Yueyahe channel are below
the level of the Haihe during the wet season so that storm flows



Annex 3
- 53 -                                 page 4
must be pumped. Inadequate pumping capacity and flow restrictions
along the course of the channel cause extensive flooding of
residential areas and an industrial area, directly affecting a
population of some 38,000 and indirectly affecting the drainage
basin population or about vi,uvu.  Aetuedial works under vhe
project will increase pumping capacities and improve existing
drainage channels to reduce the frequency and duration of
flooding.
(d)   Nanweidihe and Feioiangzhe Drainage Systems:  The Nanweidihe and
Feiqiangzhe are controlled natural drainage channels, west of the
Haihe, which convey storm flows from areas of about 3,900 ha and
760 ha, respectively. The total population of both drainage
basins is about 1.2 million. Conditions in these drainage systems
are similar to those of the Yueyahe system in terms of the need
for pumping during the wet season, the inadequacy of pumping
systems, flow restrictions in the channels and the consequent
inundation of low-lying areas. In addition, sewage is discharged
to the surface water channels at about 60 locations. Remedial
measures under the project would relieve flooding, and extension
of the sewerage system to intercept sewage discharges would
prevent sewage flows from reaching the surface water channels. An
estimated 170,000 people would directly benefit from these
proposed improvements.
(e)   Yanzzhuangzhi:  This is an industrial area where industrial wastes
are now discharged to a surface water channel which is also used
for irrigation. Under the project, facilities would be provided
to collect industrial wastes and convey them to an existing sewage
canal thus preventing continued pollution of surface water
channels and streams. Direct beneficiaries of this sewerage
component include more than twenty industrial plants i-n thne-aea. 
Indirectly, a large part of the population would also benefit from
reduced pollution of water resources and crops.
(f)   Zhangxingzhuana:  This is an area of mixed development including
both industrial and residential land use. Parts of the area are
served with both drainage and sewerage facilities and both
services would be supplemented under the project. Facllities,
primarily drainage, would be provided for those areas with no
service. The estimated number of beneficiaries is 45,000.
10.       Technical Assistance and Training. The sewerage and drainage
operation is a major target area of the planning and management component
(Annex 1).  The component will, in particular, include improvements in the
following:
(a)   financial accounting and management of the Drainage Division,
especially the revenue and billing system (see SAR Chapter IV);
(b)   monitoring and analysis of the nature and economic costs of
flooding in different areas of the city, and the use of the



Annex 3
54 -                                 page 5
information in planning and evaluating operation, maintenance, and
investment;
(c)   planning maintenance and rehabilitation of sewer lines and pumps;
and
(d)   long-term operational programming, revising the plan described in
Section III above on the basis of improved economic and financial
evaluation.
11.       In addition to a large number of staff that will participate in
various levels of in-house training under the component, about fifteen staff
members will enroll in courses in construction management, computer aided
design, and finiancial management in specialist institutions in Tianjin or
elsewhere. Five or six senior managers of MEB, MESDI, and the Drainage
Division will partibipate in overseas study tours on planning and management.
12.       Besides the training under the planning and management component,
the Division and MESDI will carry out two programs to enhance its technical
capacity. First, to strengthen management of industrial waste water, the
Division and MESDI will provide: about 200 staff-weeks of training in China
for various levels of specialists and operators; an overseas study fellowship
for a senior specialist; and an opportunity for a manager to join an overseas
observation tour with a group of managers at EPB. For planning and management
of flood prevention and general sewerage operations, operators and specialists
will take various training courses of a total of about 280 staff-weeks. The
Division has also retained a firm of foreign consultants to review and advise
on design and contracting practices for drainage and sewerage investments. A
senior technical specialist will join a group of TMG managers in a tour to
obseeve flood prevention systems in similar cities overseas. Total base cost
of these technical assistance and training is estimated at Yuan 1.4 million.



Annex 4
- 55 -                               page 1
CHINA
TIANJIN URBAN DEVELOPMENT AND ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Consulting Services
for Planning and Design
of Solid Waste Treatment and Disposal
I. BACKGROUND
A. Status of Solid Waste Management
1.          Overview.  The Environmental Sanitation Bureau (ESB) manages a
solid waste collection and disposal system which serves a permanent population
of some 3.8 million living in six districts of Tianjin city proper and the
Tanggu District. The average quantity of waste collected each day from the
seven districts is about 5,300 tons including all types of refuse except
industrial wastes. ESB responsibility includes street cleaning and the
removal of night soil from more than 2,000 public latrines. ESB also oversees
solid waste management by other urban districts of the Municipality, including
two additional coastal districts and four suburban districts.
2.          Organization.  The total number of staff employed for the solid
waste management activities in all urban areas of the Municipality is about
15,500 (about l for 400 inhabitants) including about 8,000 handcart operators.
The ESB itself has a total of some 85 engineering staff of various grades and
26 technicians. An affiliated institute, the Environmental Sanitation
Engineering Design and Research Institute (ESEDRI), is mainly responsible for
strategy, planning and designs and has 47 engineers and 12 technicians. ESB
runs a training school which is headed by an assistant professor and has a
-    ;tif  lf  l    O-nA e0 04.0tgint l  tti*vra  Tin AAei4 n. there are two
Environmental Sanitation Equipment Factories, employing 52 technical staff and
a total labor force of some 460, which fabricate and repair vehicles and
equipment used in the transfer stations and elsewhere.
3.          Waste Collection.  ESB has recently developed and expanded an
effective and efficient waste collection system. House-to-house collection is
by hand cart; and collection from industry, commerce etc. is by motorized
vehicle. In the service area comprising the seven districts, there are some
170 transfer stations which receive wastes largely from hand carts for bulking
into 4-5 ton loads before transport to some 8-10 current dump sites around the
city. The hand cart collection system is suitable for present conditions and
is efficiently operated. The transfer stations are well operated, clean and
well designed. However, they limit options for future development as there is
little room for expansion either to accept increased waste inputs or to
increase the capacity of the collected and compacted waste containers, and the
location and size of some of these stations preclude the use of larger
transfer vehicles (e.g. to carry 10-15 ton loads) which may prove more
efficient for long haul to more remote disposal sites in the future. As a
whole, however, the collection system is effective, efficiently operated, and
is likely to remain so at least for the near future provided that vehicles and
equipment to operate the system are available in sufficient number (now about
500 vehicles) and are effectively maintained to keep pace with rising demand
resulting from increases in population, urban areas, and living standards.



Annex 4
- 56 -                               page 2
4.          Disposal.  Available data indicate that about 10% of the waste is
composted by manual methods at dumping grounds in the districts, and another
202 is reportedly composted by farmers. The remainder is removed to mostly
sub-urban and rural locations and dumped in large piles often covering many
hectares of land. Some of the wastes are apparently recycled. The recycling,
composting, and land filling activities are not, however, coordinated or
controlled in a systematic manner. There appears to be considerable health
and environmental risks as well as potential for increase in economic and
technical efficiency. There is, therefore, an urgent need to develop a sound
waste disposal system to complement the collection system.
B. Future Waste Disposal Alternatives
5.          Considering the shortcomings of the current disposal system, the
land constraint, and the agricultural value of composts, ESB has recently
focused on composting of wastes as the main method of the future waste
disposal. There have been several pilot scale processes for composting, and
currently a large mechanical composting plant is being constructed at Hedong
District. The plant is designed to treat some 500 ton of urban waste a day,
in addition to 70 t/d (ton/day) of night soil sludge, to produce some 180t/d
of a 'compost' product with recycled residues, leaving only 33t/d of rejected
material to landfill. The plant's capital costs would be about US$7.5
million. This and five additional mechanical composting plants comprised
ESB's earlier plan. As part of a proposal for the Tianjin Urban Development
and Environment Project partially financed by the World Bank, the feasibility
report for such a composting plant has been reviewed by two international
experts who found that the report leaves large uncertainties concerning
financial and technical aspects of the proposal, such as the revenue potential
of the final product and transport costs for input or output. On the other
hand, the alternatives are not considered sufficiently or in a balanced
manner.  These failures make the report an inadequate basis for a long-term
investment plan, especially considering that one compost plant, able to handle
only about 102 of the waste currently collected, will cost as much as a major
landfill site capable of handling nearly 402 of the waste for many years.
6.          Land filling of wastes under controlled conditions is a disposal
option which must be included, with other more elaborate means, in any waste
management strategy. However, as yet no feasibility studies have been done
for design and costing of a landfill site. There is a large "landfill" site
near the urban center at a proposed water park which at present receives
construction wastes. Local authorities had proposed to compile household
wastes on this site and create a hill to adorn the proposed, otherwise flat,
park. This proposal, however, poses environmental risks as little or no
protection to adjacent lakes within the park has been provided around or
beneath existing construction wastes to prevent leachate migration.
Furthermore the site is close to urban population and would in any case only
serve as a controlled landfill for a very limited period of time and/or for a
very small proportion of wastes to be disposed of.
7.          A simple mechanical process to recover compost from previously
dumped wastes by use of rotating drum screens shows considerable promise. The
resulting product appears to be acceptable and is already being used in
several applications. Given the size, and more critically the depth, of the



Annex 4
57                                 page 3
waste piles it is questionable whether organic matter has degraded solely in
an aerobic environment. The potential for eventual recovery of a compost/soil
conditioner from properly managed landfill sites therefore appears to be a
strong possibility which could be undertaken on a much larger scale and at a
substantially reduced cost than that proposed for development of several
costly compost plants.
8.          In May 1991, ESEDRI completed a report titled "The Long-term
Program for Tianjin Waste Management and Treatment" which presents a more
balanced view of future waste disposal alternatives and needs. This report
recognizes the need for a combination of disposal alternatives, including
landfill, recovery of recyclable materials and incineration of specific types
of waste in addition to composting. The report also presents valuable data
from analyses of present day wastes in Tianjin and contains projections of
changing quantities and waste composition to the year 2010. The data
present.'d will be of considerable value in a further study designed to more
closely examine technical and economic aspects of Tianjin's waste disposal
options and to select an economically viable long range plan.
C. Proposed Proiect
9.          In view of the current status and future needs of the solid waste
management in Tianjin, the proposed Tianjin Urban Development and Environment
Project will support several urgent developmental investments. For solid
waste collection that is effective yet financially constrained from keeping up
with the demand increases, the project will finance partial replacement and
limited augmentation of the fleet of street cleaning and waste transport
vehicles and related parts and maintenance equipment at a total base cost of
about US$ 4 million (to be delivered by the end of 1993). For longer term
enhnscement_of ESR nnd RsRnDRTc ~nne.4tv to~ v.1  nv.A--fi^e--^ -------- _-
solid waste operations, the project will support technical assistance and
training consisting of the study discussed herein as well as overseas training
of selected senior managers and specialists (three short-term person-trips and
one 6-month study), domestic formal training of about 250 total staff weeks,
and in-house training of about 350 operators. The study described in this TOR
forms a part of these efforts to improve sectoral planning. The project will
provide about US$10 million to carry out an initial phase of the recommended
solid waste treatment disposal system development.
II. OBJECTIVES AND SCOPE OF THE SERVICES
10.         The first objective of the study is to develop a 20-year strategic
plan for disposal of solid wastes from the urban districts of Tianjin through
cost-effective methods that are financially and environmentally sustainable.
Th- second objective of the consultant services is to assist local specialists
undertake feasibility studies and preliminary designs for specific investment
schemes for an initial phase of the disposal plan. The third objective is to
train local specialists in modern techniques to evaluate alternatives for
collection, transport and disposal strategies.
11.         The strategic plan and feasibility studies should take account of
current and future collection processes and their costs, various options for
pretreatment and disposal of wastes, as well as recovery and recycling



Annex 4
- 58 -                                page 4
opportunities for wastes both at source and as products of waste treatment
options. The Consultant is required to conduct all necessary engineering
work, physical surveys and other tasks herein described, to attain the above
stated objective. The Consultant shall review, verify or amend all relevant
data made available and thereafter shall be solely responsible for findings
and recommendations based on such information. In the conduct of the work,
the Consultant shall collaborate closely with the Environmental Sanitation
Bureau and provide various training to the local staff in modern analytical
and design techniques.
B. Specific Tasks
12.         The Existing System.  The system for solid waste collection and
disposal is broadly outlined above. More extensive and detailed data are
available from the Bureau. The Consultant should review these data, visit the
various facilities to observe operation of the system(s) as a preliminary to
formulating a work program for the study.
13.         Demand Projections: Waste Quantities and Characteristics.  The
Consultant will identify the boundaries of the areas to be served by the
system(s) recommended under the study, and will review estimates and
projections of population by area to be served, to the year 2015. Extensive
and detailed population projections, based on the long-term urban development
plan for Tianjin, are available. The Consultant should take adequate
consideration of the sizable "temporary" residents and the potential for more
rapid population increases than planned.
14.         The Consultant will prepare projections for waste quantities and
characteristics based on projections of population, living standards and
habits. The projected shift away from the use of coal for domestic heating
and cooking would be a major factor in identifying waste characteristics for
the future. A recent report titled "The Long-term Program for Tianjin Waste
Management and Treatment" prepared by Tianjin Environmental Sanitation
Engineering Design and Research Institute, will provide the consultant with
extensive data on present and projected quantities and characteristics of
Tianjin's solid wastes. It is expected that these data will assist in the
formulation of alternative waste treatment and disposal options.
15.         There is a reported high demand by farmers for soil conditioner
from composted waste material. The consultant should survey and analyze
details of the treatment and application of compost products. Particular note
must be made of the 'value' of the high organic fraction of wastes, largely
vegetable waste which shows marked seasonal and local variations as a
percentage of raw municipal wastes. Continued heavy reliance on landfill
disposal is anticipated during winter months and at other times when compost
material is not in high demand. The Consultant should also survey: the demand
for compost; the seasonal (or other) variations in demand; the preferred
compost composition and quality; location of the demand; and the projected
market va3lll- of compost.
16.         S                                            . The Consultant will
identify nnd evaluate criteria and factors that would contribute to the
formulation of acceptable disposal plans. The Consultant will identify



- 59 -                              Annex 4
page 5
alternative technical methods for solid waste and night soil disposal,
potential disposal sites, and a reasonable range of scales. Preliminary
designs of each process prototype should be prepared to the extent necessary
to estimate capital and operating costs, transportation needs, useful life,
acceprability of waste types and quantities, capacity, impacts on public
health and water resources. The Consultant will then develop medium-term and
long-term options combining the alternative methods in various locations and
in appropriate stages.
17.         In particular the Consultant should identify and evaluate various
land-fill options and sites available over the plan period. Though the sites
need not be as sophisticated as are currently considered necessary in the
West, they should contain adequate measures for leachate and gas control, and
be operated to acceptable environmental standards particularly with regard to
compaction and covering. In addition, provisions should be made for phased
restoration to allow rapid land re-use. Primary consideration should be given
to sites capable of accepting 1000-2000 ton/day to minimize duplication which
would be necessary for simultaneous operation of several small sites.
18.         Cost Estimates and Comparison of Alternatives.  The consultant
should compare costs and benefits of different technical processes and their
combinations over the plan period. The capital costs should include imputed
land cost, with adequate differential among locations, and residual values of
land and facilities at the end of the facility life. The operating costs
shall include collection and transportation costs in cases where such costs
vary significantly among options. Alternative processes and their
combinations will then be compared on a present value basis, using alternative
discount rates with a reference rate of 1OZ p.a. Economic costs and benefits
calculation should use shadow prices used by China Investment Bank; giving due
weight to foreign exchange costs. Sensitivity analysis should be performed
using a reasonable range of values for key cost and benefit variables.
19.         Alternative plans to develop solid waste disposal facilities
should consider financing arrangements for construction, operation and
maintenance (by category), identifying the cost recovery potential from the
sale of compost or any recyclable waste items and assessing the budgetary
impact of the recommended plan compared with that of the present systems. The
schedules of implementation should be feasible within the financial resources
of ESB, based on past trends. If loan financing is envisaged, debt-service
burdens should be estimated using terms and interest rates available for
investment loans available for ordinary industrial and commercial borrowers.
20.         The optimal feasible plan, identified by comparison of present
values, will then be developed in more detail to include preliminary plan and
estimated costs of all components and clearly identified stages of development
on a district-by-district basis. The consultant will suggest appropriate
scopes, design parameters and techniques in order to assist local personnel in
preparing preliminary and detail designs for an initial phase of the plan
accepted by TMG and the World Bank, with a total cost of about US$10,000,000.
21.         Training.  The consultant should work closely with the counterpart
staff and provide on-the-job training, particularly in the use of simple
micro-computer aided programs. In addition, the Consultant should offer a



Annex 4
- 60 -                               page 6
minimum of 20 hours of formal workshops for staff of ESB and ESEDRI on topics
agreed with the Bureau, including introductory workshops on computer-based
techniques. The consultant should also provide advice on the Bureau's sector
training program design and conduct (see para 9 above).
III. IMPLEMENTATION OF THE STUDY
A. Reports
22.         The Consultant should prepare ten (10) copies of each of the
following reports for circulation by the Bureau:
-  Progress                    at monthly intervals
-  Interim report              at the completion of data collection and
survey, about 4 months after study start.
-  Draft Final Report          at the completion of critical activities,
estimated at about 9 months after start.
-  Final Report                within two months after review of the
draft report (the review period is two
months)
23.         Progress reports will briefly outline progress and issues
regarding project staffing, liaison, planning, scheduling, etc. Each report
will identify activities and achievements up to the reporting time and the
plans for the next three months. The interim report will contain compilation
and preliminary analysis of the data and surveys. The draft final report will
contain all of the findings, analyses and recommendations resulting from the
study and described in this TOR. The Bureau will provide comments within two
months of the receipt of the draft. The final report will incorporate
appropriate revisions based on comments by the Bureau and others on the draft
final report.
B. Staffing and Facilities
24.         It is estimated that the study will require about 50 person-months
of consulting engineers (12 of which foreign) and 8 person-months of
financial/economic analysts (3 of which foreign), and a survey team. Total
estimated cost is US$300,000.
25.         The Bureau will assign counterpart staff to assist the consultant
in technical analysis, design, and data collection. The Bureau will also
designate a study manager through whom the Bureau will provide all necessary
policy directions, assistance, facilities, and payments.
21.         Office accommodations, furniture and equipment required by the
Consultant to carry out the study will be provided by the Bureau. However,
the Consultant should provide computers and software. Transportation for
official duties will be provided by the Bureau. The Consultant is required to
make provision for living accommodations; no assistance in this respect will
be provided by the Bureau.



- 61 -
Annex 4
page 7
C. Target Schedule
26.         Target Schedule.  Acceptable target dates for key activities by
calendar months are indicated in the following Table. The Consultant is not
bound by the schedule shown, but should formulate his own work program. The
study, however, needs to be finished by June 30, 1995 to allow sufficient time
for detailed design and execution of the recommended investments.
Indicative Schedule of the Study
Number of Months    Months
Activity                                        Each Activity  Start - Finish
PreRaration Phase
(i)  Invitation for proposal                      1         0       1
(ii)  Consultants submit proposals                2          1       3
(iii)  Select, negotiate, and sign contract         3         3       6
(iv)  Consultant begins work                       1         6       7
Study Phase
(i)  Review reports, study existing system
and collate date                             1          7       8
(ii)  Identify study area, estimate and project
population and waste quantity/composition  2            7       9
(iii) Survey and evaluate existing
and potential landfill sites                2           7       9
(iv)  Survey the compost market
and project demand by area                  2           8      lO
(v)  Identify recyclable
materials and their market                   1          9       10
(vi)  Prepare cost curves for each operation in
waste collection and disposal systems        1          9       10
(vii) Formulate disposal alternatives by district,
evaluate, and select best option(s)         5           10     15
(viii) Develop preliminary designs and implementation
plans for the selected alternative(s)       4           15     20
(ix)  Submit draft final report                    1          15     16
(x)  Submit final report                         2           18     20
End.



- 62 -                              pagex1
CHINA
TIANJIN URBAN DEVELOPMENT AND ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION CONTROL
I. BACKGROUND
1.          Policy Framework.  China has been pursuing an active environmental
protection policy. The policy framework defined by the Environmental
Protection Act of 1979 (revised in 1989) and subsequent regulations calls for:
Environmental quality standards for different types of areas;
Environmental improvement plans and targets as part of urban master
plana and Five-Year Plans;
Pollution discharge standards and levies for those over the standard.;
Environmental impact assessment and mitigating measures for major
industrial and other investment projects.
2.          Organizational Framework.  The National Environmental Protection
Agency (NEPA) has been established as the nodal agency to provide policy and
technical guidance, and in addition, sectoral ministries maintain
environmental protection offices to promote sector-specific pollution control
strategies and technologies. The provincial and municipal governments,
however, assume most responsibilities and authorities to carry out the
national environmental policies. The Tianjin Environmental Protection Bureau
(EPB) sets local environmental and effluent standards within general
guidelines provided by the national regulations, monitors environmental
quality, enforces regulations, and coordinates improvement activities within
the municipality. it has 110 staff organized into 15 divisions, and direct:
Environmental Monitoring Center (214 staff); Environmental Protection Science
Institute (207 staff) responsible for providing the basis of environmental
quality targets and the city's Environmental Improvement Plan; Environmental
Protection Technology Development Center (26 staff) providing technical
assistance for industrial pollution control projects; and the county and
district EPBs which carry out monitoring, pollution levy collections, and
other functions within their localities. As at the central level, varuus
sector Bureaus carry out most of the specific pollution control investments.
3.          Pollution Control in Tianiin.  Tianjin is one of the oldest and
largest industrial centers of China with typical air, water and noise
pollution for such a city. Its major industries in textile, chemical,
metallurgy, machinery, power, paper, and pharmaceutical sectors contribute the
dominant share of pollutants, the most serious being fume dusts and sulfur
dioxide in the air and COD and phenol in water courses. Further, many old,
polluting plants scattered among residential and commercial areas pose serious
environmental risks to the residents and the control and treatment difficult.
Significant as these problems are, RIG's active programs of environmental



- 63-                              Annex 5
page 2
protection appear to have arrested and reversed the environmental
deteriorations. Residential coal burning and automobile emissions contribute
relatively little to the city's air pollution due to TMG's policy limiting the
number of motor vehicles and the urban gas supply system TMG has completed
recently. TMG reduced the water pollution problems by shifting the water
supply source, diverting most of the sewage flcws to sewage canals, and
treating increasing portions of sewage. While the rapid pace of industrial
growth continues to pose a potential threat to envJe-n'-ient, the consolidations
and renovations result not only in productivity gainr and but normally in
pollution reduction. The system of environmental impact assessment and the
requirement for part of investment set aside for pollution control strengthen
this effect. TMG also strictly enforces zoning regulations for new industrial
investments and induce old industries to relocate, so as to segregate
pollution sources from population and to treat remaining wastes efficiently.
4.          Pollution Levy and Financing of Pollution Control.  The pollution
levies, assessed on effluent in excess of discharge standards, have proven an
essential tool for control of industrial pollution.   While discharge
standards and levy collection efforte vary among localities, Tianjin EPB sets
and collects among the highest levies, amounting to about Yuan 20 million
annually. Even so, the deterrent effect of the levies are limited at present
as the amounts are often lower than the cost of treatment to avoid the levies.
The levy levels need to be adjusted nationally because of the effects on
industrial competitiveness, and NEPA is currently formulating new national
guidelines to raise the levies substantially. Beyond the deterrence effect,
the levies have been a major source of financing for pollution control
activities. Tianjin EPB allocates about 20% of the revenues to its own
monitoring and research activities, and allocates the rest to the sector
bureaus for their programs of pollution control. The latter funds are used
partly for communal pollution reduction facilities such as sewage treatment
plants and partly as assistance for pcllution reduction in individual
industries such as waste treatment facilities or less polluting coal furnaces,
provided free of charge in most cases.
5.          While the assistance for individual polluters have been invaluable
in bringing them closer to compliance especially in the general scarcity of
investment capital, several shortcomings of the assistance programs seriously
limit their effectiveness. While the nature of programs differ among industry
bureaus, most of them tend to offer a narrow range of standard solutions, not
well tailored to individual beneficiaries. However, as most of them are free,
the beneficiaries have little incentive or freedom to optimize the choice,
even though many of them apparently find them uneconomical and difficult to
operate. Grant assistance also limits the scope of the program to annual levy
collections, vastly inadequate for similar financing needs.
6.          For these reasons, the central government issued a directive in
1988 recommending to channel part of the financial assistance as loans. Since
1986, even before the directive, Tianjin EPB has been experimenting with a
similar loan program. In general, however, local governments in China have
been slow to adopt loan programs. Where they are tried in substant'al scale
as in Shenyang and Tianjin, the demand has been low (in the case of Tianjin
much below the 25Z of the total pollution levy revenues allocated for loans),



Annex 5
- 64 -                               page 3
collection has been prohlematic, and many of the loans have been quickly
converted into grants. The main reasons behind these problems appear to be
the resistance of the industries to borrowing for what used to be free and
often are not economical; inflexible administration still tied to programs led
by industry bureaus with little freedom of individual choice; and inadequate
amounts of financing, up to 50% but mostly about 35% of total investment costs
in Tianjin.  Further, the low interest rates, less than 4%, limit the
sustainability and allocative efficiency of the loans. In order to help
establish a sustainable model of pollution control loans, the Bank Group is
supporting start-up operation of small loan programs similar to the one
considered below in Changzhou, Jiangsu Province and Shashi, Hubei Province
under the Medium-sized Cities Development Project (approved in 1991). The
Bank Group is also supporting larger scale industrial pollution control
investments under the Beijing Environmental Project, with a less direct
connection to the pollution levy system.
II. THE FUND FOR INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION CONTROL
7.          Purposes.  By supporting start-up operation of the Fund for
Industrial Pollution Control (the Fund), the project will help establish a
sustainable mechanism to finance pollution control measures by industrial
enterprises and expand the benefits of the pollution levy revenues formerly
used as grants for similar purposes (see above). The Fund will finance
investments that are financially viable as well as reduce pollution from
existing industrial plants. Such projects will consist primarily of waste
minimization measures, modification of or addition to existing industrial
plants to reduce or re-use the wastes generated dur'ng the production
processes thereby reducing pollution as well as prouuction costs. Examples
would include conversion of food processing wastes into feedstock, and saving
of water used for rinsing in dye factories. However, the Fund may finance
others with substantial enough benefits in both respects such as commercial
waste recovery services. The primary objective of the Fund in financing such
investments would be pollution reduction (socio-economic) benefits and the
financial benefits secondary, while the priorities of the borrowing
enterprises would likely to be reverse. The two different interests often
diverge substantially.
8.          Financing.  Therefore, while financing from the Fund will be
primarily in market-rate loans, it will also include a small part in grant
financing to encourage projects whose large pollution reduction benefits are
not matched by financial benefits fully. As initial operating norms, total
financing of the Fund will be between 35% to 90% (on average 65%) of the total
cost of projects, including grants of up to 30% (on average 10%) of the total
cost. The rest will be loans whose maturity will be 3 to 7 years, with an
average of 5 years, including 1 to 2 years' grace. Specific maturity, total
financing and proportion of grants, if any, will be determined according to
the appraisal criteria detailed below. The interest rate will be the same as
the reference rate charged by the local banks for similar maturity: in the
case of local currency loans, the rate charged by the People's Construction
Bank of China for ordinary investment loans, 7.8% to 10.8% at present; and for
the foreign currency loans, 1.5% over the World Bank standard variable rate,
the same as the China Investment Bank (CIB) rate. The final borrowers will
bear all foreign exchange risks.



- 65 -                              Annex 5
page 4
9.          Resources.  The normal resources of the Fund would consist of the
continuous infusion of part of pollution levy revenues and the reflows from
its loans. TMG is committed to allocate at least 40% of the levy revenues to
the Fund until the expected increase of the levy levels, at which point TMG
will determine a new share to be allocated to the Fund, ensuring that the Fund
will continue to grow by more than 10% a year. In fact, a projection shows
that, assuming modest increases in the levy revenues, the Fund can grow at
more than 15% a year for the foreseeable future, supporting over US$100
million in total investments during the period between 1992 and 2000 (Table
A5.1). For the initial six years of operation, TMG will make the World Bank
Group loans and credits available equivalent to 60% of the loans and grants
extended by the Fund, or about 40% of the total costs of the subprojects. The
Bank Group subloan, which will be on-lent through GOC and TMG, will carry an
interest rate equal to the on-lending rate from GOC to TMG plus 0.5% p.a.,
repayable over 15 years with 5 years' grace. In order the maintain smooth
growth of the operation, especially while repaying the Bank Group loan, the
Fund will maintain adequate reserves and invest them in secure instruments
yielding returns at least as high as its pollution control loans.
10.         Economic and Technical Appraisal.  The Fund will select and rank
projects and determine the loan amount primarily on the basis of the cost-
effectiveness in pollution reduction. The benefit, pollution load reduction,
will be measured using the equiscalar pollution load index system that Tianjin
EPB has developed, which assigns different weights to various pollutants to
reflect their relative harm to the city's overall air or water pollution given
the present and target levels of the pollutants in the city's ambience. As
the index systems are not location specific, different weights will be
assigned according to their location in terms of the number of affected
populLtion nearby in the case of air pollutants, and the discharge locations
relat:.ve to the city's stream and aquifer system in the case of liquid wastes.
In the absence of reliable monetary measures for pollution reduction benefits,
this method appears to be the best proxy for the benefits. The Fund will,
during project implementation, engage consultants to develop true economic
measures of pollution control.
11.         The costs will be measured in terms of annualized economic costs
of capital and operation of the facility, using discount rates over the
economic lifetime of the facility or 15 years, whichever is less. The cost
will be adjusted for savings made possible by the investment, such as savings
in manufacturing input; but excluding those captured as part of the pollution
reduction and purely financial savings such as avoidance of pollution levy.
The evaluation of cost-effectiveness will also include sensitivity analysis to
allow for changes in input and product prices and in production technology.
The Fund will finance those projects that would, under most circumstances,
result in pollution reduction at less than 1.2 times the average unit cost of
pollution reduction derived from city-wide pollution reduction investments,
including end-of-pipe treatments. In addition, it should be demonstrated that
the projects are consistent with the Environmental Improvement Plan of
Tianjin, technically feasible under the local conditions, and be superior to a
reasonable range of alternatives. The alternatives to be considered should
include closure of the polluting factory, in order to guard against financing
marginal improvements in technically and economically obsolete factories.



Annex 5
- 66  -                                              page 5
Table A5.1             Fund for Industrial Pollution Control
Projected Financial and Operating Statistics, 1992-2000
(in current 10000 Yuan)
OPERATIONS SUMMARY    1992 1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999  2000
(Line#)                     ----  ---- ----  ----  ----  ----  ----  ----  ----
7 Approved Financing*      2050 2358  2711  3118  3585  4123  4742  5453  6271
8 Disbursement             1938 1985  3196  3118  3585  4123  4742  5453  6271
9   Pending                 113  485      0      0     0     0      0     0      0
10                    t*15X p.a. growth)
11 Total Project Costs      2981 3054  4917  4797  5516  6344  7295  8389  9648
12 X Financed by
13   Total by Fund       X  65.0 65.0  65.0  65.0  65.0  65.0  65.0  65.0  65.0
14      Grant            X  10.0 10.0  10.0  10.0  10.0  10.0  10.0  10.0  10.0
15      Loan             X  55.0 55.0  55.0  55.0  55.0  55.0  55.0  55.0  55.0
16     World Bank        X  39.0 39.0  39.0  39.0  39.0  39.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
17
18 CASH FLOW SUMMARY        1992 1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999  2000
19                          --- .
20 GENERATED FROM:
21  Effluent Charge          800  824   849   874   900  1171  1346  1386  1428
22  World Bank Loan         1163 1191  1918  1871  2151   915 -1251 -1260 -1265
23  Loan Repayments            0    0   794  1608  2918  3402  4058  4438  5104
24  Investment Income          0    0      0    31   145   376   533   525   489
25   TOTAL RESOURCES        1963 2015  3561  4384  6115  5863  4686  5089  5756
26
27 APPLIED TO:
28  Pollution Control Loan 1639 1680  2704  2638  3034  3489  4012  4614  5306
29    "      "       Grants  298  305   492   480   552   634   730   839   965
30  Other Fund Expenses       25   30    25    26    28    29    30    32    34
31   TOTAL OPERATION        1963 2015  3221  3144  3613  4152  4772  5485  6304
32  Reserve/Drawdown(-)        0    0   340  1240  2502  1711   -86  -395  -549
33
34 BALANCE SHEET            1992 1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999  2000
35                          ----  ---- ----  ----  ----                 .
36 Municipal Capital         800 1624  2473  3347  4247  5418  6764  8150  9579
37 Less Accun. Grants        298  603  1095  1575  2126  2761  3490  4329  5294
38 World Bank Loan          1191 2492  4611  6812  9437 10995 10421  9766  9034
39 Accumulated Surplus        37  156   425   829  1396  2147  3158  4374  5808
40   TOTAL LIABILITIES      1730 3668  6413  9413 12954 15799 16853 17962 19126
41
42 Fund Loans               1720 3653  6058  7817  8854  9988 11128 12631 14343
43 Reserves                     0    0   340  1580  4082  5792  5706  5311  4762
44 Fixed Assets                10   15    16    17    17    18    19    20    21
45   TOTAL ASSETS           1730 3668  6413  9413 12954 15799 16853 17962 19126
46
47 MEMO ITEM                1992 1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999  2000
48                                                     --               .
49 Total Poll. Charge       2000 2060  2122  2185  2251  2926  3365  3466  3570
50   (Rate of Growth)   X          3.0   3.0   3.0   3.0  30.0  15.0   3.0   3.0
51 Allocated to Fund    X    40   40    40    40    4n    40    40    40    40
52
53 Repayment Terms         Fund        Investment  W. Bank
54    Repay. period  yr      5.0           1           15
55    Grace period   yr      2.0           0            5
56    interest rate  X/yr   9.9X         9.2X         5.0X
57
58 Fund Loan Due               0    0  1639  3319  6023  7022  8376  9161 10535
59
60 World Bank Loan, USSOOOO
61  Loan                     212  214   341   330   375   427
62    Cumfulative            212  427   768  1097  1472  1899  1899  1899  1899
63  Repayment                                               269   214   214   214
64  Principal * Interest    218  448   821  1200  1645  1896  1779  1655  1525



Annex 5
- 67 -                               page 6
12.         Financial Appraisal.  The Fund will evaluate the financial returns
to project investment and the financial status of the borrower as the
secondary criteria for project selection and the major criteria for
determining the loan maturity and size of the grant. The additional income
attributable to the project would include savings in pollution levy as well as
net additional income from operations due to increases in product volume or
quality, reduction in input costs, and others. The borrower should show
positive cash flows in at least three out of five preceding years, or two out
of three, and expect consistent profitability in future years. The Fund will
take into consideration the cash position of the borrower, along with the
pollution reduction benefits, in determining the size of total financing,
providing larger funding for those with low cash reservee relative to capital
finaracing needs for the company as a whole. The Fund will set the loan
maturity at the shortest possible given the projected additional income from
the project, and will provide grants for those projects that cannot generate
sufficient additional income to cover debt service within the maximum allowed
maturity of 7 years. The projects which would not generats sufficient
financial return to service the remaining debt at the longeat maturity will
not be financed.
13.         Procedures for ApDraisal and Implementation.  The projects will be
prepared and implemented in the following steps:
(a)   The enterprise will identify the project, and submit a project
brief to the sector Bureau for review;
(b)   The enterprise will prepare a pre-feasibility report with the help
of design institutes if necessary, and after a further review by
the sector Bureau, submit it for review by the Fund;
(c)   The Fund will examine the proposal, and if acceptable, prepare a
preliminary financing plan setting out size, terms and conditions
of its financing;
(d)   The borrower will prepare a feasibility study and, after review by
the Fund, the final engineering design, with financial or
technical assistance from the Fund if necessary;
(e)   The Fund will approve the project after necessary modifications
and enter into a conitract with the borrower which will specify not
only the final financing terms but also performance standards for
construction and operation of the project;
(f)   The Fund will disburse the grants and loans according to the
progress of the project implementation and, jointly with the
sponsoring Bureau, will supervise the implementation;
(g)   For at least three years after the completion of the project, the
Fund will monitor the effects and problems of the new facility.
14.         OrQanization.  The Fund will be constituted as an autonomous
entity governed by a Board under a charter approved by TMG. The Board will
consist of seven members: three nominated by EPB and two each by the Economic



Annex 5
- 68 -                               page 7
Commission (at least one from an industrial enterprise) and the Finance
Bureau. The directors will select the Chairman, and EPB will nominate,
subject to the approval of the Board, a director to serve as one of the Board
member as well as a full-time director of the staff. The Board will convene
at least bi-monthly to review and approve any modifications in its charter and
operating regulations, annual operating plans and budgets, investment plans
for reserves, all project contracts, staffing principles and plans. The
Executive Committee consisting of the Chairman of the Board, the Managing
Director, one other director of the Board and a deputy Managing Director will
meet more irequently to give preliminary approval of loans and grants, review
drafts of the items to be considered by the full Board, and approve personnel
decisions.
15.         Management.  For day-to-day operations, the Fund will maintain a
full-time office staffed with engineers, financial analysts and economists,
directed by the Managing Director and a Deputy Managing Director. The staff
will number about 25 by the end of 1993, and will increase as the Fund
operations grow. The main responsibilities of the staff will be: operational
planning; appraisal, supervision and monitoring of the projects; disbursement
and collection of funds; and management of fund reserves. The Fund will also
draw on outside expertise in appraising the prGjects and to extend technical
assistance for the borrowers. The People's Construction Bank of China, which
has been handling the current pollution control loan program, will serve as an
agent to handle actual disbursement and loan collection, assist the Fund in
financial and economic appraisal of the proposed projects and management of
reserve funds, and provide on-the-job training of the staff in these skills.
III. INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
16.         Issues.  Tianjin EPB has developed one of the highest scientific
research and monitoring capabilities in the nation through active training,
research, and sophisticated equipment funded by its relatively large pollution
levy collections and foreign assistance. It has also gained considerable
technical and management experience in pollution control through its active
assistance programs. Building on these foundations, the project will support
technical assistance, training, and equipment procurement to strengthen
capabilities in several aspects directly relevant to regulatory enforcement
and pollution abatement investments, as discussed below.
17.         Monitoring.  In pollution monitoring, EPB has so far focused on
improving the range and precision of pollution measurements, especially of
ambient pollution, based on a few sophisticated stationary laboratories. For
pollution source monitoring, EPB relies largely on self-reporting and
unsystematic spot check that covers less than 60% of air polluters and only 20
- 25% of liquid and solid waste discharge sources in a given year.
Improvement of source monitoring would, therefore, be essential in stronger
regulatory enforcement, pollution levy assessment, and better identification
of priority areas of improvement. In order to do so, EPB will carry out the
following as part of the project:
(a)   Realignment of responsibilities between the Central Monitoring
Station (CMS) and the 18 District Monitoring Stations (DMS). The



Annex 5
- 69 -                               page 8
latter will be responsible for most of the source and ambient
monitoring. The former will concentrate on quality control and
analysis of monitoring by DMS, and measurement of pollutants whose
samples are infrequently taken.
(b)   Procurement of various portable and mobile samplers and test kits
(including those for automobile exhaust) mainly for use by DMS's;
gas chromatograph fo; volatile organic analvsis and atomic
absorption spectrophotometer for heavy metal analysis, and a
mobile monitoring and testing laboratory required by the CMS; and
training of operators in the use of the new equipment.
(c)   Development of improved sampling procedures and in-houae training
of staff in their application assisted by international and local
experts; and domestic study fellowships for specialists.
(d)   Establishment of a basic geographical information system to help
analyze environmental quality in different locations in the city,
including micro-computer systems; and in-house and university
training of specialist staff, and introductory training for
general staff.
18.         Applied Research for Pollution Control.  Under Tianjin EPB, two
organizations work on pollution control research with two complementary
orientations. The Environmental Protection Science Institute (EPSI) conducts
studies on city-wide pollution problems and control measures, such as the
analysis of accumulated metallic wastes and their treatment; and the
Environmental Protection Technology Development Center (TDC) conducts
engineering research and design of several types of pollution control
facilities used by small- and medium-scale industrial enterprises. In the
immediate future, EPSI plans to strengthen its research on waste water
treatment, and TDC on industrial waste minimization.  To help these efforts,
the project will support:
(a)   Procurement of a set of bench scales and pilot scales for testing
treated wastes; and equipment for computer aided design (CAD)
mainly for use in analysis, rather than design, of process
modifications.
(b)   Five domestic fellowships for 6-12 months' formal study in CAD and
waste treatment; an overseas study fellowship each for study of
waste water treatment and of waste minimization.
(c)   Training of a wide audience including staff of the environmental
divisions of the industry Bureaus, environmental agencies, and the
Fund, on the fundamentals of environmentally benign production
design, waste minimization, and evaluation of pollution abatement
alternatives.
19.   Although financial and economic evaluation capacity for investment
projects have been established in China, particularly through the Bank-funded
industrial finance projects, techniques for economic evaluation of environment
are yet to be introduced in China. These will be essential to operation of



- 70-                                Aex 5
page 9
the Fund as well an efficient design of pollution control investment projects
in general. The Fund will take the lead in developing and disseminating these
techniques. In addition to the assistance provided by PCBC, therefore, the
following technical assistance and training will be :ncluded in the projects
(a)   Consultant assistance (mainly environmental economists and
scientists) to adapt economic and financial appraisal methods to
reflect the different emphases in the appraisal principles set for
the Fund (see above) and to train the Fund staff in their use;
(b)   Domestic fellowships for training of selected staff of the Fund
and EPC in general project evaluation methods and in financial
management techniques;
(a)   Purchase of micro-computers for all full-time staff of the Fund,
and a work-station, software and peripherals; and
(d)   Training of a broad audience in principles of economic and
financial evaluation of different alternatives and the I'und's
appraisal criteria.
20.         Five managers from EPB, CMS, EPSI, TDC, and the Fund will take an
observation tour overseas to get exposure to pollution management policies and
practices.  These managers and others will also take part in domestic
observation tours and seminars for similar purposes.  Table A5.2 below shows
an indicative plan and budget for technical assistance and training, not
including equipment, for improvement of environmental management.
Table A5.2 Summary of Technical Assistance and Training
Topic, Type of Training   No. of   Staff-   Cost
or Consultant     Staff   Weeks    YOO0
.- - - - - -- - - - -  .. ..   .. ....   .
Pollution Monitoring (see para 17)
Introductory, In-House    100    50    8
Operators and Specialists,
In-House    200   150      23
Formal Trafning, Tianjfn   15    40    8
If" , Other cities  6   70       25
Consultant    Domestic  3     30      60
Consultent    Foreign   1     6       135
Applied Research   (para 18)
Introductory, In-House    100    50    8
Specialists, In-House  30    70       10
Formal Training, Intermediate
and Advanced, Domestic   25   140    43
Advanced Training, Overseas  2  60   195
Consultant   Domestic   6     45     100
Consultant    Foreign   1     6       135
Project Evaluation and Financial Management (para 19)
Introductory  In-House   80    40      6
Specialists   In-house   20    60      7
Formal Training, Domestic  20    110  34
Consultant    Domestic  5     30      60
Consultant    Foreign   1     6       135
Seminars and Observation Tours (para 20)
Domestic   20    60       30
Overseas   5     15      183
-- - . ..     ...
658   915    1215
. ......See.Ane..2for.escrition.f.triningtype.
Note: See Annex 2 for descriptfon of trafning types.



^nnex 6
- 71 -                      nafe
CHINA
TIANJIN URBAN DEVELOPMENT AND ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
Urban Tranasort: Proiect Details
I. SECTOR BACKGROUND
1.          Overview.  By most measures, the transportation system of Tianjin
performs efficiently, with average journey-to-work time less than 30 minutes, a
rate of mobility (measured in daily trips/person) nearly equivalent to cities in
developed countries, and what is possibly the lowest rate of fatal vehicle
accidents of any large city in a developing country. The success of the Tianjin
system is attributable largely to the city's integrated transport and land use
policy. The transport element of the current Master Plan, approved in 1986,
includes a coordinated, hierarchical road network where a primary road system
comprises three circumferential ring roads and 14 radial roads, most of which are
now completed. The plan also calls for a three-line subway system, of which only
a small part is in place. The land use element calls for deconcentration of the
center city by stimulating development between the middle and outer ring roads,
but at the same time establishing the outer ring road and an adjacent green belt
to limit urban sprawl. This has resulted in highly compact land use, which
minimizes trip distance and hence the demand for motor-vehicle trips.
2.          Modal Balance.  One feature that differentiates urban transport in
Tianjin from other cities is its emphasis on non-motorized transport, which
currently accounts for 85Z of passenger trips in the center city. As a matter
of policy, the city has limited the size of automobile and motorcycle fleets by
restricting vehicle operating permits. On the other hand, TMG has consistently
incorporated dedicated bicycle facilities in the design of major roadway
improvements and interchanges, thus making for convenient and safe circulation
of bicycles. Motor vehicle traffic growth results mainly from the expansion of
truck traffic at a rate of approximately 62 a year, which is generally
proportional to the expansion of economic output in the region. Continuation of
the existing trend of freight traffic growth will result in oversaturation of
most of the center city road system within the next 5 years.
3.          It is one of central objectives of the city's current transport
development policy to contain the growth of private road transport, including
bicycle traffic, and its demand on road space. To this end, TMG is planning
expansion of the bus and subway systems so that they can accommodate all growth
in travel demand and gradually shift the bicycle/bus mode split from 85/15 to
60/40. TMG, however, would need to re-examine the feasibility of the strategy,
especially how far it would succeed in offering viable alternatives to private
transport.
4.          Public TransDort.  Surface transit is provided by the Tianjin Public
Transport Company (PTC) which operates a fleet of approximately 2000 intra-urban
buses carrying approximately 10X of daily passenger trips within the urban area.
The Tianjin Long Distance Transport Company (LDTC) operates suburban service
between Tianjin and other points within Tianjin municipality. Many of the buses
in the PTC fleet are nearly 20 years old, but the company still manages an
outshedding ratio of 92Z. The bus fleet has grown by an average of 8% a year
during the 1980s, outstripping the capacity of maintenance facilities. Overall,



- 72 -                              Annex 6
page 2
the public transport systems suffer from inadequate modal coordination between
urban and suburban routes, between bus and subway, and between bus and rail. Of
the planned 3-line subway system, only the Line No. 1, 7.4 km under the southern
and western sections of the inner Ring road, has been built in 1981, and carries
less than 1% of total daily passengers.
5.          Traffic Management. Traffic management is the responsibility of the
Traffic Division  of the Tianjin Public Security Bureau.   The Tianjin Traffic
Engineering Design and Research Institute (TEDRI), affiliated with the Traffic
Division. is the principal unit responsible for developing traffic management
techniques and programs. The approach to traffic control at present can best be
described as "management by exception"; most intersections are allowed to
function as uninterrupted flow, with all movements by motorized and nonmotorized
traffic allowed to occur simultaneously.  Because traffic is mixed and dominated
by bicycles, speeds are uniformly low in the center city area, rarely exceeding
10-15 km/h, partly explaining the low rate of accidents. In the whole urbanized
area, containing a population of 4.5 million persons, there were only 88
fatalities from traffic accidents in 1989, which is less than 20% of the number
normally experienced in other large cities of developing countries.
II. THE PROJECT
6.          Obiectives.  The objectives of the urban transport component of the
project include: a) strengthening the existing Tianjin Traffic Research Institute
in the areas of traffic management and safety; (b) improvement of the city's
capacity to plan and execute traffic demand management policy; (c) improvement
of bus maintenance and intermodal coordination; and (d) improvement to traffic
flow and safety by providing additional exclusive bicycle lanes and improved
pedestrian facilities in the most congested areas.
7.          Project Content. The urban transport components of the project would
improve three different subsectors: roads, traffic management, and public
transport. The project will include technical assistance as well as physical
investments in the subsectors. In addition, planning and management component
of the project includes complementary technical assistance and training for roads
and public transport subsectors.
Roads
8.          Inner Ring Road (IRR).  The IRR will have a uniform 40m right of way
width, allocated as follows: a central lSm carriageway providing 2 lanes in each
direction for motor vehicles, two 6m wide non-motor vehicle lanes, and two Sm
wide sidewalks. The bicycle lanes are protected from motor vehicles by two 1.5m
divider strips, and pedestrians are separated from vehicles by barrier fences
along the edge of the sidewalks. The eastern portion of the IRR (Xinkai Road)
has been completed. The Tianjin subway was constructed under the southern and
western parts, Nanjing Road and Xima Road.   Work on Nanjing Road has been
completed, and the souther section of Xima Road is now being widened and brought
up to standard using local funds. The project will complete the IRR by widening
and improving the remaining sections of Xima, Beima and Shizilin Roads.
Xima Road (1.0 km): The project will complete the northern half of Xima
Road by widening right of way mostly along the eastern side, adding



Annex 6
page 3
bicycle lanes, sidewalks and median strips on either side, enlarging the
intersection approaches of major czoss streets to provide turning lanes,
and providing pavement or overlay for the entire motor vehicle
carriageway. The project will also install new sewer mains under parts of
the road, in order to complete the drainage work begun at the time of
subway construction several years ago.
Beima Road (2.0 km): The existing road contains two sidewalks and a 16m
carriageway for mixed traffic. The project will widen the right of way to
4m, add bicycle lanes, median strips and wider sidewalks, adjust the
alignment to eliminate discontinuity at major intersections, provide a
pedestrian overpass at the intersection with Dongma Road, and provide
separate storm water and sanitary sewer collectors along the length of the
road.
Shizilin Road (1.4): The existing road is a narrow, twisting single
carriageway of varying width. The project will smooth the horizontal
alignment, widen the right of way to 40m, and provide the same additional
bicycle and traffic facilities as for Beima Road.
Haihe Bridge (93m): The existing bridge over the Haihe River contains a
16m carriageway for mixed traffic. The project will construct two 6m wide
column-supported structures for non-motor vehicles and new cantilevered
sidewalks for pedestrians.
9.          Middle Ring Road/Beijing Highway Interchange.  The intersection of
the Middle Ring Road (MRR) with the existing main highway to Beijing is the
principal gateway from Tianjin to Beijing, and is also the access point for the
rapidly developing northern industrial area between the middle and outer ring
road.   The design prepared by the Municipal Engineering Survey and Design
Institute (MESDI) and agreed on between TMG and the appraisal mission would
provide a single overpass for MRR through traffic, and a single loop ramp for
left turning vehicles off the MRR "inner loop". This proposed two-level design
is configured in such a way that it would not preclude addition of a third level
for through-traffic on the radial arterial that crosses the MRR at a later date
if future traffic warrants the investment.
Traffic Management
10.         The traffic management component to be executed by the Tianjin
Traffic Research Institute (TTRI) of the Tianjin Public Security Bureau Traffic
Division, includes separate elements for traffic control and traffic safety, as
described helow.
11.         Traffic Control.  The long range plan for traffic signal control is
for a partially distributed system comprising a central master control center and
three subordinate subnetworks controlled by separate computers.   The traffic
control component of the project will begin implementation of this plan by
developing the master control center and the center city sub-network control
scheme. Within this area, approximately 70 intersections will be connected and
controlled centrally, and an additional 20 sites within the denser areas inside
the  inner  ring  road will  function  as  isolated  intersections.    Physical
investments include (a) construction of a control center facility (1000 m2); (b)



Annex 6
- 74 -                                page 4
a second level traffic control computer system with related peripherals; (c) a
wire cable communications network to interconnect approximately 70 inner ring
road and other center city intersections; (d) improvements at approximately 90
center city intersections including channelization, pavement markings, traffic
signals and controllers; and (e) acquisition of specialized vehicles including
an instrumented vehicle for traffic surveys, a maintenance van and bucket truck
for maintenance of overhead traffic signals. The 90 individual controllers will
be provided with interfaces for the future installation of magnetic loop
detectors, but implementation of the detectors themselver will be deferred. The
project will not include acquisition of closed circuit television (CCTV), as this
is not considered necessary to operate the system within the foreseeable future.
12.         Traffic  Safety  Component.    Analysis  of  these  records  in the
municipality as a whole (both rural and urban districts) shows that the principal
traffic safety problem to be speeding by trucks on suburban roads. Although the
non-urban districts contain only 50% of the population, they account for 80% of
fatal traffic accidents. Alcohol abuse is felt to be a contributing factor in
many of these accidents.   Enforcement activities are hampered by lack of
equipment to patrol suburban roads and to detect speeding and alcohol use by
drivers. The project will provide for acquisition of enforcement equipment for
the 10 Traffic Division districts including: radar speed detectors, alcohol
breath-analyzers, and a tow truck for removal of disabled vehicles. In addition,
the project will provide microcomputer equipment to support an improved accident
records management system.
13.         The second most serious traffic safety problem in Tianjin is the
conflict of pedestrian, bicycle, and motor vehicle traffic at intersections and
along narrow roadways.   The project will, therefore, support: traffic signs
(approximately 500); 100 km of pavement markings; 10 km of pedestrian barrier
railings; 25 km of concrete separators to divide motor vehicles from bicycle-only
lanes; and a pilot program using variable message signs to optimize lane
allocation between motorized and non-motorized traffic, and between freight and
passenger vehicles. The last is to maximize the capacity on some corridors where
bicycle traffic is particular heavy by taking advantage of differences in peak
flows of bicycles and of other vehicles.
Public Transport
14.         The project will finance the construction of two new bus maintenance
depots t) allow the bus company to correct maintenance capacity deficiencies, and
constru tion of a multimodal bus hub terminal.
15.         No. 6 Bus Maintenance Garage.   The component will finance the
construction of a sixth depot/maintenance facility to help reduce overloading at
the five existing depots. The proposed new No. 6 Garage will provide complete
maintenance capability (Grades I-IV) for 150 single unit buses and 200
articulated buses, and parking for 40 buses awaiting repair. The garage will be
located on the outer ring road at the crossing with Binshui Road.   The
preliminary site plan prepared by Tianjin Construction Institute has been
reviewed and found acceptable by the Bank. The plan includes separate buildings
for engine/chassis maintenance, body maintenance, administration, and smaller
ancillary buildings. The project will include construction of the buildings and
prorurement of equipment for bus maintenance and mechanical equipment for the



Annex 6
- 75 -                               page 5
buildings.
16.         Low-Grade Maintenance/Parking Garage. This element will finance the
construction of a new garage for parking and minor maintenance (Grades 1 and 2)
for   100 single unit and 200 articulated buses.   The proposed garage is
relatively close to Garage No. 2 and is intended to relieve overcrowding at that
facility and also to reduce the amount of non-revenue kilometers which increases
each year as route terminals move further away from the existing five close-in
depots. The site is located on unimproved land at the corner of Dagunan Road and
Haungyan Road in the Liulin area of the South Suburb of Tianjin. The mission
reviewed the preliminary site plan and found it acceptable. The facility will
include parking for 170 buses and buildings for bus maintenance workshops,
battery storage, heating and electric supply, bus refueling, administration and
small ancillary buildings. The component includes procurement of equipment for
bus maintenance, power supply, fire fighting and communications.
17.         Hub Bus Terminal.  One of the principal public transit problems in
Tianjin is the lack of intermodal coordination, resulting in inconvenient routing
and excessive transfer times for many passengers. The proposed Hub Terminal will
provide a convenient transfer facility for passengers using the urban bus,
suburban bus, and intercity rail system.   The component will finance the
construction of separate urban and intercity bus terminals on opposite sides of
Xinguanxun Street near the back entrance to the Tianjin main railway station.
The urban terminal will serve two new circumferential loop lines to be operated
by Tianjin Urban Transit Company on the inner ring road and new route to link the
railway station with Mingquanmen area of Hebei District.   The long distance
terminal will centralize 151 existing routes of Tianjin Long Distance Transit
Company serving 30 areas located between 645 and 581 km from Tianjin. The Bank
has reviewed and found acceptable the proposed site plan for the Hub terminal.
The intra-urban terminal will consist of three sheltered platforms on a 3000m2
site on the south side of Xinguaxun Street. The long discance terminal will be
located on a 4000m2 site on the opposite side of Xinguanxun Street, and will
contain a 4-story building with waiting area, ticketing and operations offices
on the ground floor, and administrative and staff facilities on upper floors.
All bus maintenance will be performed at the operating company's existing main
depot. The site will provide parking and berthing areas for a total of 26 buses.
Main access to the intra-urban terminal will be via recently completed Huaxing
Street, the railway station back square, and Xinguguanxun Street, wnich is to be
widened to 20m from the existing 9m. Access to the long distance terminal will
be via Xinguanxun Street and a new road to be built northwest from the railroad
station square.
18.         Urban Public Transit Policy and Implementation Study.  Tianjin is
unique among the world's major cities in the way the city has successfully
adopted a comprehensive approach to development of its urban transport sector by
articulating an explicit travel demand management policy and by reflecting that
policy in its on-going programs for management and develovment of land use and
infrastructure.   In the recent past, the municipal government has included
significant provisions for non-motorized traffic in all of its major road
infrastructure projects, so that travel by bicycle is a viable alternative to
motorized traffic for most passengers. Concern about the long range congestion
impacts of continued growth of bicicle use has led to a re-evaluation of the role
of private vs. public transport. Since the adoption of the Comprehensive Plan



- 70 -                                page 6
in 1986, the guiding principle of urban transport policy in Tianjin han been the
containment of deoind for rood npace by tite private transport modes (including
bicyclo, motorcycle and private automobIle) by means of increanod une of public
transport.
19.         In order to Implement this demand management policy, city leaders
have to make difficult choices among competing demands for scarce resources. To
facill.tote thin proceas, the project will oupport a atudy of public transport
policy  and  Imple%mentation  alternatives,  to be executed  by  IlRCC with  the
ajaintainee of local and international consultAnts.  A draft terms of reference
are given in Annex 7. The objectives of the study are: (a) update and improve
the database and models for analyzing and forecasting urban passenger transport
demand; (b) evaltiate the technical, social, economic, e nvironmental and financial
impact:s of the exinting trendn in the pannenger trannport subsector; (c) assesn
the relatJve impacts of alternative subsoctor devellopment strategle; and (d)
propone a 5 year program to imploment the mont viable alterniative for increasing
public trantsport mode share.
20.         Ot her Tecbhnical Annritantice and Trainin4  . Roadn and public transport
subsect orn are manjor target atean of the planning and mantagement component.
Particular arieas of emphasis under tihe  component will include:  finrancial
accoutit ing and maniagement of PTC; economic evaluation  of road  anld public
trannport linvesntnentits; planning of pavemenlt management and bun maintenance; and
monitoring and analynis of demand for road npace and bus trips.   For    road
planning and particularly O&M management, the planning and managemenit component
includon three montllin of toreign road enigineer's input (mainly for pavement
maintenance syntem), tralning of specialint staff in transportation planning and
nanagenpint in varioun plaesn, nnd about neven overseas study tours by URCC, MEB,
MESDI, and Road' Department managers.
21.         tuo to the clone links of thene topics with the study on public
trannit, TM1 will manage the technical annintance and training under the two
componento in antintegrated maniner, considerinig the study as a more technical and
focusned caep of tht plRnning And management improvement in the sector.  Foreign
consultanto for the Study will be roquifed to devote at least one peroon-month
for formal treininilg of TM1Wnpecialints in transportation planning, economica, and
bus system management.  Further, in conjunction with the study, three or four
senior staff of the TIITOR, PUB and the PTC will tour several cities overseas
focuning on intu'rmodal coordination and public transport .anagement.  TIITOR will
identify one or two specialist. for longer (3 to 6 months) overseas training in
the name subjectn.  PTC will select about 10 specialista for formal training
(about 3 months on Average) in relevant engineering and management aubjects in
Tianj ln or elnowbere in China, and organize a series of internal training
sessions for operators for a total of 250 staff-weeks.
22.          In add1iton to training and equipment provided under the planning and
management- t.ompnnent for road planning and management, the project will also
finance rad cdiagnontic equipment (base coot US$200,000), and a serien of in-
houne (ahliki  300 staff-weeks), formal domestic (20 person-montho) training for
operators' awsl planners on technical subjects, and a fellowship (about 6 months)
to study adviuuied road engineering oversees.  These additional training programs
are exporfstd t(o cont about US$30,000.



Annex 6
-77-                                 page 7
23.         Technical assistance and training for traffic management will include
installation assistance and basic operational training by supplier of the traffic
signal system. For efficiency, the supplier's expert will train a small number
of specialist staff of TERDI and the latter will train the others. Before the
signal system procurement process starts, three or four managers and specialists
of the Traffic Division and the TERDI will conduct a tour of several countries
to observe traffic control and safety management systems and techniques. TERDI
will also allow two senior specialists to enroll in overseas institutions to
study traffic control systems for six to nine months. The project will also
finance equipment for traffic police training and driver education. The base
cost of these traffic management training activities and equipment, in addition
to the technical assistance provided by the signal system supplier, would total
about US$130,000.
Economic Analysis
24.         The proposed road improvements to the west and north sections of the
inner ring road (IRR) would reduce congestion at key intersections of the inner
ring road and the surrounding street network in the future. The main economic
benefit is a reduction in vehicle operating costs for the traffic using the
affected subnetwork in comparison to what the costs would be for a "do-nothing"
scenario.   In order to quantify these effects, a subnetwork was developed
comprising 18 links on the IRR and other main roads adjacent to or affected by
the IRR. Future traffic volumes were estimated by linear extrapolation from 1990
counts provided by TMG, using growth rates of 4% for motor vehicles and 0% for
non-motor vehicles. The rate for motor vehicles reflects the current trend over
the past 5 years, and the rate of growth chosen for non-motor vehicles reflects
TMG's policy to contain growth of this mode by diverting future demand increases
to public transport, as described above. Traff' congestion levels, measured by
the ratio of volume to capacity at intersections, were computed for each node of
the subnetwork at five year intervals, and these were translated into the
corresponding average speed over the affected links.  Link vehicle operating
costs (VOC) were obtained by multiplying future link volume by unit vehicle
operating costs for the mean speed of that link. These unit VOCs were obtained
by using the VOC submodel of HDM/PC for a constant speed of 30 km/h, and then
applying normalized curves of VOC as a function of speed which were developed for
other World Bank financed urban transport projects in Bangkok, Lima and Jamaica.
25.         This analysis shows an economic rate of return of 171 for the
proposed investment based on vehicle operating costs alone (without passenger
travel time benefits).   Although no specific methodology is available for
estimating the value of passenger travel time in China, it would be reasonable
to expect that this might increase the rate of return by approximately 25-30S,
for an ERR of 21%.   A similar methodology was applied to the Middle Ring
Road/Beijing Highway interchange, with a resulting ERR of 15 (excluding time
savings) and 19% (including time savings).
26.         Economic analysis of the traffic management and public transport has
to be done on a more conceptual level due to the broader nature of the impacts
to be derived. Experience with area traffic control systems in other developing
countries indicates rates of return in the range of 35-50% for these types of
investments. In the case of public transport investments, estimation was made



Annex 6
- 78 -                               page 8
only of narrow range of benefits directly related to reduction of bus operating
and maintenance costs and time savings for the riders. These benefits result in
an ERR of 19.61 for the maintenance workshop No. 6 of 19.61, 22.31 for the low-
grade garage, and 231 for the Hub Terminal.



Annex 7
79                                 page 1
CHINA
TIANJIN URBAN DEVELOPMENT AND ENVIRONMENT PROJRCT
Public Transport Policy and Management Study
Draft Terms of ReZe, tnce
1  BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES
1.          Tianjin has been expanding its road system to keep pace with its
growing economic output and population growth. Although the road development
program has been well planned and executed, the level of traffic congestion is
increasing rapidly, to a point where many key sections of the city will become
saturated in the near future. This is a result of the changing mode shares
for public and private transport during the 1980., as shown in Table 1. Since
the adoption of the Comprehensive Plan in 1986, the guiding principle of urban
transport policy in Tianjin has been the containment of demand for road space
by the private transport modes (including bicycle, motorcycle and private
automobile) to be accomplished by means of increased use of public transport
by the travelling public. In order to implement this policy, city leaders are
faced with making difficult choices among competing demands for scarce
resources. To facilitate this process, TMG will carry out a study of public
transport policy and implementation alternatives, as described in these terms
of reference.
Table 1    Passenger Trips by Mode, 1981 - 90
----------------------------------------------
1981     1990    Change
----------------------------------------------
Walk                  29.52    10.6:    -18.92
Public:
Public Bus          11.42     8.32     -3.12
Subway               0.02     0.02  (Note 1)
Public subtotal     11.42     8.32     -3.12
Private:
Bicycle             56.22    74.62     18.42
Auto and other       2.92     6.52      3.62
Private subtotal    59.12   81.12    22.02
100.02   100.02
Notes
1. Subway ridership < 0.12 of total daily trins.
2. "Private" includes taxis, private autos,
and private or chartered buses.
2.          The main objective of the study is to identify an action plan to
improve the effectiveness of the public transportation and increase its modal
share and contribution to the overall urban transport system of Tianjin by:



Annex 7
- 80 -                                page 2
(a)   Evaluating the technical, social, economic, environmental and
financial impacts of the existing trends in the passenger
transport subsector;
(b)   Asses6ing relative impacts of alternativ-e ztrategies to He-ePpr
the urban public transport; and
(c)   Updating and improving the database and models for urban passenger
transport demand forecasting and analysis.
3.          The study area will be the six urban districts of the Tianjin city
proper and part of suburban districts identified as significant origins or
destinations of passenger travel.  The planning period shall be the 12-year
period 1993 - 2005. In forecasting passenger travel demand and behaviour,
both the fixed and floating populations will be considered.
II. WORK PROGRAM
4.          This section describes the overall technical work program to be
carried out jointly by the Study Team consisting of various teams and
consultants (see Section IV - Organization).
Task A - Inventory of Existing Passenger Transport System
5.          Subtask A-1: Home-Based Travel Pattern and Behavior Survey.  Carry
out a questionnaire survey of a sample of households in the study area. The
sampling .ate is expected to be in the range of 1% - 5%, depending on the
final design of the questionnaire and modelling process. It is anticipated
that the questionnaire would be administered through the following:
Self administered Travel Pattern Survey distributed to the entire
sample, and containing basic questions regarding trip origin,
destination, purpose and mode as well as main socio-economic
characteristics of passengers (sex, age, job, etc.);
Home Interview Travel Behavior Survey, admin'sdtered by specially trained
interviewers and containing, in addition to the items listed above, more
detailed questions regarding the attributes of individual trips. The
purpose of this survey is to calibrate a disaggregate modal choice model
which wouldcbe sensitive to the various decision variables and
improvement measures described under Task C;
Traffic Counting Program, of link vehicle classification counts on the
three case study corridors, and 24 hour passenger and vehicle counts at
the Haihe River or other suitable screenline, for the purposes of
calibrating the traffic forecasting model.
6.          Subtask A-2: Existing Public Transport Survey of the following:
Ridership: count on and off volumes at each stop, by posting two
surveyors on board per door of every run of every urban route;



Annex 7
- 81 -                                page 3
Bus Speed and Delay: measure the link travel time, waiting time, delay
types and causes for a representative sample of runs on each route;
One-Way Sections: a special survey of bus routes in which outbound and
Let.rlr runs utilize different paths, to determine if in'ound and
outbound paths can be consolidated.
Level of Service: record headway and on-time performance of each run
during one week for each route;
Bus Deployment and Maintenance: practices and bus conditions surveyed at
all five existing bus depots.
Enterprise Owned Buses and Cars, Taxis and Private Route Buses:
Questionnaire survey to be filled out by managers of these alternative
public transport modes, on numbers of passengers, areas served, hours of
service, finances, etc.;
7.          Subtask A-3: Urban Transport Finance Survey.  Obtain detailed data
on revenues and expenditures for investment, operation, and maintenance during
the previous five years and planned expenditures during the next three years
for roads, traffic management, bus and subway. Revenues to be considered
include public transport fares and road user charges and registration fees for
other vehicles. For the bus and subway systems, collect and analyze detailed
costs and revenues for at least half of all route segments over a year,
allocating system-wide costs to routes and segments and noting seasonal or
other variations.
Task B - Urban Travel Demand Database and Models
8.          Subtask B-1: Database framework design.  Review the needs of
various users of urban travel demand data, and design an appropriate database
structure to serve these needs.
9.          Subtask B-2: Database development and organization.  Organize the
survey data collected as above in a comprehensive database for use throughout
the study.
10.         Subtask B-3: Model Development.  Develop, calibrate and validate
appropriate models for urban transport planning including trip generation,
distribution, disaggregate mode choice, traffic assignment, bus route network
analysis. The models shall enable users to obtain quantitative description of
the impact of alternative plans and strategies, incorporating the types of
improvements, on decision variables as described below under Task C.
11.         Subtask B-4: Select applicable computer hardware.  Based on the
results of previous subtasks, determine microcomputer hardware and software
which will be required to implement the recommended database and modelling
applications.



Annex 7
- 82 -                                page 4
Task C - Formulation and Evaluation of Alternative Scenarios
12.         Subtask C-1: Design of a evaluation system.  Identify important
criteria for evaluating trends or alternatives and develop an appropriate
procedure and summary indicator reflecting the criteria which would includa:
-     traffic flow and capacity;
-     level of service and ridership of public transport;
-     door to door passenger travel time, by mode and purpose;
-     economic, social, and environmental costs and benefits; and
-     financial costs and revenues for the users, the public transport
companies, and the municipal government.
13.         Subtask C-2: Analysis of Existing System and Trend.  Using the
model developed under Task B, simulate the effects of continuing the existing
patterns and trends in travel behaviour, urban and economic growth at several
time points over the study period. This will produce a series of specific
measures of effectiveness for each year. These measures of effectiveness will
describe, in quantitative terms, the performance of the system with respect to
the decision criteria described above. Analyze the simulation results in
order to diagnose problems under the "existing" and the "trend" scenarios,
mainly in terms of economic, financial, and environmental costs and benefits.
14.         Subtask C-3: Formulation of Alternatives.  Based on the results of
the existing trend simulation, formulate several alternative targets for
public transport mode share during the plan period, at certain intermediate
dates, for example, 20% by 2000 and 30% by 2005. For each of these targets,
the Group shall -;timate economic and financial costs of accomplishing the
necessary increases in public transport mode share using several alternative
strategies which could involve actions such as:
-     increasing the frequency of buses and improving the on-time
performance (i.e. improving reliability) to reduce waiting time;
-     providing exclusive bus lanes and/or reorganizing the route
structure to obtain more through routes to decrease travel time;
-     Extending bus and/or subway lines to serve a larger area;
-     Improving coordination of bus stops and bus fares with subway
stations and subway fares, to encourage intermodal transfers;
-     Modifying structures of travel pricing, including bus and subway
fares and charges on vehicles;
15.         Subtask C-4: Simulation and Analysis of Alternatives.  Each of the
alterr.atives strategies described in D-2 will be modeled to quantify the
various impacts on travel demand by mode and their economic, financial, and
environmental implications. A comparative assessment of the alternatives
based on these impacts will be carried out in order to identify the most
feasible strategy.



Annex 7
- 83 -                                page 5
Task D - Develop Public Transport Policy and Implementation Program
16.         Based on the preferred strategy chosen, formulate an optimal urban
public transport policy and a time-phased plan to implement the policy. These
will include, inLer aiim, rec.ommendations for:
-     travel pricing for public and private transportation modes;
-     appropriate market and organizational structure for public
transport providers;
-     operational and financial targets for public transport providers
and appropriate financing mechanism;
-     technical and marketing improvement for their operation;
-     necessary support facilities for public transport; and
-     public transport routes and road accesses for various modes.
I-I. ORGANIZATION OF THE STUDY
17.         The study will be executed by a Study Group organized as below.
Overall leadership shall be provided by a Leading Group of Tianjin Urban and
Rural Construction Commission (URCC). The Leading Group will be supported by
five technical teams, with responsibilities and composition as follows:
Team 1: Planning and Management Team
Responsibilities: Establishment of overall work plan and methodology,
strategic planning, including the specification and evaluation of
alternative public transport development strategies, and coordination of
the work of the other four teams.
Composition: Tianjin Urban Transport Overall Research Group (TUTOR)
Team 2: Travel Demand Database and ModellinR
Responsibilities: Organization and execution of surveys, design and
development of travel demand database, development and use of
forecasting and evaluation models.
Composition: Urban & Rural Planning Institute of Tianjin Planning
Bureau...
Team 3: Transit Marketing
Respot:sibilities: Organization of public transit passenger surveys,
market studies of public transit passengers and non-passengers to
identify passenger attitudes and ways to attract additional passengers.
Composition: Tianjin Public Transport Company and Tianjin Subway Bureau
Team 4: Transit Enterprise Management and Finance
Responsibilities: Analysis of institutional structure and management and
financial aspects of Tianjin Public Traffic Company and Subway Bureau,



- 84 -                               Annex 7
page 6
recommendation of improvements to management and financial systems and
procedures.
Composition: Tianjin Public Traffic Company, Subway Bureau, Finance
Bureau, and Finance vept of URCC.
Team 5: Bus and Traffic Operations Improvements
Responsibilities: Design and analysis .fJ alternative methods to improve
the speed, reliability and conveniencd of bus service and coordination
with subway service, particularly by means of traffic flow improvements.
Composition: Tianjin Public Traffic Company, Subway Bureau, Traffic
Brigade, and Planning Bureau.
18.         Training.  In addition to providing on-the-job assistance to the
counterpart staff, the foreign consultant should devote about one man-month
for: conducting a series of workshops on technical topics related to the
study, selected by TUTOR; and commenting on training programs for public
transit planning and management, conducted under planning and management
component and sub-sectoral training components of the project.
19.   Budget.  The indicative budget for the study is as follows:
Consultants
Foreign     @ US$17,000 (fees and per diem)
x 12 man-months          US$204,000
Local       @ Y8,000 (fees)
x 120 m-m                - Y960,000
Survey Expenses          Lump Sum           = Y480,000
International Travel    Consultants
@US$3,000 x 4 round trip       = US$12,000
Equipment and Other Direct Expenses        -   Y20,000
and                 US$10,000
-Total, Foreign          - US$238,000
Total, Local           - Y1,460,000
Total                  - Y2,750,000



Annex 8
- 85 -                                page 1
CHINA
TIANJIN URBAN DEVELOPMENT AND ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
Resettlement
A.    Scope and Purpose of Resettlement
1.          The project involves clearing and redeveloping about 17 ha of land
in several locations scattered in and around the city ^enter.  In the first
instance, most of the land cleared is required for the physical investment
components: for road widening, for the bus terminal, and for realignment of
drainage courses. At the same time, and as importantly, the resettlement and
redevelopment form a part (about 5% over four years) of the city's on-going
progra.n to improve land use efficiency and housing conditions.   About three
quarters of land area involved is residential, requiring resettlement of 4,046
households (13,480 people), who will relocate to better housing in six new
housing developments.   Most of the business  establishments  and community
facilities in the affected areas will get, after temporary relocation, newly
developed premises at or near the original sites. Table A8.1 lists the extent
and cost of demolition and resettlement by component.
2.          In view of the importance of housing improvement for q large number
of the relocating families, and to ensure adequate funding to minimize disruption
during the resettlement, the project will finance part of the cost of housing
construction required for residential resettlement according to an agreed plan.
Other costs for land clearing, non-residential relocation, moving and other cash
compensation for residents would be recognized as land acquisition costs for the
associated physical improvement components, but IDA credit would not be disbursed
for them.  Some of the cleared land, comprising parts of demolished building
sites which fall outside the new road or drainage realignments, and the adjoining
land would  be  later  redeveloped  for  commercial  and  other  uses.    These
redevelopments are not within the purview of the project, though they represent
an essential element in the central city redevelopment program.
3.          Housing Improvement.  Most of the housing stock to be demolished are
dilapidated one-story structures built before 1949, that are extremely crowded
and ill-epuipped. Each resident has only about 3.4 m of living space on average
or 6.6 m  of gross floor area.   Few of the housing units have individual
kitchens, water taps, or toilets (a communal toilet serving an average of two
hundred households). The areas are densely built up and have no land space to
add the individual facilities or commion infrastructure such as sewerage. Their
locations among non-residential facilities, many of which generate pollution, or
on the drainage courses add to the environmental hazards. Under the project, the
residents will move to adequately equipped apartment units about 2.5 times as
large as their old units, located in six new residential developments on average
about 4 km away from the old houses.
4.          Land Use Efficiency.  The residential population density at the city
center is very high, 500 to 700 people per hectare (ha), which, viewed with
relatively low building density, indicates overcrowding and low utilization of
land better suited for high-value added business activities.   The density,
however, drops off rapidly to under 200 persons/ha in areas about 3 km from the
center, which are close to new employment centers.   An efficient land use



Annex 8
- 86 -                                 page 2
strategy for Tianjin would call for: redeveloping land close to the center with
higher floor/area ratio mainly for business uses, and developing under-used or
unused land in the 3 to 10 km belt, close to industrial jobs located in the outer
belts, to a higher overall density.
5.           Part of the land cleared under the project will be used for higher
density buildings mainly for commercial and institutional uses.  Most of the
shops and offices will get back the same amount of new floor space as before, but
others which do not enjoy any locational advantages in the present sites will be
relocated elsewhere.  It should be noted that the road widening schemes will
provide the transforation infrastructure to support higher intensity land use in
the center, and the sewer and drainage schemes would help develop under-utilized
land in the 5 to lOkm belt. The new housing, located mostly in the middle belt
of the city, would contribute to locating more resideats in low-density areas
close to the new job centers.
Table A8.1   Scope and Cost of Demolition and Resettlement by Area
N:umber of   Area Demolished        Residential Compensation   Non-Hsg Totat
Hh. People Land  Floor  Hsg  m'/Nh  Hsg  m'/Hh (old/  Hsg. Other*  Costs**Costs
Location        Moved         Cm2)            (.2)        new) Cost Compen.
.  -.-.-.--' YOOO '------- >
Nanweidihe River  171  492  6234  5277  3730  21.8 10071  58.9  2.7  7050  696  1301  9047
Yueyahe River    11   54  662  709  305  27.7  732  66.5  2.4  512   65  332  909
Zhangxingzhuang  261  885 16201 10941  5322  20.4 14370  55.1  2.7 10059  1058  4626 15743
Yangzhuangzhi   0    0  1256  655    0            0               0    0   533  533
Binguan        157  531  77o  6114  4080  26.0  9792  62.4  2.4  6854  543  1700  9097
JiefangLu      95  240  7372  5676  1571  16.5  4713  49.6  3.0  3299  201  3352  6852
Bus Terminal   519  1452 15850 11711 10982  21.2 29651  57.1  2.7 20756  1778  724 23258
Traffic Mgmt   83  266  2000  1541  1541  18.6  4161  50.1  2X7  2912  155   19  3086
Interchange   160  657 13340 11971  4550  28.4 10465  65.4  2.3  7326  971  6081 14378
Inner Ring Road
North  2156  7373 137500 93883 48690  22.6 121725  56.5  2.5 85207  7190 37280 129677
West    433  1530 24371 18897 10112  23.4 25280  58.4  2.5 17696  1374  7254 26324
4046 13480 232556 167375 90883  22.5 230960  57.1  2.5 161671 14031 63202 238904
Note: * Other compensation includes moving compensation and ownership compensation.
** Not. "%using costs include demolition cost and compensation for non-residential facilities.
B.    Existing Practice of Resettlement
6.           The fast urban reconstruction during the last decade involved large
scale demolition, resettlement and redevelopment of the old city areas. During
a period from 1986 to 1989 alone, about two million m2 of old housing were
demolished and 100,000 households relocated. TMG has evolved a detailed set of
proce'ures and institutional arrangements based on a number of national and local
regulations as well as experience. The actions have been well coordinated to
cause minimal disruption: even for large scale resettlement involving 10,000 or
more households, it has taken less than a month from the start of demolition to
complete resettlement, and temporary shelters are not used except for few
residents who opt to wait for apartments other than the ones available.
7.           The - :.cess of the system owes to several key features of the system.
First, the compensation standards for resettlers, that evolved over the years,
are generous overall and incorporate various criteria reflecting not only
entitlement but also needs. Second, the demolition and resettlement operations



Annex 8
- 87 -                                page 3
are planned in an integrated manner as a part of the plan for the project
requiring the land.  Before a project plan can be approved, the implementing
agency has to obtain review and approval of a preliminary plan for resettlement
by Planning, Land, and Real Estate Bureaus and the necessary budget allocation.
Third, district governments and neighborhood committees, the grass-root agencies,
are closely involved in detailed physical and household surveys and final
planning of resettlement, negotiate with individual households on compensation,
and implement the plan.
8.          Although effective and well accepted,  the procedures  for land
acquisition and resettlement have two important elements that need to be changed.
First, the compe.sation formula do not take account of the value of location and
therefore do not play a role in efficient allocation of land.   Second, the
present practice of the district government assigning specific apartments in
compensation, though agreed with the households through individual consultations,
restricts the choice and is not conducive to development of competitive housing
markets. At the instance of this project, TMG will introduce new procedures to
allow households to choose among a fairly large number and wide range of
apartments offered by different housing companies. This would increase the role
of household preferences for location and other attributes of housing and also
the competition among real estate companies in Tianjin.
C.    Compensation Criteria and Resettlement Procedures
9.          Compensation. Under the established practice, a displaced household
is entitled to a replacement housing whose size would be determined on a formula
based  on:  the  floor  space  of  their  present  housing  unit  and  household
characteristics including size, family type, age and sex of members (such as to
allow separate rooms for children of different sex). In no case will a household
obtain housing smaller than that it vacates. Most will get 2 to 3 times the
floor space they now occupy. The average gross floor space of an apartment unit
offered under the project would be about 57 m 2, compared with 22 m2 of the units
to be vacated. The level and structure of the compensation can be characterized
as generous and fair.
10.         Most (close to 90X) of the relocating households are renting the
cut tent housing units and are likely to remain renters of the new apartments.
They will pay the standard subsidized rent, currently Yuan 0.3/m 2 a month and
increasing according to a housing reform plan under implementation. They may,
however, choose to purchase them by paying additional Yuan 210 - 250 per m
according to the current program of housing privatization. The owners of current
houses would be given, in addition to the new apartment entitlement as above,
ownersI compensation of Yuan 260 - 315 per m2 of the vacated housing. This will
ease the burden for them to remain owners, requiring on average additional Yuan'
3,500 to remain owners. In addition, all relocating households will each receive
Yuan 150 in cash for moving expenses.
11.         Under the new procedures introduced for the project, apartments will
not be assigned by the district governments but instead selected by the
households through a use of resettlement vouchers as described below.



Annex 8
- 88-                                page 4
j2.         Determining the Voucher Value.
(a)   District governments responsible for resettlement will determine, in
consultation with the households and subject to approval by TMG, the
floor space (m2) of new housing the households are entitled to
receive in compensation for resettlement according to the existing
regulations in force, as described above.
(b)   The Project Management Office (PMO) will determine the averak  init
price of new housing available for choice by the households for each
phase of resettlement by dividing the total cost of housing by total
floor space of hc ing and commercial space built, but excluding
floor area of facilities used by the residents free of charge or for
management of the housing complex.
The total cost of housing includes: (1) cost of constructing
structures and necessary infrastructure; (2) land acquisition; and
(3) taxes.
Please note that this is different to the "unit cost" to be used in
determining the civil works expenditures as the basis of withdrawing
the World Bank Credit, wh4.ch includes only the item (1) above.
(c)   Multiply the housing space entitlement (A) by the unit price (B) to
arrive at the value of the voucher to be given to the households.
13.         Selection and Settlement of Housing.
(a)   At least eight weeks before the planned date of resettlement, the
district governments will provide the affected households with the
vouchers and notify them of the plan, date and procedures of
resettlement and location, prices, and plans of available housing.
The voucher will bear names and signatures of all the household
members and the provision prohibiting its transfer. In most cases
each household will receive a voucher but joint households can elect
to split the voucher into two.
(b)   The housing development companies will make guides available, at
time periods designated by PMO, to help households inspect housing
available. The district governments will provide special assistance
to households headed by senior citizens, disabled persons, and
single heads of households.
(c)   By the end of four weeks after step  (a), the households will
indicate their first and second choices of housing (location, model,
floor, and orientation) to their neighborhood committees, which will
report to the district government which in turn will inform PMO of
the demand by characteristics.
(d)   PMO will compare demand and availability of each type of housing in
each location, and if demand exceeds the availability, assign them
by lottery. Otherwise, it will notify the district governments to
proceed with assignment as desired by the households. The excess



Annex 8
-89-                                  page 5
demand will be reflected in adjusting the sale prices of the housing
model in the next phase of resettlement.
(e)   At least two weeks before resettlement, the district government will
provide the households with the moving compensation and ownership
compensation and notice of various requirements for settlement. The
households will be allowed to move anytime within a week of tli
formal resettlement date.
(f)   The district governments in charge of the old residential area and
those in charge of the new residential area will assist the
households transfer resident registration, school registration, etc.
They will certify that the vouchers are used by the persons to whom
they are issued and issue a supplemental note indicating any
additional payment that the government owes the company or the
household on account of units chosen that are more or less expensive
than the voucher value (see para 14 below). The housing development
companies will collect the vouchers, certified as above and
countersigned by the household members, and will present the
vouchers to PHO for payment.
L4.         Variance between Voucher and Housing Choice.  It is not likely that
the value of the voucher and the price of housing chosen actually by a household
will be exactly the same. In most cases, the voucher value will fall between two
different models in a given location. Either of these bracketing models may be
chosen; further, models next higher or lower in value than the bracketing models
may be chosen under certain circumstances.   The criteria and the method of
adjustment are as follows.
(a)   Housing units more expensive than voucher value can be chosen
provided that the total (constructed) floor space per person would
2
not be larger than 16 m . Housing units less expensive than allowed
by the voucher value can be chosen, provided that the floor space
will not be not smaller than 9 m2 per person or 1.5 times the space
of the old housing they have vacated.
(b)   The difference between the voucher value and the price of the
bracketing unit will be settled by payment of one half of the
difference, by the household in the case of more expensive unit and
by TMG  for the less expensive unit.   Difference  between the
bracketing unit and the model next more c- less expensive than that
will be settled by payment of 80% of the price differential. The
households will make their payments in five equal semi-annual
installments beginning from the date of the settlement; and TMG will
make the compensating payment one half at the time of move and the
rest within six months of the move.
D. Implementation
15.         In order to implement the new procedures, TMG has selected housing
development projects in six different locations at an average distance of 4 km
from the sites of the old housing to be demolished.  These developments will
offer about 7,200 apartments (compared with 4,046 required for resettlement) with



Annex 8
- 90-                                 page 6
a relatively wide range of location, sizes, typea and quality. The relocating
residents will have easy access to fuller ranges of community facilities such as
schools, child care facilities, and clinics than they have at present, mostly
within the new apartment complexes or nearby. The developments were selected
through evaluation of all planned housing development projects planned by more
than 20 different real estate companies in the city on the basis of cost,
location, and range of facilities, in accordance with procedures acceptable to
the Bank Group.   These companies are among some 35 housing and real estate
development  companies  formed  since  1984.    Being  autonomous  enterprises
responsible for their own profits and losses, they construct housing and
commercial properties for sale mostly to enterprises which in turn rent the
housing to their employees. As a whole, these companies have been building an
average of 2 million m2 of housing a year, about two thirds of total housing
constructed a year in the city (the remainder built by industrial and government
entities.) Most of the companies are under the supervision of the Housing and
Real Estate Administration Bureau which reports  to URCC.   They maintain
enterprise accounts and project accounts according to the standard systems of
China, and audited by the Tianjin Audit Bureau.
16.         Community awareness and involvement. Households to be relocated are
all aware of the pending resettlement and have participated in discussions with
District officials regarding compensation.   Official surveys show that most
consider the resettlement beneficial. Informal interviews conducted by the Bank
Group mission confirmed this positive attitude toward resettlement. A number of
residents in areas adjacent to the demolition sites expressed their wish to be
included in the demolition area and be relocated. The benefit most often quoted
is the better housing in terms of space, structural safety, and facilities such
as running water and bath room inside the house. Preference is expressed for an
apartment as close as possible to their present location, but 5 or 6 km is
considered close enough (average actual distance between the old and new
residences would be about 4 km.)
Table A8.2            Schedule of Residential Resettlement
Quarter       Number of          Floor Area            Cost* (Yuan 1000)
Starting Apartments- People   (1000 m2)    Construction' Demolition  Moving
Oct-91      802                   46            32,043
Jan-92    1,218        2,670       70           48,663          216      2,780
Apr-92    1,185        4,058      68            47,338          328        4,223
Oct-93      448        3,948      26            17,881          319       4,108
Jan-94      393        1,492      22            15,747          121        1,552
Apr-94                 1 312       _                            106        1.367
Total     4,046       13,480     231           161,672         1,091      14.031
Note: * Base cost in September 1991 prices.
The minimum number and cost of apartments whose construction need to be
started by the indicated time.
17.         Schedulc. By August 1991, TNG has completed all steps in preparation
of housing cc,Lscruction, demolition, and resettlement. Major steps included:
physical survey and marking of properties to be demolished; a complete survey and



Annex 8
- 91 -                                page 7
registration of persons, households and businesses to be relocated; public
hearings to agree on ccmpensation standards in all neighborhoods affected; review
and approval of plans for construction of housing needed; estimation of costs of
resettlement and redevelopment; and scheduling of demolition and resettlement.
The estimated cost and implementation schedule are shown in Table A8.2. TMG will
adjust the schedule and cost estimates according to the progress of the
associated physical investment components and changes in prevailing prices.
18.         Planning and Monitoring.  A part of the ouarterly progress report
submitted to the Bank will include the record to date and the plan for next two
quarters of: the number of households and persons relocated by household
characteristics, residential floor area demolished, and the new apartment units
available and under construction in different locations.   Shortly after each
phase of resettlement takes place, the housing development companies and a sample
of the households will be asked to evaluate the resettlement operation mainly
regarding the apartment selection process as well as administrative arrangements
for moving and settlement. The eva'luation will be reflected in planning the next
phase. After about a year after resettlement, a sample of households will be
surveyed to evaluate the new housing and public facilities, and any socio-
economic char.ge that might be related to resettlement. For these surveys, about
5% to 10% of the total number of the households will be selected through strafied
random sampling.
19.         Disbursement.  IDA credit would be disbursed against a part of the
construction cost of the resettlement housing which is defined as the unit cost
of civil works per m2 of floor space multiplied by total m2 of apartments taken
up by the relocating households.  The unit cost would be determined for each
phase of resettlement following the same procedures as described in 12(b) above,
except that the total cost will not include land acquisition costs and taxes.
This unit cost will be determined for housing made available for resettlement for
each phase of resettlement, at the beginning of the selection and moving process,
on the basis of corstruction accounts kept by the housing development companies.
The accounts will be audited by auditors acceptable to the Bank Group within six
months after the completion of the housing development projects, and the
disbursement will be adjusted for discrepancy, if any.
20.         Organization.  A resettlement task force in the Project Management
Office will coordinate planning, implementation and monitoring of the
resettlement operations, and train district government staff in new procedures
using the voucher system and aiding households to choose new apartments. The
task force will also be responsible for managing payment of vouchers submitted
by the housing companies after ascertaining proper use of the vouchers, and
filing disbursement claims for the applicable credit proceeds.



- 92 -                             Annex 9
C
TIANJIN URBAN DEVELOPMENT AND ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
Estimated Coats by Subomponent and Category
(Yuan Mfllion )
Co,nponentl              Land &  Civil   Goods    TA    Poll'n  OSM         otr
Subcomponent           Compen*  Works           Train.  Control         Yuan    USS
........  -----  ..... . . .....  ....... .....  ..... .. ..... ........... ..........
Planning and Management                                                    (Million)
General Systems          0.00    2.23    9.12   14.06    0.00  1.72   27.13   4.98
Subsectoral Management
Sanitation               0.00    0.00    0.33    3.44    0.00  0.25    4.02   0.74
Transportation           0.00    0.00    1.39    3.44    0.00  0.33    5.15   0.95
Pollution Control        0.00    0.00    8.93    1.22    0.00  0.69   10.83   1.99
Subtotal                  0.00    2.23   19.78   22.15    0.00  2.98   47.14   8.65
Drainage and Sewerage
Jiefang Lu               3.49   20.00    1.05    0.00    0.00  1.66   26.19  4.81
Bin Guan                 1.77   21.07    0.93    0.00    0.00  1.60   25.37   4.66
Yueyahe                  0.35   Z4.23    1.74    0.00    0.00  1.78   28.10   5.16
Nanweidihe               1.35   19.42    2.07    0.00    0.00  1.54   24.38   4.47
Yangzhuangzhi            0.55    4.15    0.28    0.00    0.00  0.34    5.32   0.98
Zhangxingzhuang          4.81   23.31    0.77    0.00    0.00  1.95   30.84   5.66
.............. ..............  .....  -----.. .....  -----.. -----  .......    .....
SubtotaL                 12.32  112.17    6.84    0.00    0.00  8.86  140.19  25.72
Solid Waste Management
Disposal System          0.00    8.35   33.40    0.00    0.00  2.82   44.56   8.18
Collection Vehicles      0.00    0.00   21.62    0.00    0.00  1.46   23.07   4.23
-----   -----.  ----- ..... . ................ .....    .......  ........ ..
Subtotal                  0.00    8.35   55.01    0.00    0.00  4.28   67.64  12.41
Transportation
Traffic Management       0.02    6.07   19.84    1.36    0.00  1.84   29.13   5.35
Inner Ring Road         46.34   32.28    0.00    0.00    0.00  5.31   83.92  15.40
Interchange              6.32    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00  0.43    6.75   1.24
Bus Terminal             0.75    2.76    0.84    0.00    0.00  0.29    4.64   0.85
Maintenance Workshops           35.35   18.07    0.00    0.00  3.61   57.03  10.46
....-   .....   -----           ----- .. -----  -----. . . -----........X......... .. ..
Subtotal                 53.43   76.46   38.75    1.36    0.00 11.48  181.48  33.30
Industrial Pollution
Control Fund                     0.00    0.00    0.00  205.27  6.93  212.20  38.93
Residential Resettlement  31.69  151.32                           6.18  189.19  34.71
Total Base Cost           97.44  350.53  120.38   23.51  205.27 40.70  837.83 153.73
+ Physical        12.5%
Contingencies          12.18   43.82   15.05    2.94   25.66  5.09  104.73  19.22
... ....    ......    ... ...    ---- ......   ......   ......   .... . .
Total, 2/92 prices **    109.62  394.35  135.42   26.45  230.93 45.79  942.56 172.95
+ Price Contingencies
Yuan       20.7X  11.33   63.92   27.99    5.47   47.73  9.46  165.91
Total. Current Prices    120.94  458.27  163.42   31.92  278.66 55.25 1108.46
In USS million
Base Cost                 17.88   64.32   22.09    4.31   37.66  7.47  153.73
Physical Contingencies     2.23    8.04    2.76    0.54    4.71  0.93   19.22
Total, 2/92 prizes **     20.11   72.36   24.85    4.85   42.3?  8.40           172.95
Price Contingencies
15.0X   1.51    8.50    3.72    0.73    6.35  1.26           22.06
Total. Current Prices     21.62   80.86   28.57    5.58  48.7   9.66            195.00
Note:   * Base cost in February 1992 prices and USSI = Y5.45
* "Land and Compensation" includes costs of demolition and non-residential
compensation.  Moving cost and non-civil works cost of new housing are
shown as land and coampensation under Resettlement.
* "DSM" = Design, Supervision and Management



- 93  -                                       Annex  10
page  1
CHINA
TIANJIN URBAN DEVELOPMENT AND ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS OF SELECTED INFRASTRUCTURE AND SERVICES
Table A10.1         Projected Infrastruoture and Environment Budgets
of Tiann Munkipalty                       RMB Yuan miltion
MUNICIPAL GOVERNMENT BUDGETARY REVENUES
1989  1990  1991  1992  1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999  2000
-Actual ->Est.  -------   Projected   ---------------------->
National Tax Revenues
Retained by TMG        155a  1463  1495  1555  1664  1813  1977  2174  2392  2631  2868  3097
Local Taxes
Urban Maintenance and
Construction Tax       274   262   270   281   300   327   357   393   432   475   518   559
Public Works Surtax      65    66    66    69    73    80    87    96   106   116   127   137
Other Local Taxes       854   885   901   937  1003  1093  1191  1310  1441  1586  1728  1866
Local Enterprise Income  562   409   440   458   490   534   582   640   704   774   844   911
Total Budaetarv Revenue 3313  3085  3172  3299  3530  3847  4194  4613  5074  5582  6034  6571
INFRASTRUCTURE AND ENVIRONMENTAL REVENUES
BSDGETARY REVENUES (included above)
Earmarked Revenues      339   328   336   349   374   408   444   489   538   591   644   696
Other Allocations       250   245   200   210   229   250   272   296   323   352   384   418
Total Budgetary         589   573   536   559   603   657   716   785   '61   943  1028  1114
(X of TMG total)         18%   19%   17%   17%   17%   17%   17%   17%   17%   17%   17%   17%
EXTRA-BUDGETARY REVENUES
Pollution Levy           19    20    19    19    19    19    26    34    35    36    36    37
Development Income      119   126   120   121   121   121   121   121   121   121   121   120
MisceIlaneous            43    34    35    35    37    41    45    49    54    59    65    70
Total Extra-Budgetary  181   180   174   175   178   181   191   204   210   216   222   227
TOTAL INFRA. & ENV.       770   753   710   735   780   838   907   989  1070  1160  1250  1342
INFRASTRUCTURE AND ENVIRONMENTAL EXPENDITURES
1989  1990  1991  1992  1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999  2000
- ActuaL -Est.- --------   Projected   -----------------------------
Establishment Overhead    42    46    49    52    55    58    62    66    70    74    78    82
operation & Maintenance  245   254   262   278   297   321   348   380   414   451   492   531
Capital Expenditures      476   446   394   400   422   452   489   536   578   626   671   719
Surplus/Deficit(-)          7      7     5     5     6      7     8     8      9     9    10    10
PROJECT-RELATED EXPENDITURES      (Included Above)
Counterpart Fuiding                      5    47    94    94    94    94    47
Additional 08f                                              1     2      3     3     3     3      4
Debt Service                                                                  48    48    48    49
Total                                  5    47    94    95    96    97    98    51    52    53
as X of Total Infra. & Env.        0.7%  6.4% 12.1% 11.4X 10.6%  9.8X  9.2%  4.4%  4.1%  3.9%
Rates of Increases. Actual and Assumed
1989  1990  1991  1992  1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999  2000
- Actual ->Est.> --------   Assumed        ----------------------------->
Nominal
General Prices               10.0   8.0   6.0   5.0   5.0   5.0   5.0   5.0   5.0   5.0   4.0
Pollution Levy Rate           0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0  30.0  30.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
Miscellaneous Rates, Average         3.0   3.0   4.0   5.0   5.0   5.0   5.0   5.0   5.0   5.0
Real Growths
Enterprise Taxes & Income  -15.3  -4.8  -2.0   2.0   4.0   4.0   5.0   5.0   5.0   4.0   4.0
Establishment Overhead       -0.4  -1.4   0.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0
Operation & Maintenance       -5.8  -4.5   0.0   2.0   3.0   3.5   4.0   4.0   4.0   4.0   4.0
Development Income            -3.7 -11.8  -5.0  -5.0  -5.0  -5.0  -5.0  -5.0  -5.0  -5.0  -5.0
--                    --             --             --              -       --             -
Note: * Not including living cost subsidies shared with centraL government.
* Tax base of Tianjin grew on average by 7.7% a year in real terms during 1980-88.



- 94  -                                      Annex  10
-                               ~~~~~~~page 2
Tb4e A1O.2                   Tmian  Sewerage lCollecton and Tretmenti Operation
Summary Financial Prolection                     (Yuan mi llion)
Year        1990   19P1   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999   2000
Actual   Est.  I---------Projected----------------------------------------
CURRENT OPERATIONS
Service Volume, million m3
Sewage                 475    489    503    518    539    561    583    601    619    637    656
Treatment               95      95     95    190    190    190    190    190    190    190    190
Unit Rate,  Fen/mC3
Sewerage                 12     12     12     15      15     15     15      15     15     15     15
Treatment                9       9      9      0      0       0      0      0       0      0      0
Bitling,     X          40.1X  45.0X  60.0X  70.01  75.0X  75.01  80.01  80.01  80.01  80.01  80.01
Collection,  X          92.0%  92.01  95.01  95.0  95.0%  95.01  95.01  97.5X  97.51  97.51  97.51
CURRENT INCOME AND EXPENDITURES
EXPENSES
Salaries & Benefits   6.22   6.65   7.18   8.01   8.54   9.11   9.72  10.37  10.99  11.65  12.35
Electricity           5.35   5.72   7.09  10.77  11.49  12.26  13.08  13.95  14.78  15.67  16.61
Materials & Equipmt   5.91   6.32   7.17   9.09   9.70  10.34  11.03  11.77  12.48  13.22  14.02
Repairs                1.03   1.11   1.45   2.41   2.57   2.75   2.93   3.12   3.31   3.51   3.72
Admin. & Other        4.46   4.77   5.27   6.27   6.68   7.13   7.60   8.11   8.60   9.11   9.66
TOTAL EXPENSES       22.96  24.57  28.15  36.56  38.99  41.59  44.36  47.32  50.16  53.17  56.36
OPERATING INCOME         1.18   3.21  11.10  15.17  18.64  18.34  17.97  37.02  39.43  41.90  FS.64
Depreciation          5.55   5.92   6.41  10.10   6.78   7.48   8.57   9.75  11.20  12.81  14.06
Interest Payments     n/a    n/a    n/a    n/a    n/a    n/a    0.00   0.00   0.90   3.00   4.20
NET INCOME/LOSS         -4.38  -2.71   4.69   5.07  11.86  10.86   9.40  27.27  27.32  26.09  37.39
SOURCES AND APPLICATION OF FUND
1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999   2000
.................... ...............................  -----. ----  -- -  -- -  -----    .....  -----.. .....
SOURCES
Net Income             1.18   3.21  11.10  15.17  18.64  18.34  17.97  37.02  39.43  41.90  55.64
World Bank            0.00   0.00   0.75   1.89   2.26   1.51   0.75   0.38   0.00   0.00   0.00
Net TMG Allocation   46.11  34.18   9.62   2.47   1.24  -1.52
Local Banks                                                       0.00   0.00  30.00  30.00   0.00
TOTAL                47.29  37.39  21.48  19.52  22.14  18.33  18.72  37.40  69.43  71.90  55.64
APPLICATIONS
Pension Payments      0.74   0.79   0.84   0.89   0.94   1.01   1.07   1.15   1.21   1.29   1.36
Rehabilitation        5.55   3.60   4.33   6.35   6.66   7.00   7.35   7.72   8.10   8.51   8.93
Bank Project          0.00   0.00   4.31  10.78  12.93   8.62   4.31   2.16   0.00   0.00   0.00
Other Projects       41.00  33.00  12.00   1.50   1.60   1.71   1.82  20.00  60.00  60.00  45.00
Increase in Cash                                                  4.17   6.38   0.11   2.11   0.35
Notes:  Expenses shown are estimated cash outlays for sewerage and sewage treatment operations (including the
second treatment plant expected to start operation in late 1992), by excluding the estimated costs of
drainage services which are now accounted for in combination with sewage collection services.  The
latter are estimated to be about 48% of the combined costs, shown ir .he following table.  The
Drainage Division keeps its acc.ounts on cash basis following the goverrnent agency accounting systm
of China, which makes it difficult to construct a balance sheet.
Under the project, the Drainage Division will establish a new accounting system for the sewerage
operations separate from drainage services, with the appropriate balance sheet and a funds flow
statement. Further, later during the project, TMG will transfer all or part of the sewerage services
to an autonomous entity, which is expected to use loans instead of TMG budgetary allocations for
necessary funds and pay market interests, as shown here.
The rates of increase of costs are projected to be sun of the inflation rate (shown in Table A10.1)
and a half of the increase in sewage volume, in line with past experience.
For further discussion of management, accounting, and financing of the drainage and sewerage
operations, refer to Chapter IV, Sections C and D of the SAR.



95-                                           Annex  10
page 3
Tab A10.3                      Tinjin Drainage and Sewiaga (Collectoni Opwatlon
Summary Financial Projction                      (Yuan miLlion)
Year        1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999   2000
Actual   Est.  I -       Projected -----------------------------------------
SUW@ARY OF OPERATIONS
Service Volume, million m3
Sewage                 475    489    503    518    539    561    583    601    619    637    656
Treatment               95      95     95    190    190    190    190    190    190    190    190
Unit Rate,  Fen/m3
Sewerage                 12     12     12     15      15     i5     15     18      18     18     20
Treatment                9       9      9      0      0       0      0      0       0      0      0
Bitling,     K          40.1X  45.0X  60.0X  70.0X  75.0   75.0X  75 0  80.0K  82.5X  85.0%  87.5X
Collection,  K          92.01  92.0X  95.0K  95.0K  95.0K  95.0   95.0   97.5X  97.5X  97.5%  97.5K
CURRENT INCOME AND EXPENDITURES
TOTAL REVENUES         24.14  27.78  39.25  51.727.63  5794  62=33  84.34  89.59  95.07 112.01
EXPEbSES
Salaries & Benefits  11.89  12.72  13.49  14.30  15.25  16.27  18.06  19.27  20.42  21.65  22.95
Electricity           5.62   6.01   6.37   6.76   7.21   7.69   8.20   8.75   9.27   9.83  10.42
Materials & Equipmt  8.75   9.36   9.92  10.52  11.22  11.97  12.77  13.62  14.43  15.30  16.22
Repairs               2.15   2.30   2.44   2.59   2.76   3.94   3.14   3.35   3.55   3.76   3.99
Adcsin. & Other       6.95   7.44   7.88   8.36   8.91   9.51  10.14  10.82  11.47  12.15  12.88
TOTAL EXPENSES       35.36  37.84  40.11  42.51  45.35  48.37  52.31  55.80  59.14  62.69  66.45
OPERATING INCOME       -11.22 -10.06  -0.86   9.21  12.28  11.56  10.03  28.55  30.44  32.38  45.55
Depreciation          2.15   2.19   2.25   2.30   2.52   3.22   4.40   5.62   6.57   7.35   8.05
Interest Payments     n/a    n/a    n/a    n/a    n/a   .i:a   n/a    n/a    n/a    nla    n/a
NET INCOIE/LOSS        -13.37 -12.25  -3.11   6.91   9.76   8.34   5.63  22.93  23.87  25.03  37.50
SOURCES AND APPLICATIONS OF FUND
1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999   2000
SOURCES
operations          -11.22 -10.06  -0.86   9.21  12.28  11.56  10.03  28.55  30.44  32.38  45.55
World Bank            0.00   0.00  11.21  28.02  33.63  22.42  11.21   5.60   0.00   0.00   0.00
Net TNG Allocation   23.14  18.77  15.90  13.71  14.09   9.24  13.43  -2.71  -2.21   1.29  -6.43
TOTAL                11.92   8.71  26.25  50.94  60.00  43.23  34.66  31.44  28.23  33.67  39.13
APPLICATIONS
Pension Payments      1.41   1.51   1.60   1.69   1.81   1.93   2.05   2.19   2.32   2.46   2.61
Rehabilitation        6.86   4.20   4.41   4.63   4.86   5.11   5.36   5.63   5.91   6.21   6.52
Bank Project          0.00   0.00  17.25  43.11  51.74  34.49  17.25   8.62   0.00   0.00   0.00
Other Projects        3.65   3.00   3.00   1.50   1.60   1.71  10.00  15.00  20.00  25.00  30.00
Mote:   The table above shows projection of operation and finances of the Drainage Division, excluding those
of the sewage treatment operations which are also managed by the Division but for which separate
accounts are kept. These will be the basis of the financial performance action plan under the
project in lieu oF the finances of the sewerage services in jeneral which cormt be confidently
detemined due tc the aecounting system currently used. The accounting system will be changed under
the project to permit distinction of sewerage collection expenses from those for drainage (see notes
to the preceding Table).
Sumnary of operations shown in the first part of the Table as well as projected unit cost increases
are the sane as for the preceding Table.



- 96 -                                         Annex  10
page 4
Tabe AIOA4                                TiumFn Pub  Transpon Company
Opwiatng and FSIandIB PFtDHmans                    RIB Yuan m; Wan
SUt1AMY OF OWERATiONS      1989  1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1M       2000
-- A.tl --  *Est  .----------   Projected        ---------------------------------->
P eenger Trips (mill.) 724.3  711.5  701.6  743.7  788.4  835.7  869.1  929.9  995.0 1064.7 1139.2 1218.9
Monthly Pans Holders 260.7  291.7  256.7  272.1  288.4  305.7 318.0  340.2  364.0  389.5  416.8  446.0
(Rate of Increas, X)                  -12X     6X    6X      6X    4K    7X    7X         7X     7X    7X
Deily Tfckets          t3.6  419.8  444.9  471.6  499.9  529.9  551.1  589.7  631.0  675.2  722.4  773.0
(Rate of Incr Xe,K)                     6X     6a 6X    6K    4X    7X    7X    7K               7X     7
NIher of BU              1860  1875   1888   1988   2088   2188   2288  2388   2488   2588   2688   278
1w Nilea   (witll. kIn) 101.2  101.2  101.9  107.2  112.6  118.0  123.4  128.8  134.2  139.6  145.0  150.4
Averae Fare (FenlTrip)
Monthly Pass              4      4      6      7      7      7      9      10    10      10     1S    15
Daily Tickets             8     11    13    13    13    13    15    16            16     20     20     20
REVENt.ES
Daily tickets           36.73  43.14  58.89  62.42  66.17  70.14  80.56  94.35 100.96 135.03 144.49 154.60
Monthly tickets         10.22  10.62  16.10  20.27  21.48  22.77  27.74  34.02  36.40  38.95  62.52  66.89
Charter revenue         11.47  13.35  13.35  13.62  13.89  14.17  14.45  14.74  15.04  15.34  15.65  15.96
Total revenue         58.42  67.11  88.34  96.31 101.54 107.08 122.76 143.12 152.40 189.32 222.65 237.45
EXPENSES
Wages *d bewfits        31.28 34.55  38.70  40.46  42.89  4.46  48.19  51.08  54.15  57.40  60.84  64.49
Fuel                    20.63  20.24  22.26  24.61  27.15  29.87  32.79  35.94  39.32  42.94  46.83  51.00
Repair & mIntenance    13.21  15.13  16.64  18.40  20.29  22.32  24.51  26.86  29.39  32.10  35.00  38.12
Other oper. expen        8.24   7.58   8.34   8.76   9.20   9.66  10.14  10.65  11.18  11.74  12.33  12.94
Overhead 3nd Taxes      18.49 21.06  23.17  24.33  25.54  26.82  28.16  29.57  31.05  32.60  34.23  35.94
Total current expenses 91.85  98.57 109.11 116.56 125.07 134.14 143.80 154.10 165.08 176.78 189.23 202.50
Operating Income         -33.43 -31.46 -20.77 -20.26 -23.53 -27.06 -21.05 -10.98 -12.68  12.55  33.41  34.95
Depreciation             5.81   5.88   6.56   7.41   8.53  10.14  11.68  12.61  13.16  13.54  13.96  14.42
Net Operating Income     -39.24 -37.33 -27.33 -27.66 -32.06 -37.20 -32.73 -23.59 -25.84  -1.00  19.45  20.53
Non-Operating Revenue  55.41  62.59  57.50 60.39  63.27  66.14  68.99 49.14 34.94  24.81  17.59   0.00
Less Interest Payment   0.16  0.23   0.14   0.08   0.06   0.04   0.04   0.04   0.04   0.04   0.04   0.39
Net Incnm                 16.33  25.48  30.31  32.82  31.28  28.97  36.29  25.58   9.14  23.85  37.07  20.92
Note:   Non-operating revenue consists in compensation paid by THO for operating the bus routes as  nbdated by
TNG.  Begnning from 1993, the copnsation is determined as:
Yuan 57,500,000
x (Bus Operating Kiloeters for the year)/(The sae in 1991)
x (0.8 x Official Urban Price Index t1991-1) + 0.2 x official Gasoline Price Index (1991=1))
x (1 - 0.OS5(the year - 1991))
The above formuta will be in effect .mtil superseded by a rw formula, acceptable to the world  ank, to
better reflect efficiency pricing and to take better account of specific costs attributable to ThG policy,
such as limitation on fares for certain groups of residents and operation of routes with little demnd.
The passenger trips are assumed to Increase faster (by 1K until 1995 and about 2X after 1996) than the bus
operating mileage, with certain decreases followed by increases due to fare increases.  The latter is
based on TNG,s plan to add about 100 buses a year in net.  Fare increases of about 25K is projected to
take effect from 1995.  The cost increases are assumed the san as increases in general prices and in the
bus operating mileage.



Annex 10
- 97 -                                            page 5
TaW  A10.4                                Tih*n Publo Trnspapt Company
CWondtnued                               Operaino g*nd Financia lr Pdojtn                           RNU Yuan millfon
BUNG[E SHEET               1989   1990  1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999   2000
Actual -->  4tt  4      .---------   Projected  ---------------------------------->
CUQRENT ASSETS
Cah                      3.55  37.93  37.52 43.92 46.37 41.66 48.78 46.39  27.18  19.60  21.98   9.72
Accounts Receivable     16.33  28.48  25.00 25.00 25.00  25.00  25.00  25.00  25.00  25.00  25.00 25.00
Inventory               11.92  13.18  13.24  13.77  14.29  14.80  15.31  15.81  16.31  16.80  17.29  17.77
Other                    4.62   4.92   4.94   5.14   5.33   5.52   5.71   5.90   6.09   6.27   6.45   6.63
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,.. .   ..:i; ...  ...... .....  .....   ..... .....  ....... .....  ....... .....
Total Current Aseta    36.41  50.97  53.53  53.41  61.19  58.18  69.59  72.49  60.07 59.23  68.32  74.85
LONG-TERN ASSETS
Fixed Assets (at cost) 190.64 197.01 219.01 246.77 282.31 333.37 368.91 396.68 417.68 439.73 462.88 487.19
Accumlated Deprec'n   60.85  66.72  73.28 80.68 89.22  99.36 111.04 123.65 136.80 150.35 164.31 178.73
Total long term     129.79 130.28 145.73 166.09 193.09 234.02 257.87 273.03 280.87 289.38 298.57 308.46
TOTAL ASSETS             166.21 181.25 19.26 219.50 254.28 292.20 327.46 345.52 340.94 348.61 366.88 383.31
LIABILITIES
Accounts Payable        32.75  30.12 30.20 30.84 31.46  32.06  32.65  33.22  33.78 34.32  34.85  35.37
Lons, short-term         1.50   2.00   1.00   0.50   0.50   0.50   0.50   0.50   0.50   0.50   0.50   2.50
Lons, Long-Ters          0.79   1.32   1.00  0.68   0.36   0.04   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00  3.00
EGUITY AND RESERVES    131.16 147.81 167.06 187.48 221.96 259.60 294.31 311.80 306.67 313.79 331.53 342.45
----     ----   ..... --..------ . ---- ... .........  ......... ._ ......  ......    .........  ......  ........ ._
TOTAL LIABILITIES      166.21 181.25 199.26 219.50 254.28 292.20 327.46 345.52 340.94 348.61 366.88 383.31
and EWUITY
SOURCES AND APPLICATION OF FUNDS
SORCES
Net income              16.33  25.48 30.31  32.82  31.28  28.97 36.29  25.58  9.14  23.85  37.07  20.92
Pius:
Depreciation             5.81   5.88   6.56   7.41   8.53  10.14  11.68  12.61  13.16  13.54  13.96  14.42
Increase in payables     6.55  -2.64   0.08   0.64   0.62   0.60   0.59   0.57   0.56   0.54   0.53   0.52
Less increases In:
Receivables             -7.31  12.15  -3.48   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00
Inventory                1.86   1.26  0.07   0.53   0.52   0.51   0.51   0.50   0.50   0.49   0.49   0.48
other current assets    -0.01   0.30  0.03   0.20   0.19   0.19   0.19   0.19   0.19   0.18   0.18   0.18
.,   .  ....  ......... ......    ......... ......    ......... ......    ......... ......    ......... ......    ......... ............ ..... .....  .......... ._
Net Internel Fuids      23.23 42.42 33.57 41.58 41.14  40.43  49.26 39.45  23.54 38.61  52.23  36.52
Equity Increas             0.00  12.02  12.26  17.95  23.63  34.76  24.15  18.98  13.81  14.09  14.37  14.66
......    ........ ......    ......... ......    ......... ......    ......... ......    ......... ......    ........ .................. .................. ......_.
Subtotal                23.23  54.45 45.83  59.53 64.77 75.19  73.41  58.43 37.35  52.70  66.60  51.17
Met borrowing            1.99   1.03  *1.32  -0.82  -0.32  -0.32  -0.04   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   5.00
APPLICATIONS
Retirement              11.85  12.02  13.46  14.08  14.92  15.82  16.77  17.77  18.84  19.97  21.17 22.44
Major repairs            8.29  8.61   9.47  10.47  11.54  12.70  13.94  15.28  16.72  18.26  19.91  21.69
Project                                       7.77  15.53 31.07  15.53   7.77
Other Investment        13.46   6.36  22.00  20.00 20.00  20.00  20.00  20.00  21.00  22.05  23.15  24.31
Chanse in cash          -8.37  28.49  -0.41   6.40   2.46  -4.Z   7.12  -2.39 -19.21  -7.58   2.37 -12.26
Note:   The Comp ny is owned wholly by TNG, which has been providing 100X of capital expenditures wnd operational
subsidfes on as-needed basis.  Beginning from 1990, TNG has earmarked a certain vehicle registration fee
as a fixed source of additional equity capital (shown above in line labelled "equity increasew, ad
decided to mike the rest of subsidies as variable according to PTC's performance. The tatter Is shomn in
the income  nd expense statement, and the formula to be adopted for the near future is described in the
note to the statement.  An one-time equity contribution will be mde by THG equivalent to about 70X of
expenditures urder the project.



- 98 -                            Annex 11
CHINA
TIANJIN URBAN DEVELOPMENT AND ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
Eutimated Schedule of Dlsbursements
IDA                            Disbursements         Reference Profiles
Fiscal                         (US$ million)        Transpor-    Industry
Year    Semest-r Endint     Semester  Cumulative     tation     & Finance
FY93    Dec. 31    1992        0.0        0.0          0.0 2       0.0 2
June 30    1993        4.5        4.5          6.0         3.0
FY94   Dec. 31    1993         5.0        9.5         11.0         6.0
June 30    1994        8.0       17.5         16.0        18.0
FY95    Dec. 31    1994       14.0       31.5         24.0        42.0
June 30    1995       15.0       46.5         31.0        62.0
FY96   Dec. 31    1995        16.0       62.5         57.0        70.0
June 30    1996       11.0       73.5         64.0        78.0
FY97   Dec. 31    1996         9.0       82.5         69.0        86.0
June 30    1997        7.5       90.0         90.0        90.0
FY98   Dec. 31    1997         5.0       95.0         95.0        94.0
June 30    1998        3.0      100.0        100.0        98.0
------------------------------------------------------------------__-----
FY99    Dec. 31    1998                                          100.0
(Closing Date)



99 -                                                AnnpA 12
TI_ANJIN URPA   DVLOPKEN  AND ENV_ RON_             N TZ PROJEC?
Implementation and Procurement Schedule
Component                 Year _)992  _    1993           1994        1995 _       1996         1997         1998
PROJECT: Stan-CompkletIo m
PLANNING & MANAGEMENT
Chief Advwor            TA    I S C tm    am                    tx
Other Forep Conuhanta   TA              D B   S
Local Consultani        TA              IB   C  tc    a
Computers          Equlp [CB CD B   S D                                                   =t
SEWERAGE AND DRAINAGE
BinGuan            W    L    D  B                 -         -- ---
Jielanglu          Wob DC DBb  mt   O sam VXatW WOI xam
Nanweldihe         W o                       B           Bw
Yueyahe            W    LC D                     s  c  w
Zhanpngzhuang      WD                               B  S C BC
Yangzhuanga2i      WD                               B  S C  xo FExc
Pumps & other Equipment   ICB  D    sB  S  C                                       7 
SOLID WASTE MANAGEMEN.
Vehicles and Equipment  ICB  B  S  C mo             Km
Disposal Plan/Study      A      B  S  C
Disposal Wcrks          DCDSo
D      Goods           CB                               D  B |s      cm             cm Dw  cc
ROADSIII
Inner Ring Road              D   B                                    VW
Interchang eB                                   a  SQ                    m
BUS SYSTMM
Maintenance Workhop#6    CB     B  SC 
Low-GradeWorkshop       LB                          C
Workshop Equipment      CID               B  S  CaA
Terminal                XB                   B  S  c oc a tx    x cx cca                     a  "
Public Transit Study    rA                B  S  C
TRAFFIC MANAGEMENT
Signal System           CB       P B  C            -- - --- ooo
RESETTLEMENT
Housing Construction  Wodi   i    l   Xl         aO   S
Selection and Moving   |c      xu
# of Households        |      |-15  841
NOTE:
B: Invitation for Bid    S: Evaluation and Selection                  P: Prequalification
C: Award of Contract   D: Design and Bid Document Preparation         xxx Delivery or Execution
All the works and contracts shown above require IDA's prior review of bid documents and contract award.



- 100 -
Annex 13
CHINA
TIANJIN URBAN DEVELOPMENT AND ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
List of Major Works and Goods Contract*
Procurement  Value
Category Method USS M  Brief Description
Goods    ICB   2.1  Computers, peripherals and software for all components
except traffic signal control system (2 packages)
----------------------------------------------------------------__-----------__--
Goods    ICB   1.6  Drainage pumps, valves, and other related equipment
Works    LCB   4.4  Pipe supply, laying and pump house construction, Jiefanglu
Works    LCB   -.7                                           Binguan Area
Works    LCB   0.9                                           Yangzhuangzhi
Works    LCB   5.2           n                              Zhangxingzhuang
Works    LCB   5.1  Embankment rectification (2 slices), Yueyahe
Works    LCB   4.2                                 Nanweidihe & Feiqiangzhihe
Works   Direct  1.5  Electricity main installation for 8 pump houses and
two other buildings - by Power Authority
-------------------------------------------------------------__--------------__--
Goods    ICB   4.2  Garbage truck  sweepers, and sprayers, suction trucks,
spare p. ;s, and maintenance equipment (3 lots)
Goods    ICB   7.0  Land fill and composting equipment
(provisional, 2 packages)
Goods    ICB   1.2  Pollution monitoring and measuring equipment
---------------------------------------------------------__------------------__--
Goods    ICB   3.7  Traffic signal control system: computers, associated
goods, and installation services
Goods    ICB   0.6  Audio-video and communications equipment
for Traffic police
Goods    LCB   0.2  Supply and install traffic lights
Works    LCB   0.9  Supply and install road signs, markings, and guardrail.
Goods    ICB   1.6  Equipmenat for bus maintenance workshop 16
Worke    LCB   5.0  Constructlon of Workshop #6
Goods    ICB   1.0  Equipment for the Low-grade bus maintenance garage
Works    LCB   3.2  Construction of Low-grade maintenance garage
Works    LCB   0.6  Bus terminal construction
-------------------------------------------------------__--------------------__--
Works    LCB   6.8  Inner Ring Road widening and planting (2 slices)
Works    LCB   0.7  Construction and widening of Haihe Bridge
Works    LCB   2.5  Jingjin interchange
Goods    LIB   0.2  Pavement and bridge monitorins ecuiDment
Total Goods   23.5 (of those ICB:   23.1)
Total Works   45.8 (of those LCB:   44.3)



- 101 -                                  Anex 14
page 1
CHINA
TIANJIN URBAN DEVELOPMENT AND ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
Monitoring Indicators
This Annex presents an initial list of monitoring indicators which wiI be used by the implementing
agencies and the Project Management Office (PMO) as a tool to pfan and evaluate the progress and results
of the project. The list may be modified during the course of the project reflecting the experience in its use
and redefinition of management needs. Any significant departures from plans (main features of which are
described in relevant SAR sections and Annexes referenced below) will be noted, causes analyzed, and
corrective actions recommended. The PMO will report a summary of the evaluation and recommendations to
the Project Leading Group and, mainly through the quarterly progress report, to the Bank. Where applicable,
indicators will be enumerated cumulatively as well as for the period concerned.
1.     Preoaration and Procurement Status. For each of procurement packages planned, note the
type of procurement, the number of lots, total cost, and planned and actual dates of the detailed
steps as follows (Annexes 12 and 13 list main steps of larger procurements):
- Completion of final engineering design or terms of reference;
- Completion of bid (and, if applicable, prequalification) documents;
- Approval by URCC;
- Submission of bid documents to the Bank, if applicable, and no objection received;
- Advertisement, letter of invitation, request for quotation;
- Pre-bid conference;
- Bid closing and evaluation;
- Submission of evaluation report to the Bank, if applicable;
- Contract signing;
- Start of work or delivery; and
- Completion.
2.     Physical Implementation (Annex 12). For environmental sanitation and urban transport
components, progress of works or goods delivery under signed contracts and major elements of the
contracts (for example, pavement under a road contract and excavation under drainage) will be
monitored noting the SAR estimates, contract estimates, and actual deliver, of the following:
- Quantity delivered or finished (e.g. meters of main sewer pipes), and % of the total;
- Expenditures incurred and paid, and % of the total;
- Quality ratings, 1 for excellent to 5 for major problem;
- Dates of inspection and name of inspecting officers; and
- Dates of intermediate and final completion.
3.     Studies. The following events under each study will be noted as they occur or as they are
due shortly (Annexes 1, 4, 5, and 7):
- Names and specialties of consultants, counterpart staff, days worked or expected to
work, and any departure from plan or contract and action taken;
- Fees paid and other expenses, compared with plan;
- Dates of reports, planned and actual;
- Topics covered and topics omitted;
- Main findings and recommendations;
- Main comments by the responsible task force, division, and by Planning and
Management Improvement Leading Group (PAMILG), and by the Bank; and their dates;
- Plan and actual dates and costs to implement the recommendations.
4.     Training (Annex 2).
- Dates of detailed training proposal by responsible divisions, reviews by PAMILG and the
Bank, approval of the final plan, and implementation;
- Venues, topics, levels, and dates;
- Number of trainees by agency and by time period under each training program;
- Expenditures, total, previous quarter and cumulative; and
- Summary evaluation by participants and managers, according to a format designed with
help of consultant training specialists.
5.     Financial and Manaaement Imwovement (SAR paras 4.6 - 4.12; Annexes 1 and 10).
For each of the main new methodologies and procedures developed during each phase of
the planning and management component: main features and intended outputs; planned and
actual dates of reports, implementation, including training, equipment, revision, and formal



Annex 14
- 102-                                     page 2
adoption; Covarage, In terms of names of units and number of staff using the new systems;
evaluation by managers and the staff of the new systems;
For sewerage operations: dates annual accounts, audit report, and projections are submitted
to TMG and to the Bank; assessment, exemptions, and coliections of sewerage charges
compared with costs - actual and projected (annual); planned and actual dates of steps
taken to analyze and allocate costs and responsibilities between drainage and sewerage;
For bus services: planned and actual operating mileage, number of passenge q. costs, and
revenues by group of routes (annual); dates annual accounts, audit report, -   ojections
are submitted to TMG and to the Bank; total number of staff and cost.
6.    Industrial Pollution Control (Annex 51.
Subproject proposals: estimated costs and benefits, loans and grants requested and
approved, planned and actual dates of processing steps (e.g. submission by bureau,
preliminary aporoval, appraisal, review by the Bank, board approval);
Subprojects under implementation: loans and grants approved and disbursed, planned and
actual costs and dates of major implementation steps, quality of implementation;
Subprojects completed: planned and act al pollution reduction and financial impacts; and
debt service;
The Fund operation: actual and projected operation and resource mobilization, summarized
according to the format of Table A5.1; staffing and training.
7.     Resettlh men. Preparation, implementation, and results of each phase of the resettlement
will be monitored as follows (Annex 8):
Number of housing units required, planned and actual number constructed, estimated and
actual number chosen and settled in, by type, size and location;
Planned and actual dates the selection and settlement steps were started and completed;
planned and actual costs;
Evaluation of the process by the development companies and by a sample of households
within three months of resettlement operation; and
Evaluation of the new housing and public facilities by a sample of households; and any
change in housing, job, and other significant socio-economic traits of the sample households
after about a year.
Post-implementation monitoring and evaluation will be zarried out through surveys of
stratified sample of households (less than 10% of the total number) on a format, sampling design
and survey timing to be agreed upon later.
8.     Summarv of Exoenditures and DisbursemenLt and outstanding invoices, by component,
category and procurement type; withdraw-' and replenishment of the Special Account.



- 103 -                            Annex 15
Fag. 1
CHINA
TIANJIN URBAN DEVELOPMENT AND ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
Supervision Plan
1.          Focus of Supervision of the project will be on the followingt
Infrastructure planning and management improvement: to review and assist
systems development and application in each of the four phases;
Operation of the Fund for Industrial Pollution Control: to assist start-
up of the Fund and review subproject appraisals;
Financial management improvement for sewe-age and bus services: to
review and assist improvement of management and financial accouniting and
planning, and enhancement of revenues;
Studies: to review consultant studies for colid waste disposal and
public transport systems and implementation of recommendations.
2.          IDA Staff Input.  It is expected that normal review of bidding
documents, procurement, physical implementation, and disbursement would
require about 4 staff-weeks per year, including 1.5 s.aff-weeks by civil
engineer (CE) and one staff-week of procurement specialist (PS), except the
first year of implementation when about four additional staff-weeks will be
needed to assist TMG establish systems and procedures for procurement,
monitoring, and disbursement. For special focus areas, additional input per
year after IDA FY 1995 would be as follows:
Economist/Management Specialist (EM):       3   staff-weeks;
Financial Analyst (FA):                     3
Urban Planner (UP):                         1.5
Environmental/Process Engineer (EV):        3
Transportation Planner (TP):                1.5
Total                                12.0
Supervision input planned for FY 1993 through FY 1995, which will
substantially exceed the above, is indicated in the Table below.
3.          Supervision Missions will be fielded normally in April/May and
September/October each year. A project launch workshop will be held in
September 1992, a mid-term review in April 1995, and the last supervision and
project completion mission in May 1998.
4.          Monitoring and Supervision by TMG and GOC.  The Project Management
Office (PMO) and the Project Leading Group will monitor and supervise the
project implementation using the monitoring indicators listed in Annex 14.
PMO will summarize the progress in the quarterly progress reports to be
submitted to IDA within six weeks after the end of each quarter, starting from
October 15, 1992. Representatives of the Ministry of Finance, Ministry of
Construction, and National Environmental Protection Agency will participate in
certain IDA supervision missions for mid-term review of planning and
management improvement and the Fund for Industrial Pollution Control.



- 105 -                             Annex 16
CHINA
TIANJIN URBAN DEVELOPMENT AND ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File
1.    Development Strategv for Urban Transportation, Water Supply, Drainage,
and Environmental Sectors, Tianjin Municipal Government, May 1989
2.    Geographical Pattern cf Environumental Health in Tianlin. China, Alain
Bertaud and Mary Yourng (INURD Working Paper No.13) February 1991
3.    Interim Evaluation Report on Pilot Municipal Economic Information System
(UNDP Prolect CPR/86/011), Tianjin Pilot Project Team, October 1989
4.    Tianilin - Municipal O&M Planning and Budgeting Arrangements, Paul Stott,
May '19;:
5.    Tianiin Environmental Development Program, Tianjin Environmental
Protection Bureau, December 1990
6.    China - Environmental Strategy Paper (IBRD report No. 9669-CHA),
September 1991 (Green Cover)
7.    Review of Industrial Pollution Control Subproiect Proposals for Tianiin
Industrial Control Fund, Scott, Furphy, & Co., May 1991
8.    Environmental impact Statements on the project components, in Chinese,
with summary translation in English.
9.    Design Review Report on Sewerage. Drainage, and Traffic Control, Sino-
Dan International Consultants Ltd., May 1991.
10.   Long-Term Programme for Tianiin Waste Management and Treatment: 1990-
2010, Tianjin Environmental Sanitation Engineering Design Institute,
February 1 ^,
11.   Urban Waste Management in Tianiin, China, D.J.V. Campbell, Environmental
Safety Center, U.K., February 1990
12.   Water Savings Measures for Tianiin Municipality, Babtie, Shaw and Morton
(for Overseas Development Administration, U.K.), January 1990
13.   Tianlin Urban Transport and Traffic Control: Initial Studv, Siemens and
MVA Asia, June 1990
14.   Feasibility Study Reports for all project components, by various
agencies and consultants, dated 1989 and 1990.
15.   A Collection of National Laws and Municipal Regulations on Demolition
and Relocation
16.   A Detailed List of Quantities and Costs of Equipment and Works to be
procured under the Project



IBRD 23342
To Peijing   ,
CHINA
TIANJIN URBAN DEVELOPMENT
AND ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
PROPOSED PROJECT COMPONENTS:
----   ROAD UP-GRADING
|-' /\\OVERPASS INTERCHANGE
SEWER AND DRAINAGE WORKS
/-.. \ , *CANAL REHABIUTATION AND AUGNMENT
|n \   \  \BUS TERMINAL
*   .c,- MAINTENANCE WORKSHOPS
TRAFFIC CONTROL AREA
/    \  / -   EXISTING ROADS
.-4 \ IRAILROADS
0 1 2 3 4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ARH19
KILOMETERS                X|g\ p,  
(App-imco)                                                   I   ;r      TvN/\
,+ ~~~~~~SHI                                                                                    m      oasrt
\/\ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oW, T ;   he d-nnnwionsm
Areoo M=   1o=onbrbFr
s ijingTionimong31/ \z/    / Bohai                                                    t     =
/  /    ~Won
1 _  '                                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MARCH 1992



