Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2387-0-CHA
(Tianjin Urban Development and Environment Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated July 2, 1992
CREDIT NUMBER 2387-0-CHA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 2, 1992, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the
financing of the Project; and
(B)
the Project will be carried out by Tianjin Municipality (Tianjin) with 
the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make 
available to Tianjin the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Association 
and Tianjin; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Page  2
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of 
Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"EPB" means Tianjin's Environmental Protection Bureau;
 
(b)
"Fund" means the Tianjin Industrial Pollution Control Fund, the 
establishment of which was authorized by Tianjin pursuant to Tianjin Municipal 
Government Approval No. 33, dated April 15, 1992, and to be established by Tianjin by 
the Fund Charter;
(c)
"Fund Charter" means the charter establishing the Tianjin Industrial 
Pollution Control Fund;
(d)
"Fund Operating and Lending Procedures" means the operating and lending 
procedures, including technical appraisal criteria of the Fund referred to in Part C, 
paragraph 1(b) of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement;
(e)
"Industrial Enterprise" means an enterprise engaged in industry to which 
Tianjin proposes to extend or has extended a Subloan;
(f)
"PCBC" means the People's Construction Bank of China;
 
(g)
"Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association and 
Tianjin of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such 
term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(h)
"PTC" means the Tianjin Public Transport Company, a state-owned 
(autonomous) enterprise established under the laws of the Borrower and operating in 
Tianjin;
(i)
"Renminbi" means the currency of the Borrower;
 
(j)
"Resettlement Voucher Regulations" means the regulations approved by 
Tianjin on November 9, 1991, establishing the terms, conditions and procedures for 
using vouchers for resettlement and relocation of households affected by the Project 
activities, as revised, and provided to the Association;
(k)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(l)
"Subloan" means a loan extended or proposed to be extended by Tianjin out 
of the proceeds of the Credit through the Fund to an Industrial Enterprise for a 
Subproject;
(m)
"Subproject" means a specific pollution control project to be carried out 
by an Industrial Enterprise utilizing the proceeds of a Subloan;
(n)
"Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into 
between Tianjin and the Fund pursuant to Part C, paragraph 2(a) of Schedule 2 to the 
Project Agreement, as the same
may be amended from time to time, and such term includes any schedules to the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(o)
"Tianjin" means Tianjin Municipality; and
 
(p)
"Transfer and Operation Agreement" means the agreement entered into 
between Tianjin and PTC pursuant to Part D, paragraph 1(a) of Schedule 2 to the 
Project Agreement.
Page  3
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to seventy-three million three hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 73,300,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement:
(i)
for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to 
be made) in 
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services 
required for Parts A, B, 
C.2, D and E of the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the 
Credit; and
 
(ii)
for amounts paid (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be 
paid) by the 
Fund on account of withdrawals made by an Industrial 
Enterprise under a 
Subloan to meet the reasonable cost of goods 
and services required for the 
Subproject in respect of which 
the withdrawal from the Credit Account is 
requested.
 
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in a bank and in terms and conditions satisfactory 
to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or 
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1998, or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue:  (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other 
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
June 1 and December 1 commencing December 1, 2002 and ending June 1, 2027. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on June 1, 2012, shall be one and 
one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter 
shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Page  4
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years, and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by 
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments 
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each 
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification 
to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such 
installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on 
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, 
provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the 
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of 
repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) 
above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Development 
Credit Agreement, shall cause Tianjin to perform in accordance with the provisions of 
the Project Agreement all the obligations of Tianjin therein set forth, shall take and 
cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services 
and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable Tianjin to perform such 
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent 
or interfere with such performance.
(b)
The Borrower shall onlend the proceeds of the Credit to Tianjin on the 
following principal terms and conditions: (i) repayment over a period not exceeding 
fifteen years including five years of grace; (ii) interest at a rate of 4.5 percent; 
and (iii) commitment charges and foreign exchange risk over the repayment period to be 
borne by Tianjin.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
the Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by 
Tianjin pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain, or cause to be maintained, in accordance with sound accounting 
practices, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures for which payments are 
made out of the Special Account;
Page  5
(b)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(c)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year the report of such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably 
requested, including a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements 
of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with the procedures and 
internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals; and
(d)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
Tianjin shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement;
(b)
as a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that Tianjin will be able to perform its obligations under the 
Project Agreement;
(c)
the Fund Charter shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed 
or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of the Fund to perform 
any of its obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(d)
a change shall have been made in the Fund Operating and Lending 
Procedures without the Association's concurrence;
(e)
the Borrower, Tianjin or any other authority having jurisdiction shall 
have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of the Fund or for the 
suspension of its operations; and
(f)
a change shall have been made in the Resettlement Voucher Regulations 
without the concurrence of the Association.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
that the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice 
thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower; and
(b)
that any event specified in paragraphs (c), (d), (e) or (f) of Section 
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
that the Borrower's State Council has approved the Development Credit 
Agreement; and
Page  6
(b)
that Tianjin shall have taken the actions required by Part C, paragraphs 
1 (a)(i), 1 (b), 2 (a) and 4 of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be
furnished to the Association: 
(a)
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by 
Tianjin, and is legally binding upon Tianjin in accordance with its terms; and
(b)
that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified 
by Tianjin and the Fund and is legally binding upon Tianjin and the Fund in accordance 
with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing 100820
People's Republic of China
Cable address:
Telex:
 
FINANMIN
22486 MFPRC CN
Beijing
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
248423 (RCA),
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC),
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By /s/ Zhu Qizhen
Page  7
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Gautam S. Kaji
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Goods under Parts A,     19,600,000        100% of foreign
     B, C.2 and D of the                        expenditures
     Project                                    100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory cost)
                                                and 70% of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items procured
                                                locally
(2)  Civil works under        20,900,000        65%
     Parts A, B and D of
     the Project
(3)  Civil works on a Unit    14,800,000        65%
     Cost Basis under Part
     E of the Project
(4)  Consultants' services     4,100,000        100%
     and training under
     Parts A, B and D
     of the Project
(5)  Subloans under          13,900,000         100% of amounts
     Part C.1 of the                            disbursed under
     Project                                    Subloans made by
                                                the Fund
                             __________
         TOTAL               73,300,000
                             ==========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
Page  8
(c)
the term "Unit Cost Basis" means the cost of civil works and materials 
required to build new housing units for households being resettled under Part E of the 
Project, as determined on a per unit basis acceptable to the Association.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals,
in an aggregate amount not to exceed SDR 7,300,000 may be made in respect of 
Categories 1, 3 and 4 on account of payments made for expenditures before that date 
but after April 30, 1991.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to assist Tianjin in planning and 
management of infrastructure and environment; and (b) to support priority physical 
investments to improve environmental sanitation, urban transport and industrial 
pollution control in Tianjin.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Planning and Management
 
Carrying out improvements, through conducting studies and training and the 
acquisition and utilization of equipment, in:
(1)
planning and evaluation of infrastructure investments;
 
(2)
tracking and forecasting revenue and programming and adjusting annual and 
multi-year budgets for infrastructure;
(3)
Project implementation monitoring and supervision; and
 
(4)
monitoring urban development and infrastructure operations, including 
establishing a geographical information monitoring system.
Part B:
Environmental Sanitation
 
1.
Supporting the first phase of Tianjin's program of extending and improving 
sewage collection and drainage facilities through:
(a)
provision of effective sewage collection and drainage systems in 
developed areas which have incomplete systems or lack such systems; and
(b)
improvement of controlled natural drainage channels by realigning 
selected channel sections, augmenting pumping stations and extending sewerage systems 
to reduce flow constrictions and prevent contamination of the natural drainage 
channels.
2.
Improving solid waste management, through:
 
(a)
renewal and expansion of the waste collection and street cleaning 
vehicles and maintenance equipment;
(b)
developing a plan to improve the municipal solid waste disposal system 
and training in management of sanitation facilities; and
(c)
carrying out improvements in the solid waste treatment and disposal 
system.
Part C:
Industrial Pollution Control
 
1.
Reducing industrial pollution by establishing a fund to finance Subprojects to 
reduce wastes generated by Industrial Enterprises.
Page  9
2.
Supporting institutional development, through provision of consultants' services 
and training and equipment:
(a)
to enhance EPB's environmental monitoring and regulatory enforcement 
capability; and
(b)
to strengthen the capacity for applied research and economic and 
financial analysis of the Environmental Technology Development Center and the 
Environmental Protection Science Institute of EPB, and the Fund.
Part D:
Urban Transport
 
1.
Improving the Tianjin Inner Ring Road and constructing overpasses.
 
2.
Constructing and equipping two bus maintenance depots and a central bus 
terminal.
3.
Undertaking a study of public transport policy and management (a) to evaluate 
transportation demand and supply, financing and management options; and (b) to 
formulate a plan for public transport systems development.
4.
Improving traffic management through introduction of an area traffic control 
system, improvement of road intersections, and training and equipping of traffic 
control officers.
Part E:
Resettlement
 
1.
Resettlement and relocation of about 4,050 households affected by activities 
being carried out under the Project.
*         *         *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1998.
SCHEDULE 3
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means the Categories set forth in the 
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and for Subprojects to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the 
eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Development 
Credit Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $6,700,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed 
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower 
shall have requested.
Page  10
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis 
of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit 
into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as shall have been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid 
out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of the Development Credit Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories for the Project, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment 
entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions 
with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories for the Project shall follow such 
procedures as the
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association 
such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
Page  11
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account, as the case may be, for 
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions 
of the Development Credit Agreement, including the General Conditions applicable 
thereto.
