Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2387-0-CHA
(Tianjin Urban Development and Environment Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
TIANJIN MUNICIPALITY
Dated July 2, 1992
CREDIT NUMBER 2387-0-CHA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 2, 1992, between the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association) and TIANJIN MUNICIPALITY (Tianjin).
WHEREAS: (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
People's Republic of China (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has 
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to 
seventy-three million three hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 73,300,000), 
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on 
condition that Tianjin agrees to undertake such obligations toward the Association as 
are set forth in this Agreement;
WHEREAS Tianjin, in consideration of the Association's entering into the 
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, the Borrower, has agreed to undertake 
the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Page  2
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have 
the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Tianjin declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement and, to this 
end, shall carry out, and cause to be carried out, the Project with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering 
and environmental practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and Tianjin shall otherwise agree:
(i)
Tianjin shall carry out, or cause to be carried out, Parts A, B, 
C.2, D and E 
of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program 
set forth in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and
 
(ii)
Subloans under Part C.1 of the Project shall be made in accordance 
with the 
procedures and terms and conditions set forth or referred to 
in Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
 
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement.
Section 2.03. Tianjin shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions applicable to the 
Development Credit Agreement
(relating respectively to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, 
records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition) in respect of the Project 
Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) Tianjin shall, at the request of the Association, exchange 
views with the Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance 
of its obligations under
this Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)
Tianjin shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit, or the performance by Tianjin of its obligations under this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Tianjin shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, records and 
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of Tianjin responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
Tianjin shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
Page  3
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
 
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall from 
time to time 
reasonably request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, Tianjin shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Credit Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
 
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
Section 3.02. Beginning in June, 1994, Tianjin shall review and analyze the 
financial statements and financial projections of PTC, the Drainage Department and the 
Fund and submit its analysis, the statements and projections to the Association within 
six months of the end of each fiscal year.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
Tianjin thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate 
in 
accordance with their terms; or
 
(ii)
the date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
 
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association 
shall promptly notify Tianjin of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions 
applicable to the Development Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
Page  4
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
248423 (RCA),
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC),
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
For Tianjin:
Tianjin Municipality
Tianjin Finance Bureau
Qufu Road, Heping District
Tianjin, People's Republic of China, 300042
Telex:
234061 TJFB CN
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of Tianjin, or by 
Tianjin on behalf of the
Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement, may be taken or executed by the Mayor 
or Vice Mayor or such other person or persons as the Mayor or Vice Mayor shall 
designate in writing, and Tianjin shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence 
of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Gautam S. Kaji
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
TIANJIN MUNICIPALITY
By /s/ Zhu Qizhen
 Authorized Representative
Page  5
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I 
and II of the "Guidelines  for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published 
by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped into bid 
packages of the equivalent of $200,000 or more.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in China may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Laboratory equipment and pavement monitoring equipment may be procured under 
contracts awarded through limited international bidding procedures on the basis of 
evaluation and comparison of bids invited from a list of at least three qualified 
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines and in accordance with the procedures set 
forth in Sections I and II of the Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and 
2.56 thereof).
2.
(a) Civil works (other than those under Part E of the Project) and (b) items or 
groups of items of tools equipment and materials under Parts A, B and D of the Project 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or less per contract up to an aggregate 
amount equivalent to $5,000,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory 
to the Association.
3.
(a) Civil works under Part E of the Project and (b) items or groups of items of 
equipment and materials estimated to cost the equivalent of $10,000 or less per 
contract up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $500,000, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at 
least three contractors or suppliers, as the case may be, eligible under the 
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
4.
Items or groups of items of equipment and associated services for Subprojects 
under Part C.1 of the Project, estimated to cost the equivalent of $3,000,000 or less 
per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of 
price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, 
in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
5.
(a)   Civil works for: (i) installation of communications lines for traffic 
signals up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $500,000; (ii) installation of traffic 
signals and intersection
improvements up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $500,000; and (iii) installation 
of electricity mains up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $1,500,000; and (b) 
replacement parts under Parts B and D of the Project up to an aggregate amount 
equivalent to $500,000, may be procured by direct contracting in accordance with 
procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part E:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of prequalification:
 
With respect to the prequalification of bidders as provided in Part A.2 hereof, 
the procedures set forth in paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Page  6
2.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract for: (i) civil works under Parts A, B and D 
of the Project estimated to cost the equivalent of $1,000,000 or more; (ii) goods 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more; and (iii) equipment under Part 
C.1 of the Project estimated to cost the equivalent of $2,000,000 or more, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. When payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such 
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract 
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be 
furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the 
Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures  set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. When payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified 
to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract together with the other 
information required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 
shall be furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant 
to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to the Development Credit Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Credit Account are to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure.
3.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II:
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist Tianjin in carrying out the Project, Tianjin shall employ, or 
cause to be employed, consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and 
conditions of employment shall
be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance 
with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the 
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank 
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
Part A:
Planning and Management
 
1.
Tianjin shall establish and maintain: (a) a Project Leading Group, for purposes 
of Project coordination at a policy level; (b) a Project Office, for purposes of 
day-to-day management of the
Project; and (c) a Planning and Management Improvement Leading Group (PAMILG), for 
purposes of managing implementation of Part A of the Project, each with competent 
staff in adequate numbers and with composition, functions and responsibilities 
acceptable to the Association.
2.
Tianjin, with the assistance of qualified consultants and under terms of 
reference satisfactory to the Association, shall implement Part A of the Project in 
accordance with a plan of action and schedule, both satisfactory to the Association, 
including without limitation, taking all actions, necessary or appropriate, to improve 
financial reporting, planning and management of Tianjin's Urban and Rural Construction 
Commission, Drainage Division, Roads Division, Municipal Engineering Bureau, PTC, and 
Urban Planning Bureau.
3.
Without limitation to its other reporting requirements under the General 
Conditions and this Agreement, Tianjin shall furnish to the Association quarterly 
reports of the progress of carrying out the Project within six weeks after the end of 
each quarter. Such reports shall be of such scope and detail as shall be acceptable to 
the Association.
Page  7
4.
Tianjin shall carry out training under the Project in accordance with a training 
program agreed with the Association.
Part B:
Environmental Sanitation
 
1.
Tianjin shall:
 
(a)
develop a phased plan, acceptable to the Association for solid waste 
disposal under Part B.2 (b) of the Project with the assistance of qualified 
consultants and in accordance with terms of reference satisfactory to the Association 
by December 31, 1994; and
(b)
implement the first phase of the plan in a manner and according to a 
timetable acceptable to the Association.
2.
(a)
Tianjin shall cause its Drainage Division (excluding sewerage treatment 
plants) to produce in each of its fiscal years after December 31, 1992, total revenues 
equivalent to not less than its total operating expenses.
(b)
Before September 30 in each of its fiscal years, Tianjin shall, on the 
basis of forecasts prepared by Tianjin and satisfactory to the Association, review 
whether its Drainage Division would meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) 
in respect of such year and the next following fiscal year and shall furnish to the 
Association a copy of such review upon its completion.
(c)
If any such review shows that Tianjin's Drainage Division would not meet 
the requirements set forth in paragraph (b) for its fiscal years covered by such 
review, Tianjin shall take promptly all necessary measures (including, without 
limitation, adjustments of the structure or levels of its rates) in order to meet such 
requirements.
(d)
For the purposes of this Paragraph:
 
(i)
the term "total revenues" means the sum of total operating 
revenues and net 
non-operating income;
 
(ii)
the term "total operating revenues" means revenues from all 
sources related to 
operations;
 
(iii)
the term "net non-operating income" means the difference between: 
(A) revenues 
from all sources other than those related to operations; and 
(B) expenses 
incurred in the generation of revenues in (A) above; 
and
(iv)
the term "total operating expenses" means all expenses related to 
operations, 
including administration, adequate maintenance, bonus, and 
welfare payments, 
interest payments and provision for depreciation 
determined in accordance with 
a method and criteria acceptable to the 
Association.
3.
In order to assist the Drainage Division in meeting its financial requirements, 
Tianjin shall, beginning January 1, 1993, ensure that the Tianjin Finance Bureau pays 
to the Drainage Division specific compensation equivalent to the sewerage charges that 
would be due from non-residential users of sewerage services but for exemptions 
granted by Tianjin;
4.
Tianjin shall:
 
(a)
establish, by December 31, 1993, an accounting system which shall 
distinguish sewerage operations from drainage services;
(b)
establish by December 31, 1995, an institutional development plan, 
acceptable to the Association, to transfer all or part of the sewerage operations to 
an autonomous entity; and
(c)
thereafter, begin implementation of such plan in accordance with its 
Page  8
terms.
Part C:
Industrial Pollution Control Fund
 
1.
(a)
Tianjin shall: (i) establish; and (ii) maintain the Fund as an autonomous 
entity with a charter, organization and staffing acceptable to the Association.
(b)
Tianjin shall cause the Fund to adopt operations and lending procedures 
satisfactory to the Association.
2.
(a)
Tianjin shall relend the proceeds of the Credit allocated to Part C.1 of 
the Project to the Fund under a subsidiary loan agreement with terms and conditions 
which shall have been approved by the Association, and which shall include: (i) 
interest at 5% per annum; (ii) repayment by the Fund within 15 years, including a 
period of 5 years of grace; and (iii) the foreign exchange risks associated with the 
Subsidiary Loan to be borne by the Fund.
(b)
Tianjin shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement in 
such manner as to protect the interests of the Association and to accomplish the 
purposes of the Credit, and excepts the Association shall otherwise agree, Tianjin 
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any provision of the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement to affect the provisions of subparagraph (a) above.
3.
Tianjin shall cause the Fund, under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement to:
(a)
maintain procedures and records adequate to reflect in accordance with 
consistently maintained sound accounting practices its operations and financial 
condition;
(b)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(c)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year, (i) certified copies of its 
financial statements for such year as so audited and (ii) the report of such audit by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(d)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and financial statements as well as the audit thereof, as the 
Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
4.
In order to assist in the appraisal and administration of Subprojects and 
Subloans under Part C of the Project, Tianjin shall cause the Fund to enter into a 
contract, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, with PCBC, or 
another Bank acceptable to the Association, providing for the financial and economic 
appraisal of Subprojects proposals and coordinating the administration of disbursement 
and repayment of funds under Subloans.
Part D:
Urban Transport
 
1.
(a)
Tianjin shall make available the proceeds of the Credit allocated to Part 
D.2 of the Project to PTC under a transfer and operating agreement with terms and 
conditions which shall have been approved by the Association.
(b)
Tianjin shall exercise its rights under the Transfer and Operating 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Association and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the Association shall otherwise 
agree, Tianjin shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any provision of the 
transfer and operating agreement to affect the provisions of subparagraph (a) above.
2.
Tianjin shall cause PTC, pursuant to the Transfer and Operating Agreement to:
 
(a)
maintain procedures and records adequate to reflect in accordance with 
consistently maintained sound accounting practices its operations and financial 
Page  9
condition;
(b)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(c)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year, (i) certified copies of its 
financial statements for such year as so audited and (ii) the report of such audit by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(d)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and financial statements as well as the audit thereof, as the 
Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
3.
Tianjin shall cause PTC, pursuant to the Transfer and Operating Agreement, to 
meet the following financial requirements:
(a)
PTC shall produce in each of its fiscal years after December 31, 1992, 
total revenues equivalent to not less than the sum of its total operating expenses, 
pension payments, interest
payments and expenses for major repairs.
(b)
Before September 30 in each of its fiscal years, PTC shall, on the basis 
of forecasts prepared by PTC and satisfactory to the Association, review whether it 
would meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in respect of such year and the 
next following fiscal year and shall furnish to the Association a copy of such review 
upon its completion.
(c)
If any such review shows that PTC would not meet the requirements set 
forth in paragraph (a) for its fiscal years covered by such review, PTC shall take 
promptly all necessary measures (including, without limitation, adjustments of the 
structure or levels of its rates and changes in operating routes) in order to meet 
such requirements.
(d)
For the purposes of this Paragraph:
 
(i)
the term "total revenues" means the sum of total operating 
revenues and net 
non-operating income;
 
(ii)
the term "total operating revenues" means revenues from all 
sources related to 
operations;
 
(iii)
the term "net non-operating income" means the difference between: 
(A) revenues 
from all sources other than those related to operations; (B) 
expenses incurred 
in the generation of revenues in (A) above; and
 
(iv)
the term "total operating expenses" means all expenses related to 
operations, 
including administration, adequate maintenance, bonus and 
welfare payments and 
provision of depreciation determined in 
accordance with a method and criteria 
acceptable to the Association.
 
4.
Tianjin shall cause PTC, pursuant to the Transfer and Operations Agreement, to 
maintain its total number of staff at or below 23,575 persons through December 31, 
1995.
5.
In order to assist PTC in meeting its financial requirements, Tianjin shall:
 
(a)
beginning January 1, 1993, ensure that payments made by Tianjin to PTC 
shall be determined solely on the basis of bus operating mileage, published inflation 
index, and declining at a rate of 5% per annum in accordance with a numerical formula, 
acceptable to the Association; and
(b)
revise, in a manner satisfactory to the Association, the formula set 
forth in subparagraph (a) hereof, based on the results of the study carried out under 
Page  10
Part D.3 of the Project and the plan to improve municipal operations and management 
being implemented under Part A of the Project.
6.
Tianjin shall:
 
(a)
carry out a study of public transport policy and management under Part 
D.3 of the Project with the assistance of qualified consultants and in accordance with 
terms of reference
satisfactory to the Association by December 31, 1995; and 
(b)
implement the results, acceptable to the Association, of the study in a 
manner and in accordance with a timetable acceptable to the Association.
Part E:
Resettlement
 
1.
Tianjin shall carry out resettlement of persons affected by the Project:
 
(a)
in accordance with standards, procedures and a schedule satisfactory to 
the Association; and
(b)
without limitation to paragraph (a) hereof, pursuant to the Resettlement 
Voucher Regulations.
SCHEDULE 3
Terms and Conditions of Subloans
1.
(a)
The financial terms and conditions of Subloans shall include:
 
(i)
interest on the principal amount withdrawn in Renminbi and 
outstanding from 
time to time, at the fixed rate applicable from time 
to time by PCBC for loans 
of the same maturity; or interest on the 
principal amount withdrawn in foreign 
exchange and outstanding from 
time to time at the variable interest rate 
charged by IBRD on 
loans to its borrowers plus a spread of 1.2% per annum 
provided that the Industrial Enterprise bear all foreign exchange risks 
associated with the subloan; and
(ii)
repayment periods for Subloans shall not be less than 3 years and 
shall not 
exceed 7 years, including a period of grace of not more than 
2 years.
(b)
Each Subloan shall finance 60% of the total amount disbursed by the Fund 
for a Subproject, including any other grants or other loans made by the Fund for the 
same Subproject, and shall not exceed, together with all other Subloans for such 
Subproject, the equivalent of $3,000,000.
2.
Tianjin shall cause the Fund to prepare and furnish to the Association for its 
approval:
(i)
a Subproject appraisal report prior to making a Subloan for the 
Subproject for 
each Subproject estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$1,000,000 or more; and
(ii)
a Subproject appraisal report as part of the quarterly reporting 
requirements 
set forth in Part A, paragraph 3 of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement for each 
Subproject estimated to cost the equivalent of 
less than $1,000,000.
3.
Subprojects shall be appraised and approved in accordance with the Fund 
Operating and Lending Procedures or other criteria acceptable to the Association.
4.
Subloans shall finance only contracts for equipment and related installation 
costs for Subprojects. No expenditures for equipment required for a Subproject shall 
be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit, unless the Subloan for 
such Subproject shall have been approved by the Association and such expenditures 
shall have been made not earlier than ninety days prior to the date on which the 
Page  11
Association shall have received the Subproject appraisal report required under 
paragraph 2 above.
5.
Subloans shall be made on terms whereby Tianjin shall cause the Fund to obtain, 
by written contract with the Industrial Enterprise or by other appropriate legal 
means, rights adequate to
protect the interests of the Association, Tianjin and the Fund, including the right 
to:
(a)
require the Industrial Enterprise to carry out and operate the Subproject 
with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, financial 
and managerial standards
and to maintain adequate records;
(b)
require that: (i) the goods and services to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 
2 to this Agreement; and (ii) such goods and services shall be used exclusively in the 
carrying out of the Subproject;
(c)
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Association if 
the Association shall so request, such goods and the sites, works, plants and 
construction included in the Sub-project, the operation thereof, and any relevant 
records and documents;
(d)
require that: (i) the Industrial Enterprise shall take out and maintain 
with responsible insurers such insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as 
shall be consistent with sound business practice; and (ii) without any limitation upon 
the foregoing, such insurance shall cover hazards incident to the acquisition, 
transportation and delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to the 
place of use or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a 
currency freely usable by the Industrial Enterprise to replace or repair such goods;
(e)
obtain all such information as the Association, Tianjin or the Fund shall 
reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the administration, operations and 
financial condition of the Industrial Enterprise and to the benefits to be derived 
from the Subproject; and
(f)
suspend or terminate the right of the Industrial Enterprise to the use of 
the proceeds of the Credit upon failure by such Industrial Enterprise to perform its 
obligations under its contract with the Fund.
