Docmnt of
The World Bank
FOR OMCLAL USE ONLY
Repot No. 11768
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
THE PHILIPPINES
REFORM PROGRAM4 FOR GOVERNMENT CORPORATIONS
(LOAN 2956-PE)
APRIL 2, 1993
T                               "          ., .. N.r  j !
Industry and Energy Operations Divisions
Country Department I
1ast Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit      =    Philippine Peso (PP)
US$1.00            =    PP 20.80 (at Appraisal)
US$1.00            =    PP 25.38 (at Completion)
US$1.00            =    PP 24.64 (as of October 1992)
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
APT       Asset Privatization Trust
CAG       Corporate Affairs Group
COA       Commission on Audit
COP       Committee on Privatization
DBM       Department of Budget and Management
EO        Executive Order
ERL       Economic Recovery Loan
GC        Government Corporation
GCMCC   Government Corporation Monitoring Coordinating Committee
GFI       Govermment Fnancial Institutions
LOI       Letter of Instruction
NEDA      National Economic Development Authority
NFGI      Non-Fnancial Government Institution
PAL       Philippine Airlines
PD        Presidential Decree
PES       Performance Evaluation System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 1



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washlngton, D.C. 20433
U.SA
Offlce of Dlrnotor4eneral
Operatons Evaluaton
April 2, 1993
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on The Philippines Reform
Program for Government Corporations (Loan 2956-PH)
Attached is a copy of the report entitled 'Project Completion Report on The Phflippines
Reform Program for Government Corporations (Loan 2956-PH)' prepared by the East Asia
Regional Office. The PCR is of good quality and provides a reasonable description of the Reform
Program, its accomplishments and limitations. Part II, prepared by the Borrower, is particularly
informative, candid and forward-looking.
The loan helped the Borrower make substantial progress towards its objectives of creating
an institutional framework to limit and rationalize Government Corporations (GCs) through
abolitions, consolidations, privatization and improved efficiency of the retained GCs. A legal
framework has been put in place that regulates the establishment and operation of the GCs that
will remain in operation, and provides for their better monitoring and evaluation. The privatization
drive got under way, with 85 GCs having been offered for sale by Januaty, 1992, representing 62%
of the assets book value of GCs to be privatized. Four-fifth of these have been actually sold,
partiaLhy or fully. An additional 59 GCs have been scheduled for abolition.. All these measures,
which exceeded the loan targets, have already begun to contain the fiscal drain of the govcrnment
corporate sector. While it is early to assess the long-term fiscal and economic effects of the Reform
Program, a good start has undoubtedly been made.
The Operations Evaluation Department intends to carry out an audit of this loan. The audit
would focus primarily on the trade-offs between controls and financial safeguards on one hand, and
the need for expediency in the privatization process on the other. Could a streamlined, faster
disposition of public assets lead to an acceleration of the overall economic growth of the country?
If so, would it be worth it to run the risk of selling some of these assets at low prices, thus allowing
the emergence of private windfall profits? How can the optimal price for privatized corporations
be determined? The audit would also explore the role of Bank supervision, the coordination of
tranche release decisions with the cofinanciers, and the follow-up actions that may be necessary to
carry the Reform Program to its desired conclusion.
Attachment
Ihis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients onty in the perfonnance of their official duti. Its
contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFCIAL USE ONLY
The Phflippines
Reform Program for Government Corporadons
L n" 2956-PH
Project Completion Report
Table of Contents
Page No.
PRUFACE ..................... i
EVALUATION SUDMMARY ..................... iii
PArT L PROJECr REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECIVE   .................. 1
1. ProjectIdentity ...............1 .
2. ProjectBackground ...............  1
3.  The Reform Program for Government Corporations.                           2
4.  Project Implementation and Tranche Release Conditions.                    3
5. Bank and Borrower's Role in Project Design and
Implementation.                                                         6
6. Accomplishments of the Reform Program.                                     7
7.  Sustainability  ................  ...............................  11
8.  Lessons Learned from Project Experience  .......      ...................  11
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECIIVE  .........                  .. 13
PART  L STATISTICALINFORMATION   .........                 ........................  59
1.  Related Bank Loans ...........................................  61
2.  Project Timetable  ............................................  62
3.  Cumulative and Actual Disbursements  ............ ................. 63
4.  List of Studies Undertaken During Project Preparation   .   .64
5.  Svmmaiy of Status and Dispositive Actions for GOCCs   .     .65
6.  Compliance with Tranche Conditionalities    ..74
7.  Use of Bank Resources
A. StaffInputs .78
B. Missions .79
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



4- -
PrQject Completion Report
The Thilppines
Reorm 1rogrm for Govement Corporations
Loan 29S6-PH
Neface
lhis report present an vluaion of the results achieved under the Reform Program for Government
Corxportions In the Philippines, for which Loan 2956-PH was approved on Iune 15, 1988. The
US$200 millin loan which focussed on the Non-Fancial Goverme  Institutions, implemeated a
major stut    adjustmen of te public corporate sector in te PhiliWines. The loan which was
nade to the tpublic of the Philippines, sought to establih a polcy ad inttutona fiamework to
.duc, iHmit and rationalize governme  acutivities using the corporate fotm, and instiute
improvents in the efficiency and efecveness of retained government corporations. The loan
closed on Februay 29, 1992, after a six-month extension of the loan closing date. The last
disbursemn was made on Februa  24, 19.
This PCIR was prpnd  by the Industy and Energy Opeatfions Division, Country Department I, East
Ada Region (Pef, Evaluation Summary, Pats I and ID). The PCR draws on the Staff Appraisd
Report, supervision repors, coespondence between the Bank and the Government oe the
Philippines, irnal Bank memoranda, and program data provided by the Government. It presents a
review of the implementon of the project, the program of actions to ahieve tanche reease
condition.., and the exent to which the policy and nstitutional objectives were achieved. The
Govenmen has bee helpfil in providing useful dat for Part m and submitted a Project Completion
Report as contrbution to this PCR.



-I i I
Projec Completio Report
Ih Philippims
Reform Program for Govment Corporations
Loan 2956-PH
Evaluation Summaiy
1.        The Reform Program, which focussed on the Non-Financial
Government Institutions (NFGIs), constituted a. major structural adjustment of the
public corporate sector in the Philippines. The Project sought and successfully
implemented a policy and institutional framework to reduce, limit and rationalize
government activities using the corporate form, and instituted improvements in the
efficiency and effectiveness of GCs, to reduce their heavy burden to the economy
and through privatization promote the developing, financing and improved
efficiency of previous government corporations (GCs). The Bank loan of US$200
million equivalent was disbursed in three tranches (US$75 million, US$75 million
and US$50 million) against general imports based on a standard negative list over
a period of five years. Release of each tranche was made upon the Government's
fulfillment of the various conditions stipulated for each tranche. A $200 million
loan from the Overseas Econonic Cooperation Fund (OECD) cofinanced the
project and was disbursed in two tranches, in parallel with the first two tranches of
the Bank (para. 3.1)
2.        The key elements of the reform program were: (a) approval of
legislation for sector reorganization and divestiture, and the issuance of a policy
statement enunciating government policies for the establishment, retention and
operation of GCs; (b) issuance of legal instruments improving the sector's
institutional framework and defining the functions and responsibilities of the
government agencies dealing with GCs, their boards of directors and chief
executives; (c) rationalization of the exsting corporate portfolio and appropriate
disposition of GCs through privatization, liquidation, consolidation, conversion to
non-profit status, and transfer to departments; (d) institutional strengthening of the
retained GCs through the establishment of an oversight mechanism establishing
long-term planning, monitoring the corporate sector, and introducing measures to
improve GC performance; and (e) technical assistance to support the above efforts
(para. 3.2).
3.        Substantial progress in the reform program was required prior to
Board presentation, allowing the disbursement of the first loan tranche of US$75
million immediately after loan effectiveness, on December 29, 1988. These reforms
include: (a) establishment of an improved legal framework for the public corporate
sector; (b) completion of all studies for the rationalization of the sector (Table 4,
Part 1E1); (c) approval of the disposition recommendations for most GCs; (d)
approval and establishment of adequate institutional mechanisms for the program
(ie., COP, the Asset Privatization Trust (APT), GCMCC and CAG), including
their staffing, budget and operational guidelines; (e) approval of a privatization
plan for each corporation; (f) initiation of corporate planning; (g) establishment of



I iv -
improved accounting and auditing standards; and (h) a satisfactory starting of the
privatization program (para. 4.1).
4.        The Government's compliance with the 13 conditions governing the
release of the second tranche of the Program was satisfactory. However, because
of a delay in one of the conditions for the release of this tranche, a waiver was
requested on the condition for a plan to computerize the accounting of GCs. The
request was approved and the second tranche for US$75 million equivalent was
released on July 9, 1990 (para 4.2).
5.        Although most tranche release conditions were complied wihh by the
original closing date, there was a delay in completing the agreed privatization
target. Because of this delay, the loan closing date was extended six months to
February 29, 1992 and the third tranche of US$50 million was disbursed on
February 21, 1992. At this time the Government substantially surpassed the
privatization targets, particularly by offering for sale 30% more GCs than required
for the third tranche release. This included the total of partial privatization of
several large corporations like Philippine Airlines, Philippine National Bank,
several Banks, hotels, etc (para. 4.3).
6.        Considerable up-front work had been done by the Government and
was implemented even prior to Board presentation. Although the change in
government temporarily slowed project implementation, the Bank found strong
support for the project in virtually every part of the new government. Additional
time was also required to solve difficult economic, political and military challenges
presented to the new government, obtain the approval of the new constitution, and
elect and install a new Congress. Staff changes in various parts of the
Government, also contributed to the delay. As a result, the original timetable
could not be met during project preparation and implementation and had to be
revised. However, the Government strongly endorsed and implemented the
reform program (paras 5.5-5.7).
7.        Overall, the reform program was implemented successfilly, in an open
and transparent manner, with a high level of competency and commitment by key
agencies and the establishment of a set of guiding principles. Although the
country's macroeconomic conditions were difficult during the implementation
period, with high interest rates and political instability being major impediments to
most of the actions of the reform program, all required actions were implemented
satisfactorily and in most cases ahead of the agreed schedule.
&         The project led to the creation of a legal framework that put in place
policies for establishment and operation of GCs, and set the stage for
implementation of various recommendations coming from the studies. The project
also provided institutional strengthening through a performance evaluation system,
corporate planning and computerization of accounting and auditing systems of
GCs. The disposition program, particularly the privatization of GCs was also
successful (paras. 6.3-6.5). Other project components (performance evaluation,
corporate planning) were also implemented successfully (paras. 6.9-6.10).



-V..
9.        In the short tern the Project has contained the drain on government
resources through the reduction of the size and scope of government activity in
the public corporate sector. A number of factors tend to indicate that the project
impact in terms of reductions in sector size, budgetary impact, and performance
vwill be limited in the short-term. The long term is too early to be assessed, but it is
clear that the substantial reduction in the number of GOCs and the establishment of
mechanisms to improve the performance of the retained GCs should bring major
improvements in the corporate sector (paras. 6.7-6.8).
10.       The climate of reform initiated by the program was sustained. Most
components were relatively unaffected by political and economic changes as
commitment by the Government and executing agencies remained firm and stable.
The objectives sought by the program have not only helpvd contribute to a
number of short term benefits in the area of public corporate sector efficiency, but
are also likely to have a long term developmental impact. The long term benefits
of the rationalization program are also likely to be sustaining (para 7.1).
11.       The main lessons to be drawn from the operation are: (a) The key
element of success for a complex reform program is the Government commitment
and ability to implement it; (b) Reforming the public corporate sector is a massive
and complicated effort, which would require sufficient time for the project, and
Bank involvement over several years and several operations to ensure the
maximum benefits; (c) strong institutional support is required for project success;
(d) intensive supervision is required during the shorter horizon of these projects;
(e) there is a large payoff in investing in project design and preparation; (f)
flexibility is an important element in project implementation; (g) agencies with
adequate powers and a transparent divestiture process are criical for the success
of the privatization (para 8.1).



The PhilUppines
Reform Pirogram for Government Corporations
Loan 2956-PH
Projec Completion Report
PART 1 PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.         Prlect Idenot
Project Name:               Reform Program for Government Corporaions
Loan No.:                   2956-PH
RVP Unit:                   Easd Asia and Pacific
Country:                     he hlMppines
Loan Amount:                US$200 million
Board Approval:            June 1S, 1988
Loan Sinfg:                 September 1, 1988
Effective Date:             November 9, 1988
Closing Date.               Faeb y 29, 1992
2.         Boje       B
2 1         in the 1 , to   Philippines acieived substantial eonomic ad socid progress, but the
public corpot stor expanded rpdly as the Governmen sought to expand Infastructr, eneqrg
and other ecoomic and social services.  In the early 1980s, the economic situation startd to
detrorate as  ling pdce for export goods, increased oil pnces, high interes r     on foreign
borrowig, natua calami and stuctural weaknes  placed severe strains on the balance of payment
and h natio_ budget. nh lack of suitable and timely adjustment, increased       on short
term borrowing, and politi   urmoi compounded the problem untl the acoelerated cpvital flight
precipiatd a crsis. liii crisis had a devauit    effect on domestic industy and on a fragile financial
system, leding to the bankr1ptcy of about 400 privat enteprises, a serious criis for the goverment
finuancil isuD ons and a vas publc deficit larely due to the need to subsidize about 300 goverment
coporation (GCs)-
2.2        Ihe economic cdris hii    the ned to eminae tie public corporate sector's
coutdbudon to the publc sector deficit and its sbare in the eral debt burden, which became a major
conern to the Government and to the insttutions providing official and private financial assistace to
the Philippines. To ded with h cdsis and to provide an adequate foundation to accelerate ewonomic
reoovery and foster eoonomic growth, the Government focussed its attention to sreamlining and
tionalizng the operatios of the govemnt corporate sector, which was criti  for the country's
economi stabliztion and recovery programY
IupuGCd hihdeL^:  whU.s.a~b be diu.ko by rkths 6   a isl lrm e^ twnopb flip uaWh
-             _bmgh      d *ruueq *qummi6psmlgpoind0        yAs  w.uq_gda
-~ hAaiamsvbusln h i    pstlab hAsut.futpM



- 2-
3.         Tbe Refonn Program for Government Corporations
3.1        Th  Reorm Progrm, which foused on the Non -.naial Governmen  ntittions
(NFGls), consttuted a mjo streotul adjutmet of the public coporate sector In the Philppis.
The Project sougt and swoessflly implemented a policy and itituonal framework to reduce, Nmit
ad rationalie govenment wdviies usng die coporate form, ad instituted mprovemn  in th
efficieny and effectiveness of OCs, to reduce their havy burden to the economy and tough
p dvatnatlo promote the deveopig, financing and umproved efficiny of previous GCs. Th Bank
loan of US$200 milion equivalent was disbursed in three tanches (US$75 million, US$75 million and
US$50 mion) sainst genal imports based on a standard negative list over a period of five yeas.
Relea  of each trnhe was made upon the Government's ffilment of the vaious conditions
stpuated for each tanche. A $200 million loan from the Japan Overseas Econumic Cooperation Fund
(OECF) cofinanced the projec and was disbursed in two tranches, in parallel with the first two tranwlies
of the Bank.
3.2        The key elements of the reorm program were: (a) approval of legislatio for sector
reorganiion   and divesftiure, and the issunce of a policy statmen enniaD g governmeat poLicies
fr the estabish _mt, reeton and operation of (Cs; (b) iuuance of legal instument improving the
sector's  stitonal framework and defining the functons and responsibiltes of the government
agencies deal   with GCs, their boards of directors and chief executves; (c) rationalizoon of the
existing coporate portfolio and appoprate dispodtion of GCs through privadtzaon, liquidation,
consolidatn, convesion to non-profit status, and transfer to departments; (d) institutional
trengthenin of the retained GC through the establishment of ank oversight mcdnm estbhing
long-erm planning, monitoring the corporate sector, and intoducig measures to Improve GC
performance; and (e) technical assistce to support the above efforts. These components are described
below.
3.3         Legal Framework and Poliey Statement. The Project 3s based on an improved legal
framework for the sector, whih defines sasfactorily the basic podces, role and ognizaton of the
govermet corporate sector in the economy and established the stage for the rn   and
pvatzatio of mos Gs. This inchldes a numbor of las and otier leg  Instrumets, s follw:
zing the GCs (Administative Order 59); SUtngdthn  the Government Corporation
Monitoi   Coorinan  Committee (OCBMCC), (Executive Order 236); GCMCC  Guidelines
(Excutve Order 127-A); Guidelines in the Procesing and Approval of Contrts of the National
Govement (Executive Order 164); Proclaiming and Launching a Program for the Expeditious
D lopodfin and Privaizaton of Ceran GCs and/or Assets Thereof; and Creatn the Committee on
Privatization (COP) and the Asset Prvavtton Fund (Proclamaon 50 and SOA). The Govemet's
policies are also reflected in its Letr  of Developmet Policy of Apil 27, 1988.
3.4        Corpate  lonalton Pram. The Goverment has carried out dtailed studies
analyzinSg the or  ton, finan, markets and prospoet of eac  (c.  Pollowing the policies
enndied undr  the improved legd framework and in agment with the Bank, rules and citerda
weo esdblished to aionali the existing portfolio of 296 GCs and to reduce it to about 15% of this
totl. The objective of the ratonalization program wer to: (a) incas the efficiency and produtvity
of te economy by allowing fair compeftiion and widrawing the Govement from activities whh
could be best performed by the private sotor, (b) minimie the Govermen's role and lnvolvement in
GCs and reduce the budgetay burden of its loans and contrbutions, which were a major case of the
public sector deficit and (c) concentrato efforxt and resoures in mpoving the  rficiency of to
raind GCe. The raionalzadon program envisaged tha only 37 of the exstg 296 GCs wer to
remain Inte public sector. Of the 2S9 (Ce to be disposed, amost 80% were to be transferred to the
pdvate setor (132 GCB to be privatized, anotr 67 GCs to be iquiated and 8 CCs wern to be



-3-
conveted to non-profit private entities), 16 OCs were to be consolidated with other OCs and 36 OCs
wene to be regulazed (incorporated into relevant govermnent departments).
3.5        Istutional Framework.  The Government established adequate institutions to
implement the project's objectives and policies as follows: (a) GCMCC, to implement government
corporate policies and monitor and improve the perfonnance of GCs; (b) COP, to oversee the
implementation of divestment under the ationalizaion program; (c) the Presidential Commission on
Government Reorganizaon, to prepare the required legislation, recommend the disposition of GCs and
implement dispositions other than privatizadon1'.
3.6 Technical Ass(staT A). TA was important to support the project implementation,
strengthen the institutional framework and help improve the performance of the retained GCs. The
National Eoonomic Developmert Authority coordinated the TA program which was financed through
grant from the Asian Development Bank (ADB), US Agency for International Development (USAID),
United Nations De'elopment Program (UNDP) and Japan as follows: (a) COP and the disposition
entities in the divestiture program (financed by a $4.5 million grant from USAI) for the valuation,
marketing and of sales of GCs; (b) GCMCC and the Corporate Affairs Group (CAG) in establishing a
monitoring and performance evaluation system for GCs (financed by a $S0,000 grant from ADB); (c)
Demrtment of Budget and Management (DBM) in implementing the program of consolidation, changes
of atachments and liquidation of GCs, as well as affecting necessary changes in the charters of GCs
(financed by a $462,000 gant from UNDP); (d) DBM  in improving the accounting of GCs by
establishing a computerized accounting systems, based on the standard chart of accounts approved by
the Commision on Audit (COA), (financed by a X40 million grant from Japan).
4.         Program  inplementation and Tranche Release Conditions
4.1        The Frst Tranche Releas. Substantial progress in the reform program was required
prior to Board presentation, allowing the disbursement of the first loan tranche of US$75 million
immediatey after loan effectiveness, on December 29, 1988. These reforms in-,lude: (a) establishment
of an improved legal framework for the pubLhc corporate sector; (b) completion of al studies for the
rationalizion of the sector (able 4, Part O); (c) approval of the disposition recxmmendations for
most GCs; (d) approval and establishment of adequate institutional mechanisms for the program (i.e.,
COP, the Aset Privazation Trust (API), GCMCC and CAG), including their stffin, budget and
operatonal guidelines; (e) approval of a privatization plan for each corporation; (t) initiation of
corporate planning; (g) establishment of improved accounting and auditing stndards; and (hi a
satisfactory  aring of the privatization program.
4.2        Tle Seonud Tranche Release. The Government's compliance with the 13 conditions
governing the release of the second tranche of the Project was satisfactory. However, there was a
delay in the compledon of a plan to computerize the accounting of ten aCs and a waiver was requested
for this minor condition. Ihe request was approved and the second trane for US$75 million
equivaleat was released on July 9, 1990. The specific conditions for the release of the second tranche
and the actions taken by the Governme it to oomply with them include:
no  ftzi=wdUak Wamoaa~too P smd1Ce.mmbzIian Oommmat  gba.i 5osn*hm oveby On DVadmagt
Data 4r MONSemt.



- 4 -
(a)   Final decision on the manner of disposition of a11  Cs. Ihe President approved the
disposition acton  for 291 of the 29 GCs. The decisioa on eight pending cafe,
mainly hospitals with complex and controvers}al privatizadons, were stdU being reviewed
and were completed by the third tanche release;
(b)   Completion of all steps necessary to get 30 OCs in vendible forn and offred for sale,
representing at least 20% of the gross value of the assets of CCs to be privatized. lhe
actual value and number of pnvazation surpassed the tranche targets. By Febray
1990, 42 GCs representig 28% of the assets of the GCs to be privatized were offered
for eale;
(c)    inalition of an implemeation plan for the consolidation, regularization, conversion
and abolition of about 100 Grs. Implementation plans were prepared for 96 of the 98
GCs approved for the mendoned actions and necessary actions were completed for the
disposition of tho above-mentioned 26 GCs.
(d)   Completion of review of the charters of the corpoaions to be retned and formulation
of recommendations regarding membership of their boards. DBM prepaed
recommendations to the President regarding the chartrs of the GCs to be reaned.
(e)  Fi naization of an          a     plan to introduce computerizaon of accountig
systems to 10 GCs. The conta  for this study waS signed in March 1990, however,
difficulties in reaching agreement in the provision of the technical assistnce deayecJ the
finaizaton of the plan.
M     Approval of a corporate plan by the Board of Directrs of five OCs. Corporate plans,
based on computerizd finanoial projectons were developed and approved by the Boards
of Directors of five large corporations9'.
(g)   Design of a peformance evaluation and incenive system. Tho tehnical ast
provided a background study allowing the Government to design and establih a
saisfactory performace evaluation and inentive system, whic vw  appied to five large
GCs in 1989 and to the largest 18 GCs in 1990.
(h)   Appointmet of adequate staff for the CAG. The required 40 persons wee appointed to
CAG and GCMCC.
0I)   Satisfacty progress towards amendments of chartes of (Cs to incorporate prnciples
set forth in para. 7 of the Letter of Development Policy. After Cabinet approval, three
bills were presene to Congress and cerdfied as Administve Bills by the President to
elmnate automatic goventment guaaees for debts of GCs, stnCdz   the general
feues of GC8, and define subsidies for mandated activities.
SI   ii..f*ddhpa.  (&Waii p  4.4A) h..Wecfdb   0 (M fw w"diyXsmLdmbii wen Rm*Wwdi do sam mi
k4 bmb. Mriy Of t        r.qkO eddaml.ui. erm wmswi,ld _gait.hlm1._d.
_ihjsm     fruma aOC   erm *ibu u_cii4gmmm  A fihil spmwms mi 199 IWI_ .sa.lzsInas 501
Oefdw 79 wIl b tee _ aer_d, 122 wil be pdvuhd 59 wil be liudu  6 wIl be a.wcd ii. p.ld famiim 17
wDinb .elati 1_ wil be _eut~. ¶Te flanl diapalo of 1be fSlb   Q.iimah b.g.vm  hymlCsivig of tb
PThiipm q.dahe(gquhakdoe)ud (a.EsiUP  Di pvg,mwB.* (t .). which bee bow olmhs   aseGCa. baaesIgad
UnAGaco at 301.
4P                                  mdA SmageSyat pia.PmsAAb*. Kng HmahaMMIami  Nilam
bh .



- 5-
0I)   bmsuane of admiitadve regtons on subsidies and loan guarantees of GCm.
Satisfactory regulations wee Issued regarding elmination of automatic guarante  for
loans and provision of subsidie for manated activites.
(k)   Satisiactory progess towards establishing a corporate career executive service. In May
1989 the Presiden ortified to Congress the draf bill of an act adopting a Civil Service
Code, which provides for the estabishment of a caeer executive service for high-level
employees. Congress also approved the sand on of gades, raising the averge
salary of government employees. However, this  andardization also resulted In sala
reductions at managerial level, creatig difficulties in auracting or retaining high-level
staff for OCs.
(1)   Appointment of consultants with qualifications, expeience and terms of ref e agrweed
with the Bank for the technical asstance. Consultant were appointed saisfacorly for
privatization, for suppordng other dispostion actions, for designing a performance
evaluton and for dudying the computeizaton of accounts.
4.3        Tbe  Ird Tranche Release. Although most tran&he relase conditions were complied
with by the orginal closing date, there was a delay in completing the agreed privatization target.
Becauae of this delay, the loan closing date was extended six months to Febnry 29, 1992 and the
iWd tranche of US$50 milion was disbursed on February 21, 1992. A this time the Government
substantlly supased the privatzation targets, partiularly by offering for sale 30% more GCs than
required for the third  ace releas. This included the total or partial privatiztion of sevend wae
corpoations like Pilippine Aidines, Philippine National Bank, several Banks, hotels, etc. The specific
condition of the third tranche and the actons tamen by the Government to comply with them are:
;..4 Completion of all steps necessary to get in vendible form and offer for sale an additional
30 0Cs targeted for privatization, representing a cumulatve total of 60 OCs and at least
50% of 1985 gross value of assets of GCs. 83 GCs were offered for sale as of
November 1991, reSentn 51% of total book value of assets of GCs to be privatized.
(b)   Fnalization of an implementation plan for the disposition actions of theo emaing GCs.
The Government completed the prepaion and implemeon of disposition plans for
97 GCs, and the President signed Executive and Administrative Orders for 12 out of 16
peding GCs.
(c)   Iplementtion of disposition actions as per agreed implemenation plan, including
satis8ctoy progress towards amendments of charters. A third of the implemenation
plans prpared for the 96 GCs have been fully implemented, while 24 other GCs have
been filed for final dissolution. Documentation to complete all government actions for
another 30 GCs was also completed by DBM.
(d)   Satisfacty progress in implementing recommendatons from the review of membenhips
in Boards of Directors. DBM completed and submitted to the President in December
1990, the analysis of the ex-officio representaion and membership on GCs Boards.
(e)   Approval of a corporate plan by the Boards of Directors of another 10 GCs. The
accounting firm of SGV customized a corporate and financial planning model for another
11 major GCs. The basic financial model was provided by the Bank. Fmancial
projections for 15 GCs, mainly generated by this model were endorsed by their
respective managers and forwarded to the Bank.



- 6-
(t)  Introduction of a computerized accountg system for 10 large GCa. COA submitted the
final report on Phase I of the computerizaton project for 10 slected GCs in July 1991.
The  port includes the status of implementation of acouning reommendations, fnal
compueizaton plans for nine GCs and the acquisition and implementation costs of
recommended hardware and software. COA issued an implementation plan, which details
the changes in the accounting and computerizon requid by the 10 tgetd OCs.
These (Cs were instucted to implement these recommendations.
(g)  Introduction of a performance evaluation system  (PES) for 15 large GCs.  Ihe
Government completed the introducton of a satisfctory PES to 17  Cas in 19M0 and to
34 IC. in 1991. An Executive Order of November 1991 established a performnce-
based incentive system for GCs.
(h) Satisfactory progress in the implementation of the technical assistance. All technical
assistance was completed satisfactorily.
5.         Bank and Borrower's Role In Project Design and Implementation
5.1        The Bank was extensively involved in the design and implem on of the Project. In
October 1964, the Government requested the Dank's assistance to help formulate and Implement a
progm  of public enterprise reform. To this end, the Bank organzed task forces which worked for
three years prior to the project appraisal producing detailed proposals for Government's consideration.
The Bank's effort and ensuing dialogue with the Government led to the development of a project to
rationalize and improve the officiency of GCs by supporting a program of policy reforms, corporate
restcuring and insitutional building.
5.2         The Bank realized tbat greater institutional gains could be achieved if there was an
effective coordination and peformace monitoring at the national level to complement the insitution
building efforts carried out by other Bank projects at the GC's level. For that reason, and considering
the catalytic role the Bank could play to help formulate and implement the program, the Bank decided
to assst  e Government by bringing to bear ternationl experence and grater objectivity. The
project also provided the Bank with an avenue to assist institutional strengthening of several major
borrowers, under an umbrella operation designed to bnng policy and institutional improvements to al
GCs. The focus of the project, however, was mainly on strategic, rather than the operational control of
the individual GCs.
5.3         The original project concept was a financial package to cover both the Government
Fmiancial Institutions (GFIs) and the Non-Financial Governmeat Instutions (NFGIs). However,
because the reform part of the NGFI package was moving faster than the GPI portion, the Bank
decided to implement two separate projects. Under both projects, the Economic Recovery Loan (ERL)
for the GFIs, and the Reform Progam for the NFGIs, the implementing mechanisms were similar.
The reform package for GFIs, including the rehabilitation of the major GFIs and acquired banks, was
a key element of the ERL. There was understandably some overlap in terms of the legal framework and
implementation armngements for both projects, which were prepared in close coordination.
Nevertheless, the two projects had different focus; the ERL includes the rehabiltation of major GFIs,
while the Reform Program concentrated on NFGIs, although the corporate rationalizaton covered a
number of GPIs.
5.4        Ihe Project demanded careful preparation and coordination among program agencies in a
number of sensitive policy measures. Substantial discussions also took place between the Government



-7-1
and the Bank on the policy objectives of the Project, the extn and scope of the program and the
manner and timag of it      a .
5.5        Although dte change in govemnment in February 1986 temporily slowed project
Imlemention, sinoe the new government needed ime to analyze tlhe studies undake  by the
previous goverment, the Buk found stong suppor for the projec in virtally every part of the new
government. The Project was appraised in early 1987, but additionWal time was required to solve
difficult economic, political and military challenges pesen d to the new govermet, includimg the
approval of a new oonstitution, and the election of a new Congress. Staff changes in vrious pars of
the Govenment, particularly in the PResidential Commission on Government Reorganiation, which had
a complete staff tunover, also rulted in delays. As a result, the original timetable could not be met
and had to be revised (Table 2, Part M). Therefore, negotations were postponed to early 1988 (Table
2, Part II).
5.6        Condderable up-fiont work was completed and implemented prior to presting the
project to th. Board. For this pupose the Government formulated a Policy Statement, which undelned
the Government's clear and unambiguous commitment to the corporate reform. ITh requiment of
Ptesdential approvals futrter delayed Board presentation to mid-June 1988. Agreement was reached to
disburse the Project in three tranches to provide ae     time to complete the agreed privtzaono and
insttiona refor, which were epecxtd to require tuhee to four years for their impl on. ach
taunche release was preceded by special project reviews.
S.7        Once these tasks were completed, the Government strongly endosed the implton
of the reform program, approved all necessary legal instments, created, funded and staffbd fe
organizaions to carry out the reform, approved the disposition of most GCs, and complied with all
conditions for disbuement.
6.         AccomplIhment of the Refonm  Progrm
6.1        Overall, the reform program was implemented successfully, in an open and tnspat
manner, with a high level of competency and commitment by key agencies and the eabblishment of a
set of giding principles. The compliance with tranche release conditionalide in Table 6, Pait m,
prse  the accomplihments achieved by the Government's by each tranche relase. Although the
country's macroeconomic conditions were difficult during the implementation piod, with high interest
rates and political Intbiltyq bing major impediments to most of the actions of the refonn progam
(particolarly the privazation), all required actions were implemented satsfdorily and in most cases
ahead of the agreed schedule.
6.2        Based on its acoomplishments, the reform program was implemented extemely well.
The Project led to the creation of a legal framework that put in place policies for establishment and
operation of GCs, and implemented the various recommendations coming from the sudes. This legal
framework is based on various Letters of Instuctons (LOI), Presidential Decrees (PD) and Exeutive
Orders (EO) with force of laws, etc. This included among others: (a) LOIs prescribing guidelines for
the rationalization of the government cotporate sector; (b) PDs defining the rqiremens for
government-owned or contolled corporations, identifying their role in national development - policy
framework, providing for the orderly divestiture of certain GCs and establishing finanal inentives to
improve the retained corporations supervised by GCMCC; (c) EOs creating the APr and the COP,
regarding ministei and inter-ministerial supervision of GCs, providig basic policy mles for retained
GCs and esablishing GCMCC. The LOI and PDs were critical to further processing of the project,
since their delay would have held up many downstream actions. The EOs were basic laws required for



the eecution of te reform program and their isuance was a condition for loan negoaions and Board
pre_ntton.
6.3        Prlvatzatlon. The divestiture program was quite successful, partiularly considring the
ambitious size of the program, the pioneer concep  of privatzaton in 1987, the difficl
maroewonomic environment and the constraints resultng from the legal system. The reforn program
included not only the privatization and liquidation of almost 200 GCa, but also the parallel sale
(through API) of almost 400 other corporations or non performing assets th  were acquired by the
Plippis National Bank and the Development Bank of Philippines when the respdve coratlons
defaulted en their loas. In addition, the retained corporadions were required to sell less justifiable
asset. Although larger privatization progams have been initated reoeatly in other countries, when the
refom program was iniated, it was the largest privaizaton program support by the Bank, and te
wene few other experiences to be used in its design and implementation. Difficult macroeconomic
conditions include adverse economic conditions, lack of commercial lending, military coups, natual
disasters, the colapse of one, and poor performance of all overseas PhFilippine investnt fiuns,
limited financial capct of individual local investors to buy large GCs and lack of intes in the
Phlipines by foreign investors. Fmally, several large GCs were encumbered with excessive foreign
debt, have a negative equity position and income, and were subject to difficult legal cases.
6.4        Neverdheless, all privatization targets we  surpased. As of Deoembe 1991, 84 GC
were offered for sale representing 51% of total book value of assets of UCs to be privatized. In
January 1992, the Government issued the guidelines governing the auction of a controlling block  of
common shares of Philippine Airlines, Inc. (PAL). A total of 670 million  ares of PAL represeting
67% of the outtandn common stock vs sold. With the PAL auction, the number of GCs offered for
sale read 85 representing 62% of book value of assets of GCs to be piivatized. Mbis surpased by
a good margin the loan conditionality to offer for sale 60 GCs, representin at least 50% of the book
value of the assets of Cs to be privatized. Table S, Pa  m  presents the s   of the diposition
actions for OCs as of end-1991.
6.S         Several factors contributed to the sucoess of the privaization program, including: (a) the
estiblishment of privadzation institutions at sufficiently high level and sufficienty Idepenent of
Government bureuracy; (b) the establishnent of a clear insitutional framework and guidelines for the
disposition of assets; (c) the commitment of top Government officials to tte privatization, as well as the
privatizing agencies; (d) the implementation of a transpareat divestue system, relying mainly on bids,
which avoided allegations of corruption, which slowed the privati&stion program in other countres; and
(e) the adoption of the expedient stategy of selecting the relatively simpler and more attractive
candidates for the first phase of the progam, which provided the needed demonsation effects and
usefil learning curves for the privating agencies.
6.6         Computetion of Accounting. The only area wer progress fel short of expecttions
was in the area of computerization of accounting systems for ten (Cs, which was not critical to the
reform program, but delayed the compliance with the second tranche. The reasons for this delay were:
(a) an optimistic estimate of the time required for the initial study; and (b) a long delays in initiating the
study, due to COA's objections to its implementation by consultants (COA eventually caried out the
study, with the support of consulants). Moreover, the Government assumed that grant financing would
be available for the second phase of the study (the implemention of computerization once its
requirement were defined, which was not included in the reform program). The computerzation study
provided recommendations for the accounting software to be used and the required accountin
improvements by the ten largest GCs. The recommended computrization is being implemented by each
corporation with the support of loans for specific projects by these GCs.



- 9 -
6.7         Corporate Sector Jmprovements. While the reform program substantially Improved the
performance of the public corporate sector, parficularly by a large reduction in the number of GCs, the
govement should maintain continous efforts to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the
retained corporations. The Government and the Bank focussed efforts on eliminating government
particpaion in the prduction of gods and services that could be provided by the private sector. The
design of the Project was considered very ambitious, by focusing simultaneously in the corporate sector
reorganiion, the divestre of GCs, and the improvement of the retained cororations. Iherefore,
the emphasis was plwed not in the divestiture of a partioular corpoaion, but in achieving a major
sector retucuing. The final decision on the disposition of a couple of GCs was more difficult than
tbecasted, particularly for GCs which provide services to the poor (like several hospitals) or were
obtaning substial revenues for the Government. In order to comply with the project target dates for
these decisions, and given the lack of public opinion consensus on the appropriate disposition of these
(cs, the Preident decided to incrase the number of retained (Cs from 37 to 79 (Table S, Part I1).
The Governent also retined a minority position in some key GCs which are considered strategic.
Obsevers have pointed out that these reversals wer made in response to a growing political prossure
and severe manageral resisance to giving up GC status. The reconsidaion of government disposition
actions was analyzed on social or political grounds rther than on economic justifications. Nevertheless,
a major reducdion of the government corporate sector was achieved, and studies are now being
unideraken to further reduoe the number of GCs. Particularly importa  for the future is the legislation
avoiding the prolifeaion of GCs and seting clear guidelines to eliminate government's involvement in
activities that could better handled by the private sector.
6.8        It is difficult to quantify the budgetary   act of the reducion in number of (Cs not only
becaus of the distorons resultig from inflation and the  crese in activities from some retained
GCs, but because it is not possible to esdmate the budget that would have been required for the GCs
that have been privazed, liquidated or transfeied to the private sector. In the short tem the Project
has oontned th  drain on govment resources through the reductdon of the size and scope of
govment activity in the public corporate sector, but a number of factors tend to indice that the
project impact in terms of reductions in sector size, budgetary impact, and permae will be limie
in the short4trm. This is becase the parent corporations retained the disposition proceeds of subsidy
GC. (used mainly to pay their substnal foreign debts), some goverment-guaranteed debts vere
assumed by the Government, large retained GCs sffll pose a burden on the Government and some
govement transfers aiwd subsidies to other GCs remain in the public sector. In addition, the
dsposition program led to reduction in GC sector size, but in several cases GCs have not found buyers,
even aer two or three bids (with reduced floor values) and the number of corporations in
government's hands waiting for fina disposal i stll significant. On the other hand, most (cs were
aLready bankrpted, had a negative equity and the Government was paying their debt service; the
existen  of these GCs disacted the Government from focusing its efforts and monitoring on the
reaned (Cs. The long term impact is too eady to be assessed, but it is clear that the subsial
reduction in the number of (Cs and the establishment of mehnism  to improve the performance of
the retined Gcs should bring major improvements in the corporate sector.
6.9         Performanc  Evaluation. The Project provided instional stgni  trough a
evaluation system  (PES), corporate planning and defining the co  io     of
accountig system  for (Cs. The program established a PES, seting targets for key perfomance
indicators, usi  similar experences in Korea and Pakista. The PES was used for five GCs in 1989,
18 GCa in 1990 and 37 GC. in 1991. The achievement of each target was assiged weights, so hat a
combined rating can be produced for each aC, providing a viable system for compaing the
performance of GC. even if they belong to different sectors. From 1992 inoentves were establised in
he form of bonuses of up to 10% ot the personnel ost (or about lS% of sares) to the best
performing GCs, e.g. those surpasing their agreed PES tgets. These bonuses are distributed among



- 10 -
the staff of the respective GCs based on their individual evaluation and would provide strong
motivation for GC's improvement.
6.10       Corporate Pluming. In the area of corporate planning, a system of financial projections
was also set in place for 15 of the largest GCs. These projections systems were endorsed by their
respectve mawagers. Except for two GCs, the financial projection systoms uses a computer software
model developed by Bank staff for the National Power Corporation and adapted to the other GC. The
finacial and corporate planning system allowed the production of stand ized financial tables, the
consolidation of data for all GCs, and the monitoring of key variables for each corporation.
6.11       In as fir as improvements in the performance of the relained GCs are concened, there
has been substnti progress in imposing financial discipline, better monitonng and planning, but it is
diffilt to compare with the ituation that would have exsted if the institutional improvemens under
the prject would not have taken place. In any case, the improvement of large bureaucratic systems is
always slow and would be unreic to expects that the total corporate sector would be flawless within
the limited pedod of the project. The issue of Si 2st performance of the privadzed UCs, which is not
a concer of the reform program    i , also deserves anaysis.
6.12       Intitutional Arrangements. The institutional arrangements for implementation have on
the whole worked well. COP has carried out its responsibilites with speed and competence,
pardculady considering that it has to diffuse its attention and coordinaton efforts over so many GCs.
Its effetveness was at times reduced by differces of opinion or reported lack of political will at the
Cabinet level, which led to a consensual approach to decision-makdng, resulting in delays and the
inability to take speedy decisions.
6.13       COA appears to be a major institutional botdeneck in the execution of the program.
COA's intference in a wide rnge of matters such as accounting, auditing, pricing, hiring of
consultant, and bidding procedures genrally delayed the project activities. Its insistence on the use of
its own staff or local consultn  paid at governmeat fees to undertk the computerization study and
the pivatzation tasks has, for instance, led to subsantial delays in the recnuitment of necessary
expadse, the use of USAID :Unds for privatization and tranche releases. While the role of COA is a
broader issue that goes beyond the purview of the reform program, its involvement in a range of
matt is widely recognized as a factor affeting the pace of the program.



- 11 -
7.         Sustanabillty
7.1        Despite major political instability and difficult mactoeconomic conditions during the
period of projet execution, the climate of reo&rm initiated by the program was sustined. Most
componets were relatively unaffected by politcal and economic chuges as commitment by the
Governmen and executing agencis remained firm and stable. The objectives sought by the Project
have not only helped contribute to a number of short term benefits in the area of public corporate
sector eficiency but are also likely to have a long term developmental impact. The long tem benefits
of the rationalization program are also likely to be sustining.
7.2        A number of factors were esponsible for creating a climate for Isitution-wide
commitment. Intensive Bank suprvision missions to the field encouraged executing agencies to keep
the focus, throughout the project period, on issues of project impact. Similarly Bank missions
emphasized the imporance of monitonng Instution building efforts of the Project. This, combined
with st    couerpat involvement in each stage of project design and execution, also confirmed the
Government ownership of the project and resulted in the acceptnce of all agencies in complying with
loan conditions.
8.         Lessons Leamed from Project Eperince
8.1         Ihe main lessons to be dmwn from the operation are:
(a)   The key element of sucoess for a complex reform  program is the Government
commitment and ability to implement it. At the outset, there was strong support from the
President and government officials of both previous and nw amiso    to take
corrective action to deal with the problem  of GCs. However, while the Goverment's
mood was for change, there were certain politi  realities that made the ptogram difficult
to implement: (a) some UCs had a high political profile; (b) there were groups wit
interests in mainning the current struture; and (c) the macroeconomic conditions and
voladliy of both governments were not conducive to a comprebensive program of
divestiture and reform. Despite these limiting forces, there was genuine apprecaion of
the various problems and internal and external pressures to act on this window of
opportunity for change.
(b)   Reforming the public corporate sector is a massive and complicated effort, which wold
require Bank involvement over seeral years and several operations to ensure the
maximum benefit. More than two tranches are needed to ensure adequate time for
corporate sector reform and large privatization efforts.
(c)   Strong institutional support is required for project success. Supeiion by the Bank and
the Borrower was on a continuous and intensive basis. The relatively high staff input of
418 staff weeks (Table 7, Part D) is not surpising given the scope of the work entailed
in designing and supevin  the program. Skldls and time were required due to the
comprehensive nature of the refrms; requirements for a multidisciplinay team to
adquately address al the issues involved; and lead dme eailed in obtaining the
necessary approvals from the conoerned decsion-makdng authorities.
(d)   The Bank needs to provide an intensive supervision durig the few years of a SAL
operon, rather than the more dispersed assistnce required over a longer period for
investment projects.



- 12 -
(e)   Thee is a large payoff in invesding In project desip and preparaton. lhe Bank's
involvement was criical in establishing the progeam, but the Govemment retined the
ownershp of the rform program and remained committed to its implementation. As a
sult of the collaboraive effort of the Bank and the Government, the project reached an
advanced stag of imp lon by the dme of Board approval.
(M)   The flexibiliqt and brnkmanship shown, on the Bank's part, was an Important eleumet in
project Implemeo, in as much as the projeot desig  was complex, focussing on
broad secor Isues and addressing important insdtutional ones. For example, the project
imetabe wau wisely posponed when the Congress was crtcal of fondionalities for
new loans. The Bank also considered the Government's siuation and waived one minor
condition, which was delaying the disbursement of the second trancbe.
(g)   The establishment of agencies with adequae powers and a utaspareat divestre proces
are Cdtical for the success of the privatizaion.



- 13 -
Project Completion Repor
The Phippnes
Reorm fPrg   for Government Corpations
LOPR  29P6-H R  O
PART 1b IROJWCT lREW  FROME BSOlROWRS               SPECTIVE



15 -
PHILIPPINE
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
GOVERNMENT REFORM PROGRAM FOR
GOVERXXNT CORPORATIONS (LOAN NO. 2956-PH)
1.0  Introduction
This report is divided into two (2) parts: Part I-
Project Description and Part II - Project Assessment from
the Borrower's Perspective.   Updates   and information
included in this report were contributed by the Project
participants/program implementors, to wit: the Department
of Budget and Management (DBM), the Government Corporate
Monitoring and Coordinating Committee (GCMCC), Department
of Finance (DOF), Civil Service Commission (CSC), Committee
on Privatization (COP) and Asset Privatization Trust (APT).
Technical assistance was given for (a) corporate
planning and performance evaluation; (b) privatization of
Government Corporations (GCs);  (c) assistance for non-
privatization dispositions (regularization, conversions,
abolition,  etc.);  and       (d)  implementation  and/or
improvement of computerized accounting as detailed in Annex
1.
Part I      Proiect DescriDtion
1.0  Policy Objectives and Commitments
The Aquino Administration embarked on an economic
reform program of which one of the key elements was the
rationalization of the public corporate  sector.   The
rationalization   program   sought   to   limit   national
government's intervention in economic activities by
streamlining  the    corporate  sector  via  appropriate
dispositive actions such as privatization, abolition,
conversion, merger or consolidation and regularization;
improve the efficiency and effectiveness of government
corporations    by  providing  the  latter  with  wider
operational  autonomy  and  flexibility;   institutional
strengthening and introduction of a system of performance
evaluation and incentives; and instilling fiscal discipline
in GCs.
2.0  Key components of the program were the definition of the
policy and legislative framework for the sector and the
operating environment of GCs; improvement of corporate
performance; and the rationalization and limiting of the
size of the sector.
2.1        Policy Framework - a fundamental undertaking
under the reform program is the establishment of the
conceptual  framework  for  the  composition  and
structure of the sector and operations of GCs. This



- 16 -
would encompass the issuance of policy guidelines,
executive   orders,   administrative   orders   and
legislative proposals which would define the scope of
government participation in economic undertakings and
groundrules for government support for GCs, and
institutional strengthening of retained GCs.
2.2        Rationalizing and Limiting the  Size of the
Government Corporate Sector - Proceeding from the
definition of the policy framework for the sector, a
succeeding activity is the rationalization of the
size and composition of the sector. This requires
the determination of the appropriate disposition of
each GC, i.e., which GC must be retained and which
ones should be privatized, abolished, regularized,
merged or converted to private foundations/Antities.
This aspect of the program could only be implemented
after identifying the criteria for government
intervention in the economy, an activity to be
undertaken under the first component of the Program.
2.3        Institution Building and Improvement of Retained
Corporations   -   Substantial   improvements   in
performance are targetted for retained GCs. This
would be achieved via expectation of higher public
accountability and financial self-sufficiency, change
in the policy and operating environment of GCs,
introduction of a system of performance evaluation
and incentives, computerization of accounting system
of large non-financial GCs and enhancement of
corporate planning capability and intra-departmental
and supra-ministerial supervision over the GCs.
3.0  The program  was funded with a $ 200 million loan support
from the World Bank.   Negotiations for the loan  were
conducted on March 24-30, 1988.  The loan was signed in
September 1, 1988 and became effective on November 9,
1988. The loan was to be released in three (3) tranches
subject to the satisfactory completion of various
conditionalities outlined in Annex 1. Supervision missions
visited Manila in October 1988, January, April, July and
September 1989, March and, October 1990, June, November,
and December 1991. In December 1991, the release of the
third and final tranche was advised after conducting an
overall assessment of the program's complete compliance.
Part II    Over-all Assessment from the Borrower's Perspective
1.0  The  introduction of reforms  in the Philippine public
corporate sector is an area of keen public interest and
importance in view of its material role and significance in
the  entire  government  delivery  mechanism.    This  is
especially true from the fiscal perspective, or in terms of
the sector's relative share of resources available to the
government. Government corporations account for more than



- 17 -
one-fifth of the national budget and over 50 percent of
public external borrowings in the mid '80s. Hence, it was
vital for the administration to focus on structural, policy
and institutional reforms in the sector.  The government
corporate reform program was a critical cog in the fiscal
stabilization and adjustment program of the government.
2.0  The Philippine government's concern toward the public
corporate sector was presented to the Bank in a Letter of
Development Policy sent on 2- Apr.il 1988.   The letter
outlines the need to execute a veform program in view of
the contribution of the corporate sector to overall public
sector deficit and its share in the external debt burden.
There was likewise a "proliferation of non-financial GCs,
without a clear delineation of the ground for government
activities in corporate form a.'1! without adequate
monitoring and supervision of GCs, resulting in a
significant drain of public resources".
3.0  The DOF, DBM, GCMCC, COP, APT and the CSC were identified
as program implementors.    These agencies have specific
separate but interdependent mandates under the Program.
While the DOF was given tie primary fuprtion of
rationalizing and enhancing corporate efficiancy and
accountability per EO 127-A, the direction and control of
the various program comDonents were left to the designated
implementing agencies.  :.3F has de facto restricted its
linkage with the implementors to collaborative and
coordinative undertakings. The primary responsibility for
the planning, organization and execution of activities
under each Program component rested with the key
implementing agency.
4.0  The fundamental problems of the government corporate sector
according to the Presidential Commission on Government
Reorganization were (a) weak policy base; (b) inadequate
over-all monitoring and control system for the sector; and
(c) poor corporate performance. Taking off from these
observations, the thrusts of the Program were (a) the
development of policy and operational guidelines; (b) the
identification and disposition of government entities found
to be inappropriate for government ownership and control;
and  (c)  improvements  in  both  the  organizational,
operational and monitoring aspects of GCs to be retained.
5.0  The following review attempts to examine the overall impact
of the Reform Program vis-a-vis its objectives and assess
its major accomplishments and failures as well as
meaningful experiences learned in the process.
6.0  The Policy and Regulatory Environment
6.1        The issuance of Proclamation No. 50 on December
8, 1986 and Administrative Order No. 59 on February
16, 1988, laid the foundation for the government's
corporate reform program. The Administrative Order



- 18 -
emphasized the primacy of the private sector in
undertaking economic activities and laid down the
tenets of government participation or intervention in
economic activities and conditions precedent to the
establishment of public corporations.
6.2        The issuance of A.O. No. 59 and E. 0. No. 236
and 164 established the general framework to
operationalize  the  desired  policy  regime  and
oversight mechanism. E.O. No. 236 reconstituted the
former GCMC into a new GCMCC.   The said Order
empowered  the  GCMCC  as  the  monitoring  and
coordinating body for all retained GCs and authorized
it to establish, with the concurrence of the GCs,
performance criteria, operating performance targets
and standards and conduct periodic review thereof.
It was likewise empowered to recommend to the
President   the   imposition   of   sanctions   and
restrictions on GCs in such cases as, for instance,
failure to meet pre-agreed targets.
E.O. No. 164 provided GCs greater authority in
procurement activities in recognition of their need
for differential treatment and flexibility.
6 .3       The GCMCC was likewise designated to evaluate
requests for the establishment of new GCs, either
through special law or by registration with the
Securities and Exchange Commission and the equity
infusion by a GC in a private enterprise even in a
minority capacity, to ensure that the government does
not participate in an undertaking that can be handled
adequately by the private sector. Such evaluation
process is also designed to control the proliferation
of subsidiary and/or affiliate corporations which do
not enhance the government's overall efficiency and
effectiveness in service delivery.
6.4        A.O.  59  also  defined  the  broad  principles
governing the power and functions of the government
corporate boards as well as those of the   chief
executive and other key officers of the GCs; the
supervisory authority of parent corporations over
their subsidiaries and departmental representation in
corporate boards plus the attendant authority of the
department secretary over GCs attached to their
departments.
6.5        The foregoing laws and regulations were designed
to pave the way for the implementation of the reform
program. In addition thereto, the reform aimed to:
(a) eliminate automatic government guarantees for
loans contracted by GCs; and
(b) standardize the general features of charters of



- 19 -
GCs and their management  as  follows:    (1)
vesting the management of the GCs in the Chief
Executive Officer under the direction of the
Board of Directors;   (2) requiring that the
members of the Board of Directors should have
recognized competence and experience relevant to
the GCs operations; (3) clarifying the role of
service-wide departments; and (4) that when GCs
are  required  by  government  to  undertake
activities which are not financially viable, the
government will take adequate and timely steps
to protect the financial viability of such GCs
on the basis of arrangements between the
government and the SCs as part of inter-
departmental monitoring and evaluation by the
GCMCC.
6.6        GCMCC issued resolution No. 2 dated October 27,
1989 stating that "in the design of the performance
monitoring and evaluation system, the GCMCC shall
appropriately consider and adopt arrangements for the
objective and effective inter-departmental monitoring
and evaluation of government corporations where its
Chairman is the representative of the Department to
which it is attached and is a member of GCMCC". The
resolution further provides that in the review of
corporate   charters,   where   ex-officio  members
constitute the majority of the members of the
Governing Board of a government corporation, the
selection of the Departments represented in the Board
in each Case shall adequately take into account the
relevance of the functions of such Department to the
activities of the government corporation.
6.7        While Congress has yet to enact H.B. 30405 on
the elimination of automatic guarantee features
incorporated in the charter of GCs, the government
took in a parallel measure in the form of Department
of Finance Order (No. 35-89, dated 1 September 1989)
governing the extension of guarantee by the national
government for borrowings of GCs.   The guidelines
prescribe that government guarantee shall favorably
be considered for financially viable projects of GCs
within the context of the prevailing policy on
external and domestic debt management.   A notable
feature of the guideline is the charging of a
guarantee fee to compensate for the risk of servicing
the loan of the GC/borrower. Thereafter, the Bureau
of the Treasury issued Memorandum Circular No. 1-91
prescribing a guarantee fee of one percent per annum
based on the outstanding balance of the guaranteed
borrowing.
6.8        The GCMCC also issued a resolution on 18 January
1989, laying down the principle and providing a
mechanism to assist GCs for losses arising from



- 20 -
national government mandated projects and activities
and which are not part of the agreed corporate plan
of the concerned GC. The resolution was prompted by
the need to foster the financial autonomy and
viability of GCs. Circular No. 1 dated 15 May 1989
jointly issued by the DBM and GCMCC on the grant of
subsidy to GCs include the preceding criterion among
the eligible conditions for accessing budgetary
support from the national government.
6.9        In summary, the legislative measures drafted
and/or filed with Congress in support of program
objectives were:   three bills  in the House of
Representatives with identical versions endorsed
separately to the Senate: one standardizing certain
corporate powers, functions and responsibilities of
GCs, another defining the grounds when subsidy may be
continued to be given to GCs, and the third, repeal
of  provisions  allowing      automatic  government
guarantee on GC loans   in corporate charters and
defining the instances when government guarantee may
be extended.
6.10       Official coverage of the public corporate sector
in the Career Executive Service (CES) was effected in
May 1990 through CES Board Resolution No. 90-02.
Shortly thereafter, formal study of executive
positions in the various corporations was started.
As of end December 1991, a total of 284 executive
positions  in    44  corporations  were  carefully
evaluated.   Of this number, 219 positions in 37
corporations were classified under the CES, 45 were
excluded from the System while decision on 20 other
positions were held in abeyance pending further
study. Positions that were excluded were found to be
non-career or were not performing substantial
executive or managerial functions.
The classification and coverage of a position in
the CES meant that its incumbent will henceforth be
covered by CES rules and regulations on personnel
action such as the rules on eligibility, appointment
to rank, compensation, performance evaluation, and
security of tenure. Formal communication regarding
these matters has been made not only to the head of
the corporations but also to the incumbent of the
CES- classified positions.
The Board is continuing its study of executive
positions in other corporations with priority being
given to GCs identified for retention by the
government.     This  means  that  about  12  more
corporations are being looked into to complete the
coverage of the government corporate sector in the
CES. The list of 37 GCs in the CES Program is given
in Annex 2.



- 21 -
7.0 Privatization
7.1        On December 8, 1986, President Aquino issued
Proclamation  No.   50,   which   calls   for   the
privatization  of  selected   government   assets/
corporations  within    a  period  of  five  years.
Proclamation No. 50 created the COP and APT. The COP
is tasked to oversee the privatization program and
formulate  policies  and  general  guidelines  on
privatization issues; approve the sale/divestment of
GCs/assets and monitor the progress of privatization
activities. It is composed of five Cabinet members,
with the Secretary of Finance as Chairman, and the
Secretaries of the Department of Justice (DOJ), the
Department  of  Trade  and  Industry  (DTI),  the
Department of Budget and Management (DBM) and the
Director-General of the National Economic Development
Authority (NEDA) as members. While the COP handles
policy matters, the APT and other disposition
entities handle the actual marketing for government
corporations/assets. This distinct set-up between
the COP and the disposition entities serves as a
check-and-balance    mechanism    which    enhances
transparency in the government's privatization
program.
7.2        The   privatization   program       covers   two
portfolios: (a) transferred assets (TAs) and (b)
GCs. The transferred assets refer to non-performing
accounts assumed by the national government. These
TAs consisting of 399 accounts were entrusted to the
APT for disposition. There are, on the other hand,
122 GCs approved for privatization out of the 301 GCs
in the government corporate sector.
7.3        Since    1986,  the  government's  program  has
resulted in the privatization of more than 300
accounts, to wit:
Table 1
Status of Privatization
As of December 31,1991
Total         Disposed/       Remaining
Portfolio for    Privatized    Accounts for
Privatization                   Privatization
TAs                 399           266                 133
GCs                 122            70                  52
Total            521           336                 185
Source of raw data : COP



- 22 -
7.4       Privatization targets were exceeded during the
period. Eighty-five GCs were offered for sale
representing 62 percent of asset values of GCs f or
privatization.  This is higher than the target to
offer for sale 60 GCs representing 50 percent of
asset values.  Figure 1 presents the revenues from
disposition of GCs; Figure 2, the revenues from
disposition of (TAs).
In mule -orn
4
*            .... ..... ... ............. .  
REVENUES FROM DISPOSION
OF GCs (1987 to 1990; let Hlf 1991)
P1w, 1
90
0-
w     In    Is*  e o   Jn-inI
REVENUES FROM DISPOSMTION OF TAs
(1987 to 1990; 1st Half 1991)
7.5       Pursuant to Proclamation No. 50, the APT and the
COP have a legal life of five years ending December
8,  1991.     Congress has recently approved the
extension of the life of APT and COP from December 8,
1991 to August 31, 1992 which may again be extended
by the President for not more than 16 months under RA
7181. Thus, the maximum allowable extension period
is for two years.



- 23 -
7.6        At  present,  attention  is  focused  on  the
privatization of big-ticket GCs. PAL's privatization
was already consummated. Philippine National Bank
which has previously privatized 30 percent of its
shares of stocks in a public offering, also plans to
sell 21 percent additional shares of stocks in 1992.
Twenty-five percent shareholdings of National Steel
Corporation are also expected to be offered for sale
in 1992.
8.0  Other Dispositive Actions
8.1        The  Presidential  Commission  on  Government
Reorganization (PCGR) in its report dated February
12, 1987, made recommendations for the disposition
of 301 GCs, to wit:
Table 2
Dispositive Actions Recommended by PCGR
Privatization           125
Abolition                 56
Regularization            40
Consolidation             25
Conversion                 8
Retention                 37
Total             291
Source of raw data:  DBN
8.2        The DBM took over the functions of PCGR on May
5,  1987.   After a series of presentations  and
consultations with the COP and   the GCMCC,  DBM
submitted revised recommendations to the Office of
the President.
8.3        Other GCs were added, while others were deleted
from the original PCGR list of proposed dispositions.
As conditions changed, and as the Office of the
President  progressed  with  its  own  round  of
consultations, adjustments were made in the proposed
dispositions.    Figure  3  presents  the  revised
breakdown of these dispositive actions.



- 24 -
DISPOSITIVE ACTIONS
FOR 301 GCs
Figure 3
Annex 3 provides the listing of the GCs under the
various disposition categories.
804        Annex 4 presents the status of imaplementation of
approved dispositions other than Privatization and
Retention. As detailed in Annex 4, Executive Orders
or Bills abolishing, regularizing, consolidating, or
converting 30 out of 33 statutory GCs had been
approved (i.e., fully implemented for purposes of the
Loan), while the application papers for the abolition
(dissolution in SEC language) and consolidation of 30
out of 51 SEC-registered GCs for which application
papers were filed (i.e., fully implemented for
purposes of the Loan), were approved by SEC. The
application papers for the abolition of seven, and
the consolidation of three, SEC-registered GCs will
be filed once all legal impediments involving these
GCs are resolved.



- 25 -
8.5        Two of the major objectives of the government
corporate reform program is to bring down the number
of retained GCs to a manageable level and to
strengthen  what  will  remain  of  the  government
corporate sector.   Towards this end, dispositive
actions for the 100 (from the total of 301) GCs that
did not qualify for privatization or retention, and
which are under the direct monitoring and
coordinative responsibility of DBM, 30 (91 percent)
of the 33 statutory GCs, and 51 (80 percent) of the
64 SEC-registered GCs, have been fully implemented
thus far.
8.6        Seventy-nine Gcs (or 27 percent of the original
size of sector) are listed under retention.   This
figure is more than twice the number originally
recommended for retention by PCGR. In an effort to
reduce the number of retained GCs further, GCNCC and
DBN are at present collaborating in identifying which
retained GC may still be recommended for other
dispositive action.
9.0  Institution   Building   and   Improvement   of   Retained
Corporations
9.1        Following the promulgation of E.O. 236, GCMCC
issued additional guidelines on January 22, 1988 to
implement the said Order. The guidelines spelled out
the criteria for the selection of GCs to be
monitored, the establishment of performance criteria,
indicators and targets (together with the appropriate
incentives and sanctions), formulation of standard
corporate planning models and management information
system.   To strengthen the Committee, a Technical
Board (TB) was created composed of representatives
from supervising member-departments of the GCMCC and
from NEDA, DBM, the Central Bank (CB) and COA.
9.2        The day-to-day affairs of the Committee were
handled by an Executive Director with staff support
from the Corporate Affairs Group (CAG) of the DOF and
the GCMCC   Secretariat.   CAG was created as a
separate unit under the DOF through E.O. 127-A.
9.3        Performance Evaluation System (PES) - Prior to
the release of the first tranche of the loan, the PES
was already piloted in five (5) major GCs, namely:
National Power Corporation (NPC), Philippine Ports
Authority (PPA), National Irrigation Administration
(NlA), Metropolitan Waterworks and Sewerage System
(MWSS), and the National Housing Authority (NHA).
The PES refers to the process of appraising the
accomplishments of GCs in a given year based on pre-
agreed performance criteria and targets and using
weights   to   rate   the   corporation's   overall
performance. Each corporation included in the PES



- 26 -
shall  have  specific  financial  and  physical/
operational indicators, targets and weights which
will be used in evaluating its performance at the end
of the evaluation period.
9.4        By 1990, the PES was expanded to 17 large GCs
with the assistance of consultants and by 1991, to
34 GCs. Annex 5 lists down the PES-covered GCs.
9.5        The framework for evaluating the GCs shall be
the performance agreement which specifies the
criteria, targets and scales of performance for a
given year as discussed and agreed upon between the
management of the GC and the GCMCC.  An important
element of this exercise is the confirmation of the
performance agreements by the respective corporate
boards. This act ensures that corporate management
as well as the policy makers (i.e., the Board) are
fully acquainted with the objectives and implications
of the performance evaluation exercise.
9.6        Preceding the conduct of the PES was a seminar/
workshop handled by Dr. Leroy Jones a professor of
public enterprises at Harvard University, on July 19-
20, 1989 and attended by senior corporate officers
and CAG/GCMCC staff.  The workshop was capped by a
frank exchenge of ideas regarding the PES between Dr.
Jones and the Chief Executive/operating Officers of
the retained GCs invited to the occasion. The GCMCC
Executive Director and five (5) CAG senior staff
members were likewise given the opportunity to study
and observe the experiences of other countries like
Korea, Pakistan and India which have adopted
performance evaluation and incentive systems.
9.7        Incentive System   - A crucial and integral
component of the PES is the incentive system. The
President issued E.O. 486 on November 8, 1989
providing for the establishment of an incentive
system directly linked to the GC's level of
performance and which shall encourage and recognize
outstanding performance and accomplishments with
varying incentives.   The E.O.  provides  for the
discontinuance of other performance-based monetary
incentives practised by GCs which are inconsistent
with, or not provided in the E.O.   The detailed
implementing guidelines are currently being prepared
and shall be jointly issued by DBM and GCMCC. The
CSC is a member of the Committee established to
resolve all related issues arising from the
implementation of the incentive system.
9.8        The promulgation of E.O. No. 486 is considered
to  be  a  vital  component  to  the  successful
implementation of the PES.  As conceived, the PES
will refashion or re-mould the relationship between



- 27 -
the national government and the GCS. Henceforth, the
GCs will have to achieve their respective performance
targets in order to avail of certain benefits. These
targets and criteria were identified based on the
retained GC's mandate with a view towards rating
financial performance, operating efficiency/service
effectiveness, productivity, corporate planning,
socio-economic   impact   and   other   meaningful
indicators.
9.9        Integrated  Reporting  System  -  Laying  the
groundworks for the phased implementation of the PES
was the streamlining of the reporting monitoring
system for GCs via an integrated reporting system
which was put in place in 1991.   This reporting
system simplifies and synchronizes the flow of
reports  to  and  from  the  GCs  to  the  various
senders/users.  Overlapping of data requirements of
monitoring   agencies   will   thus   be   reduced
significantly.     Unnecessary  report  preparation
activities  which  further  contribute  to  poor
submission compliance and delayed reporting, will
likewise be eliminated.
9.10       Corporate Planning - Building upon the corporate
planning model (CORPLAN) piloted in five GCs with the
help of World Bank Senior Analyst Mr. C. Fernandez in
1989, SGV consultants were hired in February 1991 to
upgrade the corporate planning capabilities of 15
selected GCs, namely:  NPC, NIA, MWSS, LRTA, PPA,
MIAA, NFA, NHA, PEA, Livelihood Corp., SPDA, PNR,
PRA, EPZA and PCIC.
9.11       The  corplan  study  involved  the  design  and
installation of a computer-based system that shall
integrate and process financial and operational data.
In the course of the engagement, the consultants
surveyed the corporate planning capabilities and
practices in the 15 GCs; documented technical and
users manual; designed, installed and trained
corporate officials and the GCMCC on the use and
maintenance of the CORPLAN and other information
systems.
9.12       On the part of the national government, the
planning system which is capable of generating multi-
year data projections will eventually be incorporated
into the PES. As a long-term goal of the PES, the
target setting will not be limited to an annual
exercise but can be stretched to directional multi-
year performance agreements so that corporate plans
are preserved despite changes in management, and
strategic contributions of the public corporate
sector to national goals and objectives clearly
identified.



- 28 -
9.13       Detailed  specialists  from the  DBP will  be
deployed to 11 selected GCs over ther next three
months to follow up on their CORPLANS and to assist
the GCs on enchancing the process and content of the
CORPLANs.
9.14       Computerized Accounting System - The conduct of
the study for the computerization of the accounting
systems of ten selected major non-financial GCs was
delayed in view of COA's position that the conduct of
the study should be done by the Commission itself,
which it did. The study was completed by COA in July
1991, and just recently, DBM furnished the Bank with
a copy of the final report.
As stated in the terms of reference, the project
has for its overall objective, the development and
implementation of a computerized general accounting
system for non-financial GCs. The whole project is
broken down into two phases:
Phase I - Evaluation of the existing general
accounting system and formulation of
the computerization plan; and
Phase II - Development and installation of the
recommended computer system
Phase I covered ten selected non-financial GCs
consisting  of  the  NHA,  PPA,  National  Power
Corporation, NIA, Philippine National Oil Co.,
National Development Co., MWSS, National Food
Authority, Philippine National Railways (subsequently
replaced by Light Rail Transit Authority) and
National Electrification Administration.
A diagnostic report, and computerization plans
for the GCs, and the Terms of Reference for Phase II
were submitted as integral parts of the Final Report.
10.0 Overall Assessment - The program implementation had its
normal share of difficulties and obstacles. These include:
(a)   resistance   to   change,   particularly   in   the
implementation of approved dispositive actions like
abolition, regularization, conversion, privatization, etc.;
(b) slow and conflicting decisions; (c) naturally long
gestation periods of institutional reforms as against the
ability to sustain gains with adequate policy and
logistical support and (d) operating environment (i.e.,
general economic conditions, legal impediments, general
orientation, etc.)
10.1       Notwithstanding   these   difficulties,    the
objectives of the program were largely achieved.
While there is ample ground for skepticism and
disappointment   on   the   Program's   pace   and



- 29 -
contributions, reforms undertaken during the last
five years give a feeling of optimism that a lot more
can be achieved especially considering that the
various  components  of the  Program  require  an
intricate plan of action that could easily be
derailed along the way.
10.2     The guiding policy concerns for the Program are
(a),the need to reduce government intervention in
economic undertakings; (b) the need to reduce fiscal
deficit; and (3) to foster greater accountability and
efficiency in the government corporate sector.
10.3     The reduction of the  intervention of the
government in economic activities would come with a
clear enunciation of the policy framework for the
government corporate sector and the operating
environment of GCs, and the execution of disposition
decisions intended to limit the size of the sector.
Clearly, the present leadership has issued the
necessary  policy  pronouncements   and  policy
initiatives upholding the primacy of the private
sector in the economy. It has likewise tenaciously
pursued the implementation of the dispositive
decisions, resulting in a substantial reduction in
the number of GCs.
10.4      Looking at intra-government transfers, net flow
of funds to the GCs showed a significant turn-around
over the Program period, in favor of the national
government as the following figures would show:
-2.
- .  ....   .   .   .   ...... ............... 
42   ._ ..........  _ .__._.__._  ------------
-3 1 _.._... . . ...  _...............  .  . . ..............  .  .................  ........
-4   .-............     ......... .   .   ..  .   .   ......  .   .     ..       .....  .  .  .   .   .......  .   .
'7e  77  '78  '70  '80  '81  '82  '83  '84  '86 '8e  '87  '88  '8   QO
NET FLOWS TO NG
AS % TO GNP
Figure 4



- 30 -
-20           _         .- - .7.... -. -                .. 1      .... 1- -  ,- ---,-
.10-                                           - .-...------.--.-.
.0o . .-   I  I  I.. - - .   .     .         - .-.--
'?  s In '?879'o Rt M  1  '84 45 '11  %I '8  "  v
NET FLOWS TO NO AS % TO
TOTAL NO EXPENDITURES
flvo 0
*I    4.o -.       ~.... . ..._..............
e
0   .0 
0.00711 
up"0                                             G~   ... ~_..~~vi.....Tt=    I .......M.
NotUW~~ .060.0 0000.4 010  00710000100 04 000.80001 .:00
TOTAL UGETaRY SUPPORT
TO QOVRNMET COPORATE UCTOR
ld I t I at "1 I e ot...      IJttt"  



- 31 -
0.70
0.80'
S      ~~~~0.80 -I
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .............    . 
e          0,40-
t
N          0.20  .  ..- .... . .........................  . -....
f
'70  '717  "8  '790 'so  'el '82  '83  '04  '86  '88  la?  '88  '60  '00
Tota Contrlbution  .0 P.03 .00.00 .03 0.11 0.07 0.07 0.09 0.14 0.08 0.09 0.26  .67 .44
PvllVatSWlo@SOtho  M  .0 .00.00 .000.000.07 070.07 ..08 0.12 0.00 0.16 0.16 .20 0.18
Inatemt on ML  E  ).0  ° .°00  100 0.000 -00  00 .00 0.00 O.00 0.00 0.24 D.0   280 0.10
Dividend PatyMnt   I1  .04 .08 0.00 .001.030.04 .0C 0.00 .02-0.02 0.01 0.01 .0e0002.0.18
TOTAL GO CONTRIBUTIONS TO NG
Figure  7
Supporting details are given in attached Table 3.
10.5      A  critical  review  of  selected  performance
parameters of GCs under the GCMCC PES coverage
however shows a big room for improvement especially
in the areas of pricing and cost efficiencies.
10.6      Legal   and   Policy   Framework   -   Pending
legislations  on  the  elimination  of  automatic
guarantee provisions in the charter of GCs; defining
the role of service-wide agencies; criteria on
granting of government subsidy to GCs; providing
standard features/powers of GCs and establishment of
career executive service must be followed through.
These are significant pieces of legislation for which
substantial research and consultations have already
been undertaken.
10.7      Privatization - While the privatization program
met  WB  loan  tranche  drawdown  conditions,  its
implementation has been criticized as rather slow.
A positive view is that expectations are overly
ambitious considering the immense legal problems and
various impediments and constraints associated with



- 32 -
such a  large p_ogram  (e.g.,  court  injunctions,
thin/limited domestic capital market, poor asset
condition, etc.). But it will only be a matter of
time when the entire corporate portfolio slated for
privatization will be fully disposed.
10.8       Remaining  number  of  GCs   for  abolition,
conversion, regularization etc. will just go through
the procedures of liquidation and/or filing the
appropriate documentary requirements.  Focus would
then be on the retained corporations.  It is this
small (i.e., in number - around 79 out of 301) group
which will be a critical element in the government
delivery machinery.   A more in-depth program of
action relating to further strengthening of the
retained corporations or possibly selective corporate
restructuring/rehabilitation should augur well for
the future of the public corporate sector.
10.9       The PES and the corplan exercise would have a
limited utility if the results generated therein are
not employed by policy makers as early warning
signals of corporate bankruptcy or failure. As such
the PES and the corplan could be useful determinants
of corporate structural adjustments in such areas,
e.g., as tariff restructuring, maximizing operational
efficiency  and  productivity,  capital  adequacy,
responsive organizational structure, and perhaps,
even leadership and managerial competence.
An effective PES and CORPLAN for GCs however,
depends on. a functioning and reliable   financial
information system and data base which is the
principal objective of the computerization component
of the Reform Program.
10.10      The introduction of the PES and the incentive
system and CORPLAN in selected GCs is a significant
accomplishment of the reform program. The activities
relative thereto, however, are still in their infancy
and must be nurtured to full growth and acceptance.
Expansion of these efforts to the rest of the
retained corporations will have to be pursued.
10.11      Finally, the upgrading and expansion of the
staff support directly responsible for program
implementation  must  be  pushed  and  sustained.
Otherwise, the gains of the program will be slowly
dissipated.    A  major  problem  which  has  to  be
addressed promptly is the fast turn-over of staff in
charge of the PES and monitoring of GCs.
10.12      Some areas for future action would ideally cover
a more detailed review and amendment of charters of
retained GCs; setting up of more specific criteria



- 33 -
for the creation of new GCs thereby amending Section
3 (c) of AO 59; redefining what a GC is vis-a-vis
the purpose and objectives of the government
corporate reform program and recent Supreme Court
decisions; und individual corporate rehabilitation/
restructuring programs.
10.13      It is felt that the PES is an inadequate tool
for generating dramatic improvements in corporate
performance. A re-structuring and cleaning up of
accounts is necessary to enable the management to
focus on the workable problems -nd not dissipate its
efforts over activities which are beyond its control.
Bail out and clean up plans have been approved for
some GCs.   Efficiency ar.d operational improvement
studies are necessary to complement these efforts.
10.14      Another critical area for study and policy
evaluation is the pricing and cost recovery practices
and considerations of GCs. Asserting financial
viability as a yardstick of performance require clear
policies on pricing sufficient to sustain operations.
11.0 Clearly, there is still much to be done or could be done
for the government corporate sector. Public corporate
sector management presents complex challenges. But there is
no reason why the difficulties and constraints cannot be
addressed and solved over timen with a clear sense of
purpose and support.



- 34 -
.fnrex1
Governlment Rieform irogram
for Government Coroorations:
tranche Conditionalities
REQUIRED ACTION               FIRST TRANCHE              SECOND TRANCHE                  THIRD TRANCHE
Policy Framework
a. Issuance of an Executive        E.O. 236 issuea on
Order creating GCHCC to         July 22.  987i
monitor, evaluate and
improve GCs
b. Issuance of Administrative      A.O. 59 issued on
Order Rationalizing the         Feb. 16, 1988
Government Corporate Sector
c. Issuance of an Executive        E.O. 164 issued on
Order oroviding greater         Hay 1897
authority for procurement
to GCs
d. Signing of Letter of            Sent to The Bank on
Development Policy              Aoril 27. 1988
e. Introduction of legislation  .                          .                                Circular No. 2, issued by
Corporate Career Executive                                                               Career Executive Service
Service                                                                                  Board on Sept. 06. 1990 Re:
coverage of 3rd Level
Executive Positions in
GOCCs with Orig. Charter in
the CES,
f. Review of charter of GCs                                       GCMCC Res. No.2
regarding Departmental                                         October 27, 1989
representation
g. Prrgress towards amendment                                        ioril 1990
of charters of retained GCs
h. Issuance of regulations on                                  POF Circular No. 35-89
loans and guarantees of GCs                                   September 1. 1989
ii    Corporate Rationalization
Program
a. Approval Disposition actions
1.  Finalization of the         March 1988
disoosition recommendation
of at least 240s. as
revieked by COP and GCRCC
...-.-- -.-- ---- ----........---- ----.-.- ----.-          . -...---- -   ......-.-- ---- --.- -.-.-..- ---. ......



- 35 -
REQUIRED ACTION                FIRST TRANCHE              SECOND TRANCHE                    THIRD TRANCHE
2.  Final decision by the        June 1988
proper authority on
disposition of above GCs
3.  Final decision by the                                .ul  19389
proper authority on
disposition of remaining 56
GCs
b. Privatization Program
1.  Issuance of EO              Proclamation No. 50
establishing COP/APT             issued on Dec,8,
1986
2.  Implementation of steos    31 GOCCs by Oec. 1988
to get in vendible form and    with total value of
offer for sale about 30 GCs.   25% of 1985 asset
representing at least 20% of   level as of May 1989
the gross assets in 1986 of
the GCs to be Drivatized
3.  Completion of septs to                                                                  By end 1991, 65 GCs
get in vendible form and       ,                                                            representing 82X of assets
offer for sale an additional                                                                to be privatized had been
30 GCs.  The cumulative        ,                                                            offered for sale
total of 60 GCs should
represent at least 50X of
the gross assets in 1986 of
the GCs to be orivatized
c. Other Disoosition Action
1.  Designdtion of DON as        Completed
agency resoonsible for other
disposition actions
2.  Finalization of                                                August 1989
implementation plans
regularizations, abolitions,
conversions. and mergers for
about 100 GCs
3.  Finalization of            ,                                                                    August 1990
implementation plans
regularizations, abolitions
conversions, and mergers and
about 27 GCs
..----



- 36 -
REQUIRED ACTION                 FI'RST TRANCHE              SECOND TRANCHE                     THIRD TRANCHE
4.  Progress towards                                                                                   December 1990
amendments of charters of
GCs as required to imolement
regularizations. abolitions.
conversions and mergers
5.  Implementation of above                                                                            Oecember 1990
Action Plans
III   Institution Building and
improvement of Retained
Corporations
a. Corporate Monitoring and
Evaluation
1.  Issuance of GCNCC             Guidelines to EO 236
Guidelines                        issued on January 22.
1988
2.  Issuance of EO 127 A          EO 127 A issueo on
establishing the Coroorate   : July 22, 1987
Affairs Group
3.  Staffing and Budget for    S Satisfactory Compliance:
CAG, 25 persons
4.  Appointeent of adequate                                    Satisfactory Compliance
staff for CAG
5.  Agreement on development   PES piloted in 5 GCs-
or a Performance Evaluation    NPC, NHA, PPA, NWSS.
System for major GCs              NIA
6.  Agreement on information                                :Integrated corporate
flows between GCMCC. core                                   ;reporting system aoproved
agencies and deoartments                                    'by the President thru N.G.
:320 dated Seotember 21. 1990:
7.  Design of Performance                                   :Study Completed re                EO No.486 establishing a
Evaluation and Incentive                                    :indicators, targets,              performance-based incentive
System (PES)                                                :weights for GCs; GCMCC            system for GCs issued on
:Guidelines on PES issued on : Nov. 8. 1991; PES further
:Nov. 8. 1990.  Evaluation         4mproved with incorporation
:and ranking of 5 pilot GCs        of scaling system for 1991
completed.                        performance agreements:
Evaluation and ranking of
GCs based on 1990
performance also completed.
8.  introduction of PES to                                  APES introduced in 17 GCs
15 large NFGCs                                               for 1990



- 37 -
REQUIRED ACTION             FIRST TRANCHE             SECOND TRANCHE                 THIRD TRANCHE
b. Curporate Planning
1.  Introduction of Corplan   Piloted in 5 GCs in            imolementation          Upgrading/enhancing by SGV
to 5 GCs                      1989 NPC. NWSS. PPA.                                   conducted Feb.-Juiy 1991.
NIA and NHA
2.  Corplan approved by B0D                                                          Appropriate board
of 5 GCs                                                                             resolutions lssued.
c. Improvement of Accounting
and Auditing
1.  Finalization of an                                                                        July 1991
inolementation plan to
computerize accounting
systems (with COA and
selected GCsl
2.  Introduction of                                                               .uly 1991
computerized accounting
system to 10 GCs
3. Issuance of revised        Completed                      Ir.plementation                Implementation
audit manual
4. Fiscal independence for   Completed                       Implementation                 Implementation
COA
------------ ----------- ----------- -   --------- ----------- ----------- ----------- ----------- ----------- -----------



- 38 -
IAnex 2
OCS Covered by the Career Ezecutive Service (CBS) Program
1.    Central Bank of the Philippines
2.    Development Academy of the Philippines
3.    Employees Compensation Commission
4.    Government Service Insurance System
5.    Home Insurance Guaranty Corporation
6.    Instructional Material Corporation
7.    Laguna Lake Development Authority
8.    Light Rail Transit Authority
9.    Local Water Utilities Administration
10.   Manila International Airport Authority
11.   Metals Industry Research and Development Corporation
12.   Metropolitan Waterworks and Sewerage System
13.   National Electrification Administration
14.   National Food Authority
15.   National Home Mortgage Finance Corporation
16.   National Housing Authority
17.   National irrigation Administration
18.   National Kidney Institute
19.   Natural Resources Development Corporation
20.   Philippine Children's Medical Center
21.   Philippine Coconut Authority
22.   Philippine Crop Insurance Corporation
23.   Philippine Dairy Corporation
24.   Philippine Deposit Insurance Corporation
25.   Philippine Fisheries Development Authority
26.   Philippine National Railways
27.   Philippine Retirement Authority
28.   Philippine Rice Research Institute
29.   Philippine Tourism Authority
30.   Philippine Veterans Assistance Commission
31.   Philippine Aerospace Development Corporation
32.   Philippine Export Foreign Loan Guarantee Corporation
33.   Social Security System
34.   Southern Philippines Development Authority
35.   Sugar Regulatory Administration
36.   Technology and Livelihood Resource Center
37.   The Livelihood Corporation



Annex 3
SUMMARY OF STATUS AND DISPOSITIVE ACIIONS FOR GOCCs
(As of 06 December 1991)
PrivaLized            Approved           Throuqh           Submitted  to
Prior to              by  the         Republic           the Office of             For' Further
DBM  Review            President            AeL            the President               Review               TOTAL
----------------------------------------------------------------__-----------__------------------------------
PrivaLiLaLioru  (SCtl. 1)                   4                     118                -                    -                        -                112
Abolitiof (Schi. 2)                         -                       58               1                    -                                           59
Reguldr izaLioti (Scih. 3)                  -                       15                                    2                        1                 18              e
Con3olidationi  (Scil. 4)                   -                       17               -                                             -                  17
Conver-sion  (S<ch. 5)                       -                       6               -                    -                        -                   6
ReLenrLiort (ScM. 6)                        -                       39               1                   38                        1                  79
4                    253                2                   40                        2                301
- - - - --- - - ---- - - - -- -- - - - -- -- - --- - -- - --- - - -- - -- -- - - - - - -- -- - -- - - -- - -- - - -- -- - -- - - - -- -- -- - ----- - --- ---



- 40 -
XMTULIST O GCs BY STATUS AND DISPOSITIVE ACTION
(As of 06 December 1991)
Schedule 1.  Privat ization
A.  Privatized Before Review Could be Undertaken by PCGRtD=  (4)
1. Argao Resort Development Corporation
2. DBP Service Corporation
3. PNOC Petroleum Carriers Corporation
4. Veterans Manpower and Protective Services, Inc.
B.  APproved by the President (118)
1. APO Production Unit, Inc.
2. Agro-Livestock Commercial Development Corp.
3. Asia Goodwill Fishing Corporation
4. Asia Industries, Inc.
5. Associated Bank, Inc.
6. Bancom Insurance Brokers, Inc.
7. Barcelon Roxas Securities, Inc.
8. Basin Dredging and Development Corp.
9. Batangas Land Company, Inc.
10.  Beta Electric Corporation
11.  Bicolandia Sugar Development Corporation
12.  Bislig Coal Corporation
13.  Builder's Brick Inc.
14.  Carmona Woodworking Industries, Inc.
15.  Century Bank
16.  Century Holding Corporation
17.  Coco-Chemical Philippines, Inc.
18.  Commercial Bank of Manila
19.  Construction Manpower Development Foundation, Inc.
20.  DBP Data Center, Inc.
21.  Davao Agri-Business Development Co., Inc.
22.  Davao Equipment Manufacturing Corporation
23.  East Visayas Agricultural Projects, Inc.
24.  Filoil Industrial Estates, Inc.
25.  Filoil Refinery Corporation
26.  First Chicago Leasing and Equipment Credit
Corporation
27.  Food Terminal, Inc.
28.  Furniture Manufacturing Corp. of the Phils.
29.  GY Real Estate, Inc.
30.  Gasifier and Equipment Manufacturing Corporation
31.  Grains Insurance Agency Corporation
32.  Hotel Enterprises of the Phils.
33.  INCA Coffee Estates Corporation
34.  Integrated Feed Mills Corporation
35.  International Corporate Bank
36.  Kamayan Realty Corporation
37.  Kaunlaran Food Corporation
38.  Leyte Park Hotels, Inc.
39.  Luzon Integrated Services, Inc.
40.  Malangas Coal Corporation
41.  Manila Hotel Corporation



- 41 -
42. Marawi Resort Hotel, Inc.
43. Marina Properties Corporation
44. Maunlad Savings and Loan Association, Inc.
45.  Meat Packing Corporation of the Phils.
46. Metro-Manila Transit Corporation
47. Mindanao Textile Corporation
48. Mindeva Coco Coir Industries, Inc.
49. Mindeva Refrigeration Industries, Inc.
50. Monte Maria Poultry Farms, Inc.
51. Mountain Springs Development Corporation
52. DC Plantations, Inc.
53. DC-Guthrie Estates, Inc.
54. DC-Guthrie Plantations, Inc.
55. DC-NACIDA Raw Materials Corp.
56. NIA Consult, Inc.
57. NIDC Oil Mills, Inc.
58. Nadeco Realty Corporation
59. National Chemical Carriers, Inc.
60. National Marine Corporation
61. National Precision Cutting Tools, Inc.
62. National Realty Development Corporation
63. National Service Corporati)n
64. National Shipping Corpora- ion of the Phils.
65.  National Slipways Corpor  ion
66. National Steel Corporation
67. National Stevedoring and Lighterage Co.
68. National Sugar Refineries Corporation
69.  National Trucking and Forwarding Corporation
70. National Warehousing Corporation
71. Negros Occidental Copperfield Mines, Inc.
72. Northern Foods Corporation
73. PNB International Finance Ltd.
74.  PNB Venture Capital Corporation
75. PNOC Coal Corporation
76. PNOC Energy Supply Base, Inc.
77. PNOC Narine Corporation
78. PNOC Oil Carriers, Inc.
79. Panaon Prawn Development Corporation
80. People's Livelihood Enterprises, Inc.
81. People's Technology Terminal Corp.
82. Philippine Aerospace Development Corp.
83. Philippine Air Lines, Inc.
84. Philippine Amanah Bank
85. Philippine Associated Smelting and Refining Corp.
86. Philippine Cotton Corporation
87. Philippine Dairy Corporation
88. Philippine Exchange Company, Inc.
89. Philippine Fruit and Vegetable Industries, Inc.
90. Philippine Genetics, Inc.
91. Philippine Helicopter Services, Inc.
92. Philippine National Bank
93. Philippine National Lines
94. Philippine Phosphate Fertilizer Corporation
95. Philippine Plate Mills Company,Inc.
96. Philippine Plaza Holdings, Inc.
97. Philippine Pyrite Corporation



42 -
98.  Philippine Shipyard Engineering Corporation
99.  Philippine Sugar Corporation
100.  Phividec Panay Agro Industrial Corporation
101.  Pilipinas Bank
102.  Pinagkaisa Realty Corporation
103.  Primary Foods, Inc.
104.  Prime Center Trade International Systems, Inc.
105.  Refractories Corporation of the Phils.
106.  Republic Planters Bank
107.  Republic Transport and Shipyard Corporation
108.  Ridge Resort and Convention Center, Inc.
109.  San Carlos Fruit Corporation
110.  Semirara Coal Corporation
111.  Shoe Technology Corporation
112.  Tacoma Bay Shopping Corporation
113.  The Energy Corporation
114.  Union Bank of the Philippines
115.  USIPHIL, Inc.
116.  Wood Koal, Inc.
117.  Wood Waste Utilization and Development Corp.
118.  ZNAC Rubber Estate Corporation
Schedule 2. Abolition (59)
A. Approved by the President (58)
1.  Aberdeen Farms, Inc.
2.  Agro-Industrial Resource Mobilization Corp.
3.  Leyte Swab-a Basin Development Authority
4.  Alfombras Manuales Filipinas, Inc.
s.  Arconal, NV
6.  Basin Fiberglass Corporation
7.  Cebu Stevedoring Co., Inc.
8.  Consolidated Terminals, Inc.
9.  Eastern Visayas Resources Trading Corp.
10.  East Visayas Transport Corporation
11.  Entertainment Phils. Inc.
12.  Farmacor, Inc.
13.  Hyacinth Products Enterprises and Resources Dev.
Corp.
14.  Insurance Brokers Integrated Services
15.  Integrated Air Corporation
16.  Kabataang Barangay Foundation, Inc.
17.  Leyte Swab-a Basin River Development Authority
18.  Leyte Wood Exports Corporation
19.  Liquid Gas Corporation
20.  Luzon Stevedoring Corporation
21.  Marikina Plaza Agora Corporation
22.  Museum of Philippine Costumes
23.  DC-Logistics Corporation
24.  DC Shell-Billiton Minerals Investment Corp.
25.  National Aero Manufacturing Corporation
26.  National Alcohol Corporation
27.  National Dendro Development Corporation
28.  National Heavy Engineering Corporation
29.  National Investment and Development Corporation



-43 -
30.  National Rayon Corporation
31.  National Tinplate Corporation
32.  National Youth and Sports Development Foundation of
the Phils.
33.  PNOC Alcohol Corporation
34.  PNOC Crude Oil Tankers, Inc.
35.  PNOC-Enercon Corporation
36.  PNOC Geothermal Technology Corporation
37.  PNOC Petrochemical Dev. Corporation
38.  PNOC-Petroleum Tankers, Inc.
39.  Pambansang  Katipunan  ng  Kabataang  Barangay  ng
Pilipinas
40.  Perkins Engines Eastern (Phils.) Inc.
41.  Philippine Aero Systems, Inc.
42.  Philippine Aero Transport , Inc.
43.  Philippine Dendro Gasifier, Inc.
44.  Philippine Resource Helicopters, Inc
45.  Philippine Rural Development and Services Corp.
46.  Philtrade, Inc.
47.  Philtrade, USA, Inc.
48.  Phividec Foundation, Inc.
49.  Recto Central Park Development Corporation
50.  Republic Sugar Development Corporation
51.  Rural Energy Systems International, Inc.
52.  Swab-A Feeds Enterprises, Inc.
53.  Samar Sea-Ticao Pass Fisheries Development Corp.
54.  Technology Management Development Corp.
55.  The Borromeo Corporation
56.  Transport Contractors, Inc.
57.  Universal Computer Resources Network, Inc.
58.  Gintong Alay Foundation (RA 6847)
B.   Throuah Republic Act
1. Gintong Alay Foundation (RA 6847)
Schedule 3. Regularization (18)
A. Approved by the President (15)
1.  (Ang) Nayong Pilipino Foundation, Inc.
2.  Farm System Development Corporation
3.  Fiber Industry Development Authority
4.  Instructional Materials Corporation
5.  Kalinga Special Development Authority
6.  Laguna Lake Development Authority
7.  NIRDC Testing Foundation of the Philippines
8.  Metals Industry Research and Development Center
9.  National Coal Authority
10.  National Post-Harvest Institute for Research and
Extension
11.  Philippine Coconut Authority
12.  Philippine High School for the Arts
13.  Revenue Information System Services, Inc.
14.  Tondo General Hospital, Inc.
15.  Wood Industry Development Authority



- 44 -
B.   Recommendation Submitted by DBM to OP (2)
1. Philippine Amusement and Gaming Corp.
2. Philippine Charity Sweepstakes Office
C.   For Further Review by DBM (1)
1. Environmental Center of the Phil. Foundation, Inc.
Schedule 4. Consolidation (17) (all approved by the President)
1. Bancom Realty Corporation
2. Bataan Refining Corporation
3. Bliss Development Corporation
4. Center for Int'l. Trade Expositions and Missions,
Inc.
5. DBP Management Corporation
6. Export Credit Corporation
7. GSIS Realty and Development Corporation
8. Hotel Development Corporation
9. Music Promotion Development of the Phils.
10. PNOC-Energy Drilling Corporation
11. Petron TEA Corporation
12. Philippine Tobacco Administration
13. Philippine Tobacco Board
14. Phil. Virginia Tobacco Administration
15. Phil. Virginia Tobacco Board
16. Rural Waterworks Development Corp.
17. Virginia Tobacco Fuelwood Corporation
Schedule 5. Conversion (6) (all approved by the President)
1. Boy Scouts of the Philippines
2. Girl Scouts of the Philippines
3. Integrated Bar of the Philippines
4. Marcos Golf Foundation of the Philippines
5. National Social Action Council
6. Philippine Shipper Council
Schedule 6. Retention (79)
A. ADDroved by the President (39)
1. Cottage Industries Technology Center (formerly
NACIDA)
2. Local Water Utilities Administration
3. National Tobacco Administration
4. Philippine Convention and Visitors Corporation
5. Philippine Trade Exhibition Center
A.2 Through Presidential Memoranda (34)
1. Export Processing Zone Authority
2. Fertilizer and Pesticide Authority
3. Home Insurance and Guaranty Corporation
4. Inter-Island Gas Service, Inc.



45 -
5. Light Rail Transit Authority
6. Livelihood Corporation
7. Manila Gas Corporation
8. Manila International Airport Authority
9. National Agri-Business Corporation
10. National Food Authority
11.  Natural Resources Development Corporation
12.  PAGCOR Services, Inc.
13.  Pagkakaisa Gas Storage Corporation
14.  Petron Tankers Corporation
15.  Petrophil Corporation
16.  Petrophil Tankers Corporation
17. Philippine Center for Economic Development
18.  Philippine Fisheries Development Authority
19. Philippine Institute for Development Studies
20.  Philippine National Railways
21. Philippine Retirement Authority
22. Philippine Rice Research Institute
23.  Philippine Tourism Authority
24. Philippine Veterans Assistance Commission
25. Philippine Veterans Investment Development Corp.
26. Phividec Industrial Authority
27. PNOC Energy Development Corporation
28.  PNOC Shipping and Transport Corporation
29. PNOC Tankers Corporation
30. Quedan Guarantee Fund Board
31. Public Estates Authority
32. Southern Philippine Development Authority
33. Sugar Regulatory Administration
34. Veterans Federation of the Philippine
B.  Throuah Republic Act
1. National Research Council of the Philippine (RA 6974)
C. Recommendation Submitted to OP (38)
1. Asean Copper Products, Inc.
2. Asian Exchange Center, Inc.
3. Central Bank of the Philippines
4. Cultural Center of the Philippines
5. Development Academy of the Philippines
6. Development Bank of the Philippines
7. Employees Compensation Commission
8. Government Service Insurance System
9. Home Development Mutual Fund
10. LBP Insurance Brokerage, Inc.
11. LBP Leasing Corporation
12. Land Bank of the Philippines
13. Lumang Bayan Realty Development Corporation
14. Lung Center of the Philippines
15. Masaganang Sakahan, Inc.
16. Metropolitan Waterworks and Sewerage System
17. National Development Company
18. National Electrification Administration
19. National Home Mortgage Finance Corporation



- 46 -
20. National Housing Authority
21. National Irrigation Administration
22. National Kidney Institute
23. National Power Corporation
24, PNOC Exploration Corporation
25e Philippine Children's Medical Center
26. Philippine Crop Insurance Corporation
27. Philippine Deposit Insurance Corporation
28.  Philippine  Export  and  Foreign  Loan  Guarantee
Corporation
29. Philippine Heart Center
30. Philippine International Convention Center
31. Philippine International Trading Corporation
32. Philippine National Oil Company
33. Philippine National Red Cross
34. Philippine Ports Authority
35. Private Debts Restructuring and Repayment Corp.
36. Social Security System
37. Strategic Investment Development Corporation
38. Technology and Livelihood Resource Center
D. For Further Review
1. Philippine Veteran Bank



47
Annex 4
Oeoartment of Budget and management
GOYERNYNET CORPORATE SeCTOR RATIONALIZAT ON PROJECT
ACTION TAKEN TO IMPLEMENT APPROVED DISPOSITIVE ACTIONS OTHER THAN PRIVATIZATION I RETENTION
(As of 0 ODecember 1991)
Draft AO/  AIO/5ill  Draft AO/
cO/Oill   Signed b,1   EO/Qill
Submitted      the      Remaining
Total      to OP    President       at OP
A.  STATUTORY GOCCs
Abolition                   I        i            6           1
Consolidaticn               8        8            8           -
Regularization             12       12           12           -
Conversion                  6        8            4           2
Sub-Total               33        33           30           3
Adolication  Application  Acolication   Applicatioi
Peners       weoers       Pepers Not   Peaers for
Filed with   Aocroved by  Yet Aooroved  Filling wl
iEC          SEC          by SEC         SEC *
a.  SEC GOCCS
Abolition                  52        -           -            -               45            24 St          21              7
Consolidation               9        -           -            -                6             o           -                 3
Regularization              3        3            2                          -             --
Sub-Total               64         3            2           1               51            30             21            10
C.  SUWNARY for all
GOCCs
Abolition                 53
Consolidation             1i
iegularization             15
Conversion                  6
Total                   S,        31           33           4               51            30             21            tO
::::     ::::        ::: ::.=:z_::                  ::           :::::         :::::            Z::::
s   Pending with the following implementing entities: NOC. PFIVIDEC & LSoDA (abolition): aOC   D isP
fconsolluationl, due to certain legal constraints
*s  Includes 8 GOCCs abolished thru involuntary dissolution
tsu Inciudes 1 GOCCs for which reouest for invoiuntary dissolution was filed with SEC.
(See attached Ii3ts for details)
M.9.  At present. DBN is collaborating with GCNCC in reviewing 79 GOCCs i. the retention iist to ascertain
which among them could still be recommended to the President for non-retention disoositive actions. and in
review of the charters of selected GOCCs which will remain ia the Government Cooorate Sector.



- 48 -
AOTIONS "ZEN TO IMPL s    APIROVD D1SPOSITXVE ACTIONS OTMM
TUN PRIVATIATXION & RRETNTION(as of 06 DeceMber 1991)
X0   STATUTORY GCe (33)
A.    Draft AOlEO/Bill Submitted to OP (33)
A.1   EO/AO/Congressional Bill signed by the President (30)
Abo-lition
1. Gintong Alay Foundation (RA 6847)
2. Leyte Swab-a Basin Development Authority
3. Museum of Philippine Costumes
4. National Dendor Development Corporation
5. National Youth and Sports Development Foundation of
the Philippines
6. Philippine Dendor Gasifier, Inc.
Consolidation
1. Export Credit Corporation
2.  Music Promotion Foundation of the Philippines, Inc.
3. Philippine Tobacco Administration
4. Philippine Tobacco Board
5. Philippine Virginia Tobacco Administration
6.  Philippine Virginia Tobacco Board
7.  Rural Waterworks Development Corporation
8.  Virginia Tobacco Fuelwood Corporation
Reoularization
1e  Farm Systems Development Corporation
2. Fiber Industry Development Authority
3. Instructional Materials Corporation
4. Kalinga Special Development Authority
5. Laguna Lake Development Authority
6. Metals Industry Research and Development Center
7. National Coal Authority
8. National Post-Harvest Institute for Research and
Extension
9. Philippine Coconut Authority
10. Philippine High School for the Arts
11. Tondo General Hospital, Inc.
12. Wood Industry Development Authority
Conversion
1. Boy Scouts of the Philippines
2. Girl Scouts of the Philippines
3. National Social Action Council
4. Philippine Shipper Council



- 49 -
A.2   Draft AO Still with OP (3)
Abolition
1.  Pambansang  Katipunan  ng  Kabataang  Barangay  ng
Pilipinas
Conversion
1. Integrated Bar of the Philippines
2. Marcos Golf Foundation of the Philippines
II. 8B-REGISTERED GCS (64)
A.    Draft AO Submitted to OP (31
A.l   EO Approved by the President (1)
Reoluaizat in
1. Revenue Information Systems Services, Inc.
2. MIRDC Testing Foundation of the Philippines
A.2   Draft AO still with OP (2)
Recularization
1. (Ang) Nayong Pilipino Foundation, Inc.
B.    Application Papers Filed with SEC (51)
B.1   Application Papers Approved by SEC (30)
Voluntary Dissolution
1. Arconal, NV
2. Babcom Realty Corporation
3. Farmacor, Inc.
4. Hyacinth Products Enterprises and Resources Dev.
Corp.
5. National Rayon Corporation
6. National Tinplate Corporation
7. DC Shell-Billiton Minerals Investment Corporation
8. Perkins Engines Eastern (Phils.), Inc.
9. PNOC Alcohol Corporation
10. PNOC-Enercon Corporation
11. PNOC Geothermal Technology Corporation
12. PNOC Oil Tankers, Inc.
13. PNOC-Petrochemical Development Corporation
14. PNOC-Petroleum Tankers, Inc.
15. Republic Sugar Development Corporation
16. Samar Sea-Ticao Pass Fisheries Development Corp.



- o-
Involuntary Dissolution
1. Aberdeen Farms, Inc.
2. Basin Fiberglass Corporation
3. East Visayas Transport Corporation
4. Kabataang Barangay Foundation, Inc.
5. Leyte Wood Exports Corporation
6. Liquid Gas Corporation
7. Marikina Plaza Agora Corporation
8. Swab-a Feeds Enterprises, Inc.
Consolidation
1.  Bataan   Refining   Corporation   with   Petrophil
Corporation
2. CITEN with PTEC
3. GSIS Realty and Development Corp. with GSIS
4. Petron TBA Corporation with Petrophil Corporation
5. PNL Leasing Company with PNL
6. PNOC-Energy Drilling Corporation with PNOC
B.2   Application Papers Not Yet Approved by SEC (21)
Voluntary Dissolution
1. Agro-Industrial Resource Mobilization Corp.
2. Alfombras Manuales Filipinas, Inc.
3. ASEAN Philippine Copper Holdings, Inc.
4. Entertainment Philippines, Inc.
5. Insurance Brokers Integrated Services
6. Integrated Air Corporation
7. National Aero Manufacturing Corporation
8. National Alcohol Corporation
9. National Heavy Engineering Corporation
10. National Investment Development Corporation
11. DC Logistic Corporation
12. Philtrade, Inc.
13. Philtrade, USA, Inc.
14. Philippine Aero Systems, Inc.
15. Philippine Aero Transport, Inc.
16. Philippine Resource Helicopters, Inc.
17. Recto Central Park Development Corporation
18. Rural Energy Systems International, Inc.
19. Technology Management Development Corporation
20. The Borromeo Corporation
21. Universal Computer Resources Network, Inc.
B.3   Application Papers for Filing with SEC (10)
Dissolution
1.  Cebu Stevedoring Co., Inc.
2. Consolidated Terminals, Inc.
3. Eastern Visayas Resources Trading Corporation
4. Luzon Stevedoring Corporation
5. Philippine Rural Development and Services Corporation



- 51 -
6. Phividec Foundation, Inc.
7. Transport Contractors, Inc.
Consolidation
1.  BLISS Development Corporation with HIGC
2. DBP Management Corp. with DBP
3. Hotel Development Corp. with DBP



-52-
Ameox 5
PRS Coverage
1989 - 1991
1.   Center for International Trade Exhibitions and Missions (CITEM)                                  X
2.   Export Processing Zone Authority (EPZA)                                          _               X
3.   HomO Development Mutual Fund (NDMF)                                                      X       X
4.   Home Insurance Guarantee Corporation (HIGC)                                              X       X
5.   Light Rail Transit Authority (LRTA)                                                      X       x
6.   Livelihood Corporation (LIVECOR)                                                                 X
7.   Local Water Utilities Administration (LWUA)                                              X       X
8.   Manila International Airport Authority (MIAA)                                            X       X
9.   Metro Manila Transit Corporation (MMTC)                                                          X
10. Metropolotan Waterworks and Sewerage System (MUSS)                                X       X       X
11.  National Development Corporation (mDC)                                                   X       X
12.  National Electrification Adninistration (NEA)                                            X       x
13.  National Food Authority (NFA)                                                            X       X
14.  National Housing Authority (NHA)                                                 X       X       X
15. National Home Nortgage and Finance Corporation (NHMFC)                                    X       X
16.  Natfonal Irrigation Authority (NIA)                                              X       X       X
17.  National Power Corporation (NPC)                                                 X       X       X
18.  Natural Resources Development Corporation (NRDC)                                                 X
19.  National Tobacco Administration (NTA)                                                            X
20.  Philippine Crop insurance Corporation (PCIC)                                     -               X
21.  Philippine Deposit Insurance Corporation (PDIC)                                                  X
22.  Philippine Export and Foreign Loan Guarantee Corporation (PHIGUARANTEE)                          X
23.  Philippine International Trading Corporation (PITC)                                              X
24.  Philippine National Oil Company (PNOC)                                                   X       X
25.  Philippine National Railway (PNR)                                                        X       X
26.  Philippine Ports Authority (PPA)                                                 X       X       X
27.  Philippine Retirement Authority (PRA)                                                            X
28.  Philippine Rice Research Institute (PRRI)                                        -               X
29.  Philippine Tourism Authority (PTA)/Duty Free Philippines (DFP)                _                  X
30.  PHIVIDEC Industrial Authority (PIA)                                                              X
31.  Public Estates Authority (PEA)                                                                   X
32.  Southern Philippines Development Authority (SPDA)                                -               X
33.  Sugar Regularoty Administration (SRA)                                                            X
34.  Technology and Livelihood Research Center (TLRC)                                                 X
- 52=. -



NET FLOW OF FUNDS  SBTWEEN go AID CCs, 1976-1990                                                                              Table  3
1976      197?      1978      1979      1980      1981      1982      1983      1984      1985      1986       1987      1988      1989       1990
(P Million unless othervise indicated)
MET FLOWS TO MG                            (2,173)  (3,252)  (3,077)  (4,727)  (5,746)  (9,224) (13,350)  (8,986) (14,285) (16,223) (33,1431 (10,6731  (7,284)  (6,514)   (7,538)
X of GNP                              -1.721   -2.251   -1.851   -2.32X   -2.361   -3.29S   -4.26S   -2.471   -2.81X   -2.92%   -5.56S   -I.591   -0.921   -0.711    -0.70%
1 of NO Expenditures                 -10.63X  -14.255  -11.831  -15.86X  -15.425  -19.73S  -25.38S  -16.941  -21.341  -20.251  -30.171   -8.901   -5.351   -3.791                   -3.471
NIT FLOWS TO MG NET OF APT
REMITTANCES                               (2,1731  (3,2521   (3,0771  (4,7271  (5,746)  (9,2241 (13,350)  (8,986) (14,285) (16,223) (33,143) (10,6731  (7,2841  (6,514)   (7,538)
X of GNP                              -1.72S   -2.251   -1.85S   -2.321   -2.361   -3.291   -4.261   -2.471   -2.811   -2.92%   -5.561   -1.591   -0.921   -0.711    -0.701
1 of MG Expenditures                 -10.63X  -14.251  -11.831  -15.86C  -15.421  -19.731  -25.381  -16.941  -21.341  -20.25a  -30.171   -8.901   -5.351   -3.791                   -3.471    ,
MET FLOVS TO NO LESS ASSUMED
DEBT SERVICE                              12,173)  (3,252)  (3,077)  (4,727)  (5,746)  (9,224) (13,3501   (8,9861 (14,2851 (16,2231 (33,143) (33,326) (31,321) (30,456)   (36,126)
% of GNP                              -1.72%   -2.251   -1,851    -2.32X   -2.36S   -3.29%    -4.261   -2.47%   -2.819   -2.92    -5.561   -4.955   -3.941   -3.33%                 -3.351
S of NG Expenditures                 -10.631  -14.251  -11.831  -15.861  -15.421  -19.73S  -25.38S  -16.941  -21.341  -20.255  -30.171  -27.791  -23.021  -17.711   -16.651
MG Flows to GCs                             2,226     3,299    3,080    4,730    5,819    9,533   13,565    9,237   14,698   17,041   33,613   13,326    9,270   33,764                  12,330
Subsidy                                       280     1,030       663       479       622       523    1,979      1,104       430    I,00m    1,720    1,835    2,032    5,575           8,687
Equity                                     1,846      2,224    2,438    3,398    4,522    8,081    9,368    5,739    9,845   14,35t   12,336    4,411                1,823    2,107       4,434
Net Lending                                   100        45       (21)      853       675       929    2,218    2,394    4,423        1,679   15,148    7,077    5,415    4,082            (791)
Capital Transfers to PNB/DBP                    0         0         0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0    4,1409         0         0         0          0
KG Flows from GCs                              53        47         3         3        73       309       215       251       413       818       470    2,653      1,986    5,250       4,792
Dividends                                      53        47         3         3        73       103         0         0        22       112         90        36       508       165      1,746
Share in PAGCOR Income                          0         0         0         0         0       206       215       251       391       706       380    1,006      1,203    1,613        1,965
Interest on Advances to GOCCC                   0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0          0    1,610       276    2,665        1,082
Gain on Sale of PN0 Stocks                      0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0         0       808          0
::::::::::  :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::



1916     1977      1978      1979      1980      1981      1982      1983      1984      198S      1986      198?     1986      1989       1990
Other NC Outflows
lssused Liabilities                            0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0        0         0         0   22,653   24,037   231,942    28,589
Interest Payments (Domestic Debt)            A         0         0        0         0         0         0         0         0         4         0    5,546    6,473    6,218        6,553
Interest Paypents (External Debtl            0         0         0         0        0         0         0         0         0         0         0    6,626    6,691    7,132        7,346
Principal Payments (Domestic Debt)           0         0         0         0         0        0         0         0         0         0         0    8,095    6,158    5,005        5,051
Principal Payments (External Debtl           0         0         0         0         0        0         0         0         0         0         0    2,386    4,715    5,587        9,633
Memorandum Items
GNP, Nominal                       126,154  144,479  166,593  203,537  243,270  280,543  313,544  363,268  508,485  556,074  596,276  673,130  795,159  913,843 1,077,973
NO Expenditures                     20,437   22,821   26,011   29,812   37,275   46,745   52,610   53,064   66,926   80,103  109,839  119,907  136,067  171,978   216,916
SOURCE: Bureau of the Treasury
National Economic & Development Authority
lLi
.0-



NET FLOV OF FUNDS BETWEEN NG AND 6Cs. 1916-1990
AS Percent of GNP
1916     1917     1976      1919     1980     1981      1982     1983      1984     1985     1986      1387     1988      1969      1930
NG Flows to GCs                           1.161    2.281    1.851    2.321    2.391    3.401    4.331    2.541    2.891    3.06X    5.641    1.981    1.111    1.295          1.141
Subsidy                                  0.221    0.711    0.40x    0.24X    0.261    0.19X    0.631    0.301    0.088    0.181    0.291    0.271    0.26X    0.611           0.811
Equity                                    1.461    1.54X    1.46X    1.671    1.861    2.891    2.99X    1.58X    1.941    2.581    2.011    0.551    0.231    0.231          0.411
Net lending                              0.081I   0.031   -0.011    0.421    0.281    0.33x    0.718    0.661    0.811    0.301    2.541    1.051    0.681    0.451    -0.017
Capital Transfers to PNB8DIP             0.001    0.001    0.001    0.001    0.00a    0.001    0.001    0.001    O.O0        0.008    0.741    0.001    0.001    0.001       0.001
NG Flows fromi GCs                       0.041    0.031    0.00G    0.001    0.031    0.111    0.011    0.071    O.081    0.151    0.081    0.3;X    0.251    0.57i           0.441
Dividends                                0.041    0.031    0.001    0.001    0.031    0.041    0.001    0.001    0.001    0.021    0.021    0.011    0.061    0.021           0.165
Sh,are in PAGCOR Incose                  0.001    0.00      O 0.001    0.001    0.008    0.Ot    0.01    0.011    0.081       13S    0.061    0.151    0.156 0.181          0.188
Interest on Advances                     0.001    0.001    0.001    0.001    0.00    0.001    0.00       0.061    0.001    0.001    0.001    0.241    0.031    0.291        0.101
Gain on Sale of Pll Stocks               0.00      O 0.001    0.001    0.001    0.001    0.00        G 0.001    0.001    0.001    0.001    0.001    0.001    0.C00  0.091     0.o00
Other NG autfloes
Assumed Liabilities                      0.001    0.001    0.001    0.00    0.C00      3.0G1    0.001    0.001    0.00G    0.00    0.001    3.311    3.021    2.621          .651
Interest Payments (Domestic Debt)      0.001    0.001    0.001    0.001    0.001    0.001    0.001    0.001    0.001    0.001    0.001    0.821    0.811    0.661           0.611
Interest Payments (External Debt)      0.001    0.001    0.001    0.001    0.001    0.001    0.001    0.06C    0.001    0.001    0.001    0.981    0.641    0.181           0.6,i
Principal Payments (Domestic Debt)    0.001    0.001    0.001    0.001    0.001    0.001    0.00a    0.001    0.00    0.001    0.001    1.201    0.111    0.551            0.411
Principal Payments (Externtal Debt)    0.001    0.001    0.002    0.001    0.001    0.001    0.001    0.008    0.001    0.001    0.001    0.351    0.531    0.611           0.898
SOURCE; Bureau of the Treasury
National Economic I Oevelopment Authority



NET FLOV OF FUINIS BETWEEN ll AND 6Cs, 1916-1990
As Percent of NG Expenditures
.,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~;  ...::;zzz  ...:Z ...                                                   ........... .zz  .::  ..:~  .~- .:  . ;: .:::  :               . . .......................    .  ...  . .  . .- . .......
1916     1911      19s1      1919     1980      1981    *1982      l983      1984      Is98      1986     1961      1388      1989      1330
NG Flows to GCs                           10.891   14.481   11.841   15.818   15.61t   20.331   25.187   11.411   21.981   21.271    30.6G0   11.118    6.61i    8.841              5.68s
Subsidy                                    1.311    4.511    2.55    1.61X       1.61t    1.12S    3.161    2.081    0.841    1.263    1.5t1    1.538    1.438    3.248            4.008
Equity                                     9.03X    9.175     9.31S   11.401   12.13J   17.291   i7.818   10.821   14.115   11.921   11.238    3.683    1.34t    1.231              2.04C
Net lending                                0.498    0.208   -0.081    2.866       1.61%    13.93     4.221    4.513    6.613    2.101   13.791    5.908    3.33S    2.374    -0.368
Capital transfers to PN8iDSP               0.G00    0.003    0.008    0.003    0.008    0.00    0.008    0.003    0.00    0.00G    4.011    0.001    0.008    0.001               0.003
NG Flaws frock GCs                         0.26%    0.21X    0.01%    0.01G    0.2GX    0.66X        0.411    0.418    0.628    1.02X    0.43X    2.218    1.46%    3.05G           i.21u
Dividends                                  0.208    0.211    0.01G    0.018    0.201    0.22X    0.00    0.001    0.031    0.14%    0.0G8            0.031    0.317    0.101       0.801
Share in PAGCOR Income                     0.008    0.00    0.008    0.003    0.008    0.441    0.418    0.471    0.588    0.883    0.358    0.841    0.868   0.;4                0.91t
Interest on Advances                       0.003    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.008    0.008    0.008    0.008    0.003    0.008    0.003    1.341    0.208    1.555               0.50S
Gain on Sale of PUB Stocks                 0.00t    0.008    0.008    0.008    0.003    0.008    0.008    0.001    0.008    0.001    0.00    0.005    0.001    0.418               0.008
OtGer NG Oultflows
Assumed Liabilities                        0.00%    0.008    0.008    0.008    0.001    0.008    0.001    0.008    0.00          0.00%    0.008   18.891   17.67S   13.921    13.181
Interest Payments (Domestic Debt)       0.008    0.008    0.008    0.008    0.008    0.00    0.00    0.001    0.008    0.001    0.00%    4.638    4.168    3.621                3.028
Interest Payments (External Debt)       0.003    0.00%    0.008    0.001    0.008    0.00    0.001    0.001    0.008    0.008    0.003    5.531    4.921    4.151                3.3il
Principal Payments (Domestic Debt)    0.001    0.008    0.003    0.008    0.008    0.001    0.008    0.008    0.008    0.008    0.008    6.158    4.538    2.911                  2.338
Principal Payments (External Debt)    0.00    0.008    0.003    0.00    0.00    0.003    0.001    0.00    0.008    0.00    0.008    1.991    3.411    3.258                  4.441
SOURCE. Bureau uf the Treasury
National Econosic I Development Authority



NET FLOW OF FUNDS BETWEEN NG AND 6tt, 1976-1990
Al Constant 1912 Prices
19176    1917      1911      1919      1980     1981      1982      1983     1984      1985      1986     1961      1986      1989       1iiO
NET FLOVS TO 1N                          11,188)  (1,655)  (1,4341  (1,912)  (2,068)  (2,908)  13,882)  (2,3401  (2,483)  (2,385)  (4,826)  (1,4311    i895)               1241)    1144)
NET FLOWS TO NG NET OF APT
RENITTANCES                              (1,188)  11,655)  11,434)  (1,912)  (2,068)  (2,908)  13,882)  12,340)  (2,483)  12,385)  (4,8268)   1,4371    18951              11l24U (441
NET FLOWS TO NG LESS ASSURED DEBT
SERVICE                                  1,18U8)  (1,655)  (1,434)  (1,912)  (2,068)  (2,308)  (3,882)  12,340)  (2,483)  (2,3851  14,8261  (4,47i)  (3,848i  (3,3843   (3,565)
NG Flows to GCs                           1,216    1,803    1,683    2,565    3,180    5,209    1,413    5,048    8,032    9,312   18,368    1,28a    5,066    6,428               6,1i8
Subsidy                                     153       563      362       262       340       286    1,081       603       235       551      940    1,003    1,110    3.046        4,141
Equity                                    1,009    1,215    1,332    1,851    2,411    4,416    5,119    3,136    5,380    1,843    6,141    2,412               3i6    1,151      2,423
Net Lending                                  55        25       (111     466       363       508    1,212    1.308    2,417         911    6,218    3,86t    2,959    2,231         (432)
Capital Transfers to PN9JDhP                  0         0         0        0         0         0         0        0         0         0    2,409         0         0         a         0
NG Flows from GCs                            29        26         1         1       40       163       III      13t       226       447      251    1,450    1,065    2,863        2,19
Dividends                                    29        28         1         1       40        56         0        G        12        61       49        20       2t1        90       954
Shafe in PAGCOR Income                        0         0         0        0         0       113       117      137       214       388      208       550       657       a8      1,074
Interest on Advances                          0         0        0         0         0         0        0         0         0         0        0       880       151    1,456        531
Gain on Sale of PNB Stocks                    0.        0         0        0         0         0        0         0         0         0        0         0         a       441         0
Othet MG Outflows
Assumed Liabilities                           0         0        0         0         0         0        0         0         0         0        0   12,379   13,135   13083a    15,i22
Interest Payments (Domestic Debt)           0        0         0         0         0        0         0         0         0        0         0    3,031    3,537    3,398        3,581
Interest Payments (External Debt)           0        0         0         0         0        0         0         0         0        0         0    3,621    3,65i    3,637        4,014
Principal Paymenti (Domestic Debt)          0         0        0         0         0         0        0         0         0        0         0    4,423    3,365    2,735        2,763
Principal Payments (External Debt)          0        0         0         0         0        0         0         0         0        0         0    1,304    2,517    3,053        5,264
Neuorandu Ittes
GNP Price Deflator, 1972:100           183.0    196.5    214.6    247.3    217.9    311.2    343.9    384.0    575.4    680.3    686.0    742.1    814.0    899.9   1,013.3
SOURCE; DIrean of the Treasury
National Economic I Developmenlt Authority



NET FLOW Of FUNDS BETWEEN NG AND 6Cs, 1916-1990
At Constant 1912 Prices
1916     1971      191l      1919      1960      1981      1982      1983      1984      1985     1916      1981      1988      1989       1990
NEI FLOWS To NG                           11,118)  (1,6S5)  (1,434)  11,912)  12,068)  (2,908)  (3,882)  (2,340)  (2,483)  (2,3851  (4,8261  (1,2911    (232)    (316)                  1401)
NET FLOWS TO NG NEI OF APT
REMITUTNCES                               (1,188)  (1,655)  (1,4341  (1,912)  (2,0868   (2,908)  (3,882)  (2,3401  (2,4631  (2,385)  (4,826)  11,431)    1895)    1124)                1144)
NEl FLOWS TO NB LESS ASSURED DEBT
SERVICE                                  11,188)  11,655)  11,434)  11,912)  (2,068)  (2,908)  13,882)  12,340)  (2,483)  (2,385)  (4,8261  (4,3411  (3,184)  (2,9111   (3,2231
NO Flows to GCs                            1,218    1,803    1,683    2,585    3,180    5,209    1,413    5,048    8,032    9,312   18,368    1,282    5,068    6,428                 M,13
Subsidy                                      153       563       362      262       340       286    1,081        603       235       551       940    1,003    1,110    3,046        4,141
Equity                                     1,009    1,21S               1,651    2,471    4,416    5,119    3,136    5,380    7,843    6,141    2,412               996    1,151      2,423
Net Lending                                   55        25       (11)      465       369      soa    1,212    1,308    2.417          911    8,218    3,861    2,959    2,231           (432)
Capital Transfers to PNB/DBP                   O 0            0              0         0        0         0         0         0         0    2,409          0         0         0          0
NM  Flovs from 6Cs                            29        26         1         1        40      169       117       137       226       447       251    2,018    4,036    4,672        4,511
Dividends                                     29        26         I         1        40       56         G         0        12        61        49        20       211        90        954
Share in PAGCOR Income                         0         0         0         0        0       113       117       137       214       386       208       550      651       682      1,014
Interest on Advances                           0         0         0         0        0         0         0         0         0         0         0       880       151    1,1456      5S1
Gain on Sale of PN0 Stocks                     0         0         0         0        0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0       441          0
Sale of Assets (APT)                           0         0         0         0         0        0         0         0         0         0         0       568    2,950    2,003       1,6i8
Other MG Outflows
Assuwed liabilities                            0         0         0         0         0        0         0         0         0         0         0   12,379   13,135   13,083    15,622
Interest Palments (Domestic Debt)            0        0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0    3,031    3,531    3,398        3,581
Interest Payments (External Oebt)            0        0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0        0    3,621    3,656    3,891         4,014
Principal Payments (Domestic Debt)           0         0        0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0    4,423    3,365    2,735        2,763
Princinal Payments (External Debt)          0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0    1,304    2,571    3.053        5,264
Nemorandu Item
SWP Price Deflator, 1912:100           183.0    196.5    214.6    241.3    211.9    317.2    343.9    384.0    515.4    680.3    586.8    142.1    814.0    899.9   1,013.3
SOU8CE: Bureau of the Ireasury
National Economic S Development Authority



- 59 -
Project Completion Report
The Philippines
Reform Program for Govenment Corporations
Loan 2956-PH
PART m: STATISTICAL INFORMATION



PART Il
Table 1. Related Bank
Loan No.         Title                   Purpose             Approval   Status                 Comments
2787-PH  Economic             Support reform of tax systems,    1987     Closed
Recovery 1 ean (ERL) trade, public expendiaes
2788-PH  Economic Recovery   Provision of TA to complement      1987     Closed
TA                  ERL
3049-PH  Financial Sector     Strengthen financial system       1989    On-Going Loan closing was extended for a year
Loan                particularly commercial
banking segment



Table 2. Procgt Time
Item              Date Planned          Revised Date         ActWal Date
Identification Mission          December 1984                  -           December 1984
Preparation/Project Brief       March 1985           November 1985         January 1986
Pre-Appraisal Mission           March 1985                     -           September 1985
Appraisal Mission               February 1986                              January 1987
Loan Pre-Negotiation            January 1988                   -           February 1988
Loan Negotiation                May 1986             April 1987            March 1988
Board Presentation              June 1986            April 1987            June 1988
Loan Signing                    June 1987                      -           September 1988
Loan Effectiveness              June 1986                      _           November 1988
Tranche Release #1              July 1986                      -           December 1988
Tranche Release #2              July 1987            August 1989           July 1990
Tranche Release #3              July 1988             Febary 1991          February 1992
Loan Closing                    August 1991                   _-           F1992



Table 3. Cumulative and Acual Disbursenments
(US$ Million)
1988           1989           1990            1991           1992
Appraisal Es(imate            75.0           150.0          200.0           200.0          200.0
Actua                         75.0            75.0           150.0          150.0          200.0
Actual as a %
of Estimate                   100             50              75             75             100
Acual Disbursements (in US$)                            Date
First Tranche :     45,000,000.00                Dec. 29, 1988
30,000,000.00               Dec. 29, 1988
Second Tranche:     74,924,900.79                July 9, 1990
Third Tranche :     49,284,341.02                Feb. 21, 1992
790,758.19                Feb. 24, 1992
200,000,000.00



- 64 -
Table 4 List of Studies Undertaken
During Project Prenaration
Government Financial Institutions (QOPs)
Study A    Government Role in the Financial System (DBP/PBB: PIFC
government acquired banks, government deposits, nonperforming
accounts; housing finance).
Study B    Special Report on GSIS/SSS.
Study C    GPI Accounting and Audits.
Study D    Lender-Borrower Legal Framework.
Nonfinancial Government Corporations
Study E    Performance Criterion Incentive Mechanism.
Study P    Accounting Practices/Auditing Requirements.
Study 0    Poloicy Statement
Study H    Rationalization Program.
Study I    Draft Unifying Legislaiton.
Study J    Overall Supervision and Coordination Framework.
Study K    Overall Technical Assistance Requirements.



-65 -                                 Page 1 of 9
Table S. Summary of Status and Dispositive
Actions for GOCCs
(As of December, 1992)
Recommendation
Privitized      Approved        Through    Submitted to
Prior to        By tde         Republic   the Office of      For Further
DBM Revirw       President         Act       the President       Review        TOTAL
Priv    a(ScL  1)             4              118              -               -               -            122
Aholitio (Sch 2)               -              58              1               -       -                    59
Regaulari_  (SCL 3)            -              1S              -               2               1             18
ConsoCidaion (ScL  4)         -               17              -               -               -             17
Canvesioa (Scl 5)             -               6               -               -               -             6
Retm I (SdcL 6)                -              39              1              38               1            79
4             253              2              40               2            301
GCs orialy ifid by PCGRIDBM for retenti                      on submited to the Office
of tho Preient for &o=t only; may be considered as approved for puwposes of the govern-
co _put rfrm proa



-66 -
MASTERLIST OF GOCCs BY STATUS AND DISPOSITIVE ACTION            Page 2 of 9
(As of 06 December 1991)
Schedule 1. Prlvatization (122)
A.  Privatized Before Review Could be UndertaKen by PCGR/DBM-(4)
1. Argao Resort Development Corporation
2. DBP Service Corporatlon
3. PNOC Petroleum Carriers Corporation
4. Veterans Manpower & Protective Services, Inc.
B.  Approved bY tne President (118)
1. APO Production Unit, Inc.
2.  Agro-Livestock Commercial Dev't. Corporation
3. Asia Goodwill Fishling Corporation
4. Asia Industries. Inc.
5. Associated Bank, Inc.
6. Bancom Insurance Brokers, Inc.
7. Barcelon. Roxas Securities. Inc.
8. Basin Dredging & Development Corporation
9. Batangas Land Company, Inc.
10.  Beta Electric Corporation
11.  Bicolandla Sugar Development Corporation
12.  Bislig Coal Corporation
13.  Builder's Brick, Inc.
14.  Caraona WoodworKIng Industries, Inc.
15.  Century BanK
16.  Century Holding Corporation
17.  Coco-Chemical Philippines, Inc.
18. Commercial-BanK of Manila
19.. Construction Manpower Dev't. Foundation. Inc.
20.  DSP Data Center, Inc.
21.  Davao Agri-Buslness Development Co., Inc.
22.  Davao Equipment Manufacturing Corporation
23.  East Visayas Agricultural Projects, Inc.
24.  Filoil Industrial Estates, Inc.
25.  riloil Refinery Corporation
26.  First Cnicago Leasing G Equlpment Credit Corporatlon
27.  Food Terminal. Inc.
28.  Furniture Manufacturing Corp. of the Pills.
29.  GY Real Estate. Inc.
30.  Gasifier £ Equipment Manufacturing Corporation
31.  Grains Insurance Agency Corporation
32.  Hotel Enterprises of the Plillppines
33.  INCA Coffee Estates Corporation
34.  Integrated Feed Mills Corporation
35.  International Corporate BanK
36.  Kamayan Realty Corporation
37.  Kaunlaran food Corporation
38.  Leyte ParK Hotels.-Inc.



- 67 -
MASTERLIST Of GOCCs BY STATUS AND DISPOSITIVE ACTION              Page 3 of 9
(As of 06 DecemDer 1991)
39. Luzon Integrated Services, Inc.
40.  Malangas Coal Corporation
41.  Manila Hotel Corporation
42.  Maraui Resort Hotel. Inc.
43. Marina Properties Corporation
44. Maunlad Savings & Loan Association, Inc.
4S. Meat Packinq corporation of the Philippines
46.  Metro fanila Transit Corporation
47.  Mlndanao Textile Corporation
48. Mindeva Coco-Colr Industries, Inc.
49. Mindeva Refrigeration Industries, Inc.
SO. Monte Maria Poultry Farms, Inc.
51. Mountain Springs Development Corporation
52.  NDC Plantations. Inc.
53. NDC-Guthrie Estates, Inc.
54. NDC-Guthrie Plantations, Inc.
55. NDC-Nacida Raw Materials Corporatlon
56. NIA-Consult, Inc.
57. NIDC Oil Mills. Inc.
58. Nadeco Realty Corporation
59. Natlonal Chemical Carrlers, Inc.
60. National Marine Corporation
61. National Precision Cutting Tools, Inc.
62. National Realty Development Corporation
63.  Natlonal Service Corporation
64.  Natlonal Shipping Corporation of the Philippines
65. Natlonal Sl1p0ays Corporation
66. National Steel Corporation
67. Natlonal Stevedoring & Lighterage Co.
68.  Natlonal Sugar Refineries Corporatlon
69. National Trucking & forwarding Corporation
70. National Warehousing Corporation
71. Negros Occldental Copperfield Mlnes, Inc.
72. Northern Foods Corporation
73.  PN8 International Finance Ltd.
74.  PN8 Venture Capltal Corporation
75. PNOC Coal Corporation
76. PNOC Energy Supply Base. Inc.
77. PNOC Marine Corporation
78. PHOC Oil Carrlers, Inc.
79.  Panaon Prawn Development Corporation
80. People's Livelihood Enterprises. Inc.
81.  People's Technology Terminal Corporation
82. Philipplne Aerospace Development Corporation
83. Philippine Airlines, Inc.
84. Philippine Amanan Bank
85. Philippine Asso. Smelting & Refining Corporation
86. Phllippine Cotton-Corporation
87. Philippine Dairy Corporation
88.  Philippine Exchange Company, Inc.
89. Philippine Fruit & Vegetable Industries, Inc.



- 68 -
MASTERLIST OF GOCCS BY STATUS AND DISPOSITIVE ACTION  - - - Page 4 of 9
(As of 06 December 1991)
90.  PhllippIne Genetics. Inc.
91.  Phllippine Helicopter Servlces. Inc.
92.  Pillppine National Bank
93.  Philippine National Lines
94.  Phllppine Phosphate Fertilizer Corporation
95.  Philippine Plate Mills Company. Inc.
96.  Pillippine Plaza Holdlngs, Inc.
97.  Philippine Pyrite Corporation
98.  Philippine Shlpyard Engineering Corporation
99.  Pillppine Sugar Corporation
100.  Phividec Panay Agro-Industrial Corporation
101.  Pilipinas Bank
102.  Pinaglcaisa Realty Corporation
103.  Primary Foods. Inc.
104.  Prime Center Trade Int'l. Systems, Inc.
105.  Refractories Corporation of the Phllippines
106.  Republic Planters Bank
107.  Republic Transport & Shipyard Corporation
108.  Ridge Resort & Convention Center, Inc.
109.  San Carlos Fruit Corporation
110.  Semirara Coal Corporation
111.  Shoe Tecnnology Corporation
112.  Tacoma Bay Snopping Corporation
113.  The Energy Corporatlon
114.  Union Bank of the Phillppines
115.  Uslphll. Inc.
116.  Wood Koal, Inc.
117.  Wood Waste Utllization & Dev't. Corporation
118.  ZNAC Rubber Estate Corporation
Schedule 2.  Abolltion (59)
A. Approved by the President (58)
1. Aberdeen Faras. Inc.
2. Agro-Industrlal Resource Mobilization Corp.
3. Alfombras Manuales Filipinas. Inc.
4. Arconal. NV
5. ASEAN Phll. Copper Holdings, Inc.
6. Basin Fiberglass Corporation
7. Cebu Stevedoring Co.. Inc.
8. Consolidated Terminals. Inc.
9. Eastern Visayas Resources Tradlng Corp.
10.  East Visayas Transport Corporation
11.  Entertalnment Phlls.. Inc.
12.  Farmacor, Inc.
13.  Hyacinth Products Enterprises and Resources Dev't. Corp.
14.  Insurance Brokers Integrated Services
15. 'Integrated Alr Corporation
16. Kabataang Barangay Foundation. Inc.



- 69 -
MASTERLIST OF GOCCs 8Y STATUS AND DISPOSITIVE ACTION  _ _ _ Page 5 of 9
(As of 06 December 1991)
17. Leyte Sab-a Basin Development Authority
18. Leyte Wood Exports Corporation
19. Liquid Gas Corporation
20. Luzon Stevedoring Corporation
21. MarlkIna Plaza Agora Corporatlon
22.  'iuseum of Philippine Costumes
23.  NDC-Logistics Corporatlon
24.  NDC Shell-Billlton Mlnerals Investment Corp.
2S.  National Aero Manufacturing Corporation
26.  National Alcohol Corporation
27.  National Dendro Development Corporation
28.  National Heavy Englneering Corporation
29.  National Investment Development Corporation
30.  Natlonal Rayon Corpor&tlon          -
31.  National Tiaplate Corporation
32. National Youth and Sports Development Foundation of the Phlils.
33.  PNL Leasing Company
34.  PNOC Alcohol Corporation
35. PNOC Crude Oil TanKers, Inc.
36. PNOC-Enercon Corporation
37. PNOC Geothermal Technology Corporation
38. PNOC Petrochemical Dev't. Corporatlon
39. PNOC-Petroleum Tankers, Inc.
40. Pazbansang Katipunan ng Kabataang Barangay ng Piliplnas
41.  Perkins Engines Eastern (Phils.), Inc.
42. Philippine Aero Systems, Inc.
43. Philippine Aero Transport, Inc.
44. Phllppine Dendro Gasifier, Inc.
45. Phillppine Resource Helicopters, Inc.
46. Phlllppine Rural Development and Services Corp.
47. Philtrade. Inc.
48. Philtrade, USA, Inc.
49. Phividec Foundation. Inc.
50. Recto Central Park Development Corporation
Sl. Republic Sugar Development Corporation
52. Rural Energy Systems International, Inc.
53. Sab-A reeds Enterprises, Inc.
54. Samar Sea-Ticao Pass Fisheries Development Corp.
55. Technology Management Development Corp.
56. The Borromeo Corporation
S7. Transport Contractors, Inc.
58. Universal Computer Resources Network, Inc.
B. Through Republic Act
I. Gintong Alay Foundation (RA 6847)



- 70 -
MASTERLIST OF GOCCs BY STATUS AND DISPOSITIVE ACTION - - - Page 6 of 9
(As of 06 DeCemDer 1991)
Schedule 3. Regularization (18)
A. Approved by the President (IS)
1. (Ang) Nayong Pilipino Foundation, Inc.
2. Farm Systems Development Corporation
3. Flber Industry Development Authorlty
4. Instructional Materials Corporation
5. Xalinga Special Development Authority
6.  Laguna LaXe Development Authority
7.  MIRDC Testing Foundation of the Phils.
8. Metals Industry Researcn and Development Center
9. National Coal Authority
10.  National Post-Harvest Institute for Researcn and Extension
I1. Philippine Coconut Authority
12. Phllippine High School for the Arts
13. Revenue Information System Services, Inc.
14. Tondo General Hospital. Inc.
15. Wood Industry Development Authority
B. Recommendation Submitted by DBM to OP (2)
1. Philippine Amusement & Gamlng Corporation
2. Philippine Charity SweepstaKes Office
C. For Further Review bY DBM (1)
1. Environmental Center of the Philippines Foundatlon. Inc.
Scbedule 4. Consolidation (17) (All agproved bY tne President)
1. Bancom Realty Corporatlon
2. Bataan Refining Corporation
3. Bliss Development Corporation
4. Center for Int'l. Trade Expositions and Missions, Inc.
5. DBP Management Corporation
6. Export Credit Corporation
7. GSIS Realty and Development Corporation
8. Hotel Development Corporation
9. Music Promotion Foundation of the Phillppines
10. PNOC-Energy Drilling, Inc.
II.  Petron TBA Corporation
12. Philippine Tobacco Administration
13. Philippine Tobacco Board
14. Philippine Virginia Tobacco Administration
15. Philippine Virginla Tobacco Board
16.  Rural Waterworks Development Corporation
17. Virginia Tobacco Fuelwood Corporation



- 71 -
MASTERLIST OF GOCCS BY STATUS AN) DISPOSITIVE ACTION  - - -    Page 7 of 9
(As of 06 December 1991)
Schedule S.  Conversion (6) (all approved bY the President)
1. Boy Scouts of the Philippines
2. Girl Scouts of the Philippines
3. Integrated Bar of the Philippines
4.  Marcos Golf Foundation of tne Phhls.
5. National Social Actlon Council
6. Philippine Shippers Council
Schedule 6.  Retentlon (79)
A. Approved by the President (39)
A.1 Through Departmental Reorganization Executive orders (5)
1. Cottage Industries Technology Center (formerly NACIDA)
2. Local Water Utilities AdMinistration
3. Natlonal Tobacco Administration
4. Philippine Convention & Visitors Corporation
S.  Philippine Trade Exhibition Center
A.2  Throuch Presidential Memoranda (34)
1. Export Processing Zone Authority
2.  rertilizer & Pesticide Authority
3.  iiome Insurance and Guaranty Corporation
4.  Inter-Island Gts Service. Inc.
5. Light Rail Transit Authority
6. Livelihood Corporation
7. Manila Gas Corporation
8.  Manila International Airport Authority
9. National Agri-Business Corporation
10.  National Food Authority
ll.  Natural Resources Development Corporation
12.  PAGCOR Services. Inc.
13.  Pagkakaisa Gas Storage Corporation
it.  Petron Tankers Corporation
15.  Petrophil Corporation
16.  Petrophil Tankers Corporation
17.  Philippine Center for Economic Development
18.  Philippine Fisheries Development Authority
19.  Philippine Instltute for Development Studles
20.  Philippine National Railways
21.  Plillppine Retirement Authority
22.  Philippine Rice Research Instltute
23.  Philippine Tourlsm Authority



- 72 -
MASTERLIST OF GOCCS BY STATUS AND DISPOSITIVE ACTION  - - -   Page 8 of 9
(As of 06 December 1991)
24. Philippine Veterans Assistance Commission
25.  Phillppine Veterans Investment Development Corp.
26.  Phlvidec Industrial Autnority
27.  PNOC Energy Development Corporation
28.  PNOC Shlipping & Transport Corporation
29. PNOC Tankers Corporation
30. Quedan Guarantee rund Board
31. Public Estates Authority
32.  Southern Philippines Development Authority
33. Sugar Regulatory Administratlon
34.  Veterans Federation of the Philippines
B.  Throuch Republic Act
1.  National Research Council of tne Philippines (RA 6974)
C.  Recommendation Submitted to OP (38)
1. Asean Copper Products, Inc.
2. Aslan Exhange Center, Inc.
3.  Central Bank of the Philippines
4. Cultural Center of the Philippines
S.  Development Academy of the Pillppines
6.  Development Bank of the Phillppines
1. Employees Compensation Commission
8. Government Service Insurance System
9. Home Development Mutual Fund
10. LBP Insurance Brokerage, Inc.
1L. LBP Leasing Corporation
12. Land Bank of the Phllippines
13. Lumang Bayan Realty Development Corporation
14.  Lung Center of the Phillppines
15. Masaganang Sakahan, Inc.
16.  Metropolltan Iaterwo&ts & Sewerage System
17.  National Development Company
18.  Natlonal Electrlflcatlon Administration
19.  National Home Mortgage Finance Corporation
20.  National Housing Authority
21.  National Irrigation Administration
22.  National Kldney Institute
23.  National Power Corporatlon
24.  PNOC Exploration Corporatlon
25.  Philippine Children's Medical Center
26.  Phllippine Crop Insurance Corporatlon
27.  Philipplne Deposit Insurance Corporatlon
28.  Philippine Export & Foreign Loan Guarantee Corp.
29.  Pnilippine Heart Center
30.  Phlllppine International Conventlon center, Inc.



- 73 -
MASTERLIST OF GOCC5 BY STATUS AND DISPOSITIVE ACTION  - - -  Page 9 of 9
(As of 06 Decemoer 1991)
_--- _________________________________-----___________________________---___
31.  Phillppine International Tracing Corporation
32.  Phillppine National oil Company
33. Philippine National Red Cross
34.  Philippine Ports Authority
35.  Prlvate Debt Restructuring & Repavment Corp.
36. Soclal Security System
37. strategic Investment Development Corporation
38.  Technology & Livelihood Resource Conter
D. For Further Review
1. Philippine Veterans BanK



74  -                                       Page  1 of 4
Table 6. Comolianco with Tranche Conditionalitles
Required Atiodn                Firtt Tranche            Second Trench.                 Third Truache
I Policy Frnmowordk
a. Issuance of OA Excutvo          E.O. 236 issued oan
Order craing GCMCC to            July 22, 1987
nitor, evalute and
improve UCa
b. Issuance of AdInisatio          A.O. 59 Issue on
Order Rationalizing te           Feb. 16, 1988
aG omt Corpora  Sector
c. 1_un  of an Executve            E.O. 164 issued on
Ordet providing grer             May 1987
authrlty for pnourent
to acs
d. SWgning of I    of              Sent to The Bank on
Developme Policy                 Apil 27, 1988
e. Inatroducon of logislation                                                           Cirular No. 2 Ised by
C opo  Care Executive                                                                 Care Executvo Service
Service                                                                               Boud on Sopt. 06, 1990.
Re: coverago of 3rd Level
Execuve Positions in
IOCCs with Oig. Chate in
the CES.
f. Review of chate of GC.                                  GCMCC Res. No. 2
rerding Departmental                                     October 27, 1989
g. Progra towards amndma                                   Apr 1990
of chaer of retined GC,
h. Isac of regulations on                                  DOF Circulr No. 35-89
loa  and guante of G Cs                                  Sept. 1, 1989
H Corporte Rationalization
Prom
a. Apptova Disposition acton
1. FialIatIon of the             March 1988
of asath240 GC., u
rviewe by COP and GCMCC



OD P,
saptA~~~~~~~~~~~~a
'0   -    0teBll  Blli  tsl!§  '0§t  Bl iesi  geli    }[  {   |    t| 
._~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~4 _-.
eit'=  " tW f~~~~~~~~~~~U
V                            {E                                                                "  IE I~~~~~~~~~~*
*0~~
S | o Fil.S t40                                                                              4



- 76                                           Page  3 of 4
Required Action                Fis Trench                Second Trnche                  Thid Tranche
M bsutio Building and
mprovemn  of Redtined
Corp
a. Corporate Monit g ad
Evaluation
1. Issuance of GCMCC              OuWdeine to EO 236
Guidein                           Issued on januay 22,
1988
2. Issuasc of EO 127 A            EO 127 A isued on
etblsig the Copora                July 22, 1937
Affsw  Group
3. Staffing and Budget for        Satfacoy
CAG, 25 pereons                   CompHanc
4. Appoitmet of adequ                                       sfactory
staff for CAS                                             Compliaine
S. Agreement o n developmmt       PES piloted In5 aCs:
of a Performance Evaluation       NPC, NHA, PPA, MWSS,
System for major GCs              NA
6. Agreemet an Iforari                                     nertd  corpoe
flows betwe  GICMCC, cor                                  reotng sytm approved
agecies ad deatmnt                                        by the Prden thru M.O.
320 dat Sept 2, 1990
7. Desls of Perfomance                                    Study completed re:           EO No. 486 establWsg a
Evaluation ad  1ncenve                                    Indicators, target,          perforfmace-basd Incentive
Systm (PES)                                               wdghts fow OCs; OCMCC         stm for OCs Ise on
OldeldnesanPES Issued on    Nov. 8, 199; PES fiur
Nov. 8, 1990. Evaluation     Improved with incrot
and rnkling of 5 pIlot Os    of sealing system for 1991
-Mm.                         performanc ameane;
Evaluaton and ranklng of
OCs boedon 1990
perforfmace also completed.
S. Introducion, of PES to                                PES introduced in 17 GCe
15larNPC                                                 for 1990
b. Copoate ZanAing
1. Itroduction of Corplan         Pioted inS CO s                Inn o                 Upadinglaenhancg by SOV
to S Cos                          1989: NPC, MWSS, PPA.                                 conduted Peb.-July 1991.
NIA AND NHA
2. Corpi approved by BOD                                                               |Apprprlt board
of S CUe                                                                                resoluto issued.



77                                           Page  4 of 4
Required Actio                  Firs Trnch.               Second Trench                   Third Tranch.
c. Iaprovemaaa of Acounting
and Auditig
1. Fnallation of an                                                                                 July 1991
inplementaflon pan to
computers accounting
ysems (with COA and
selected OCs)
2. IaOductoa f                                                                                      July 1991
computerized accounng
symtmo tloOCe
3. 1Isuance of revised            Compistd                         Implem     o                   lnplemeatnao
aNW manua
4. Fiscal ndepedence for          Completed                        meme                           Implement
COA



Table 7.A Use of Bank Resources
Staff meets
(as of November, 1992)
Stage of
Project Cycle               FY85    FY86    FY87    FY88    FY89    PY90    FY91    FY92    FY93  TOTAL
Preparation                  27.0    169.0      40.6        _        _        _        _        _         -    236.5
Appraisal                       -        -      22.9        _-                                            -     22.9
Negotiations                    -        -       7.3     13.4        _        _        _         _        -     20.7
Lending Operations           44.9     13.3       6.2      1.3        _ -           -        -             -     65.7
Supervision                     -        -         -        -     19.8     26.3      18.4      3.'        -     67.8
Completion                                        -         -        - _  _   _        _         _      1.7       1.7                co
Administration                  - _      _        _                0.5        _       0.6      1.5        -      2.6
T udAs                    712.9    12:.2 A7e.0 f4.7             , s. up.es  4n.6                     1. s7. 'i
Inlcludes 20 staffweeks for supervision of trust funds



Table 7.B Use of Bank Resous          -  79 -                 Page  1 of 2
Stage of                  Month        No. of         Days in             Speciali
Proet Cycde                 You.    Ponons              Field              R      _rseted
Thougix Appraisa            3185            6              21 Development Fin,
Financial Poficy
Macroecnomics
7185           7              21 Developmen Finance
Rued Finlace
Finance Economics
Indutrial Fi
Com-rid Bankiag
7/8S           2               7 Proet M       Panem
9t8S           6              18 Is _tutlo    Fmework
Leyd A-
Orgmaniztioal Plmanig
Audlt & A gcning
Performne Evalution
12/85           2               5 Dcvlopmet Finance
IndustiW Policy
12/85           1               2Lea Apet
1/86           4               4 Proje MaMgmn
OrgaiaonPlannig
Pubic Secor Magema
Financial Dlsclpline/Cosol
4/86           4              10 Prjc M         _anat
S186           1               9 Adit  & Accutng
6M86           2              14 Clvii Savie
nstutional Frmewrk
7/86           4              14 Project Management
Legd AspOCts
ndxtstrla Policy
10/6            2               7 Project Mmagagmnt
Appraisal tmhro             1(87            7              21 Project Management
Boand Apprval                                                 Mwini wstraSupervision
Dlvestlwre/Prlvauztlmto
Disposition Plan
Legal Aspect
Instiutional Framework
18/7           1              10 Project Management
213            1               9 Project Management
8(88    1             ~~~~~4 Co-financing



- 80 -                                           Page  2 of 2
Tablo 7.B Use of Bank Resources (cont'd)
Stage of                  Month/        No. of         Days in              S aon
Project Cycle               Yoar       Persons           Field              Re     ted
Supervision:
Mission 1                    1/89            5              10 Disposkion/Privatlztion
Project Management
Co-finncing
Legal As
Missio 2                     4/89            2               5 Project Mamagement
Missio 3                     7/89            1               6 Performance Evauation System
Missoa 4                     7/89            1            N/A  Projec Managemeat
Misson5                      9/89            2               7 Legd Aspecs
Missio 6                    10189            3              10 ProJet Management
Privatizaton
Performance Evaluation System
Misdion7                    11/89            1               9 Project Management
Mision 8                     3/90            2               7 Projec Mangemet
Mission 9                    9/90            4              12 Projct M _ageme
Lga  Aspects
Perforance Evaluation System
Mlulso  10                  1U91             1              10 Project Managemt
Mission 11                   3/91            1              10 Compu_triato of Acouting Sytem
MIssan 12                    6/91            1               7 Project Management
MbIi  13                    11/91            1               7 Project Mnagiet



