                                                    CONFORMED COPY




                                               LOAN NUMBER 2956 PH




          (Reform Program for Government Corporations)



                             between


                   REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES


                               and


              INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                         AND DEVELOPMENT




                     Dated September 1, 1988

                                               LOAN NUMBER 2956 PH


                         LOAN AGREEMENT

     AGREEMENT, dated September 1, 1988, between REPUBLIC OF THE
PHILIPPINES   (the   Borrower)    and   INTERNATIONAL BANK   FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).

     WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter dated April 27,
1988 from the Borrower      (hereinafter   called the Letter of
Development Policy) describing a program of actions, objectives
and policies designed to achieve certain reforms of government
corporations (hereinafter called the Program), declaring the
Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program, and
requesting assistance from the Bank in the financing of urgently
needed imports and services required during such execution; and

     (B) on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank has
decided in support of the Program to provide such assistance to
the Borrower by making the Loan in three tranches as hereinafter
provided;

    NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                              ARTICLE I

                   General Conditions; Definitions

     Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications thereof set forth below (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:

     (a)   Section 2.01, paragraph 11, shall be modified to read:

          "'Project' means the imports and other activities that
     may be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan pursuant to
     the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement.";

     (b)   Section 9.07 (c) shall be modified to read:

          "(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date
     or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between
     the Borrower and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare
    furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail
    as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of the
    program referred to in the Preamble to the Loan Agreement, the
    performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respective
    obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment
    of the purposes of the Loan."; and

     (c)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.

     Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:

     (a) "Asset    Privatization    Trust"    means    the   Asset
Privatization Trust established and operating under the Borrower's
Proclamation No. 50 dated December 8, 1986 and Proclamation
No. 50A dated December 15, 1986, or any successor thereto;

     (b) "Committee on Privatization" means the Committee on
Privatization formed pursuant to the Borrower's Proclamation
No. 50 dated December 8, 1986 and Proclamation No. 50A dated
December 15, 1986;

     (c) "Government Corporation" means a corporation which is
created by a law of the Borrower or incorporated and organized
under the Borrower's Corporations Code and in which the Borrower,
directly or indirectly, has ownership of the majority of the
capital or has voting control, including the subsidiary of any
such corporation;

     (d) "Disposition Entity" means any entity (other than the
Asset Privatization Trust) designated as responsible for carrying
out the privatization of a Government Corporation pursuant to the
Program or the Borrower's Proclamation Number 50 dated December 8,
1986 and Proclamation Number 50A dated December 15, 1986;

     (e) "Administrative     Order"     means    the Borrower's
Administrative Order Number 59 dated February 16, 1988 entitled
"Rationalizing the Government Corporate Sector";

     (f) "Technical Assistance" means the actions to be under-
taken by the Borrower under the Program, pursuant to Section 3.05
of this Agreement;

     (g) "Special Account" means the        account   referred   to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and

     (h) "Pesos" or the sign "P"    means   pesos in the currency of
the Borrower.
                             ARTICLE II

                              The Loan

     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to two
hundred million dollars ($200,000,000).

     Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

     (b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Program,
open and maintain in dollars a special account in the Central Bank
of the Philippines on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.

     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be August 31, 1991 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.

     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time
to time.

     Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a rate per annum for each Interest Period equal to
one-half of one percent per annum above the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for the last Semester ending prior to the commencement
of such Interest Period.

     (b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the      Borrower the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for such Semester.

     (c)   For purposes of this Section:

        (i)     "Interest Period"    means   the six-month period
                commencing on each date specified in Section 2.06
                of this Agreement, including the Interest Period in
                which this Agreement is signed.

       (ii)     "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost of
                the outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
                after June 30, 1982, expressed as a percentage per
                annum, as reasonably determined by the Bank.

      (iii)     "Semester" means the first six months or the second
                six months of a calendar year.

     Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.

     Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

                             ARTICLE III
                        Particular Covenants

     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall from time
to time, at the request of either party, exchange views on the
progress achieved in carrying out the Program and the actions
specified in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     (b) Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank for its review and comment a report on the
progress achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as
the Bank shall reasonably request.

     Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.

     Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained sound accounting practices the expen-
ditures financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.

     (b)    The Borrower shall:

        (i)       have the records and accounts referred to in para-
                  graph (a) of this Section (including those for the
                  Special Account) for each fiscal year audited, in
                  accordance with appropriate auditing principles
                  consistently applied,   by   independent auditors
                  acceptable to the Bank;

       (ii)       furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than six months after the end of
                  each such year, a certified copy of the report of
                  such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in
                  such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
                  requested; and

      (iii)       furnish to the Bank such other information concern-
                  ing said records and accounts and the audit thereof
                  as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably
                  request.

     (c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

        (i)       maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                  with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                  accounts reflecting such expenditures;

       (ii)       retain, until at least one year after the Bank has
                  received the audit report for the fiscal year in
                  which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was
                  made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
                  bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing
                  such expenditures;

        (iii)     enable the Bank's   representatives   to examine such
                  records; and

           (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are included
                  in the annual audits referred to in paragraph (b)
                  of this Section and that the report of such audit
                  contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to
                  whether the statements of expenditure submitted
                  during such    fiscal   year,  together with the
                  procedures and internal controls involved in their
                  preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                  related withdrawals.

     Section 3.04. The Borrower shall provide on a timely basis to
the Committee on Privatization, the Asset Privatization Trust as
well as each Disposition Entity such resources and facilities as
may be required for      the privatization of assets under the
Program.

     Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall carry out on a timely
basis, in accordance with terms of reference agreed with the Bank
and complete no later than December 31, 1991, the Technical
Assistance to support inter alia the following: (i) privatization
of selected Government Corporations; (ii) disposition actions in
respect   of   selected   Government  Corporations   (other than
privatization); (iii) strengthening of Government Corporations
retained in the Borrower's portfolio; and (iv) development and
implementation of computerized accounting systems for Government
Corporations.

     (b) The qualifications, experience and terms of reference of
the consultants used by the Borrower in carrying out the Technical
Assistance shall be as agreed between the Borrower and the Bank.

     (c) The Borrower shall provide on a timely basis such
resources and facilities as may be required to carry out the
Technical Assistance.

                             ARTICLE IV

                  Additional Event of Suspension

     Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that an event has occurred which shall make it improbable that the
Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.

                               ARTICLE V

                           Effective Date

     Section 5.01. The date ninety (90)      days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for       the purposes of Section
12.04 of this General Conditions.

                             ARTICLE VI

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

     Section 6.01. The Secretary of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

     Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

     For the Borrower:

          Secretary of Finance
          Department of Finance
          Manila
          Philippines

          Cable address:                        Telex:

               SECFIN                               7550 CBP-PH
               Manila                              40268 CB-CONF

     For the Bank:

          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                        Telex:

               INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
                                                    64145 (WUI)

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the    parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.



                        REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES



                        By /s/ Emmanuel Pelaez
                                         Authorized Representative



                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                          RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT



                        By /s/ A. Karaosmanoglu
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                              Asia

                            SCHEDULE 1

              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in this
Schedule, the proceeds of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan
Account for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to
be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required during the execution of the Program and to be financed
out of such proceeds.

2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of:

     (a) expenditures for goods included in the following SITC
groups or sub-groups, any successor groups or sub-groups under
future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice
to the Borrower:

     Group                Sub-group         Description of Items

      112                    -              Alcoholic beverages

      121                    -              Tobacco,       unmanu-
                                            factured,      tobacco
                                            refuse

      122                    -              Tobacco, manufactured
                                            (whether     or     not
                                            containing      tobacco
                                            substitutes)

      525                    -              Radioactive        and
                                            associated materials

      667                    -              Pearls, precious and
                                            semi-precious stones,
                                            unworked or worked
     Group                Sub-group         Description of Items

        -                    718.7          Nuclear reactors, and
                                            parts   thereof, fuel
                                            elements (cartridges),
                                            non-irradiated     for
                                            nuclear reactors
        -                       897.3          Jewelry     of     gold,
                                               silver   or     platinum
                                               group metals (except
                                               watches     and    watch
                                               cases) and goldsmiths'
                                               or silversmiths' wares
                                               (including set gems)

       971                         -           Gold,     non-monetary
                                               (excluding gold ores
                                               and concentrates);

     (b) expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for
goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;

     (c) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement, except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of $30,000,000 may be made on account of
payments made for such expenditures before that date but after
July 1, 1987;

     (d) expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which
any national or international financing institution or agency
other than the Bank shall have financed or agreed to finance; and

     (e) expenditures for goods intended for a military or para-
military purpose or for luxury consumption.

3.   No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be
entered into to pay amounts to the Borrower or others in respect
of expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan:

            (i)   after the aggregate of the proceeds of the Loan
                  withdrawn from the Loan Account, and the total
                  amount of such commitments, shall have reached the
                  equivalent of $75,000,000, unless the Bank shall be
                  satisfied, after the exchange of views as described
                  in Section 3.01 of this Agreement: (a) with the
                  progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying
                  out of the Program; and (b) that the actions
                  described in Part A of Schedule 4 to this Agreement
                  have been taken; and

         (ii)     after the aggregate of the proceeds of the Loan
                  withdrawn from the Loan Account, and the total
                  amount of such commitments, shall have reached the
                  equivalent of $150,000,000, unless the Bank shall
                  be satisfied, after the exchange of views described
                  in Section 3.01 of this Agreement: (a) with the
                  progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying
                  out of the Program; and (b) that the actions
                  described in Part B of Schedule 4 to the Agreement
                  have been taken.
4.   If, after the exchange of views described in Section 3.01 of
this Agreement, the Bank is not satisfied: (a) with the progress
achieved by the Borrower in carrying out the Program; or (b) that
the actions described in Schedule 4 to this Agreement have been
carried out as agreed with the Bank, and this situation shall not
be rectified by the Borrower within 90 days after notice thereof
by the Bank, then the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel
the amount of the Loan then unwithdrawn or any part thereof.

                               SCHEDULE 2

                          Amortization Schedule

                                               Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                              (expressed in dollars)*

February 1, 1994                                        3,650,000
August 1, 1994                                          3,790,000
February 1, 1995                                          3,935,000
August 1, 1995                                            4,090,000
February 1, 1996                                          4,245,000
August 1, 1996                                            4,410,000
February 1, 1997                                          4,580,000
August 1, 1997                                            4,760,000
February 1, 1998                                          4,940,000
August 1, 1998                                            5,135,000
February 1, 1999                                          5,330,000
August 1, 1999                                            5,535,000
February 1, 2000                                          5,750,000
August 1, 2000                                            5,970,000
February 1, 2001                                          6,205,000
August 1, 2001                                            6,440,000
February 1, 2002                                          6,690,000
August 1, 2002                                            6,950,000
February 1, 2003                                          7,220,000
August 1, 2003                                            7,495,000
February 1, 2004                                          7,785,000
August 1, 2004                                            8,085,000
February 1, 2005                                          8,400,000
August 1, 2005                                            8,720,000
February 1, 2006                                          9,060,000
August 1, 2006                                            9,410,000
February 1, 2007                                          9,770,000
August 1, 2007                                           10,150,000
February 1, 2008                                         10,540,000
August 1, 2008                                           10,960,000

      Total                                             200,000,000

*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.

                         Premiums on Prepayment

     The following premiums are specified         for   the purposes of
Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions:

    Time of Prepayment                               Premium

                                            The interest rate (ex-
                                            pressed as a percentage
                                            per annum) applicable to
                                            the balance outstanding
                                            on the Loan on the day of
                                            prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years                               0.15
     before maturity
More than three years but                               0.30
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                                 0.55
     not more than 11 years
     before maturity
More than 11 years but not                              0.80
     more than 16 years
     before maturity
More than 16 years but not                              0.90
     more than 18 years
     before maturity
More than 18 years before                               1.00
     maturity
                              SCHEDULE 3

                              Procurement
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding

     Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded through international competitive bidding
in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1985 (the
Guidelines), subject to the following modifications:

     (a) Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines            is   deleted   and the
following is substituted therefor:

     "2.8 Notification and Advertising

          The international community should be notified in a
     timely manner of the opportunity to bid. This will be done by
     advertising invitations to apply for inclusion in a bidder's
     invitation list, to apply for prequalification, or to bid;
     such advertisements should be      placed in at least one
     newspaper of general circulation in the Borrower's country
     and, in addition, in at least one of the following forms:

          (i)    a notice in     the   United Nations publication,
                 Development Forum, Business Edition; or

       (ii)      an advertisement    in    a newspaper, periodical or
                 technical journal   of    wide international circula-
                 tion; or

      (iii)      a notice to local representatives of countries and
                 territories referred to in the Guidelines, that are
                 potential suppliers of the goods required."

     (b) The following is added at        the   end of paragraph 2.21 of
the Guidelines:

          "As a further alternative, bidding documents may require
     the bidder to state the bid price in a single currency widely
     used in international trade and specified in the bidding
     documents."

     (c)    Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56   of the Guidelines are deleted.
Part B:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of less
than $5,000,000 each may be awarded on the basis of the normal
procurement procedures of the purchaser of such goods acceptable
to the Bank.

2.   Commonly traded commodities may be procured through organized
international commodity markets or other channels of competitive
procurement acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Bank.

Part C:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

1.   With respect to each contract referred to in Part A of this
Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, prior to the
submission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract, two
conformed copies of such contract, together with the analysis of
the respective bids and recommendations for award, a description
of the advertising and tendering procedures followed and such
other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.

2.   With respect to each contract referred to in paragraphs 1 and
2 of Part B of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the
Bank, prior to the submission to the Bank of the first application
for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect thereof,
such documentation and information as the Bank may reasonably
request to support withdrawal applications in respect of such
contract.

3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of
Part C of this Schedule, where payments under a contract are to be
made out of the proceeds of the Special Account, the copies of
such contract or the documentation and the information to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 1 or
paragraph 2 of Part C of this Schedule, as the case may be, shall
be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence required under
paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

4.   The provisions of the preceding paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 of
Part C of this Schedule shall not apply to contracts on account of
which the Bank has authorized withdrawals from the Loan Account on
the basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be
retained in accordance with Section 3.03 (c) (ii) of this
Agreement.

                             SCHEDULE 4

                Actions Referred to in Paragraph 3
                  of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
Part A.

1.   Final decisions by appropriate authorities     on the manner of
disposition of all Government Corporations.

2.   Completion of all actions (including offering for sale)
necessary towards the transfer to private persons of title to the
capital presently owned by, or on behalf of, the Borrower in each
of at least thirty Government Corporations, representing at least
twenty percent of the value in fiscal year 1985 of such part of
the assets of      Government Corporations as are approved for
privatization under the Program.

3.   Finalization of an implementation plan, agreed with the Bank,
in respect of about one hundred Government Corporations, for:
(i) the conversion of selected Government Corporations, which are
not to be retained as Government Corporations in their present
form, including absorption as line agencies or departments,
reorganization as non-profit private corporations, mergers and
consolidation; and (ii) the liquidation of designated Government
Corporations.

4.   Satisfactory progress towards amendments of charters of
Government Corporations as necessary      to implement the plan
referred to in paragraph 3 of Part A of this Schedule.

5.   Completion   of   a   review   of   charters   of Government
Corporations, and the formulation of recommendations arising from
such review, to ensure that (i) where the Chairman of a Government
Corporation is the representative of the Department to which that
Government Corporation is attached, (a) arrangements for monitor-
ing and inter-departmental evaluation of the Government Corpora-
tion by the Borrower's      Government Corporate Monitoring and
Coordinating Committee (GCMCC) are appropriately adjusted to
take into account this fact; and (b) the other responsibilities of
such representative are consistent with the need that the repre-
sentative devote adequate time and attention in the discharge of
his/her responsibilities as Chairman; and (ii) where ex-officio
members constitute the majority of the members of the Board of
Directors of a Government Corporation, the selection of the
Departments represented on the Board in each case adequately takes
into account the relevance of the functions of such Department to
the activities of the Government Corporation.
6.   Finalization of an   implementation   plan,   agreed   with   the
Bank, to introduce computerized accounting systems for Government
Corporations developed pursuant to the Technical Assistance.

7.   Approval of a corporate planning program for Government
Corporations agreed with the Bank and developed pursuant to the
Technical Assistance, by the Board of Directors of each of at
least five Government Corporations.

8.   Design of a performance evaluation and incentive system for
Government Corporations, agreed with the Bank and      developed
pursuant to the Technical Assistance.

9.   Appointment of adequate staff for the Corporate Affairs Group
of the Department of Finance.

10. Satisfactory progress towards amendments of charters of
Government Corporations to incorporate in such charters the
principles set forth in paragraph 7 of the Borrower's Letter of
Development Policy.

11. Issuance by the Borrower of regulations to: (i) eliminate
automatic guarantee by the Borrower of loans contracted by
Government Corporations; and (ii) ensure that when Government
Corporations are required     by  the   Government to undertake
activities which are not financially viable, the Government shall
take adequate and timely steps to protect the financial viability
of such Government Corporations on the basis of arrangements
agreed between the Government     and the concerned Government
Corporation as part of the monitoring and supervision of such
Government Corporation by GCMCC.

12. Satisfactory progress towards establishing an appropriate
corporate career executive service for Government Corporations.

13. Appointment    of   consultants,   with   qualifications and
experience and terms of reference agreed      with the Bank, for
carrying out the Technical Assistance.

Part B.

1.   Completion of all actions (including offering for sale)
necessary towards the transfer to private persons of title to the
capital presently owned by, or on behalf of, the Borrower in each
of at least sixty Government Corporations, representing at least
fifty percent of the value in fiscal year 1985 of such part of
the assets of     Government Corporations    as are approved for
privatization under the Program.

2.   Finalization of an implementation plan, agreed with the Bank,
for Government Corporations not covered under paragraph 3 of
Part A of this Schedule, for (i) the conversion of selected
Government Corporations, which are not to be retained as Govern-
ment Corporations in their present form, including absorption as
line agencies or departments, reorganization as non-profit private
corporations, mergers and consolidation; and (ii) the liquidation
of designated Government Corporations.

3.   Implementation of the  plan referred to in paragraph 3 of
Part A of this Schedule, including satisfactory progress towards
amendments of charters of Government  Corporations necessary for
the same.

4.   Satisfactory   progress   in   implementing   recommendations
formulated pursuant to paragraph 5 of Part A of this Schedule.

5.   Satisfactory progress towards amendments of charters of
Government Corporations for the purposes set out in paragraph 10
of Part A of this Schedule.

6.   Approval of the corporate planning program referred to in
paragraph 7 of Part A of this Schedule by the Board of Directors
of each of at least fifteen Government Corporations (including the
Government Corporations referred to   in   paragraph   7 of Part A of
this Schedule).

7.   Introduction of the computerized accounting systems agreed
with the Bank by each of at least ten Government Corporations.

8.    Introduction of the performance evaluation and incentive
system referred to in paragraph 8 of Part A of this Schedule, by
each of at least fifteen Government Corporations.

9.   Satisfactory progress in the   implementation of the Technical
Assistance.

                            SCHEDULE 5

                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:

     (a) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
during the execution of the Program and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

     (b) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equiva-
lent to $12,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.

2.   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, payments out of the
Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expendi-
tures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.

3.   After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account may be made as follows:

     (a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit in the
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.

     (b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank
shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the Bank shall with-
draw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account
such amounts as shall be required to replenish the Special Account
with amounts not exceeding the amount of payments made out of the
Special Account for eligible expenditures. Each such deposit shall
be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account in the respective
equivalent amounts as shall have been justified by the evidence
supporting the request for such deposit furnished pursuant to
paragraph 4 of this Schedule.

4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, prior to or at the time of such request, such documents
and other evidence as the Bank shall reasonably request, showing
that such payment was made for eligible expenditures.

5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be
made by the Bank when either of the following situations first
arises:

        (i)    the Bank shall have determined that all further
               withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
               from the Loan Account in accordance with the provi-
               sions of paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
               Agreement; or

       (ii)    the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan, minus the
               amount of    any   outstanding special commitment
               entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
               of the General Conditions with respect to the
               Program, shall be equal to the equivalent of twice
               the amount of the Authorized Allocation.

     (b) Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan shall follow such
procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the
extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.

6.   (a) If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for any expendi-
ture or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall,
promptly upon notice from the Bank, deposit into the Special
Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an
amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. No further deposit by the Bank into
the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has made such
deposit or refund.

     (b) If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount for crediting to the Loan Account.
