Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 21499
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-37480)
ONA
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 380 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FOR THE
NATIONAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
DECEMBER 19, 2000
TRANSPORT SECTOR UNIT
EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC REGIONAL OFFICE
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective June 30, 2000)
Currency Unit = Renminbi (RMB) = 100 Fen
RMB 1.0 = US$ 0.1207
US$ I = 8.2782
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AXE           -      Anyang-Xinxiang Expressway
EIRR          -      Economic Internal Rate of Return
EMS           -      Electrical and Mechanical Systems
GOC           -      Government of China
GOVAI         -      Gross Output Value of Agriculture and Industry
PCD           -      Provincial Communications Department
MOC           -      Ministry of Communications
MOF           -      Ministry of Finance
NPV           -      Net Present Value
NTHS          -      National Trunk Highway System
IRIP          -      Interconnecting Road Improvement Program
SAE           -      Shijiazhuang-Anyang Expressway
SAXE          -      Shijiazhuang-Anyang-Xinxiang Expressway
Vice President:   Jemal-ud-din Kassum, EAPVP
Country Director:    Yukon Huang, EACCF
Sector Director:   Jitendra N. Bajpai, EASTR
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Jacques M. Tollie, EASTR



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                           1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                          1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry                1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                   3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                     6
6. Sustainability                                                                         7
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                          8
8. Lessons Learned                                                                       10
9. Partner Comments                                                                      11
10. Additional Information                                                               23
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                     24
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                     25
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                     28
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                     30
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                     31
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performnance                                       32
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                    33
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P003 504                                     Project Name: HEBEI/HENAN NATIONAL
Team Leader: Jacques M. Tollie                           TL Unit: EASTR
ICR Type: Core ICR                                       Report Date: December 19, 2000
1. Project Data
Name: HEBEI/HENAN NATIONAL                          L/C/TF Number: CPL-37480
Country/Department: CHINA                                               Region: East Asia and Pacific
Region
Sector/subsector: TH - Highways
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:  05/15/92                                Effective: 10/24/94           10/24/94
Appraisal:  06/18/93                                 MTR:
Approval:  06/07/94                                Closing: 06/30/2000          06/30/2000
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: PRC/HEBEI & HENAN PROVINCES
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      Jemal-ud-din Kassum                       Gautam Kaji
Country Manager:     Yukon Huang, EACCF                        Nicholas Hope
Sector Manager:      Jitendra N. Bajpai, EASTR                 Richard Scurfield
Team Leader at ICR:   Jacques M. Tollie                        Jose Veniard
ICR Primary Author:   Ephrem Asebe and Jacques M.
Tollie
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(H-IS=ighly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                        S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The project was designed to: (a) relieve transport congestion and improve the integration of inter-regional
commerce by assisting in the development of National Highway 107 between Hebei and Henan; (b)
facilitate access within the area of influence, ensuring that the benefits of improving the trunk road



extended to a wider area by rehabilitating and expanding the critical sections of the major roads
interconnecting with the section of National Highway 107 concemed; (c) strengthen the interprovincial
coordination of trunk road operations and promote the free flow of goods and travelers between Hebei and
Henan; and (d) strengthen the provincial highway agencies in road investment planning, highway
management and maintenance, and traffic safety.
The project objectives were clear, focused and responsive to the development needs of the provinces. They
also had high national priority since Route 107 is a key element of the National Trunk Highway System
(NTHS) in the principal North-South transport corridor. Facilitation of interprovincial trade was one of
the priorities identified in a Bank sector strategy report titled Highway Development and Management
Issues, Options, and Strategies (February 1994). As such, the objectives were in line with the Banks
Country Assistance strategy which supported sectoral reforms and investments aimed at removing
infrastructure bottlenecks and modemizing the transportation system and its management.
3.2 Revised Objective:
None
3.3 Original Components:
The project comprised (a) the construction of the 340 km long Shijiazhuang-Anyang-Xinxiang Expressway
(SAXE), a four-lane, access-controlled toll highway of which 216 km are in Hebei and 124 km in Henan,
including service facilities; (b) an Interconnecting Roads Improvement Program (IRIP) for upgrading 14
provincial highways interconnecting at interchanges with the expressway; (c) the coordination of
expressway operations between Hebei and Henan and a study of facilitation of interprovincial traffic flows;
(d) a study of highway capacity; and (e) institutional strengthening through training and equipping of
selected agencies in Hebei and Henan Provincial Communications Departments (PCD).
T'hese components are well related to achieving the project objectives: (i) the SAXE would complete the
gap on the NTHS between Beijing and Zhengzhou, capital of Henan Province and a main transport hub at
the intersection of the north-south Route 107 and the east-west Route 310 (the latter being improved under
ongoing and planned Bank operations); (ii) the IRP would help counter the prevalent approach to confine
the development of the NTHS to the expressways themselves, benefiting mostly end-to-end traffic and
limiting sharing in the project benefits by the area alongside the expressway; and (iii) on the institutional
side, the project would focus on the interprovincial coordination of highway planning and management,
through the promotion of long-distance trade and the development of highway capacity guidelines based on
Chinese conditions. As a bi-provincial undertaking, the approach brought significant departure from
previous highway projects which were exclusively province-based, a risk which was rightly accepted in
view of the expected rewards.
3.4 Revised Components:
The IRIP was modified to take into account to the updated development needs of the areas traversed by the
expressway. In Hebei, the program was expanded to accommodate six additional interconnecting roads
including a new interchange, while in Henan one road was deleted from the program because it was to be
improved under local funding. In addition, there were two modifications to the Henan portion: (i) the
upgrading works between Xinjiang (the southern end of SAXE) and Zhengzhou were added to the project,
and (ii) because of delays in the procurement of the E&M works on the Henan section, their financing was
transferred from the loan to local funding. No restructuring was needed.
- 2 -



3.5 Quality at Entry:
The quality at entry is considered satisfactory, based on the relevance of project objectives, the quality of
the technical, economic and financial analyses, the implementation readiness, and the overall risk
assessment. In particular, the assumption that the critical interprovincial coordination was a
medium-risk/high-reward objective was reasonable. Like most Bank financed projects of that period, the
performance indicators were not explicitly developed; they were however retrofitted in the project at an
early stage of project implementation.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The project has substantially achieved its major development objectives, the main shortcoming being the
delays in the installation of the traffic engineering systems on the Henan section expressway. The overall
satisfactory rating is based on the performance indicators shown in Annex 1. The physical targets have
been substantially met with satisfactory economic returns. Traffic increased significantly in the SAXE
corridor (albeit at a lesser rate than forecast), putting however more pressure on southem sections of
Route 107 which needed increased capacity (see para 4.2.1 below). Delays in implementation of the traffic
engineering works have been compensated by manual operation of some functions of the expressway and
continued cooperation between the two expressway operators. The IRIP has substantially expanded the
zone of influence of the expressway, as witnessed by the agricultural and industrial output value index
which shows a steady increase in all counties affected by the project. The training of staff has resulted in
better performance of the entities in Hebei and Henan PCD that were selected for strengthening under the
project. Several of the recommendations of the Traffic Facilitation Study have been implemented and an
action plan has been developed for further implementation. The Highway Capacity Study has been
considered a "best practice" in terms of collaboration between Hebei, Henan and MOC, and resulted in an
useful final product. Finally performance with safeguard policies including environmental, cultural
property, and involuntary resettlement has been satisfactory.
4.2 Outputs by components:
4.2.1  Traffic congestion relieved and mobility increased in the main corridor. The satisfactory
implementation of the SAXE and IRIP components has significantly eased traffic operation and increased
mobility in the corridor. Both sections of the expressway (Shijiazhuang-Anyang Expressway or SAE in
Hebei, and Anyang-Xinxiang Expressway or AXE in Henan) were concurrently opened to traffic by the
end of December 1997. In Hebei, the traffic engineering works on SAE involving the supply and erection of
the electrical/mechanical systems (EMS) comprising the surveillance/control system, the toll system and the
communication system- was completed satisfactorily in May 2000. However in Henan, results of the 1996
tender call were rejected in 1999 because the bids were considered no longer valid. Re-bidding under the
project would have required an extension of the loan closing date by at least two years. Henan PCD
preferred instead to procure the EMS contract using their own funds. This delay resulted in a somewhat
lower level of service of the expressway, in particular because of manual operation of the toll collection
system.
During implementation, the government decided to extend the expressway to the south, by constructing the
Xinxiang-Zhengzhou Expressway (XZE) along a new alignment with a new bridge on the Yellow River to
the east of Zhengzhou This was expected to be the long-term solution to the capacity requirements in this
section, but in the meantime the existing Xinxiang-Zhengzhou highway remained heavily congested. It was
- 3 -



then agreed to finance the upgrading of this section of Route 107 using loan savings, considering that the
new XZE would not be completed before 2004.
4.2.2  Supervision of construction. The supervision of SAE and AXE was carried by two joint
Chinese/foreign consulting companies. Both joint supervision teams have performed satisfactorily in
assuring the quality of the works. The joint-team approach provided the local staff with extensive
experience in the supervision of high grade highway construction.
4.2.3 Coordination between Hebei and Henan. The two provinces have coordinated very well during the
design, construction and operation phases of the project. The joint toll station at the provincial boundary
was the first in China and became a model for similar stations including the one at the Shaanxi-Henan
border (under Shaanxi II and Henan II Provincial Highway Projects). Further, the two provinces
cooperated very closely in the toll studies and in narrowing the gap between the tolls to be charged in each
province. Also, there were agreements on joint handling of major traffic accidents as well as other aspects
of expressway policing. The interprovincial coordinating committee played a key role during
implementation of the two studies. The recommendations of these studies were jointly discussed and
implemented. In the later stages of project implementation, both provinces issued a joint annual monitoring
report to track the performance indicators.
4.2.4  Traffic Facilitation Study. This study addressed a wide range of issues relevant to the
modemization of the road transport industry. Assessments and recommendations covered the improved
utilization of road vehicles, changes in axle load and introduction of larger vehicles, inter-modal transport,
containerization and logistics, cargo consolidation terminals, toll structures, and policy and institutional
reforms towards deregulation and professionalization of the road transport industry. Both provinces have
started implementing several of the recommendations of the study.
4.2.5  Highwa Capacity Study. This study provided a major input to the development of the Chinese
Highway Capacity Manual undertaken by MOC. Technical reviews were carried out and the findings were
disseminated. At the provincial level, the guidelines for highway capacity analysis have been used in road
planning, including feasibility studies and design of interurban highways.
4.2.6  Impact of Land Acquisition and Resettlement.
The impact of the project can be summarized in the following two tables:
A. Hebei portion           SAE                  IRIP
Planned    Actual    Planned     Actual
Land acquisition (mu)    23,874    26,282       6,384      6,547
House demolition (sq.m)  16,604    24,587       5,566      5,566
People aff. By relocation  222        330        165         219
Resettlement cost (Ymil)    190.81  302.73      63.92      81.75
-4 -



B. Henan portion               AXE                  IRIP             XZH upgrading
Planned    Actual   Planned    Actual    Planned    Actual
Land acquisition (mu)       9,336    10,876      n.a.        349      1,878     2,023
House demolition (sq.m)     8,832    14,274      n.a.      8,930     11,907    22,743
People aff. By relocation    277       304       n.a.      1,137        760     1,368
Resettlement cost (Ymil)    78.59    125.38      n.a.       1.95      37.23     42.08
The larger than expected impact explained that the resettlement costs were increased by about 60% both on
the SAE and the AXE. The increased costs were due (i) in Hebei to the increase of temporary land use and
the design changes, and (ii) in Henan to the larger requirements in terms of land and assets and the higher
compensation rates for the affected assets. After land redistribution, the land holding capacity was reduced
by less than 10% for each affected person. The productivity was however not adversely affected owing to
the construction of farmland irrigation works and assistance in the development of a more diversified
economy in the rural areas. The livelihood was indeed improved by completion of public infrastructures
and service facilities in the affected villages. The evaluation of the livelihood of the project affected people
(PAP) undertaken by the independent monitoring unit showed that the net income of all affected persons
have been improved. The resettlement objectives have been met, i.e. restoration and improvement of
income, livelihood and productivity of the PAP. All activities planned in the Resettlement Action Plan have
been completed.
4.2.7 Environmental Management.
Since the SAXE corridor traverses mostly flat terrain in Hebei and Henan, construction of the expressway
was expected to have only very limited adverse impact on the environment. Major environmental issues
were rightly identified in the Environmental Assessment report as dust and noise pollution in the
construction and operation phases, and drainage and embankment protection. The engineering design and
technical specifications provided specific treatments for the protection of embankment slopes and roadside
drainage, which were applied during the construction and operation phases. No unforeseen adverse
environmental problem emerged. Environmental monitoring reports were delivered on time to relevant
parties in accordance with the project requirements. Some erosion or slope failures were reported on the
higher embankment sections in times of heavy rains, however both PCDs were well equipped to handle
such emergencies promptly and efficiently. Also, reduction of noise in towns and villages along the SAXE
was generally effective, owing to appropriate mitigation measures such as noise barrier installation.
Control of air pollution has been more problematic in some areas, since factors were mostly outside the
purview of the implementing agencies. Both PCDs are aware of the need for continuous environmental
monitoring during operation, and have taken steps in this respect.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The Expressway. The ex-post Economic Internal Rate of Retum (EIRR) of the expressway is estimated to
be 14.1 % versus the SAR estimate of 22.9%, and the Economic Net Present Value (ENPV), at a discount
rate of 12%, is estimated to be RMB 1.28 billion versus RMB 6.06 billion. The recalculated EIRR and
ENPV are lower than anticipated at appraisal mainly because of increases in the project costs and lesser
increase in traffic. Also assumptions about traffic diversion (from existing Highway 107 to the
expressways) did not materialize, especially in Hebei, because of improvements brought to parallel sections
of Highway 107. The detailed economic analysis is in the Project ICR Files (Annex 7) and a summary is
provided in Annex 3.



Interconnecting Roads Improvement Program (aRIP). The total number of the roads under IRIP increased
from 14 roads to 19 roads. The EIRR for the RIP as a whole is estimated at 22.3% versus the SAR
estimate of 39.9%. The roads under IRIP are located along the expressway and traffic on most of these
roads was also less than projected at appraisal. Also the total economic cost of IRIP increased
substantially. Because of the changes in project scope, the evaluations of the IRIP under the ICR and the
SAR are not fully compatible. Details are provided in Annex 3.
EIRR and NPV for the total project. The EIRR and ENPV for the SAXE and the IRIP in both provinces
are estimated to be 15.1% and RMB 2.1 billion, respectively, compared with 24% and RMB 7.44 billion
estimated in the SAR.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
The financial evaluation of the project is focused on the expressway whose cost constituted about 88
percent of total project cost, and which generates revenues through tolls. At the opening to traffic in
December 1997, both PCDs established separate highway agencies to operate the expressways. The toll
charges are the main revenue for the companies, which is strictly controlled by the government. The basic
principle for toll collection on the SAXE has been repaying the Bank's loan, rather than maximizing the
financial rate of return (FRR) on the investment. Combined with the high construction cost and lower
traffic, this principle leads to an estimated FRR for the total investments in Hebei and Henan of -4.6% and
-5.2%, respectively. This does not allow for adequate depreciation of the assets, and government financial
assistance would be needed for major maintenance works when they come due, unless and until more
progress is made on toll highway commercialization.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project has had a substantial institutional development impact, as noted above. All the agencies in
both provinces involved in the preparation, implementation and operation of the project have shown
significant improvement in their performance. Through the joint-team operation approach followed in
supervision activities as well as in the studies, chinese staff have had opportunities to get acquainted with
modem technologies. Measures taken to strengthen, through training and provision of specialized
equipment, the institutions within both PCDs were effective. The two studies provided methodological
approaches and a collaborative (MOC, provinces, intemational experts) management model which were
useful in other studies.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The major factor outside the control of government that affected project outcome was the extemal
economic conditions. Both expressways opened to traffic in late 1997, at a time when an economic and
financial crisis swept across Asia. This had an adverse effect on the demand for transport, and slowed
down the build-up of traffic on SAE and AXE. Signs that traffic growth has recovered are apparent from
preliminary data for year 2000. Globally, the impact on the economic viability was slight, but it was more
important on the financial viability.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Delays occurred in the procurement of the EMS works, resulting in the expressways being opened to traffic
without the benefits of efficient tolling and traffic surveillance systems. The main reasons were traced to
- 6 -



the lengthy procedures for (i) the design and preparation of bidding documents, (ii) the preparation of the
evaluation reports, and (iii) for the internal clearances both at central and provincial levels. These factors
played more forcefully in the case of Henan (which would have needed a two-year extension of the loan
closing date to complete the EMS component) than in the case of Hebei (which was able to complete the
EMS works by the closing date). In the end, Henan agreed to implement the EMS component under local
funding, in accordance with an implementation schedule which was reviewed by the Bank and found
acceptable.
Records regarding traffic safety have been mixed. The expected drop in traffic accidents subsequent to the
opening of the expressways did not materialize. A main factor impacting on the safe and efficient operation
of the expressway is the good cooperation between the PCDs and the Traffic Police in charge of
enforcement. The Leading Group for Coordination set up under the project was more successful with the
cooperation amongst the two PCDs than between the latter and the Traffic Police.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Both Hebei and Henan PCDs adopted the "two provinces -one project" stance, which led to very effective
inter-provincial coordination of critical activities under the project. This strong cornmitment both at
management and working levels did mitigate the risks that this first National Highway Project would just
be the juxtaposition of two parallel provincial projects. There was value added in the search for
harmonization in the design, construction and operation of the expressways, as well as in the joint
implementation of the studies.
5.4 Costs and financing:
As presented in Annex 2a, the total project cost in US dollar equivalent was almost identical to the
appraisal estimate, showing that the physical and price contingencies were overall adequately assessed. On
the physical side, the following points can be made: (a) in addition to the expansion of the IRIP
component, there was an increase in the construction standards in Hebei, especially with regard to bridge
abutments and the wearing course; (b) in Henan, the requirements for land acquisition and resettlement
under the AXE and the upgrading works led also to a sharp increase in the final cost; and (c) both
provinces had to deal with an increase in the number and often size of underpasses and culverts, and an
enhancement in the quality of the service areas and toll stations. Costwise, it is worth noting that in 1994
price escalation was high in China and the appraisal cost estimates reflected this high inflation. However,
in 1995 the Renminbi was devalued against the dollar and price escalation decreased appreciably; also
severe competition among civil works contractors led to lower capital costs.
The use of loan funds, broken down into ICB, NCB, and other procurement methods, did not differ
significantly from the SAR estimates, as shown in Annex 2b. The proportion of NCB procurement in
Hebei increased because of the expanded IRIP in that province. Regarding project financing, the Bank loan
was used up to 94% on average. It was fully disbursed in Hebei, and only up to 84% in Henan because of
a reduced IRIP and the transfer of the EMS component to local funding (Annex 2c).
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The project is likely to be sustainable when considering the achievements under each of the components,
and sustainability is enhanced by follow-up projects, as argued below:
-7 -



(i)    Traffic congestion has been remedied in the Shijiazhuang-Xinxiang corridor. The gap existing to
the south is being tackled under the Xinxiang-Zhengzhou expressway construction project financed
with domestic and Japanese funds. Once the latter is completed, the north-south traffic traversing
Hebei and Henan will be facilitated.
(ii)    The IRIP component has greatly enhanced accessibility and mobility, and broadened the zone of
influence of the SAXE. The program is being expanded by further investments in both provinces
to improve the connections with rural roads.
(iii)   The Highway Capacity Study has led to significant transfer of technology to local staff. The study
has also been an important input for MOC in the preparation of the Chinese Highway Capacity
Manual.
(iv)   Important recommendations of the Traffic Facilitation Study have been implemented, and an action
plan has been developed for further implementation. In the case of Henan, this action plan is to be
monitored under the Third Henan Highway Project which is expected to become effective in early
2001.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations.
The SAE and AXE were opened to traffic in December 1997. Operation and maintenance of the
expressways have been generally satisfactory except for the lack of traffic engineering equipment, and tolls
were collected manually. Also traffic safety has remained an issue, requiring continuous coordination and
improved cooperation with the Traffic Police.
At the end of the project, the E&M systems have become operational on the SAE and the level of service is
expected to be substantially improved in terms of (i) waiting time at the toll booths, and (ii) incident -or
accident- response time with the use of the emergency telephone and other traffic surveillance systems
along the expressway. Manual systems will be used on the AXE for about two more years. In addition,
level-of-service type indicators, similar to the ones used in more developed expressway networks, will be
used by the expressway agencies to monitor their operation.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
During project identification and preparation, Bank staff was working concurrently on an important piece
of sector work titled Highway Development and Management Issues, Options and Strategies. This helped
ensure the design was firmly grounded in the sector assistance strategy for the mediurn term. The Bank
was also selective in the range of sector issues to be addressed in this particular project, and the final choice
(facilitation of inter-provincial traffic and formulation of highway capacity standards) was highly relevant
and supported by the Borrower and the two PCDs.
During appraisal, the major risks were considered to be (i) delays in the completion of the expressways,
and (ii) the lack of experience in inter-provincial coordination to the extent required to achieve the project
objectives. The measures designed to mitigate both risks proved effective, except for the traffic engineering
components which were still new to the agencies and would have warranted a stricter set of preparation and
implementation guidelines. Like in other Bank projects of the period, performance indicators were not
explicitly developed. The provinces later retrofitted specific performance indicators.
- 8 -



7.2 Supervision:
Bank supervision focused on facilitating a smooth cooperation between the two provinces, and several
coordinating meetings were attended by Bank missions. The Bank showed responsiveness and flexibility in
approving needed modifications, in particular regarding the expansion of the IRIP in Hebei or the addition
of the upgrading works in Henan. In both cases, a mini-appraisal was conducted to ensure compliance with
the project requirements. In the case of the EMS component in Henan, even though it would not be funded
from the loan, the Bank made it clear that this component remained an integral part of the project and that
its implementation should ensure a safe and an efficient operation of the AXE. Bank involvement was also
critical in the two studies, where staff provided useful advice to improve quality of the analyses and
recommendations.
The Bank conducted 12 supervision missions from 1994 to 2000, a little less than 2 missions per year on
average. A total of about 90 staff-weeks were spent on supervision activities. Efficiency gains were
achieved by Bank missions dealing with several projects during each stay. Continuity of staffing on the
project was generally achieved, but the skill mix was limited. Resettlement and environment staff provided
specialized reviews during the critical phases of the project, but could have been used more widely. As
available resources from the field office increased, they were tapped accordingly.
7.3 Overall Bank performance.
Overall, Bank performance was satisfactory for the reasons noted above.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
All aspects of project preparation were handled satisfactorily, in spite of the technical and managerial
complexity of the project, compounded by the difficulties to coordinate between the two provinces. During
the preparation phase, stakeholders commitment was high. The government team was responsive to the
feedback provided by the Bank and was quick to respond to the changing assumptions and conditions
during the preparation of the project (for instance, it was agreed that sections totaling about 10 km of the
expressway around Shijiazhuang would be designed as 6-lane facilities to improve the coordination of
expressway planning with city plans).
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Both the Ministry of Communications and the State Planning Conmmission were supportive of the project.
MOC was itself involved in the Highway Capacity and Traffic Facilitation Studies and this contributed to
the high quality of the studies and the implementability of their recommendations. However, the process
for obtaining internal clearances for bidding documents and evaluation reports was much slower than
expected, due to the cumbersome internal processes involving both provincial and central agencies,
especially with regards to the EMS components.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
Coordination between Hebei and Henan PCD was smooth and joint activities like the two studies were
carried out in a satisfactory manner. Both PCDs were alert to adapt the project to changing circumstances,
and to suggest changes to project components accordingly, as in the case of the IRIP in Hebei or the
-9-



upgrading works on Xinxiang in Henan. Civil works were procured and supervised in accordance with
agreed procedures. However there was some failure to anticipate the difficulties of procuring complex
works like the EMS. In the case of Henan, the lessons from the first Henan Provincial Highway Project
had been useful, in that the EMS bids were opened reasonably on time, in November 1996. However it
took more than two years for the bid evaluation report to reach the Bank, in March 1999. In the end the
Bank could not accept the recommendations of the report, and it was agreed that the EMS component on
the AXE would be implemented under local funding.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall, borrower implementation performance is considered satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
8.1 Interprovincial Cooperation. The project has shown that interprovincial cooperation is an ambitious
undertaking but can succeed with good preparation and management. Benefits in terms of promotion of
long-distance trade are obvious. This lesson has been learned in the subsequent National Highway Projects
financed by the Bank.
8.2   Implementation of EMS cRmponents. Delays in the timely completion of these components have
prevented an optimal operation of the assets built under the project. Similar delays have occurred under
other Bank-financed projects implemented in the mid 1990s. Recommendations have been made for a
stricter control of the procurement schedule of these components. However these recommendations are
valid not only for the implementing agencies, but also for the many central government agencies involved in
the clearance process.
8.3    Drive towards commercialization of toll hinhwavs. Both provinces have recognized the limitations
of operating their expressway under a Branch of Government type of organization. This entails constraints
which hinder the financial viability of the project. In order to enhance the sustainability of this type of
project, both provinces have agreed to take steps for further commercialization of their respective
expressway management companies.
8.4    Coordination of expressway planninz with city plans. Five main cities are located in the SAXE
corridor. The expressway affects the growth of those cities and their land use and transport plans. It is
important that this aspect receive special consideration in the planning and design of the expressway so as
to cater for existing needs and the needs over the next 20 years or longer. This affects the location of the
expressway and number of lanes to be provided; the number of interchanges, location, type and geometrics
of the interchanges; the number of grade separations and the cross section of the under-structures as well as
the need to convert some of those structures to interchanges in the future. This issue was critical in the
case of the upgrading of the Xinxiang-Zhengzhou Highway which ends in the northern part of Zhengzhou.
A mechanism has to be worked out to improve coordination between the municipalities and the PCD in
such cases.
- 10 -



8.5    Efficiency of technical assistance (TA). The efficiency of TA in Highway Projects has sometimes
been questioned in terms of its high costs and limited effectiveness as perceived by some provinces. The
TA provided for the two studies under this project has been considered successful by all parties involved,
and the ingredients for success appear to be: (i) firm grounding in a sectoral strategy, (ii) support from
MOC as well as the provinces, (iii) good selection of local and international teams, (iv) appropriate
arrangements for the conduct of the studies and their dissemination, and (v) recognizing that the process of
change may take time, devise action plans for short-term and long-term recommendations.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Hebei PCD Assessment Summary (full assessment in Project ICR Files)
Introduction
1.    Hebei section of China-National Highway Project was appraised in July 1993. The Loan and
project Agreements were negotiated from February 28 to March 5, 1994 and were signed. On October 24,
1994, the Agreements and a loan of US$240 million were approved by the Board of Executive Directors.
The Agreements and the loan were declared effective on July 25, 1994. Closing date of the loan was June
30, 2000 in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), but the account was actually to be closed on October 31,
2000.
A.    Proiect Descrintion
2.    The major objective of the Project was to mitigate traffic congestion of the existing National
Highway 107 and to form national traffic network.
3.    The Project consists of: (a) construction of a 216.05 kIn, four-lane divided with the access
controlled expressway; (b) construction of 17 interconnecting roads of 179.788 km; (c) consulting services
for construction supervision and training; (d) highway capacity study; (e) procurement of maintenance
equipment; (f) traffic control and surveillance, telecommunication and toll systems; (g) staff training; (h)
improving road safety.
B.    Achievement of Proiect Obiectives
4.    All major objectives of the Project were achieved for various components including: (a) 216.05 km
Shijiazhuang-Anyang Expressway Project, traffic control and surveillance, telecommunication and toll
systems as well as service areas along the Expressway; (b) 17 interconnecting roads of 179.788 kcm; (c)
consulting services for construction supervision and training; (d) highway capacity study; and (e) staff
training.
- 11 -



C.    Proiect Identification
5.    Preparatory work of the Project started in March 1992. Bank procedures as well as local
procedures for infrastructure projects were applicable to the project and were gone through.
LOCAL PROCEDURES                           BANK PROCEDURES
Subject          Date of Approval         Subject          Date of Approval
Document Code
1   Project recommendations  Aug. 31, 1992     Project Identification  Mar. 18-27, 1992
No. 1431JJT (1992)
2   Feasibility study      Mar. 17, 1993       Project Preparation    Mar. 16-25, 1992
No. 396JJT (1993)
3   Preliminary design     Mar. 14, 1993       Project Pre-appraisal  Mar. 16-25, 1993
No. 630JGF (1993)
4   Report for comnuencement Oct. 20, 1994     Project Appraisal      July 2-13, 1993
No. 1312JTZ (1994)
No. 1340JTZ (1994)
5                                              Loan Negotiation       Feb. 28-Mar. 5,
1994
6                                              Approval of Loan       Oct. 24, 1994
Agreement
D.    Proiect Plannin2 and Desi2n
6.    Implementation of the Project would help in: (a) introduction of improved road planning
techniques; (b) improving specifications for design and construction and contract documents; (c) supporting
the Province's move to competitive bidding for civil works and developing institutional capacity for
supervision of civil works construction; (d) training of staff; and (e) forming highway network.
7.    To accomplish these objectives, project scope was defined including: (a) construction of 216.05
km 4-lane Expressway with the access controlled connecting Beijing-Shijiazhuang Expressway and going
to the south; (b) construction of 17 interconnecting roads; (c) consulting services for construction
supervision and training; (d) provision of equipment for traffic control and surveillance, telecommunication
and toll systems; (e) provision of equipment for maintenance; (f) improving road safety; and (g) training of
staff.
E.    Proiect Implementation
8.    Highwav Capacity Study. The two provinces of Hebei and Henan coordinated very well in their
joint implementation of the Highway Capacity Study. The Study was completed in March 1999 and was
expected to provide a major input to the development of Chinese Highway Capacity Study Manual.
Technical review was carried out and findings were disseminated. It provided for the Chinese members of
the joint study team a good forum to acquaint themselves with current technical advances in their respective
fields. Objectives of the Study was achieved.
9.    Shi-An Expressway. The Expressway was composed of 9 contract sections for civil works.
Construction was commnenced in August 1994 and completed by the end of December 1997. The 9 civil
- 12 -



works contracts were awarded under international competitive bidding (ICB). Joint local and foreign
consultant services were applied for construction supervision. Construction of the 17 interconnecting roads
was done in three stages. Construction of the roads of Stage I started in August 1994 and that of Stage II
in July 1997 and they were completed in December 1997 and December 1998, respectively. ICB was also
adopted for award of the Electrical and Mechanical (E&M) Contract. Construction of the E&M Contract
commenced on June 21, 1997 and completed in April 2000. Other relevant works such as building works
including toll stations, control centers and service areas were divided into 10 contracts which were awarded
under local competitive bidding (LCB). Construction of these started, respectively, in September 1996 and
October 1997 and completed in 1998.
10.   Consulting Services for Construction Supervision. Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation
(SMEC) of Australia succeeded in the bidding and was awarded the contract for providing consultant
services for construction supervision and training. Allocation of loan for this work component as well as
the contract price was US$3.80 million. Revised contract value was A$4,575,452. Actual payment was
A$3,806,488.01. This contract was completed at the same time with contracts of civil works. Total
man/months of consulting services were 188.5.
11.   Maintenance Eguiment. Amount of allocation of loan for this component was US$10.38 million
in the SAR. To ensure smooth medium-size maintenance as well as overhaul after completion of
construction, amount of loan for this component was increased to US$13.10 million upon approval by the
State Planning Commission (SPC). Procurement was finished in December 1996.
12.   Traffic Control & Surveillance. Telecommunication and Toll Systems. Bidding documents for this
component were issued on May 14, 1996. The contract was awarded to Huaneng Basic Industrial &
Investment Corporation (Huaneng). It was responsible for organization and coordination of the systems.
Among the three systems, Alcatel was responsible for design and installation of the telecommunication
system. Apart from that, it was also responsible for coordination of technical aspect. Honeywell was
responsible for design and installation of traffic control system. Contract was signed on May 23, 1997 and
the construction period was 24 months with a total cost of US$20.89 million. The contract came to its
defect liability period in April 2000.
- 13-



13.   Staff Training. According to the SAR, comprehensive training program involved training of 38
persons for 79 man-months at an estimated cost of US$553,000. Training program actually implemented
included 66 persons for 81.8 man-months at a cost of US$489,886. Training courses conducted included:
Implementation            Subject                 Consultants       No. of    Man-
Year                                                          Trainee   month
1       1995     Highway finance               BCEOM, France             3        2.1
2       1996      Hwy. constru. Management      Amman & Whitney,         2        1.4
USA
3       1996      Traffic engineering           Saint-co, Spain          5        3.5
4       1996      Hwy. transportation planning  FinRoad, Finland         5        3.5
5       1996      Operation management          CS Route/ENPC,           5        3.5
France
6       1997      Human resource development    TTA, Canada              6        4.2
7       1997      Project management and        SOWI, UK                 8       16.0
Procurement
8       1997      Expressway design             Louis Berger, USA        4       12.0
9       1997      Finance management            BCEOM, France            6        6.0
10      1997      Pavement cons. management     Snowy Mountains,          6       6.0
Australia
11      1997      Equipment management and      Hoss Equipment, USA       5       7.5
Application
12      1998      Maintenance management        VicRoad, Australia        6       6.0
13      1998      Design of traffic engineering  CS Route/ENPC,           5      10.0
France
Total                                                           66       81.8
Objectives of the training program were satisfactorily achieved as those trained abroad became much
acquainted with the most advanced and up-to-date techniques of highway project management. They put
what they learned during their overseas training into actual work and played a valuable role in their daily
work. Knowledge was renewed and visions were widened. HPCD owed a lot to the Bank's provision of
such opportunities for HPCD's staff to be promoted both in their highway project management level and in
their professional level.
F.    Operations
14.   Operation of the Expressway as well as other project components is good.
15.   Shi-An Expressway. The Expressway was opened to traffic in December 1997. Operation is very
good since its opening three years before. Average daily traffic is 9500 which is higher than projected.
Toll revenue in 1999 was RIM 320 million Yuan. Social benefit as well as economic benefit of the
Expressway are significant which is greatly helpful to the Province and the Project area. At the beginning
of the construction, Shi-An Expressway Construction Management Division (Shi-An ECM Div.) was
established. After completion of the construction, it was changed to Shi-An Expressway Management
Division (Shi-An EM Div.) to be mainly responsible for maintenance and operation of Shi-An Expressway.
- 14 -



G.    Works by Contractors and the Engineer
16.   International competitive bidding (ICB) was applied for construction of civil works of the
Expressway. Civil works were composed of 9 contracts:
Contract    Length (km)                           Contractor
A          11.855     Highway Engineering Bureau of Hebei Province
B         21.095      No. 1 Highway Engineering Corp. of MOC
C         29.644      Highway Engineering Bureau of Hebei Province
D         27.230      Div. No. 3 of 17th Engineering Bureau of MOR
E         35.455      No. 5 Municipal Engineering Company Limited of Tianjin City
F         19.067      No. 1 Municipal Engineering Company of Tianjin City
G         12.033      No. 2 Municipal Company of Beijing City
H         24.125      No. 19 Engineering Bureau of MOR
I         35.546     Highway Engineering Bureau of Hebei Province, and Beijing City
Engineering Bureau
Total      216.050
There were 17 interconnecting roads which were implemented in three stages under local competitive
bidding (LCD).
For the E&M contract, contractor was Huaneng Basic Industrial & Investment Corporation.
Building works were composed of 10 contracts and were implemented in two stages under local bidding.
17.   Construction Period. Construction periods for different project components were as follows: 10
contracts of civil works for 36 months, E&M contract for 34 months, first stage building works for 18
months, second stage building works for 13 months. Major quantities of civil works included 2336.32
cu.m earth works, 6 super-large bridges, 13 large bridges, 53 medium-large bridges, 392 underpasses, 134
culverts, 16 interchanges, and 37 grade separations. Pavement was 70-75 cm thick.
Quality and status of operation of Shi-An Expressway were good.
18.   Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation (SMEC) of Australia mobilized 8 technical personnel
to carry out supervision for three years together with local staff. SMEC engineer worked closely with local
supervisors to enhance organization and management. Altogether SMEC provided 1885. man-months
services for construction supervision and training. The Bank expressed its satisfaction for this.
19.   Work by the Engineer. ICB was applied for construction supervision. The Engineer controlled
construction quality, construction progress and payment by following the conditions of contract,
supervision procedures and FIDIC conditions. To ensure construction quality, the Engineer applied a
thorough supervision system. In detail work done by the Engineer included; no material was permitted to
enter the site if not tested; construction was not permitted to start if test was not reviewed; stand-by
supervision was applied and next step was not allowed to start if previous work was not accepted; no
payment was to be made for works done but not accepted and signed by the Engineer. Strict supervision
procedures ensured construction quality.
- 15 -



20.   Experience. Abundant experience was achieved through construction of the Shi-An Expressway
Project which included: (a) establishment of complete quality assurance system (self-inspection of
contractors, stand-by supervision, sample inspection by supervisors, and government monitoring)
significantly ensured quality; (b) high standard and rigorous requirements could ensure high quality; (c)
establishment of competition and inspiration mechanism could enhance quality and expedite progress; and
(d) embrace of Bank's requirements and guidance could ensure smooth work.
H.    Work by Executing Agency
21.    Project Preparation. HPCD made full preparation for construction of Shi-An Expressway. In
1992 preparation of feasibility study report was finished and in February 1993 the report was approved.
From October 1992 to November 1993, joint design of the Expressway was carried by the Highway
Planning & Design Institute together with No. 2 Highway Survey & Design Institute and No. 1 Highway
Survey & Design Institute of MOC.
22.    Project Implementation. To implement Shi-An Expressway project, a construction leading group
was set up by Hebei Province. In March 1992 HPCD set up its construction leading group naming the
international financial institutions loan project office (IFILPO) to be responsible for project management
including coordination, land acquisition, resettlement, finance management and quality management.
23.   Experience. The Employer worked out relevant measures based on FIDIC conditions by
considering actual conditions for implementing and managing the Project. This helped achieve good effect
and rich experience. For instance, a Quality Supervision Group (QSG) was formed by HPCD to
strengthen quality control. Much more attention was given to the following: (a) improving design of
expansion joints by introducing advanced techniques; (b) increasing pavement standard; (c) increasing
quality standard of subgrade; (d) introducing rational techniques for back-fill of end bridges; and (e)
strengthening of planting.
1.    Major Factors Affecting the Proiet
24.   Based on the contract documents, construction of the Expressway was finished on schedule.
However, commencement of E&M contract was in June 1997 which was late. Progress of building works
were delayed due to design variations. These affected completion of the Project.
J.    Work by the Bank
25.   Project Preparation. The Bank started its work on the Project in March 1992. Bank missions
reviewed the feasibility study report prepared by I-IPCD and then mobilized missions to review and inspect
the technical, organizational and economic aspects of the Project. In July 1993 project appraisal was
conducted. In the appraisal report, detailed description was given to the project scale, economic benefit and
organization structure to implement the Project. The Bank provided great support and help to the EA.
26.   Project Implementation. During implementation of the project, the Bank mobilized missions to
supervise the project. they proposed many rational recommendations concemning quality, finance
management, resettlement and organizational structure which greatly helped project implementation.
- 16-



27.   Cooperation between EA and the Bank. Sound cooperation between the two sides has been
established. Relevant Bank staff know very well about the demand for developing infrastructure facilities
in China and has provided great help to Hebei Province. This is highly appreciated by Hebei Provincial
Government and HPCD. They sincerely hope to have further opportunity to get more help from the Bank.
28.   Experience. Main benefits from the Project include: (a) FIDIC conditions of contract have been
widely applied in highway construction in Hebei Province due to their effectiveness and advancement; (b) a
number of engineers and management staff widened their visions and put what they have learned into
practice in the following fields through training including highway project management, finance
management, highway maintenance, and traffic engineering. They have played an important role in project
implementation; (c) availability of fund, inspection of Bank missions and timely settlement of issues
occurred during project implementation ensured smooth work progress.
K.    Operation Schedule
29.   Future Plan and Recommendations. (a) To reduce cost by decreasing height of subgrade filling
during the design, elevation of many underpasses was constructed low and eventually resulted in collection
of water during rainy seasons; (b) management entity of Shi-An Expressway will be commercialized in
future to be responsible for operation, maintenance and management of the Expressway; (c) strengthening
of coordination with the traffic police to form a joint management system; (d) strengthening of coordination
with Henan on tolling to create a sound tolling order; and (e) monitoring indicators: indicators to be
monitored in the future include internal rate of return (IRR), net economic value (NEV), repayment period,
dynamic repayment period, net benefit value, traffic volume, growth rate of generated traffic, traffic
accident, average annual maintenance and overhaul cost, toll rate, toll revenue, etc.
Henan PCD Assessment Summary (full assessment in Project ICR Files)
ANYANG-XINXIANG EXPRESSWAY PROJECT ICR (SUMMARY)
ANYANG-XINXIANG EXPRESSWAY PROJECT ICR (SUMMARY)
A. Anyang-Xinxiang Expressway: Civil Works Completion Report Outline
I.    The Anyang - Xinxiang Expressway (AXE), part of the national trunk highway between Beijing and
Zhuhai, is a major highway project listed in the Ten-Year Development Plan and in the Eighth-Five Plan
Program for the National Economy and the Society. AXE was designed as a dual-direction four-lane
expressway with all accesses under control in flat and slightly rolling areas following the Highway Engineering
Standards (JTJOl-88) issued by Ministry of Communications (MOC). It is the second highway financed by the
World Bank in Henan and the works were procured following the ICB procedures. The construction of the
expressway followed the international practice by adopting the FIDIC contract conditions in the administration
and supervision of the works. The total cost estimate of AXE as approved by MOC in its document No.
JIAOGONGFA[1993] 700, was RMBY2,030,725,985.00.
2.    AXE starts from the Xilinzhi village, Anyang City, linking up with the Shijiazhuang - Anyang
Expressway constructed by Hebei Province, and ends at Guanti, Xinxiang City, connecting with the Class A
highway between Xinxiang and Zhengzhou at the south abutment of the Xinchang interchange. The total
distance of AXE is 121.704 km and from north to south, AXE passes through seven counties and cities under
the jurisdiction of Anyang, Hebei and Xinxiang cities, namely Anyang, Tangyin, Junxiang, Qixiang, Weihui,
- 17 -



Yanjin and Xinxiang. The civil works of AXE were packaged into five contracts as per political administration
and the quantity of work. The total price of contracts of AXE was RMBY1067.80 million and the works were
actually commenced from September 14, 1994 and completed by November 28, 1997. The successful bidders
were, from Contract No. 1 through No. 5, No. 2 Engineering Bureau of MOC, No. 14 Engineering Bureau of
MOR, No. 11 Engineering Bureau of MOR, Henan Transport and Highway Engineering Bureau, and No. 3
Engineering Bureau of MOR.
3.    The Project's major technical standards are as follows: (i) Designed driving speed: 120 km/h; and (ii)
Width of subgrade: 26 m, including: a median of 3 m in width, driving lanes of 2 x 2 x 3.75 m in width, left
curb belt of 2 x 0.75 m in width, hardened shoulders of 2 x 2.5 m in width (plus right curb belt of 2 x 0.75m in
width), earthen shoulders of 2 x 0.75 m in width.
B. Buildings and facilities on the AXE
4.    The building construction project is an important part, which are scattered from the north to the south
in six cities/counties, namely Anyang City, Tangyin County, Xunxian County, Qixian County, Weihui City
and Xinxiang City respectively under the jurisdiction of Anyang City, Hebei City and Xinxiang City of Henan
Province. The express way was divided into 11 contract sections for all buildings and facilities.
C. Organization of Maintenance on the AXE
5.    In Henan Provincial Expressway Construction and Operation Administration, a maintenance division
was set up, responsible for maintenance management of expressways in the province, including preparation of
yearly maintenance programs, maintenance specifications and maintenance procedures; programming,
supervision and testing and acceptance of heavy maintenance works and some special maintenance works of
the expressways across the province; and inspection and evaluation on the maintenance activities performed by
the branch offices. The expressway section between Anyang and Xinxiang is under the management and
maintenance of Anyang, Xinxiang and Hebei Branch Offices -At each of such branch offices, there is a
maintenance division and a maintenance depot, looking at expressway repairing and maintenance. Henan
Expressway Maintenance Center, which is still under construction, is located at Xuedian, Zhengzhou and will
be equipped with advanced machines and equipment such as MARINI100 asphalt mixing plant, ABG-422
pavers, WIRTGEN 200DC milling machines, INGERSOLAND and HAMM road rollers. The center is
expected to be capable of implementing independently expressway specialized maintenance operations and
providing asphalt mixed materials for repairing and asphalt for joint filling undertaken by nearby branch
offices.
6.      The maintenance staff is 40. On average, the staging is 3 km/person. Taking various measures
actively to achieve good maintenance management: (i) Giving a full play to the maintenance equipment
available; (ii) Establishment of an expressway maintenance quality control system; (iii) Establishment of the
Central Lab; (iv) Implementation of the Supervision System for Special Works and Heavy maintenance; (v)
Safety (vi) Emphasis on routine maintenance and strengthening inspection; (vii) Information Management for
In-door Management; (viii) Staff training; (ix) Systems and Regulations; and (x) Study and Research.
7.    Experience and Lessons
a)    It was found, in the implementation of pavement special works, that differential strength exists
between the newly-laid concrete base and the base of the existing pavement and that the
treatment currently made to flexible pavement leading to difficult bonding between rigid layer
and flexible layer in the base of the pavement, which becomes the weak point of frequent
- 18 -



distresses. It is therefore necessary to apply new design, new materials, new techniques and
new workmanship for pavement special works.
b)     It is worthy further research for solutions for treatment to pavement cracking and joints,
especially the cracking in compound type pavement and joints as well as the bonding between
rigid and flexible layers left after pavement special works.
c)    It is worthy attention to how to further give full plays to the maintenance equipment available,
how to raise to the maximum degree the application rate of the machines and equipment and to
open extemal market by using the heavy-duty equipment in order to create economic benefits.
d)    Most of the distresses occurred in the expressway pavements, subgrades, bridges and culverts
in Henan have direct or indirect connection with moisture, and therefore, more attention to
expressway drainage systems should be given by the research and design departments.
e)    In view that the Highway Maintenance Specifications were prepared for ordinary roads and
are not quite suit to the maintenance of expressways, it is recommended that an expressway
maintenance specifications be prepared and publicized.
D. Anyang-Xinxiang Expressway Traffic Engineering Special Report
8.    During the stay of the delegation in Zhengzhou from 10 October 1999 to 20 October, HPCD
submitted a report to WB-Schedule for Construction and Procurement of Anyang-Xinxiang Traffic
Engineering. After a second consultation between HPCD and the delegation of WB, they reached an
agreement, i.e. WB will not provide loan for the project and HPCD collecting domestic fund US$13,000,000
which is equivalent to RMB107, 900,000 yuan (exchange rate: lUS$=RMB8.3 for the completion of the
project. At the same time, the delegation of WB stressed in Inspecting Delegation Memorandum (from October
10 to October 20,1999) of National Trunk Highway (Henan Section) LN3748 that although WB did not offer
loan to the project, yet it was still part of the whole Anyang-Xinxiang Expressway. The project must ensure a
safe and efficient operation of the Expressway and satisfy the WB.
9.    The project will be implemented referring to the schedule of procurement execution confirmed by
BPCD and WB and using Intemational Open Competitive Bidding. We will choose eligible contractor who has
good reputation, achievements, adequate experience and capacity of performance to implement the works.
Henan Provincial Expressway Development Company with Limited Liability will fully undertake the
responsibility to form a project management department who has the status of a legal entity to perform the
managing obligation, and check the alteration works of the project and calculation and measurement payment.
At the same time, through bidding on national construction procedure we choose excellent Electromechanical
Supervision Company with first-class quality certificate to undertake the responsibility for investment control,
quality control and progress control, to adequately ensure the execution quality and progress of the project and
contract management.
E. Resettlement Completion Report Summary
10.   A total amount of 10876 mu (725.07 hectare) land has been acquired for the National Highway
Project (Anyang-Xinxiang Section), and 8 counties/cities, 25 townships and 87 villages have been affected. It
resettles 58 households (304 people) and 2 enterprises, and the total project resettlement investment amounts to
125.38 million yuan. Physical index investigation was conducted during the period from December 1992 to
April 1993, and verification took place from August 1993 to March 1994. The resettlement action plan was
- 19 -



formulated in September 1993. Compensation started to be dispersed after physical index verification, and it
had been fully dispersed by April 1995. Relocation started in May 1994, and cleanup work completed on
August 30, 1995. House construction and relocation of resettlers took place during the period from May 1994
to March 1996, while production re-establishment was carried out from the end of 1994 to 1997. The
administration of resettlement implementation of this Project is organized by the High-Grade Highway
Construction Headquarters of Henan Provincial Bureau of Communication, whose name has been changed to
Henan Provincial Expressway Development Co., Ltd., while its branch offices at Anyang, Hebei and Xinxiang
take charge of implementation.
F. Environmental Protection Completion Report Summary
11.   The project implementation agency (Henan Provincial High-Grade Highway Construction Authority)
earnestly implemented the environmental impact assessment system and substantially ensured the
implementation of the relevant environmental mitigation measures according to the EIA approved by the
National Environmental Protection Administration, realizing the simultaneous designing, implementation and
turning to operation for the expressway and the environmental facilities as well. In April 2000, the National
Environmental Protection Administration held the environmental facilities completion acceptance meeting for
the project and concluded that the works basically satisfy the requirements for acceptance. It was agreed that
the environmental facilities are qualified for acceptance though request for correction to some existing
problems was made.
G. Financial Management and Disbursements under China National Highway Project
12.   Financial Management
One level calculation system was applicable to financial management, financial division in the Authority was
in charge of calculating cost and expenditure, the cost and expenditures by the corresponding sub-authorities
were internally packed by themselves, and these financial sheets were absent from the current summaries, and
also they function the additional information to the whole expenses of the project. Besides for 824.68 million
RMB yuan financed by the Bank (equivalent to 99.61 million USD), 573 million RMB yuan aided by MOC
and 1031.07 million RMB yuan collected within the province had been spent on AXE implementation. Up to
now, 2.1 billion RMB yuan had been completed for AXE implementation, which include 166.62 million RMB
yuan for house engineering, 124.08 RMB yuan for land fee, 1735.07 million RMB yuan for highway
construction and 74.23 million RMB yuan for equipment and plant procurement, however, completion
certificate approval is not addressed for AXE. And in addition, to comply with the requirement from the upper
level, assets of AXE, appraised and confirmed by legal procedure, and valued by the date of April 30, 2000,
has been incorporated into the newly reorganized fHenan Expressway Development Co., Ltd., and later, the
asset management and calculation of the expressway will abide by the codes specified in Financial
Management Methods for Expressway Company and Accounting Regulations for Highway Operation
Enterprises released by the Ministry of Finance (hereinafter called "MOF").
13.   In the whole period of the project implementation, its financial management and accounting calculation
had successfully passed the audit procedure by qualified audit department in every fiscal year, such
management and calculation comply with the financial and accounting specifications from both Chinese side
and the Bank.
- 20 -



14.    Accounting Withdrawal and its Submittal
Accounting withdrawal and its submittal proceeded in a strictly manner as specified in the loan agreement for
the requested items and their proportion, up to date, 99.61 million USD had been withdrawn, of this figure,
92.13 million USD flown toward civil engineering, 5.58 million USD toward commodities and the rest 1.9
million USD toward consulting service and training center. The specifically accounting number was issued in
Henan Provincial Financial Department (hereinafter called "HPFD"), expenditure numbers were opened in
HPCD and the Authority, respectively. In the later stage, due to the policy variation, the nurnber in the
Authority could not undertake payment obligation, payment of foreign currency was directly finished by the
number of HPCD.
15.    Operation Income and Expenditure Balance
During its construction, the Authority regarded AXE as one integrity for its financial management and
calculation, after it was completed and entered a trial passing period by the end of 1997, the whole AXE
stepped into its operation management phase, and its roadway asset was overall transferred to the
then-incorporated Expressway Construction Management Bureau of HPCD, (hereinafter called "the Bureau"),
and three sub-bureaus were established along the line in Anyang, Hebei and Xinxiang cities for their divided
sections' management of the expressway, respectively, dated by August 31, 2000, 402.08 million RMB yuan
had been recouped from the entire alignment, more details are like this, 119.88 million RMB yuan in 1998,
164.99 million RMB yuan in 1999 and 117.21 million RMB yuan by the end of August of the current fiscal
year. The expenditures for operation management mainly consist of operation taxes and their addition,
management fees (including staff wages, highway admninistration cost, levy administration fee, civilization
construction expense), maintenance cost on expressway and its depreciation (calculation & withdrawal for this
item exclusive before restructuring), expense for equipment purchase (specifically scheduled cost for this item
prior to restructuring) and financial expenses.
H. Anyang-Xinxiang Expressway Toil Management Report
16.   The AADT of Anxin freeway in 1999 is 9226 Vehicles/day, the peak hourly traffic volurne V) of
Anxin freeway in one direction is 672 vehicles/hour, about 874 PCU/hour. The AADT in 1999 is 9226
vehicle/day, is 42.9% more than the AADT in 1998 which is 6456 vehicle/day. It says that the Anxin Freeway
has very higher attraction to the traffic volume. The toll income of Anxin Freeway in 1999 is 164,864
thousand RMBY; it is 48% more than the income in 1998 that is 114,020 thousand RMBY.
I. Traffic Facilitation Study Completion Report
17.   The National Eighth Five-Year Plan provided for investment in the transport sector to remove
bottlenecks which constrain development. In support of this plan the World Bank provided a loan to the
Government of the Peoples' Republic of China to build a new expressway between Shijiazhuang and Xinxiang.
In order to make the best use of the new expressway, the Henan Provincial Communications Department and
the Hebei Provincial Communications Department made an agreement with the World Bank to carry out the
Henan-Hebei Traffic Facilitation Study. It was designed to identify all constraints that may impede the free
flow of vehicles, freight and passengers that will use the new expressway between Shijiazhuang and Xinxiang.
The study was to analyze their relative importance, assess their relative magnitudes and impact and
recommend measures to remove or alleviate the most damaging constraints.
- 21 -



J. Staff Training Implementation Assessment Report
18.   Generally the training program under Henan Highway Project (Henan section) progressed well with
strong support and assistance from the World Bank and MOC. An investigation was conducted once by
issuing and collecting questionnaires about the effect of the training courses and the finding show that the
training courses brought in good benefits. Through training, some advanced technologies and management
skills were absorbed and introduced from developed countries, substantially raising the career qualification and
technical skills of our engineers and managerial staff and effectively facilitating the development of the
highway sector in the province.
K. Highway Capacity Study Results
19.   The study was implemented in a three-year period, and the results achieved have been as follows:
a)    Evaluated the method of HCS in China;
b)    Established the data bases of road and traffic conditions of surveyed sites;
c)    Determined the relationships between traffic flow parameters to road and traffic conditions of
Hebei and Henan Provinces;
d)    Determined PCE of main vehicle types in various terrain and various flow levels;
e)    Determined 5 and 15 minutes peak hour factor and K factor which reflect the relationship of
Max. Hour flow to AADT for each road class;
f)    In accordance with road and traffic conditions of Hebei and Henan, developed simulation
model program for Chinese two-lane rural roads base VTI model;
g)    Determined analysis methods for highway capacity and operation analysis in determined road
and traffic conditions;
h)    Developed The Highway Capacity Guideline for highway plan and feasibility study for Hebei
and Henan.
- 22 -



L. Overall Assessment
20.   Through World Bank-financed highway project the FIDIC clause of the conditions of contract have
been widely adopted in Henan Province for highway construction works since this system is very advantageous
and effective; Through the training of personnel, a batch of professionals were trained on highway maintenance
and traffic engineering. These people were well trained, and broadened and made full use of their knowledge
during project implementation and they played important roles in their work. During the project preparation
and implementation, the Bank staff provided a lot of assistance to the Implementation Agency. Henan
Provincial Government and Henan Provincial Transport Department would like to express heartfelt thanks to
the World Bank for its cooperation and support, and hope to have further opportunity to get the Bank's
assistance and the chance for even better cooperation.
(b) Cofinanciers:
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector).
10. Additional Information
- 23 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome Indicators:
Indicator                 SAR (or as retroffited)  Actual/Latest Estimate
1. Average daily traffic on existing  (in Medium Truck Equivalent/Day)  (Year 1999)
Highway/new Expressway:
- in Hebei                                8094/12856                7886/8370
- in Henan                                5384/14982                6906/9567
- in SAXE Corridor                        6739/13419                7396/8968
2. Average speed on existing                 (in km/h)
Highway/new Expressway:
- inHebei                                   43/80                     45/85
- inHenan                                   51/89                     54/74
- in SAXE Corridor                          46/83                     49/79
3. Gross Output Value of Agriculture      (in RMB Billion)
and Industry in affected counties:
- in Hebei                                   18.6                     23.1
- in Henan                                   21.7                     23.6
- in SAXE Corridor                           40.3                     46.7
Output Indicators:
Indicator                 SAR (or as retroffited)  Actual/Latest Estimate
1. Construction of Expressway:
- SAE                                       216 km                   216 km
- AXE                                       124 km               124 km (+ 43 krn
upgrading works on XZH)
2. Interconnecting Roads Improvement
Program:                                   11 roads/I100 km         17 roads/180 km
- in Hebei                               3 roads/60 km            2 roads/47 krn
- in Henan
3. Coordination Meetings                 Planned 2 tirnes/year      Actually met 3.5
times/year
4. Completion of Traffic Facilitation
Study/Highway Capacity Study                 1996/1998                1996/1999
5. Training (person-months):
- in Hebei                                  265.0                     248.7
- in Henan                                  192.4                     187.9
- 24 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Annex 2a. Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Hebei Portion              Appraisal Estimate    Actual/Latest    Percentage of
Estimate         Appraisal
Shijiazhuang-Anyang Expressway                 431.7             406.5              94%
E&M works on SAE                                40.2              22.0              55%
Interconnecting Roads Improvement               35.9              76.3             213%
Program (IRIP) in Hebei
Subtotal                                     507.8              504.8             99%
Equipment                                       17.2               15.6             91%
Institutional Strengthening and Training        14.7               14.9            102%
Land Acquisition and Resettlement              31.20              46.3             148%
Total                                       570.90              581.7            102%
Henan Portion              Appraisal Estimate    Actual/Latest    Percentage of
Estimate         Appraisal
Anyang-Xinxiang Expressway                     259.6             236.4              91%
E&M works on AXE                                14.4               13.0             90%
Interconnecting Roads Improvement               15.1                5.9             39%
Program (IRIP) in Henan
Subtotal                                     289.1              255.3             88%
Equipment                                       17.1               12.8             75%
Institutional Strengthening and Training         8.0                3.4             43%
Land Acquisition and Resettlement                9.6               20.4            213%
Total                                        323.8              292.0             90%
Consolidated Costs           Appraisal Estimate    Actual/Latest    Percentage of
Estimate         Appraisal
Shijiazhuang-Anyang-Xinxiang Expressway        691.3             643.0              93%
E&M works on SAXE                               54.6               35.0             64%
IRIP                                            51.0               82.0            161%
Subtotal                                     796.9              760.2             95%
Equipment                                       34.3               28.4             83%
Institutional Strengthening/Training (IST)      22.7               18.3             81%
Land Acquisition and Resettlement (LAR)         40.8               66.7            164%
Total                                        894.7              873.7             98%
- 25 -



Annex 2b. Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (in US$ million equivalent)
Hebei                  Appraisal Estimate                           Actual/Latest Estimate
Category    ICB      NCB    Other    NBF         Total     ICB       NCB    Other    NBF    Total
Works         448.0     56.4       3.4              507.8    422.1      76.3       6.5             504.9
Goods           9.0                5.5      2.7      17.2      10.1               5.5               15.6
Services                          14.7               14.7                        14.9               14.9
Misc.                                      31.2      31.2                                  46.3     46.3
Total       457.0      56.4     23.6     33.9     570.9     432.2      76.3     26.9     46.3    581.7
Henan                  Appraisal Estimate                           Actual/Latest Estimate
Category    ICB      NCB    Other    NBF         Total     ICB       NCB     Other    NBF    Total
Works         265.9     21.1       2.1              289.1     223.2     25.9       6.3             255.4
Goods           8.6                5.5      3.0      17.1      10.1               2.7               12.8
Services                           8.0                8.0                          3.4               3.4
Misc.                                       9.6       9.6                                  20.4     20.4
Total       274.5      21.1     15.6     12.6    323.8      233.3      25.9     12.4     20.4    292.0
Consolidated              Appraisal Estimate                           Actual/Latest Estimate
Category    ICB      NCB    Other    NBF         Total     ICB       NCB      Other    NBF    Total
Works         713.9     77.5       5.5 |            796.9     645.3    102.2      12.8 |           760.3
Goods          17.6  _            11.0      5.7      34.3      20.2  _             8.2 1   _        28.4
Services             _            22.7   _           22.7            _            18.3              18.3
Misc.                        l _           40.8_ _   40.8           l          l           66.7     66.7
Total       731.5      77.5     39.2     46.5     894.7     665.5    102.2      39.3     66.7 -  873.7
Notes:
1. Other includes international and national shopping, and consulting services.
2. NBF includes reserved procurement and land acquisition and resettlement.
- 26 -



Annex 2c. Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
A raisal Estimate   Actual/Latest Estimate   Percentage of Appraisal
Hebei     Bank   Govt.    CoF.    Bank   Govt.   CoF.   Bank   Govt.  CoF.
I       ~~%      %
SAE           178.7   182.1    70.9    181.4  135.1       90.0   102%    74%   127%
E&M works    27.5    12.7                 16.8    5.2              61%    41%
on SAE
IRIP            11.5    24.4             25.0   51.3              217%   210%
Equipment       14.5     2.7              13.1    2.5              90%    93%
IST             7.8      6.9               3.7   11.2              47%   163%
LAR                     31.2                     46.3                     148%
Total        240.0   260.0    70.9   240.0  251.6        90.0   100%    97%   127%
Appraisal Estimate      Actual/Latest Estimate   Percenta e of Apraisal
Henan      Bank   Govt.    CoF.    Bank   Govt.   CoF.   Bank   Govt.  CoF.
I                                 ~~~%    %
AXE            108.4   109.8    41.4    104.0   67.4      65.0    96%    61%   157%
E&M works       9.6      4.8                     13.0                     271%
on AXE
IRIP            4.9    10.2                2.3    3.6              47%    35%
Equipment       14.1     3.0              10.0    2.8              71%    93%
IST             3.0      5.0               1.9    1.5              65%    29%
LAR                      9.6                     20.4                     213%
Total        140.0   142.4    41.4    118.2  108.7       65.0    84%    76%   157%
Consolidated     An raisal Estimate      Actual[Latest Estimate   Percentage of Anpraisal
Financing    Bank   Govt.    CoF.    Bank   Govt.   CoF.   Bank   Govt.  CoF.
I                          ~~      ~~% % I
SAXE          287.1   291.9   112.3   285.4  202.5    155.0    99%    69%   138%
E&Mworks    37.1    17.5                  16.8   18.2              45%   104%
on SAXE
IRIP            16.4    34.6             27.3   54.9              166%   159%
Equipment      28.6      5.7             23.1    5.3               81%    93%
IST             10.8    11.9               5.6   12.7              52%   107% |
LAR                     40.8                     66.7                     163%
Total        380.0   402.4   112.3    358.2  360.3    155.0    94%    90%   138%
Note: "Govt." refers to the Provincial Government while "CoF." refers to the Central Government.
- 27 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
SUMMARY OF ECONOMIC RE-EVALUATION
1.    The economic re-evaluation of the project covers the following two components:
(a)    construction of the 216.5 km Shijiazhuang- Anyang Expressway (SAE) in Hebei province
and the 124.4 km Anyang - Xinxiang Expressway (AXE) in Henan province, and
(b)    an Interconnecting Roads Improvement Program (IRIP) for the improvement of 19
provincial highways in Hebei and Henan, and the Upgrading of the Xinxiang-Zhengzhou
Highway (XZU).
2.    The economic analysis is based on the re-evaluation of data on traffic, operational performance,
costs and benefits of project components. The methodology used was similar to that employed by the SAR
and is summarized as follows:
(a)    capital investment and maintenance costs were revised to reflect December 2000 prices
and are included in the cost stream;
(b)   the benefits stream, also reflected in December 2000 prices, were included, and consist of
savings in vehicle operating costs, reduced traffic congestion on existing routes, and
enhanced road safety; and
(c)    a project life of 20 years has been assumed and the capital investment period for all
components was from 1994 to 2000, depending on the construction phases.
3.     During project imnplementation, some project components under IRIP have been modified. Hebei
expanded its IRIP from 11 roads to 17 roads, while Henan dropped one of its three IRIP roads. In
addition, Henan included the Upgrading of the Xinxiang- Zhengzhou Highway as an extension of the new
expressway. These new components were included in the economic analysis conducted for the ICR.
4.     The re-evaluation report is comprised of four parts. Part I is the economic evaluation of SAE and
AXE; Part II is the economic evaluations of the 20 roads under the IRIP; Part III is the overall economic
evaluation of the project, including probabilistic risk analysis; and Part IV is the financial evaluation of the
project. This document is available in the Project ICR File (see Annex 7).
5.     This annex provides summary tables on the economic re-evaluation of SAXE, the Interconnecting
(IRIP) and Upgrading (XZU) Roads Programs, and the project as a whole.
- 28 -



A. SAE and AXE Expressways
Economic Cost (Y million). EIRR (in %) and NPV (12%. Y million)-
The SAR                               The ICR
SAE          AXE          Total         SAE         AXE        Total
Cost      3,524/_1      1,984/_1      5,508         4,734       2,650      7,384
EIRR        22-8          23.1         22.9          13.3       15.8        14.1
NPV       3,785.2/ 1    2,272.7 / 1   6,057.9       511.6       766.0      1,277.6
/_1: Updated to 2000 prices by multiplyinz with a factor of 1. 126.
SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS
EIRR (in %)   NPV(12%. Y million)
VOC savings reduced by 15%                   12.5                290.0
Passenger time savings reduced to zero       13.5                 870.1
Congestion savings reduced to zero           13.8               1,083.5
Total benefits reducedby 15%                 12.5                 286.6
B. Interconnecting and Upgrading Roads Programs
TRIP and XZU Cost Comparison (Yuan Million)
Estimate (Yuan million)         Actual (Yuan million)
December 1994 prices   Dec. 2000    Financial   Dec. 2000      (B)/(A)
Economic         Economic (A)  (Current)   Economic (B)  (in %)
Total            373.5         420.4 / a      964.1       1.019.4      +142.5
/_a: Updated to 2000 constant prices by multiplying with a factor of 1.126
EIRR AND NPV OF THE IRIP and XZU
EIRR (in %)         NPV (12%, Yuan million)
The SAR    The ICR      The SAR / a    The ICR
Hebei               40.2        14.7          987.6        159.9
Henan               36.3        45.6          394.7        660.1
Total          39.9        22.3        1.382.3        820.1
/_a: UDdated to 2000 prices by multiplying with a factor of 1.126.
C. THE OVERALL ECONOMIC EVALUATION OF THE PROJECT
EIRR (in %) and NPV (12%. Y million) Surnmary
The SAR                      The ICR
EIRR          NPV             EIRR       NPV
The expressway         22.9         6,057.9           14.1     1,277.6
IRIP and XZU           39.2          1,382.3         22.3        820.1
Total oroiect        24.0         7.440.2          15.1      2.097.6
- 29 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)     Implementation      Development
Month/Year    Count         Specialty                         Progress           Objective
Identification/Preparation
March 1992                      3   EC/ES, HE
November 1992                   3   2 HE, EC
Appraisal/Negotiation
April 1993                     3    EC,HE,ES
(Pre-appraisal)
July 1993                       6   EC, 2 HE, TS, ES, RS
November 1993                   5    3 HE, ES, RS
Post-appraisal
Supervision
April 1994                      6   2 HE, 2 RS, 2 FMS                     HS                 HS
October 1994                    2   2 HE                                  HS                 HS
November 1995                   4   2HE,ES, RS                             S                 HS
June 1996                       3   3HE                                    S                  S
November 1996                   2   2 HE                                   S                  S
April 1996                      2   2HE                                    S                  S
August 1997                     5  2 HE, OA, RS, ES                        S                  S
July 1998                       6   3 HE, OA, RS, ES                       S                  S
March 1999                      2   HE,RS                                  S                  S
October 1999                    5  HE, 2 FMS, ES, RS                       S                  S
January 2000                    3   HE, RS, FMS                            S                  S
ICR
June 2000                       3    HE, RS, ES                            S                  S
EC=Economist; TS=Transport Specialist; HE=Highway Engineer; ES=Environmental Specialist; OA=Operational Analyst;
RS=Resettlement Specialist; TE/P-Transport Engineer/Procurement; T/IS=Training/Institutional Strengthening;
D/FS=DisbursementlFinancial Specialist; FMS=Financial Management Specialist
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                      Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks                US$ (,000)
Identification/Preparation                 70.6                         204.9
Appraisal/Negotiation                      67.1                         220.7
Supervision                               100.3                         280.4
ICR                                        10.0                          35.0
Total                                     248.0                         741.0
- 30 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
Z Macro policies                        O H  OSU*M  O N  O NA
Z Sector Policies                       O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
M Physical                              OH  OSUOM  O N  O NA
Z Financial                             O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
Z Institutional Development             O H  0 SU O M  O N  0 NA
M Environmental                         O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
Social
3 Poverty Reduction               O H  OSU*M  O N  O NA
DGender                           O H OSUOM O N * NA
II Other (Please specify)         OH  OSUOM  ON  O NA
J Private sector development            0 H  O SU *M  0 N  0 NA
z Public sector management              0 H  0 SU O M  0 N  0 NA
D Other (Please specify)                OH  OSUOM  O N  O NA
-31 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                Rating
f Lending                                           OHS*S  OU  OHU
 Supervision                                       OHS OS  OU  OHU
Z Overall                                            OHS OS O U O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
? Preparation                                        OHS OS  O U  Q HU
Z Government implementation performance              O HS * S  0 U  0 HU
Z Implementation agencyperformance                   OHS OS  0  U  O HU
F Overall                                            OHS *S  O  U  O HU
- 32 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
World Bank, Staff Appraisal Report, China: National Highway Project, March 22, 1994.
World Bank, China: Highway Development and Management issues, Options and Strategies, October 18,
1994.
World Bank, National Highway Project Economic and Financial Reevaluation, October 2000.
Hebei PCD, Completion Reports on: (1) Civil Works; (2) E&M Works; (3) Land Acquisition and
Resettlement; and (4) Environment, (4 Volumes), October 2000.
Hebei PCD, Statement of Land Compensation Standards, National Highway Project (Hebei Section),
October 2000.
Henan PCD, Hebei PCD, China National Highway Project: Joint Project Performance Indicators
Monitoring Report, May 2000.
Henan PCD, Project Data for National Highway Project ICR (2 volumes), October 2000.
Yellow River Resettlement Monitoring and Evaluation Co. Ltd. Anyang-Xinxiang Expressway Project,
Henan Province, Resettlement Completion Report, September 2000.
Henan Provincial Communications Departmnent Expressway Construction Administration Bureau,
Anyang-Xinxiang Expressway Environmental Completion Report, August 2000.
Henan PCD, Anyang-Xinxiang Expressway Traffic Engineering Status Report, August 2000.
Louis Berger International, Inc. Anyang-Xinxiang Expressway Construction Completion Report On
Provision of Consulting Services for supervision of civil Works Contracts, April 1999.
- 33 -






1I A'                                   116M
The boundaries, colors,                                                                                            NN
denominations and  any i  
other information shown
on this map do not
mply.nn  th.e  part of
The World  Bank  Group.
any ju.dgment on the legal
status of any territory,
or any  endorsement               NI  MtNGO                                                                                              5
or a-ceptance of such
- 42'                                                                                            42
. Y ) \  t, 000, 6   P -       .      "              r      o              S     h      eS                 II
Sh-ngyi                C1f -                                                  Ch-gd.  P-.gq..n 
..                  <nikChicen .z  g
T E.    N i                                                                                      25    5 -g  To P0An
-  114'            111'BEIJNG
To~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- 70yor9 _- i   ,
X d; t hDingYmg > *) ~~~~~~~~~~~~TIANJ>..  "-i -
Pi                      n~h        ;             tRo/       x     7      Haxn -o''  -:,.'   
iM ~~ i y hQ\~juncheng ~ig e Z\r. CHINk--j
.....         oXon0XnXin                                             NATIONAL HIGHWAY, PROJECT:  
,(  Lnzhng  bsiin,C jhe/    w  <DehouHEBEI TRANSPOKT SYSTEM                                            : 
Neiqiu   ' Longyot Nang   z   t G                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~PROJECT OA
< h Jmon ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NATIONAL ROAS, ,_.~ 
-,                              Pi5Al92:)Of\lG                         =    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RURAIL kOADS
.  ..... >~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CNt"ALi, ;)hOR POmER
-S6 ..... ' fZ jfz {< _ 3 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PREFECTURE BOUNDARIES 3t
/    ..... / ,j                                =sSfPP_e ~~~~~~~~~PROVNCE BOUNDARIES
T. enzhou,                                                                                   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
m   Hf   E  N   A   N           -;4-      f'251   5C   751  100
_    114                                       16                                                        KIOLMFERES                           Li






IBRD 24853
H  E B E I                               
T. Sh1oii.h-g  VI
-3'                                         AN                                S~                                 .h-Ti!CHINA36
NATIONAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
HENAN HIGHWAY TRANSPORT SYSTEM
PROJECT ROAD
-  NATIONAL ROADS             RIVERS
-       PROVINCRDS               RIVER PORTS
w-                                                                                  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~___  RURAL ROADS  PROVINCE
RAILROADS          ~~BOUNDARIES
/ AIRPORTS                    INTERNATIONAL
h.t.                                                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BOUNDARIES
T. X . !
xi~~~                           51-5O                     T.ion5Zheh-e
JioIIon    S   HAANX; Yongchog                                                                        1             \ J IA  N  G  S U
L       .           X            A            N            H             U            I            1     ,            f     f            E     X      5M9xion                           -
-:'J   '''''--l' 4'''':                 - ; t                                                                                   ,,'.  X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'o,.
.qi~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
Yl-,                                  9                                                                                  A  N  H  U I                                   FEDA  I;=,
132-                                                                                               X          G |floOvhnn                                      50   75    o            32t                              H
KILOMETERS                                                    7
H UB  El I                                                                                        Rhn 
/~~~~~  ,h.,,,.o(,nc. ,I,d.,,,d.,oh.;-,-l .1Th. W,dd  VUNNAN
K  ~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                                ~~~~~~~~~ -                   SEPTEMBER1993~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ETMBR19






CHINA                                           '
NATIONAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
BEIJING-SHENZHEN HIGHWAY                                   !           +                                         I '8
SHIJIAZHUANG  - XINXIANG  SECTION                                             -                              Xjan                  Shen Xion
o'Shi;iizhu nq;  \t,<_
PROJECT AS COMPLETEDt
SHIJIHUANG - XINXIANG EXPRESSWAY          /Sh0l*,
INTERCONNECTINGROADSPPROGRAM             SHIJIAZHUANG                          zho-
ADDITIONAL LINKING ROADS                                  Yuanshi                 n
INTERCHANGES                                                                          - .
-                                                                              / ADDITIONAL INTERCHANGES  -        Hengshoi
UPGRADING WORKS                                       ong                         -               (           -
!    Zanhuango _  _    <___fl/ingjin    >
j,/  -G; -f - -    - ,  
NATIONAL ROADS                          _cX
/                      SC~~~~~~~Biqxiang                mihe
-------- PROVINCE ROADS                        /                  -,                     ---   -7                      /
RAILROADS                            / -                 LI--    / / 64'               '                           _ '
AIRPORTS
+ ARPORTS   /  AXING TAI G                                                 NAngoRf
BN RIDGLS                                                                 4 '.       U
==-  RIVERS                              j          /            Nei
- ---  PREFECTURE BOUNDARIES                     ,         H     E      B                i-C           .
-- - - -- PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                                     E     B     E    1          \
- - --- -- INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES  .
{INSET )                 |       -                  -      -  U    _  Ren   Xian  )            G uaogzc  9         inghe
AS   SOs 000555                   ~~~~Xing Ta         N        aIf e
I                           S\S< bhahn   r           !JizR'\ Fl      \                0'-,,
C,4              Woon  ;       'A  E             /                               /  __ _   QiL Xian \
t \2 //              -S~^>!        1  H A DA N        /
2                   .    ~~~~~~ 0x~~~~~~09 ~~Guanto
5.505065756-7/ LE.                                     HNDA         A                "'       Gangping 
MApS..-g SsAsIThsoJdRo, *.5    I \    ... tW k                                                                             SHANDCONG
nd >, .hk A,S 55065505 n                       A.              C) Xn-- -  a                        /Wei Xion
1,ssmssdono& sply. o ths 5551oI         'NKj-,                    -. f       _     _      _        
ISWAA/oldB2kGO  SSS cyA/S Iugn             jB(\--                    t           Linchong                              \-
onhl .1't1ofnfrloyo /k '. `F,                                                       I              ___            1
S  H  A   N  X  i P                   X d.                     i.ngyi3Xt/--                      Neihuang/-~-~~~-._        /
Anyang                            I'-
56            ,.                                            ~nXINXIAiNG                                         .            j
Vfngyin    _  C.-      angyuA  6             FEDERATION
SH            N     I>T<                     /       H    b      /       U                                     Q  XingFengg to Soaa 
u,                                                                            M 0  G N G O L 
/                                          DVon uDoon                                      7       Jiod         Al
O                             Z1 He E13  ziNGAo ZEn'S H@ 0e U`                                                                                      w
2~~~~ 



