Page  1
February 28, 2000
Governor Li Kegiang
People’s Government of Henan Province
No. 10 Wei-er road
Zhengzhou 450003
Henan Province
People’s Republic of China
Dear  Governor Li:
RE:
National Highway Project (LN 3748-CHA)
Amendment to Henan Project Agreement
1.
I refer to (i) the Loan Agreement between People’s Republic of China (the 
Borrower) and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) 
dated July 20, 1994 for the above-mentioned Project, as amended by a Letter of 
Amendment dated August 18, 1997 (together the Loan Agreement), and (ii) the Project 
Agreement between the Bank and Henan Province (Henan) dated July 20, 1994, for the 
Henan Part of the Project (the Henan Project Agreement).  I also refer to the letter 
dated January 31, 2000 from Mr. Wu Gang, Deputy Director-General, International 
Department, Ministry of Finance, on behalf of the Borrower, requesting a re-allocation 
of the proceeds of the Loan to allow the upgrading of the Xinxiang- Zhengzhou Highway 
to be included in the Henan Part of the Project. 
2.
I am pleased to inform you that the Bank hereby concurs with the Borrower’s  
proposal to modify the Project and re-allocate the proceeds of the Loan.  To give 
effect to such proposal, the Bank hereby agrees to amend the Project Agreement in 
accordance with the following paragraphs.
3.
Section 1.01 of the Henan Project Agreement is amended as follows: “Section 
1.01. […]
(a)
“Environmental Action Plan” means collecctively (i) the Anyang-Xinxiang 
Expressway Environmental Protection Measures, Management and Monitoring Action Plan, 
dated September 1993, and (ii) the Environmental Action Plan for the Upgrading Works 
Between Xinxiang and Zhengzhou, dated November 1998, both prepared by Henan 
Environmental Protection Research Institute; as the same may be revised from time to 
time with the prior agreement of the Bank.
(b)
[…]
(c)
“Resettlement Action Plan” means collectively (i) the Anyang-Xinxiang 
Expressway Resettlement Action Plan, dated September 1993, prepared by Henan 
Provincial High-grade Highway Construction Authority; (ii) the Implementation Plan for 
Land Acquisition and Resettlement of Interconnecting Roads, dated May 1993, prepared 
by the Henan Province Highway Administration Bureau, and clarifications thereto dated 
November 30 and December 25 and 31, 1993; and (iii) the Resettlement Action Plan for 
the Upgrading Works Between Xinxiang and Zhengzhou, dated February 1999, prepared by 
said Bureau; as the same may be revised from time to time with the prior agreement of 
the Bank.”
4.
Paragraph 3 of Part D, Other Procurement Procedures, of Schedule 1 to the 
Project Agreement is amended as follows:
“3.
Civil works under Parts A.1 (b)(ii), A.1 (b)(iii), A.1 (b)(v), and B.1(b) 
of the 
Project, estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $10,000,000 
per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of 
$37,700,000, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of 
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance 
with procedures 
satisfactory to the Bank.” 
5.
Except as specifically amended hereby, all other provisions of the Henan Project 
Agreement remain in full force and effect.  Upon receipt by the Bank of (a) the copy 
of this letter of amendment duly countersigned by the representative of Henan, and (b) 
Page  2
the copy of the letter of even date herewith amending the Loan Agreement duly 
countersigned by representative of the Borrower, the above amendments shall become 
effective as of the date of countersignature of the letter of amendment to the Loan 
Agreement.
6.
Please confirm the agreement of Henan to the amendments set forth in paragraphs 
3 and 4 above by countersigning and dating the corresponding form of confirmation set 
forth herein below, and returning one fully signed original of this amendment letter 
to us for our files.  One fully signed original should be furnished to the Borrower 
and one should be retained by Henan.  
Sincerely,
By /s/ Yukon Huang 
Director 
China Country Unit 
East Asia and Pacific Region
CONFIRMED: HENAN PROVINCE
By /s/ Li Kegiang
Authorized Representative
Date:
March 21, 2000
