Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATASHEET 
RESTRUCTURING STAGE 
 
I.  Basic Information
 
Date prepared/updated:  08/18/2010 
Report No.:  56260
1. Basic Project Data  
 
Country:  Dominican Republic 
Project ID:  P096605 
Project Name:  Dominican Republic Youth Development Project 
Task Team Leader:  Cornelia M. Tesliuc 
Estimated Appraisal Date: December 12, 
2005 
Estimated Board Date: March 23, 2006 
Managing Unit:  LCSHS-DPT 
Lending Instrument:  Specific Investment 
Loan 
Sector:  Vocational training (66%);Adult literacy/non-formal education (21%);Central 
government administration (13%) 
Theme:  Improving labor markets (50%);Education for all (25%);Vulnerability 
assessment and monitoring (25%) 
IBRD Amount (US$m.): 
25.00 
IDA Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 Borrower 
8.91 
 Inter-American 
Development 
Bank 
10.00 
 Bilateral 
Agencies 
(unidentified) 
6.00
24.91 
Environmental Category: B - Partial Assessment 
Simplified Processing 
Simple [] 
Repeater [] 
Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery) 
or OP 8.00 (Rapid Response to Crises and Emergencies) 
Yes [ ] 
No [X] 
2. Project Objectives 
The Project development objective is to support the Borrower in improving the 
employability of: (a) poor at-risk youth by building their work experience and life skills 
and expanding second-chance education programs to complete their formal education, 
and (b) poor low-skilled long-term unemployed people between the ages of 18 and 65.   
 
3. Project Description 
The Temporary Employment Program (TEP) is a cash transfer program which requires 
complying with the participation in sub-projects aimed at improving local communities, 
plus the attendance of life-skills training courses. The TEP will be launched as a pilot 
experience in the Santiago area, geographically targeting six municipalities. The duration 
of the program will be 18 months, while the individual beneficiary participation will be 
four months.  
 
Page  2
The main target population is poor low-skilled long-term unemployed people ages 18 to 
65. Beneficiaries can participate in the program for a maximum of four months. The 
enrollment of beneficiaries will be carried out through the Ministry of Labor (MoL) 
public employment services, which will cross-check the databases to exclude those 
contributing to Social Security or receiving pensions, as well as ex-beneficiaries of the 
YDP. Beneficiaries can participate in the pilot program only once. Qualifying applicants 
will be ranked according to a means-test algorithm sensitive to geographical poverty 
measures, levels of formal education and training, and self-reported duration of 
unemployment. MOL will be responsible for matching beneficiaries to subprojects. The 
enrollment of beneficiaries and the presentation of proposals will be carried out as two 
independent processes.  
 
Three main actors will participate in this pilot program: Sub-project Implementing 
Entities (SIEs), MoL, and the beneficiaries. The category of SIEs includes non-
governmental organizations and other civil society organizations, all of which share the 
characteristic of being nonprofit institutions. SIEs will be responsible for presenting 
proposals to develop community-oriented works or services, which will be evaluated and 
selected on a competitive basis. Once proposals are approved, the SIEs will be 
responsible for the implementation of those subprojects, as well as providing life-skills 
learning courses to the participating beneficiaries. The SIEs will be responsible for 
providing the facilities to deliver the courses as well as for coordinating the provision of 
the courses. The cost of the life-skills learning courses will be reimbursed by MoL to the 
SIEs. The cost of tools and materials involved in the subproject will be financed by the 
SIEs themselves as a measure of their commitment to carry out the proposed subproject.  
 
MoL will be responsible for enrolling, selecting, and paying a monthly remuneration to 
beneficiaries. MoL will also be responsible for evaluating and selecting the proposals 
presented by SIEs, as well as assigning beneficiaries to subprojects. MoL will supervise 
the implementation of the subprojects and the delivery of the life-skills learning courses. 
Finally, MoL will provide SIEs with the contact list for trainers to deliver the life-skills 
courses.  
 
Beneficiaries will be required to comply with a work requirement in the subproject they 
have been assigned to and to attend a training course provided by the same SIE that is 
carrying out the subproject.  
 
Subprojects will have a standard duration of four months and will be limited in size (the 
number of beneficiaries per subproject will range from 10 to 50, according to the needs of 
the subproject). The pilot TEP will finance the labor component of the subproject, 
implying that the cost of tools and materials will be financed by the SIE. MoL plans to 
issue four calls for proposals per municipality (24 in total) with preestablished quotas of 
beneficiaries per call. SIEs will not be allowed to present more than three proposals per 
call. Proposals will be evaluated according to a first-come, first-evaluated modality. A 
new call can be issued after the quota of the previous call has been filled. The total length 
of the pilot TEP could, eventually, be shorter than the maximum 18-month period 
proposed, depending on the pace at which proposals are presented and beneficiaries are 
Page  3
enrolled. MoL will be able to reassign beneficiary quotas, depending on the different 
responses to calls for proposals and the demands for beneficiaries.  
 
The typology of subprojects, detailed in the Operations Manual, comprises the 
following: refurbishment of social infrastructure (health, education, community services, 
parks and playgrounds, and other public areas); construction or refurbishment of urban 
equipment (sidewalks, ramps, walking trails); social services (retirement homes and 
childcare centers); road infrastructure (maintenance of secondary roads, ways and 
ditches); and environmentally friendly projects (environmental campaigns, cleaning 
creeks, etc.). The cycle of the sub-projects is as follows:  
 
1. 
MoL issues call for proposals.  
 
2.
SIEs (both NGOs and municipalities) present proposals.  
 
3.
MoL evaluates and approves proposals.  
 
4.
MoL communicates to SIEs the results of the evaluations.  
 
5.
MoL assigns beneficiaries to subprojects.  
 
6.
SIEs implement the subprojects, provide training to beneficiaries, and report 
beneficiary attendance.  
 
7.
MoL makes monthly payments to beneficiaries and reimburses SIEs for their 
expenses in  conducting life-skills learning courses; and  
 
8.
MoL supervises subprojects.  
 
Jointly with the presentation of proposal, SIEs sign their part of the subproject 
agreement. The approval of the proposals is followed by the adherence of the second 
party (MoL) to the subproject agreement.  
 
MoL will be responsible for paying directly to beneficiaries through debit cards, subject 
to the attendance record provided by the SIEs. Beneficiaries will receive a flat and 
homogenous benefit of RD$3,600 per month (approximately US$100) per 24 hours per 
week of labor activities (four days a week), plus 4.5 hours a week of a life-skills learning 
course (one day a week).  MoL will also be responsible to pay through reimbursements to 
SIEs for the provision of training courses. SIEs will be paid, per course (10 to 20 
participants per classroom), an equivalent to 20 percent (approximately US$20 per person 
per month) of the transfer to beneficiaries. As stated in the Operations Manual, the 
amount payable to beneficiaries can be updated every six months if annual inflation 
exceeds 20 percent or if exchange rate fluctuations modify the amount of the benefit in 
by +/- 20 percent.  
 
Borrower's Institutional Capacity for Safeguard Policies  
 
The implementation of the project will be carried out by an institution with proven 
capacity to implement activities aimed at improving employability. As for component 1 
of the original YDP the implementing institution will be the MoL, through the Project 
Coordination Unit (PCU). The latter is comprised of three management units under the 
supervision of the project's coordinator, who remains in his position since 2001 when the 
original project was launched with support of the IADB.  
Page  4
To implement the pilot program in the province of Santiago a fourth management unit 
will be launched to coordinate the local activities that need to be provided on site. The 
responsibilities of the UTA (Geographical management unit, abbreviation in Spanish), as 
stated in the Operations Manual (OM) will be: (i) to provide an induction course for SIEs 
to train them on subproject proposals presentation; (ii) open and advertise the call for 
proposals, evaluate and communicate the result of the proposals, assign beneficiaries to 
subprojects; and (iii) monitor the implementation of the subprojects as well as the 
delivery of the training courses.  
 
The UTA will be comprised of a local coordinator, and two supervisors. One of the 
supervisors will be selected according to the ToR attached as an annex to the OM, which 
requires a profile with sufficient skills to oversee the application of environmental 
policies within the project including the training of beneficiaries on occupational health 
and safety issues, as well as, the mitigation strategies specified for each sub-project. The 
Environmental Management Framework (EMF), prepared by the MoL with technical 
assistance from the World Bank team provides a complementary (to the OM) source of 
guidance for the above mentioned task.   
 
4. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard 
analysis 
The pilot TEP will be geographically targeted to the municipalities of Santiago de los 
Caballeros, Licey al Medio, Tamboril, Villa Bisonó (Navarrete), Villa Gonzalez, Puñal. 
Municipalities have been selected based on poverty incidence indicator (poverty map).   
 
5. Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists 
Mr Francis V. Fragano (LCSDE) 
 
6. Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
X
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
 X 
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X 
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
 X 
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11) 
 X 
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10) 
 X 
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
 X 
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X 
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
 X 
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X 
Page  5
II.  Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management 
A. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues 
1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. 
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts: 
The project is classified as Category B given the small-scale, temporary, and reversible 
impacts that would be expected from construction subprojects carried-out primarily with 
manual labor (up to 50 workers) under this youth development program.  In order to 
comply with the OP 4.01 an EMF was developed during project preparation. The EMF 
includes a description of the projects fundable activities, and those activities which 
because of their nature or potential impacts will not be supported (negative list).  In 
addition, the EMF describes the relevant legal and institutional framework as well as the 
institutional arrangements for project implementation. Primarily the local government 
environmental units will have oversight in addition to the project unit which will 
incorporate a supervisor with environmental management functions.  
 
Potential environmental impacts of the subprojects to be implemented by SIEs under the 
pilot TEP of the newly introduced Component 4 of the project are contemplated in the 
EMF and appropriate management measures are considered. Works and services are 
focused on relatively small sub-projects of community interest, which will be classified 
and evaluated according with the typology presented in the EMF and included in the OM 
for subproject approval. The sub-projects cycle is as follows in regard to environmental 
and social management: 1). Orientation and support to local groups by environmental and 
social specialist for proposal preparation, including environmental and social screening 
checklist and proposed mitigation measures. At this stage any potential involuntary 
resettlement would be reviewed and screened-out. In addition to a checklist for 
subproject review by environmental and construction specialists, consultation 
mechanisms will be included into the project design phase to consider local community 
and beneficiary perspective. 2). Sub-project proposal review and approval including 
environmental and social aspects. Proposals must consider potential licensing 
requirements and include costs for equipment and management measures. 3). Project 
implementation phase: Workers will receive proper training (to be provided by project 
local environmental and social specialist) and equipment prior to start. The specialist will 
also supervise project implementation and recommend measures as appropriate to ensure 
adequate environmental/health and safety management. 4). Closure phase: The 
environmental and social specialist will ensure that the measures to restore project sites 
have been performed adequately by SIE's.  
 
Particular emphasis has been placed on worker safety which will be ensured through 
proper equipment for subprojects and training in health and safety during the induction 
phase of work teams.  The health and safety standards of the World Bank/IFC as well as 
national regulations have been considered and included in the EMF and OM.  Overall, 
these activities will likely fall under Category C as defined under OP/BP 4.01. There is a 
possibility that some works may be classified as Category B. No works or activities that 
would meet the criteria for Category A will be financed under this project and none are 
envisioned.  All projects will fall under the national EA law category C of minor impacts, 
Page  6
not requiring specific environmental assessment.  These projects are only subject to local 
government oversight which has been considered in the EMF process.  
 
All category A and B projects of greater impact based on the national categorization are 
excluded and detailed in the EMF. These include water and sanitation projects, projects 
in protected areas, and solid waste among others.  The project will not support the 
construction of new roads or road extensions. Road works, subject to proposal approval, 
will be limited to repair and rehabilitation of existing infrastructure. The project will not 
finance any works or activities related to solid waste management and waste 
management. Water and sanitation sub-projects as well as new construction works have 
been excluded to reduce the complexity of the evaluation and implementation process at 
the pilot stage.   
 
2. Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future 
activities in the project area: 
The pilot TEP is not expected to have any potential large scale issues or irreversible 
impacts. No major works are contemplated under the newly introduced component 4. 
Typical works anticipated will relate to improvements to existing infrastructure on a 
small scale. Screening processes to evaluate subprojects to assure the proper application 
of safeguard considerations are detailed in the EMF and included in the OM. 
Environmental screening procedures, in addition to those required under Dominican Law, 
are included in the OM for evaluating individual work's subproject proposals. A negative 
list has been included of projects not subject to financing while adequate consultation 
with communities is to be considered during the design phase of subprojects.  
 
Positive potential impacts can be expected from the presentation and selection of 
environmental subprojects aimed at developing the conservation and use of natural 
resources and the environmental conditions of the population.   
 
3. Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) considered to help avoid or minimize 
adverse impacts. 
To avoid or minimize the adverse potential impacts of the subprojects, at the pilot stage 
of the TEP, the chosen strategy was to restrict the scope of proposal to be presented, 
simplifying the process. Given that the newly introduced component 4 represents a pilot 
program destined to develop new institutional capabilities as well as combating the 
adverse employment effects of the international economic crisis in the province of 
Santiago, at this stage, the chosen strategy was to restrict the typology of projects allowed 
to be presented in the competitive selection. The simplification of the process will also 
imply the diminishing of the potential negative environmental impacts, since complex to 
evaluate subprojects have been included in the negative list.   
 
4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide 
an assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described. 
Three basic measures comprise the borrower's strategy to address the safeguards policy 
issues: (a) the preparation of an EMF; (b) the provision of an induction course for SIEs to 
train them in the process of subproject proposal presentation  to ensure adequate 
Page  7
environmental measures and safety equipment; (c) training for teams of workers in regard 
to health and safety; and (d) a detailed OM of guidelines based on the EMF to be 
followed at the evaluation stage of the subproject selection process, jointly with the 
eventual mitigation strategy proposed.  
 
This project includes the EMF under which the procedures and environmental 
responsibilities will be guided. This EMF contains both the description of the project, the 
typologies of subprojects to be selected (and a negative list of those that cannot be 
supported), the institutional and legal framework under which the project is developed 
and the analysis of the environmental aspects, aimed at identifying the potential adverse 
impacts, as well as the presentation of mitigation measures to help prevent or mitigate 
these effects.  
 
The induction course for SIEs will provide a detailed training to level the capacities of 
different institutions to present proposals and compete for the proposal selection. The 
induction course will be provided by the project environmental and social specialist with 
support from the World Bank team to leave installed capacities both at the institutional 
level (UTA), as well as, at the local level (SIE). The course will provide an overview of 
the institutional and legal framework that regulates the activities to be undertaken in the 
subprojects as reported in the EMF, as well as in the OM, which will guide the evaluation 
of the proposals. In the case of the presentation of proposals with potential adverse 
impacts, such cases will be highlighted and special attention will be paid to the 
complementary pieces of information to be attached to the presentation, such as 
suggested mitigation measures to be taken by the implementing institution. The UTA that 
is implementing the project and provides for supervision of subprojects includes a team 
specialist that will have specific environmental functions and capacities included in their 
Terms of Reference (ToR). These ToRs are detailed in the EMF and OM.  
 
Both the OM and the EMF report the municipal responsibilities for the environmental 
control and management of public investments, in which the subprojects are framed, and 
the procedures requirements that are necessary to define its viability. The principal 
aspects taken into account within the EMF are:  
 
Conditions of the subprojects:  
 
Given the characteristics of the pilot TEP, with regard to the profile of the beneficiaries 
and the objectives of contribution to the improvement of the employability, the 
subprojects should meet the following guidelines:  
 
-Be of community interest.  
 
-Generate public benefits.  
 
-Ability to be fully implemented in four months.  
 
-Activities sufficient to assign a maximum of 50 beneficiary workers of the pilot TEP.  
 
-Be of low complexity. That is: (i) it does not require specialized structural designs, (ii) 
do not need other specialized studies such as soils, seismology, etc., (iii) are not in 
category A of resolution 06 of 2004 of SEMARN, and (iv) do not require sophisticated 
Page  8
mechanisms for the implementation of the subproject, in which the beneficiaries cannot 
participate.  
 
-A project which requires the intensive use of unskilled labor in order to be developed.  
 
The subproject typologies defined by the TEP and its scope or accepted maximum 
dimensions is presented within the EMF and in the OM. This has been done to ensure 
only low-impact projects will be supported. In addition project preparation activities 
include consultation mechanisms to ensure a response to local considerations and inputs.  
 
Local Legal Framework  
 
The municipal Law 176-07, creates the Municipal Environmental Units with five basic 
functions: (i) preparation of the standards for environmental and natural resources 
protection in the municipality; (ii) preparation of civic education programs for the 
management and treatment of solid waste; (iii) provide an assessment of the 
environmental viability of the subprojects submitted to the municipal council which 
require an environmental assessment; (iv) guarantee compliance with the Ley General de 
Medio Ambiente at the municipal level; and (v) develop programs for the use of public 
spaces (parks, plazas, green areas). Those municipalities that do not have the ability to 
provide maintenance must partner with neighboring municipalities to allow for such 
provision.  
 
In addition, Law 64-00 requires every Municipal Council to belong to the National 
System of Environmental Management of Natural Resources in articles 24, 25 and 26. 
The latter establishes the mandate of each municipality and establishes the creation of 
Management Environmental Units (UGAM). The principal activities to be carried out by 
the UGAMs are concerned with aspects that directly affect the community: garbage, 
noise, and environmental complaints due to pollution. The main topics on which the 
above mentioned Law provides guidance are: (i) solid waste management; (ii) 
environmental damages; (iii) environmental permissions; (iv) monitoring of management 
plans; and (v) concepts on project viability. Recognizing that the UGAM's are not strong 
in regards to capacity, the environmental specialists of the UTA's will be interacting with 
these units, providing guidance, training, and support as necessary through the project 
cycle.   
 
5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and 
disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people. 
The main stakeholders of the pilot TEP are the non-profit seeking institutions such as 
municipalities, non-governmental organizations and other civil society organizations 
responsible for presenting TEP subprojects proposals to develop community-oriented 
works or services. In particular the SIEs of the selected municipalities of the province of 
Santiago will be the stakeholders for which the above mentioned induction courses 
should be designed for. Subprojects will be consulted during their design phase with the 
beneficiaries of local communities and local governments.  This will ensure that local 
conditions, potential nuisances, and other environmental and social impacts will be 
communicated effectively and considered in project design and environmental 
Page  9
management plans.  The induction course plus the public availability of the EMF are also 
mechanisms to make the safeguard policies readily available for stakeholders.   
 
B. Disclosure Requirements Date
 
Environmental Assessment/Audit/Management Plan/Other: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 No 
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
05/10/2010 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
06/02/2010 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
06/16/2010 
 
For category A projects, date of distributing the Executive 
Summary of the EA to the Executive Directors 
 
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework/Policy Process: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
Indigenous Peoples Plan/Planning Framework: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
Pest Management Plan: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
*
If the project triggers the Pest Management and/or Physical Cultural Resources, 
the respective issues are to be addressed and disclosed as part of the Environmental 
Assessment/Audit/or EMP. 
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please 
explain why: 
C. Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level (to be filled in when the 
ISDS is finalized by the project decision meeting) 
 
OP/BP/GP 4.01 - Environment Assessment 
 
Does the project require a stand-alone EA (including EMP) report? 
Yes 
If yes, then did the Regional Environment Unit or Sector Manager (SM) 
review and approve the EA report? 
Yes 
Are the cost and the accountabilities for the EMP incorporated in the 
credit/loan? 
Yes 
The World Bank Policy on Disclosure of Information 
 
Page  10
Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank's 
Infoshop? 
Yes 
Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in a 
form and language that are understandable and accessible to project-affected 
groups and local NGOs? 
Yes 
All Safeguard Policies 
 
Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities 
been prepared for the implementation of measures related to safeguard 
policies? 
Yes 
Have costs related to safeguard policy measures been included in the project 
cost? 
Yes 
Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the 
monitoring of safeguard impacts and measures related to safeguard policies? 
Yes 
Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the 
borrower and the same been adequately reflected in the project legal 
documents? 
Yes 
D. Approvals 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
Name 
Date 
Task Team Leader: 
Ms Cornelia M. Tesliuc 
08/05/2010 
Environmental Specialist: 
Mr Francis V. Fragano 
08/05/2010 
Social Development Specialist 
 
 
Additional Environmental and/or 
Social Development Specialist(s): 
 
Approved by: 
 
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: 
Mr Kennan W. Rapp 
08/04/2010 
Comments:   
Sector Manager: 
Ms Theresa Jones 
08/05/2010 
Comments:   
