Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
IDA GRANT NUMBER H175-0 ER 
 
Development Grant Agreement 
 
(HAMSET II Project) 
 
between 
 
STATE OF ERITREA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated July 29, 2005 
 
Page  2
IDA GRANT NUMBER H175-0 ER 
DEVELOPMENT GRANT AGREEMENT
 
AGREEMENT, dated July 29, 2005, between STATE OF ERITREA (the 
Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has 
requested the Association to assist in the financing of the Project; 
 (B) 
the Association has received from the Recipient, the Recipient’s national 
strategic plans to combat HIV/AIDS/STI (2003-2007), Tuberculosis (2004-2008) and 
Malaria (2005-2009) and the draft national strategic plan for reproductive health (the 
National Strategic Plans), describing the Recipient’s objectives, policies and actions 
designed to prevent and control the spread of the HIV/AIDS, Malaria, Sexually 
Transmitted Infections and Tuberculosis and Reproductive Health (the Program) and 
declaring the Recipient’s commitment to the execution of the Program; 
 
(C) 
the Executive Directors of the Association approved on 
February 7, 2002, the Second Multi-Country HIV/AIDS Program for the Africa Region 
estimated in the amount of five hundred million United States Dollars; 
 
(D) 
the Project is part of the Second Multi-Country HIV/AIDS Program for 
the Africa Region; and 
 
(E) 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the 
foregoing, to extend the Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set forth in 
this Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through May 1, 
Page  3
-
2
-
2004), with the modifications set forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement (the General 
Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to this 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional 
terms have the following meanings: 
(a) 
“AIDS” means the Acquired Immuno-Deficiency Syndrome; 
(b) 
“Beneficiary” means a community which has met the eligibility criteria 
set out in the Operational Manual and the requirements of  Part B.7 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement and which, as a result, has received or is entitled to receive a Sub-Grant for 
the carrying out of a Subproject; 
(c) 
“Community Management Team” means a group of individuals elected 
by a community for the purpose of planning, preparing and implementing subprojects and 
referred to in Part C of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; 
(d) 
“DOTS” means “Directly Observed Treatment Strategy”;  
(e) 
“Eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (6) set forth in the 
table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(f) 
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, works, 
consultants’ services referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(g) 
“Environmental Assessment” means the environment assessment report 
prepared and adopted by the Recipient under the HAMSET Project, describing the 
environmental, mitigation, monitoring and institutional measures to be applied in the 
implementation of the Project as the same may be amended from time to time;  
(h) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” means each report prepared in accordance 
with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(i) 
“HAMSET diseases” means the following diseases and conditions, 
namely HIV/AIDS, Malaria, STI (as hereinafter defined), Tuberculosis and Reproductive 
Health; 
Page  4
-
3
-
(j) 
“HAMSET Diseases Control Project” or “HAMSET Project” means the 
Project financed under the Development Credit Agreement (Credit No. 3444-ER) signed 
between the State of Eritrea and the Association on December 19, 2000;  
(k) 
Health Care Waste Management Plan or “HCWMP” means a national 
plan prepared and adopted by the Recipient on October 2004, for the management of 
hazardous health/medical waste, referred to in Part C.9(e) of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time;  
(l) 
“HIV” means the Human Immuno-Deficiency Virus; 
(m) 
“IAPSO” means the Inter-Agency Procurement Services of the United 
Nations Development Programme; 
(n) 
“Initial Deposit” means the initial amount to be paid into the Project 
Account pursuant to Section 3.03 (ii) of this Agreement; 
(o) 
“MOH” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Health or any legal successor 
thereto; 
(p) 
“Monitoring and Evaluation Indicators” means the agreed performance 
indicators set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement to be utilized by the Recipient under 
the Project to measure the progress in the implementation of the Project and the degree to 
which the objectives thereof are being achieved;  
(q) 
“Nakfa” means the currency of the Recipient;  
(r) 
“National Steering Committee” means a committee set up under 
HAMSET, and referred to in Part A.2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;  
(s) 
“National Technical Committee” means a  technical body responsible for 
reviewing plans and activities of implementing partners and addressing project strategic 
implementation and coordination issues referred to in Part A.3 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement; 
(t) 
“Operational Manual” means a manual satisfactory to the Association 
referred to in Part C.11 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, setting forth details of all 
procedures, guidelines, timetables and criteria (including the eligibility criteria for Sub-
Grants and Subprojects) required for the Project as such manual may be amended from 
time to time with prior agreement of the Association;  
Page  5
-
4
-
(u) 
“Participating Agencies” or “PAs” means those agencies primarily 
involved in the implementation of the Part A of the Project and includes selected line 
Ministries (other than the Ministry of Health) and civil society organizations; 
(v) 
“Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan, dated May 
13, 2005 covering the initial 18 month period of Project implementation, as the same 
shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 to 
this Agreement, to cover succeeding 18 months of Project implementation. 
(w) 
“PMU” means the Project Management Unit established under the 
HAMSET Project and referred to in Part A.4 (a) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(x) 
“Project Account” means the account referred to in Section 3.03 of this 
Agreement; 
(y) 
“Project Year” means the calendar year which is also the Recipient’s 
fiscal year; 
(z) 
“Report-based Disbursements” means the Recipient’s option for 
withdrawal of funds from the Grant Account referred to in Part A5 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; 
(aa) 
“Results-Based Framework” means the guiding framework for 
community Subprojects referred to in Part B.7 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement,  to be 
developed and adopted by the Recipient as an integral part of the Operational Manual; ; 
(bb) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement; 
(cc) 
“STI” means sexually transmitted infection; 
(dd) 
“Sub-Grant” means a sub-grant to be made to a Beneficiary for the 
purpose of financing a Subproject or activity under Part C of the Project; 
(ee) 
“Sub-Grant Agreement” means the agreement referred to in paragraph 
B.8 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(ff) 
“Subproject” means a community subproject or activity to be carried out 
under Part C of the Project which has met the eligibility criteria and is eligible for 
financing, on a grant basis, in accordance with the provisions of the Operational Manual; 
Page  6
-
5
-
(gg) 
Zoba
”
means a Regional administration of the Recipient, as defined 
under 
Proclamation for the Establishment of Regional Administrations, 
No: 86 of 1996 
of the Eritrean Laws. 
ARTICLE II 
The Grant
 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to fifteen million nine hundred thousand  Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 15,900,000).  
Section 2.02. The amount of the Grant may be withdrawn from the Grant 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for carrying out the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant. 
Section 2.03.  
The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2010 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Recipient of such 
later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Recipient shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Grant not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set 
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of 
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Recipient from the Grant Account or canceled; and (ii) at the 
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates 
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as 
of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in 
Section 2.04 of this Agreement. 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Recipient; and (iii) in US dollars or in such other eligible currency 
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
provisions of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
Page  7
-
6
-
Section 2.05. Commitment charges shall be payable semiannually on April 1 and 
October 1 in each year. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, health and technical practices, and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the implementation program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. (a)  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement 
of the goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement, as said provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan.  
(b) 
The Recipient shall update the Procurement Plan in accordance with 
guidelines acceptable to the Association, and furnish such update to the Association not 
later than 12 months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plan, for the 
Association’s approval. 
Section 3.03. 
The Recipient shall: (i) establish and therafter maintain in Nakfa, 
until completion of the Project, a Project Account in a commercial bank on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association into which the Recipient shall deposit its 
counterpart contributions to Project costs; (ii) pay into the Project Account an initial 
amount (the Initial Deposit) equivalent to $350,000; and (iii) thereafter during each 
following six months deposit into the Project Account the amounts required to cover the 
said contributions for each such six months, as determined by the Recipient and the 
Association. 
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Recipient shall: 
Page  8
-
7
-
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later 
date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and the Association, a plan 
for the future operation of the Project; and 
(b) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Recipient on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in accordance with 
consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Association, adequate to 
reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
(b) The 
Recipient 
shall: 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the 
Association), audited, in accordance with consistently applied 
auditing standards acceptable to the Association, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Association; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year (or such 
other period agreed to by the Association), (A) certified copies 
of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for such year (or other period agreed to by the 
Association), as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such 
statements by said auditors, in scope and detail satisfactory to the 
Association; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records and accounts, and the audit of such financial 
statements, and concerning said auditors, as the Association may 
from time to time reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant 
Account were made on the basis of reports referred to in Part A.5 of Schedule 1 to this 
Page  9
-
8
-
Agreement (Report-based Disbursements) or on the basis of statements of expenditure, 
the Recipient shall: 
(i) 
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Grant Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
(ii) 
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and 
(iii) 
ensure that such reports or statements of expenditure are 
included in the audit for each fiscal year (or other period agreed 
to by the Association), referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section.  
Section 4.02.  (a) Without limitation upon the Recipient’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in Schedule 4 to this Agreement, the Recipient shall prepare and 
furnish to the Association a financial monitoring report (FMR), in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association, which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Grant, and explains variances 
between the actual and planned uses of such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation; and 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than 45 
days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the 
period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of 
such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Association not 
later than 45 days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar 
quarter. 
Page  10
-
9
-
ARTICLE V 
Effectiveness; Termination
 
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as condition to the effectiveness 
of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions: 
 
(a) 
the Recipient has adopted an Operational Manual, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association; and 
 
(b)  
the Recipient has pursuant to Section 3.03 (ii) opened a Project 
Account with an initial deposit of $350,000 equivalent. 
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
Page  11
-
10
-
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses 
Section 6.01. The Minister of National Development of the Recipient is 
designated as representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions. 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Recipient: 
 
Ministry of National Development 
P. O. Box 1386 
Asmara 
 Eritrea 
 
Facsimile:  
 
291-1-126422 
 
For the Association: 
 International 
Development 
Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
64145 (MCI) 
Page  12
-
11
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Asmara, Eritrea as of the day and year first above written. 
 
STATE OF ERITREA 
 
By  /s/ Dr. Futur Woldai 
 Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Colin Bruce 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  13
-
12
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Grant 
A. General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the Grant to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Grant Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1) 
Works 
600,000 
100% of foreign expenditures 
 
90%
of local expenditures 
(2) 
Goods 
 4,900,000 
100% of foreign 
 
expenditures and 90% 
 
of
local expenditures 
(3) 
Consultants’ services, 
5,800,000 
100% of foreign expenditures 
 
studies, training 
 
and 90% of local expenditures 
 and 
workshops 
 
 
(4) 
Sub-Grants 
2,250,000 
100% of amounts 
 
disbursed 
 
(5) Operating 
Costs 
900,000 
55% 
(6) Unallocated 
1,450,000 
 
___________ 
 
15,900,000 
 TOTAL 
========== 
 
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Recipient for goods, or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Recipient;  
Page  14
-
13
-
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Recipient or for goods, or services supplied from the territory of the Recipient; and 
(c) 
the term “Operating Costs” means the expenditures incurred under the 
Project on account of maintenance of vehicles, fuel, equipment, office rent, office 
supplies, utilities, consumables, reasonable bank charges, travel per diems and 
allowances accommodation costs and salaries of temporary staff (excluding salaries of 
the Recipient’s civil servants). 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement. 
4. 
The Association may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditures for: (i) goods under contracts costing less than 
$150,000 equivalent each; (ii) works under contracts costing less than $500,000 each; 
(iii) consulting services under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent each for 
consulting firms, and $50,000 equivalent each for individual consultants; and 
(iv)workshops, training, sub-grants and operating costs all under such terms and 
conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  
5. 
The Recipient may request withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on 
the basis of reports to be submitted to the Association in form and substance satisfactory 
to the Association, such reports to include the FMR and any other information as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient (Report-based Disbursements).  In 
the case of the first such request submitted to the Association before any withdrawal has 
been made from the Grant Account, the Recipient shall submit to the Association only a 
statement with the projected sources and applications of funds for the Project for the six-
month period following the date of such request. 
B. Special 
Account
1. 
The Recipient may open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in a 
commercial Bank acceptable to the Association, on terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment. 
2. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been opened, withdrawals from the Grant Account of amounts to be 
deposited into the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a) 
if the Recipient is not making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and  
Page  15
-
14
-
(b) 
if the Recipient is making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.  
3. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the 
Recipient shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures. 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Association shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:  
 
(a) 
if the Association, at any time, is not satisfied that the reports referred to 
in Part A.5 of this Schedule 1 adequately provide the information required for Report-
based Disbursements;  
(b) 
if the Association determines at any time that all further withdrawals for 
payment of Eligible Expenditures should be made by the Recipient directly from the 
Grant Account; or 
 
(c) 
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit 
of: (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the records and accounts 
reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were Report-based 
Disbursements or were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, as the case may 
be.  
5. 
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the 
Association shall have notified the Recipient of its intention to suspend in whole or in 
part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account pursuant to 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Association shall 
determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account may 
be made and what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall 
notify the Recipient of its determination. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Association determines at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or 
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Recipient shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, provide such additional evidence as the 
Association may request, or deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall 
Page  16
-
15
-
so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment.  
Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into 
the Special Account shall be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence or 
made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Association determines at any time that any amount outstanding in 
the Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Recipient shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.  
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to subparagraph (a), (b) or (c) 
of this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Grant Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Grant Agreement. 
Page  17
-
16
-
Annex A 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are Not  
Report-based Disbursements
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Annex, the term “Authorized Allocation” means the 
amount of $3,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex provided, however, that unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to$1,500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Grant Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or 
do not exceed the equivalent of SDR 4,000,000. 
2. 
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:  
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount 
or amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis 
of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the 
Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall 
have requested.  
 
(b) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall furnish to 
the Association requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the 
Association shall specify.  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on 
behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the Recipient shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by 
the Association from the Grant Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories. 
3. 
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 
Page  18
-
17
-
5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Grant Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Grant shall follow such procedures as the Association shall 
specify by notice to the Recipient.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and 
to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized 
in making payments for Eligible Expenditures. 
Page  19
-
18
-
Annex B 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are 
Report-based Disbursements 
1. 
Withdrawals from the Grant Account shall be deposited by the Association into 
the Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from 
the Grant Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.  
2. 
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Grant, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and 
deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so 
requested; and (b) the amount which the Association has determined, based on the reports 
referred to in Part A.5 of this Schedule 1 applicable to such withdrawal application, is 
required to be deposited in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month 
period following the date of such reports. 
Page  20
-
19
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project
 
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Recipient in: (a) containing the 
spread of HIV/AIDS/ STI in vulnerable groups as well as the general population through 
a
multi-sectoral approach which aims at scaling up prevention, diagnosis, care, and 
support services for HIV/AIDS/STI, with a renewed focus on the most vulnerable 
populations; (b) expanding DOTS coverage, improving case detection and treatment 
outcomes for tuberculosis; (c) further reducing or at least maintaining malaria mortality 
and morbidity at the current low levels; (d) improving the coverage of reproductive 
health interventions; and (e) strengthening the overall health system’s capacity to address 
the HAMSET diseases. 
The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Recipient and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part A
:
Multi-sectoral Response
1. Supporting Participating Agencies other than the Ministry of Health including 
the Ministry of Education, Ministry of Defense, Ministry of Labour and Human Welfare, 
civil society organizations such as the National Union of Eritrean Women at both 
national and 
zoba
 level to scale up prevention care and support interventions for 
HIV/AIDS/STIs, malaria, tuberculosis and reproductive health.  
 
2. Promoting healthy behaviors and lifestyles, through various multi-level 
communication methods including information dissemination, education and 
communication campaigns and peer-led behavior change communication programs.  
Part B
:
Health Sector Response
1. HIV/AIDS/STI, Tuberculosis, Malaria and Reproductive Health
:
(a) improving the information base for decision making, through supporting 
disease surveillance and reporting, carrying out of surveys and operational research in 
program management, epidemiology, entomology, drug resistance and behavior of 
HAMSET diseases; (b) scaling up and expanding preventive interventions for HAMSET 
diseases; and (c) scaling up diagnostic, treatment, care and support services for HAMSET 
diseases, all through technical advisory services, in-service training, financing of 
Page  21
-
20
-
operating costs, acquisition of drugs and medical supplies, equipment, and minor 
renovation of reproductive health facilities. 
2. 
Human Resource for HAMSET diseases
:
Supporting the development and implementation of an overall human resource 
health policy and strategic plan to strengthen human resources for HAMSET diseases, 
through: (a) consolidating existing health policies and developing a five-year national 
strategic plan; (b) developing and implementing annual work plans, all through the 
provision of technical advisory services, training, workshops and development and 
dissemination of training materials. 
Part C:
Community Managed HAMSET Response Program
Scaling up and consolidating community-managed response initiatives to address 
HAMSET diseases through: (i) financing of Sub-Grants for small scale community 
Subprojects aiming at controlling HAMSET diseases; and (ii) developing the capacity of 
communities to: (a) mobilize and identify HAMSET problems and (b) develop, 
implement, monitor and evaluate subprojects.  
Part D
:
Project Management and Evaluation 
Strengthening Project management and evaluation capacity, through: (i) 
provision of support to project management units at the national and zoba levels, and 
coordination of project activities at the central level; (ii) training in planning, 
management and implementation of Project activities for key staff in non-health sectors 
and local governments; (iii) developing and carrying out a health sector monitoring and 
evaluation system; (iv) developing, piloting and evaluating innovative approaches in 
service delivery; and (v) strengthening health policy related to HAMSET. 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2009. 
Page  22
-
21
-
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement 
Section I
.
General
A. 
All goods, works and services (other than consultants’ services) shall be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines: Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with 
the provisions of this Schedule.  
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Sections I and IV 
of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers” dated May 2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this 
Schedule.  
C. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of particular contracts, 
have the meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant 
Guidelines, as the case may be. 
Section II
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services (other 
than Consultants’ Services)
A. International 
Competitive 
Bidding.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, contracts shall be awarded on the basis of International Competitive 
Bidding. 
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
Limited International Bidding
.
Goods which the Association agrees can 
only be purchased from a limited number of suppliers may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of Limited International Bidding.  
2. National 
Competitive 
Bidding.
Goods estimated to cost less than 
$150,000 equivalent per contract and works estimated to cost less than $2,000,000 
equivalent per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
National Competitive Bidding.  
Page  23
-
22
-
3. Shopping
.
Goods estimated to cost less than $75,000 equivalent per 
contract and works estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Shopping. 
4. Direct 
Contracting
.
Goods and works which the Association agrees meet 
the requirements for Direct Contracting may be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of said procurement method. 
5. 
Procurement from UN Agencies
.
Goods estimated to cost less than 
$50,000 equivalent per contract, and drugs regardless of cost, may be procured directly 
from IAPSO or other UN Agencies
 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.9 of the Procurement Guidelines. 
6. Community 
Participation
.
Goods, works and services required for the 
Project may be procured on the basis of community participation in accordance with 
procedures acceptable to the Association. 
Section III
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  For purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, the short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract may comprise entirely of national consultancy firms. 
B. Other 
Procedures
1. Quality-based 
Selection
.
Services for special assignments which the 
Association agrees meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 3.2 of the Consultant 
Guidelines may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality-based 
Selection in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.  
2. 
Selection Under a Fixed Budget
.
Services for assignments which the 
Association agrees meet the requirements of paragraph 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines 
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of a Fixed Budget in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
.
Services estimated to 
cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded 
Page  24
-
23
-
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 3.7 and 3.8 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
4. Single 
Source 
Selection
.
Services for tasks which meet the requirements 
of paragraph 3.10 of the Consultant Guidelines for Single Source Selection, may, with the 
Association's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.9 through 3.13 of the Consultant Guidelines.  
5. Individual 
Consultants
.
Services for assignments that meet the 
requirements set forth in the first sentence of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines 
may be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.  Under the 
circumstances described in paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, such contracts 
may be awarded to individual consultants on a sole-source basis. 
 
6.  
Least-cost Selection
.
Services for tasks which meet the requirements 
of paragraph 3.6 of the guidelines may be awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Section IV
.
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
Except as the Association shall otherwise determine by notice to the Recipient, 
the following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Association: (a) each 
contract for goods estimated to cost more than $150,000; (b) each contract for works 
estimated to cost more than $500,000; (c) each contract for services (other than 
consultants’ services) estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more;  and (d) each 
contract for consultants’ services provided by a firm on the basis of Single Source 
selection or estimated to cost the equivalent of $150,000 or more.  In addition, with 
respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost 
the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the report on the qualifications and experience of all 
evaluated candidates, the terms of reference and the terms of employment of the 
consultants shall be subject to prior approval by the Association   All other contracts shall 
be subject to Post Review by the Association. 
Page  25
-
24
-
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Program 
Part A
Institutional Arrangements
1. 
The Recipient shall designate the MOH with the overall responsibility for project 
coordination. 
Steering Committees
2. 
The Recipient shall: (a) maintain the National Steering Committee comprising of 
the Minister of National Development, Minister of Education, Minister of Defense, 
Minister of Labour and Human Welfare and 6 Zoba Administrators; and ensure that it is 
chaired by the Minister of MOH who will be in charge of making policy decisions on 
Project activities, provision of project oversight, providing strategic direction on work 
and approving the annual work program of the implementing partners; and 
(b) maintain or establish a Zoba Steering Committee as deemed necessary  
chaired by the Zoba Administrator comprising of representatives of line ministries at the 
Zoba level and relevant stakeholders. 
Technical Committees
3. 
The Recipient shall ensure that: 
(a) 
the existing National Technical Committee chaired by the Director 
General of Health Services of the MOH consists of senior staff (at least at the Director 
level) of key participating agencies at the national level to provide technical guidance at 
the national level and support integrated planning; 
(b) 
a technical working group consisting of HAMSET focal persons from 
participating agencies, technical staff from MoH and representatives from the PMU is 
established and provides support to the National Technical Committees;  
 
(c) the 
Zoba
 Technical Committee (i) is chaired by the 
Zoba 
Medical Officer 
and includes participants from the 
Zoba
 health management office, the Zoba PMU and 
other 
Zoba
 level implementers; (ii) develop integrated work plans and budgets, at the 
Zoba
 level; and (iii) receive guidance on strategic policies and oversight from the 
Zoba 
Administrator. 
Page  26
-
25
-
Project Implementation Units
4. 
The Recipient shall for the purposes of the Project: 
(a) 
maintain in MOH, the Project Management Unit (PMU) established for 
the HAMSET project in a form and with functions, staffing (including a Project 
Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist) and resources satisfactory to the Association.  The 
PMU shall be responsible for the overall management of Project activities, including 
financial management and procurement, providing support to the implementing agencies 
and providing secretarial services to the National Technical Committee. 
(b) 
maintain in each 
Zoba
,
a
Zoba
 Project Management Unit (
Zoba
 PMUs) 
under the 
Zoba
 Administrator, which shall be responsible for the implementation of 
Project activities at the 
Zoba
 level. 
5. 
In implementing the project, the Recipient shall ensure that: 
(a) 
the National HAMSET Technical Committee works closely with the 
PMU in the planning of Project activities, the provision of technical advice related to 
Project execution, supervision and monitoring of Project activities. 
 (b) 
the 
Zoba
 HAMSET Technical Committees work closely with the 
respective Zo
ba
 PMUs in the planning  and implementation of Project activities at the 
Zoba 
level. 
6. 
In implementing Part A of the project, the Recipient shall ensure that 
Participating Agencies develop their annual workplans in accordance with criteria 
outlined in the Operational Manual.  The workplans will be selected by the National 
Technical Committee on a competitive basis and approved for funding by the National 
Steering Committee. 
Part B
.
Subprojects and Grants
7. 
In implementing Part C of the Project, the Recipient shall ensure that Subproject 
proposals fully satisfy the criteria specified in the Operational Manual for Grant financing 
and the principles outlined in the Results-Based Framework which shall inter 
alia 
include 
the following;  
 
(a) 
the Beneficiary through its Community Management Team, submits a 
Subproject proposal in accordance with criteria  described in the Operational Manual; and 
Page  27
-
26
-
(b) 
the Beneficiary has agreed to provide at least 15% of the estimated 
Subproject costs in the form of cash, materials, labor and other services.  
8. 
The Recipient shall enter into agreements for the making of the Grants to the 
Beneficiaries (Sub-Grant Agreements) satisfactory to the Association.  The terms and 
conditions of each Sub-Grant Agreement shall provide for rights adequate to protect the 
interests of the Association and the Recipient and shall 
inter alia
 include the following: 
(a) 
require the Beneficiary to (i) carry out the Subproject with due diligence 
and efficiency; (ii) maintain adequate records for the Subproject; (iii) use sub-grant funds 
exclusively for the carrying out of the Subproject; and (iv) procure all goods, works and 
services to be financed from the proceeds of the grant in accordance with the provisions 
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement; 
(b) 
reserve for the Recipient and the Association (if the Association shall so 
request) the right to inspect the Subproject and any relevant records and documents; and  
 
(c) 
reserve for the Recipient the right to suspend or terminate the right of the 
Beneficiary to the use of the proceeds of the Sub-Grant upon failure by the Beneficiary to 
perform any of its obligations under the Sub-Grant Agreement. 
Part C
Monitoring and Evaluation
9. The 
Recipient 
shall: 
(a) 
no later than December 31, 2005 or any other date agreed with the 
Association finalize and adopt a National Strategic Plan for Reproductive Health;  
(b) 
no later than March 31, 2006 or any other date agreed with the 
Association, establish an operational plan for M& E of HIV/AIDS/STIs, Malaria, TB and 
Reproductive Health; 
(c) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable the Recipient to 
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof; 
(d) 
implement the project in accordance with the requirements of the 
HCWMP, the Environmental Assessment and any other relevant national legal and policy 
requirements; and procuring only chemicals, acceptable to the Association, for the 
control of the malaria vector; and (e)  no later than January 31of each year or any other 
Page  28
-
27
-
date agreed with the Association, carry out jointly with the Association and other 
implementers and stakeholders, a
 review of the previous year’s implementation progress 
for each HAMSET disease and develop a preliminary plan for addressing each of the 
disease for the coming year.  Following the joint review, the Recipient shall finalize the 
detailed work plan and budget for the coming year by February 28 of each year. 
10. 
No later than June 30, 2008 or any other date agreed with the Association, the 
Recipient shall carry out, jointly with the Association, a midterm review of the progress 
made in carrying out the Project (the Midterm Review).  The Midterm Review shall 
cover among other things: 
an assessment of: (A) work programs prepared and the progress made in 
carrying out the said programs as of the date of the Midterm Review, (B) 
procurement under the Project, (C) the extent to which actions described 
in the indicators set out in Schedule 5 to this Agreement have been 
carried out, and (D) plans made or proposed for updating said indicators; 
and 
11. 
The Recipient shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Operational 
Manual and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not 
amend or waive any provision of the Operational Manual if, in the opinion of the 
Association, such amendment or waiver may materially and adversely affect the carrying 
out of the Project or the achievement of the objectives thereof. 
Page  29
-
28
-
SCHEDULE 5 
Performance Indicators 
HIV/AIDS/STIs
1. 
Maintain HIV prevalence rate among commercial sex workers under 12% and 
among pregnant women aged 15-24 under 3%. 
2. 
Reduce syphilis sero-prevalence rate among pregnant women from 1.6% to 
below 1%. 
Tuberculosis
3. 
Detect at least 70% of infectious tuberculosis cases in the population. 
4. 
Treat at least 80% of diagnosed tuberculosis cases with DOTS. 
5. 
Successfully treat at least 85% of new smear positive cases. 
Malaria
6. 
Further reduce or at least maintain at the 2004 levels, the proportional malaria 
morbidity at 1.9% and mortality at 3.9 %. 
Reproductive health
7. 
Increase the percentage of pregnant women receiving focused antenatal care by 
20%. 
8. 
Increase the percentage of pregnant women who deliver with skilled birth 
attendance from 30% to 60%. 
9. 
Ensure all public hospitals and health centers offer basic emergency obstetric 
care by December 2009.
 
10. 
Increase the percentage of contraceptive prevalence rate (modern methods) from 
4% to 10%. 
Page  30
-
29
-
Human Resources for Health 
11. 
Train at least 200 nurse midwives, 200 public health technicians and 200 
laboratory technicians by December 2009. 
12. 
Increase the percentage of health stations with at least 1 nurse from 28% to 50% 
by December 2009 
Page  31
-
30
-
SCHEDULE 6  
Modifications to the General Conditions 
For the purpose of this Agreement, the provisions of the General Conditions are modified 
as follows: 
1. 
Sections 3.02, 3.03, 3.04(a), 3.04(b), 6.05 and Article VII are deleted in their 
entirety. 
2. 
Wherever used in the General Conditions, the following terms are modified to 
read as follows: 
(a) 
The term “Borrower” is modified to read “Recipient”. 
(b) 
The term “Credit” is modified to read “Grant”. 
(c) 
The term “Credit Account” is modified to read “Grant Account”. 
(d) 
The term “Development Credit Agreement” is modified to read 
“Development Grant Agreement”. 
3. 
Section 1.01 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 1.01. 
Application of General Conditions
 
These General Conditions set forth the terms and conditions generally 
applicable to the Development Grant Agreement to the extent and subject 
to any modifications set forth in such agreement.”  
4. 
Paragraph 3 of Section 2.01 is modified to read as follows: 
“3. 
“Recipient” means the party to the Development Grant 
Agreement to which the Grant is made.” 
5. 
Article III is modified as follows: 
(a) 
The heading of Article III is modified to read “Grant Account; 
Partial Payment”, and the heading of Section 3.04 is modified to read 
“Partial Payment”. 
Page  32
-
31
-
(b) 
The words “The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit” 
in Section 3.05 are modified to read “All amounts required to be paid 
under the Development Grant Agreement”. 
6. 
Article IV is modified as follows: 
(a) 
Section 4.02(a) is modified to read as follows: 
“Section 4.02.
 
Currencies in which Payments are to be Made
 
(a)  The Recipient shall pay all amounts required to be paid by it under 
the Development Grant Agreement in the currency specified in such 
agreement or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from 
time to time be designated or selected pursuant to paragraph (c) or (e) of 
this Section.” 
(b) 
Wherever used in Section 4.02(c) and (e) of the General Conditions, the 
words “principal and service charges” are modified to read “amounts”. 
(c) 
Section 4.03 is modified to read as follows: 
“Section 4.03.
 
Amount of the Grant
 
The amount of the Grant withdrawn from time to time shall be the 
equivalent in terms of SDR (determined as of the date or respective dates 
of withdrawal from the Grant Account) of the value of the currency or 
currencies so withdrawn.” 
(d) 
Section 4.06(b) is modified to read as follows: 
“(b) All amounts which the Recipient shall be required to pay under the 
Development Grant Agreement shall be paid without restrictions of any 
kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Recipient.” 
7. 
Article VI is modified as follows: 
(a) 
The word “credit” in paragraphs (a)(ii) and (c)(i) of Section 6.02 is 
replaced with the words “credit, grant or financing”. 
(b) 
Section 6.03 (c) is modified by replacing the words “corrupt or 
fraudulent” with the words “corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or coercive”. 
8
Section 8.01(a) is modified to read as follows: 
Page  33
-
32
-
“(a) All amounts which the Recipient shall be required to pay under the 
Development Grant Agreement shall be paid without deduction for, and 
free from, any taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Recipient.” 
9. 
Section 12.05 and its heading are modified to read as follows: 
“Section 12.05.
 
Termination of Development Grant Agreement. 
The obligations of the Recipient under the Development Grant 
Agreement shall terminate on the date 20 years after the date of the 
Development Grant Agreement.” 
 
