Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATASHEET 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
I.  Basic Information
 
Date prepared/updated:  04/28/2005 
Report No.:  AC1480
1. Project Statistics  
 
Country:  Eritrea 
Project ID:  P094694 
Project Name:  Eritrea HIV/AIDS/STI, TB, Malaria and Reproductive Health Project 
(HAMSET II) 
Task Team Leader:  Christopher D. Walker 
Estimated Appraisal Date: May 2, 2005 
Estimated Board Date: June 23, 2005 
Managing Unit:  AFTH1 
Lending Instrument:  Specific Investment 
Loan 
Sector:  Health (70%);Other social services (15%);Sub-national government 
administration (10%);Central government administration (5%) 
Theme:  HIV/AIDS (P);Other communicable diseases (P);Population and reproductive 
health (P);Health system performance (S);Participation and civic engagement (S) 
IBRD Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
IDA Amount (US$m.): 
24.00 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 BORROWER/RECIPIENT 
1.50 
 LOCAL 
COMMUNITIES 
0.50
2.00 
Environmental Category: B - Partial Assessment 
Simplified Processing 
Simple [] 
Repeater [X] 
Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery) 
Yes [ ] 
No [X] 
2. Project Objectives 
The project's development objectives are to: (i) contain the spread of HIV/AIDS/STI in 
high-risk groups as well as the general population through a focused multi-sectoral 
approach, with a renewed focus on the most high-risk populations, (ii) expand the 
coverage of Directly Observed Treatment (DOT), improve case detection and treatment 
outcomes for TB; (iii) further reduce malaria mortality and morbidity, and (iv) improve 
the coverage of Reproductive Health (RH) interventions.   
 
3. Project Description 
The proposed HAMSET II project has four components:  
 
1.  Multi-Sectoral Response: This component supports key (non-health) line ministries, 
local governments and civil society organizations at both national and zoba level to scale 
up prevention (especially stigma reduction and behavior change communication), care 
and support interventions for HIV/AIDS/STIs, malaria, TB and RH.  
 
Page  2
2.  Health Sector Response: This has five sub-components: HIV/AIDS/STI, TB, 
malaria, Reproductive Health and Human Resource for Health. Each of the first four sub-
components will comprise three activity categories:  
 
(a) 
Improve the information base for decision making;  
 
(b) 
Scale up prevention interventions;  
 
(c) 
Scale up diagnostic, treatment, care and support services  
 
Human resource for HAMSET diseases supports the development and implementation 
of an overall HRH policy and strategic plan.  
 
3.   Community Managed HAMSET Response Program: This component aims to scale 
up and consolidate community initiatives to address HAMSET diseases, applying a 
community-driven development (CDD) approach which also builds human and social 
capital at the community level.  
 
4.  Project Management and Coordination, Capacity Building, M&E, and Innovation 
and New Policy Development. This has four sub-components.  
 
(a) 
Project management and coordination  
 
(b) 
Capacity building  
 
(c) 
Monitoring & Evaluation  
 
(d) 
Innovation and New Policy Development   
 
4. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard 
analysis 
Project activities will be implemented nationwide.   
 
5. Environmental and Social Specialists on the Team 
Mr Amadou Konare (AFTS1) 
 
6. Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
X
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
 X 
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X 
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
X
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03) 
 X 
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20) 
 X 
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
 X 
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X 
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
 X 
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X 
Page  3
II.  Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management 
A. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues 
1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. 
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts: 
The proposed project has been classified as category B for environmental screening 
purposes. Under HAMSET, a Health Care Waste Management Plan (HCWMP) and an 
Environmental Assessment (EA) for insecticides were developed and approved by 
ASPEN. As HAMSET II will be processed through the repeater process, it will make use 
of the existing arrangements for safeguard issues under HAMSET, and rely on the 
HCWMP and EA already developed and disclosed under HAMSET. There are currently 
no major issues identified with safeguards under HAMSET II.   
 
2. Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future 
activities in the project area: 
N/A   
 
3. Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) considered to help avoid or minimize 
adverse impacts. 
N/A   
 
4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide 
an assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described. 
Under HAMSET an Environmental Assessment (EA) was undertaken to review elements 
of the National Malaria Control Program that might lead to negative environmental 
impact unless properly planned and managed, namely the use of chemicals. A Pesticide 
Management Plan (PMP) was prepared following the EA conclusions and 
recommendations. It has been determined that the EA adequately discusses pesticides use 
and management issues and mitigation measures.  MOH has complied with the 
recommendations made by the EA.  
 
The Health Care Waste Management Plan (HCWMP) has been under implementation 
since October 2004. The Ministry of Health has established a task force to ensure 
dissemination of the HCWMP as well as compliance by all health facilities in the 
country.   
 
5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and 
disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people. 
As HAMSET II will be processed through the repeater process, it will make use of the 
existing arrangements for safeguard issues under HAMSET, and rely on the HCWMP 
and EA already developed and disclosed under HAMSET.  Both the HCWMP and EA 
will be re-disclosed in country and at the Bank Infoshop prior to appraisal.   
 
B. Disclosure Requirements Date
 
Environmental Assessment/Audit/Management Plan/Other: 
Page  4
Date of receipt by the Bank 
10/18/2000 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
04/14/2005 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
04/14/2005 
 
For category A projects, date of distributing the Executive 
Summary of the EA to the Executive Directors 
 
Pest Management Process: 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
10/18/2000 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
04/14/2005 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
04/14/2005 
 
*
If the project triggers the Pest Management, Cultural Property and/or the Safety 
of Dams policies, the respective issues are to be addressed and disclosed as part of 
the Environmental Assessment/Audit/or EMP. 
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please 
explain why: 
C. Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level (to be filled in when the 
ISDS is finalized by the project decision meeting) 
 
OP/BP/GP 4.01 - Environment Assessment 
 
Does the project require a stand-alone EA (including EMP) report? 
No 
If yes, then did the Regional Environment Unit review and approve the EA 
report? 
No 
Are the cost and the accountabilities for the EMP incorporated in the 
credit/loan? 
Yes 
OP 4.09 - Pest Management 
 
Does the EA adequately address the pest management issues? 
Yes 
Is a separate PMP required? 
No 
If yes, has the PMP been reviewed and approved by the regional safeguards 
team?  Are PMP requirements included in project design?If yes, does the 
project team include a Pest Management Specialist? 
No 
BP 17.50 - Public Disclosure 
 
Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank's 
Infoshop? 
Yes 
Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in a 
form and language that are understandable and accessible to project-affected 
groups and local NGOs? 
Yes 
All Safeguard Policies 
 
Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities 
been prepared for the implementation of measures related to safeguard 
policies? 
Yes 
Have costs related to safeguard policy measures been included in the project 
cost? 
Yes 
Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the 
monitoring of safeguard impacts and measures related to safeguard policies? 
Yes 
Page  5
Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the 
borrower and the same been adequately reflected in the project legal 
documents? 
Yes 
D. Approvals 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
Name 
Date 
Task Team Leader: 
Mr Christopher D. Walker 
04/25/2005 
Environmental Specialist: 
Mr Amadou Konare 
04/28/2005 
Social Development Specialist 
Mr Amadou Konare 
04/28/2005 
Additional Environmental and/or 
Social Development Specialist(s): 
 
Approved by: 
 
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: 
Mr Thomas E. Walton 
 
Comments:   
Sector Manager: 
Mr Dzingai B. Mutumbuka 
04/28/2005 
Comments:   
