Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB1543 
Project Name 
Eritrea HIV/AIDS/STI, TB, Malaria and Reproductive Health 
Project (HAMSET II) 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
Health (70%); Other social services (15%);Sub-national 
government administration (10%);Central government 
administration (5%) 
Project ID 
P094694 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF ERITREA 
Implementing Agency 
 
Ministry of Health 
Hiwet Street # 5 
Asmara 
Eritrea 
Tel: 291-1-124199 
 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[X] B   [ ] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Date PID Prepared 
April 11, 2005 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
April 26, 2005 
Date of Board Approval 
June 23, 2005 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
 
Eritrea remains one of the poorest countries in the world with an annual GDP per capita of US$ 
150 and 53
 
percent of the population living in poverty. Socio-economically, it has not fully 
recovered from the 1998-
2000
border war with Ethiopia. The current “no war, no peace” 
situation created by the unresolved border dispute continues to restrict severely the country’s 
economic development. Eritrea’s level of human development remains low. In 2003, it ranked 
156
th
 among 177 countries in the UNDP’s Human Development Index.   
 
Despite the challenging political economy, Eritrea continues to make great efforts to improve the 
health status of its citizens, especially in reducing child mortality, fighting malaria and 
combating HIV/AIDS.  
 
Its infant mortality rate (IMR) fell from 72 deaths per 1,000 live births in 1995 to 45 in 2003, 
while under-five mortality rate (U5M) fell from 136 to 84 over the same period. These are well 
below the Sub-Saharan Africa (SSA) average of xx for IMR and 151 for U5M. Immunization 
coverage is one of the highest in SSA, with 76 percent of children aged 12-23 months fully 
immunized in 2003. This represents an 83 percent improvement over the 1995 level -- at a time 
when immunization rates have generally been decreasing across Africa. Malaria mortality and 
morbidity were reduced by more than 80% in the last four years, by far the best performance in 
SSA. Eritrea also has one of the best insecticide-treated nets (ITN) coverage in SSA. HIV/AIDS 
prevalence remains relatively low at 2.4% of pregnant women in 2003 (compared to 2.8% in 
2000). Over the same period, the number of reported sexually transmitted infections fell by a 
Page  2
quarter. In the last four years, Eritrea has initiated an excellent peer-led Behavior Change 
Communication (BCC) program as well as a successful condom promotion and distribution 
initiative. Blood safety has greatly improved with 100% of blood units screened for HIV.  
 
Notwithstanding such successes, the control of HIV/AIDS/STI, TB and malaria -- important 
causes of the burden of diseases (BoD) -- remains an unfinished agenda in Eritrea. Reproductive 
health, which has strong two-way links to HAMSET diseases, is a major health challenge and 
has not been successfully addressed. Below is a summary of the key challenges Eritrea is facing 
in HAMSET diseases
1
.
Further details can be found in Annexes x, y and z
.
HIV/AIDS:
Compared to other SSA countries, Eritrea’s adult HIV prevalence remains relatively 
low at 2.4% in 2003
2
.
However, the infection rate is very high in certain areas and populations. 
Geographically, HIV prevalence is much higher in the Assio/Tio cluster in the Southern Red Sea 
zone (7.2%), Edaga Hamus and Akaria clusters of the Maekel zone (4.5% and 4.1% respectively) 
and Massawa cluster of the Northern Red Sea zone (2.9%) than the national average. Socio-
economically, certain groups exhibit very high infection rates: bar, hotel or tea shop workers
3
(11.9%), housemaids or servants (9.5%), military or national service personnel (6.0%) and 
spouses of truck/bus drivers (4.0%). Demographically, unmarried urban women aged 15-24 are 
disproportionately affected (8%). These facts point to (i) the role of core transmitters in driving 
the epidemic and (ii) the threat of more generalized epidemic in urban areas. In order to avoid a 
full-scale epidemic, the country needs to intensify its efforts to prevent infection in high-risk 
groups and transmission between high-risk groups and the general population. Voluntary 
Counseling and Testing (VCT) and Prevention of Mother-to-Child Transmission (PMTCT) still 
require a major scale up, especially outside the capital area. Treatment, care and support for 
people living with HIV/AIDS (PLWHA) remains limited as it is estimated that only one in five 
PLWHA are receiving care and support.   
 
Malaria:
The epidemiology of malaria in Eritrea is very complex with different transmission 
patterns in different parts of the country.  The successful malaria control program has made 
Eritrea one of a few countries likely to meet both the Abuja Targets and the Roll Back Malaria 
Goals as discussed above. However, without continued vigorous control efforts, there is a 
significant risk of malaria outbreaks, especially as Eritrea’s neighboring countries have high 
malaria prevalence rates. In 2004, only 7.5% of under-five children with fever presented to 
health facilities received appropriate treatment within 24 hours according to national guidelines. 
The majority of fever cases are now treated at the community level by malaria health agents, but 
little is known about the quality of such treatment. Newer technologies and tools, such as long-
lasting insecticide-treated bed nets (LLINs) and Artemisinin-based Combination Therapy (ACT) 
will need to be evaluated and deployed appropriately. Efforts must be redoubled to target the 
most vulnerable, particularly pregnant women. 
 
1
From this point onward, in the context of HAMSET II, the term “HAMSET diseases” denotes HIV/AIDS, STI, 
TB, malaria and reproductive health diseases and conditions. 
2
Ministry of Health of Eritrea, 2004. HIV Prevention Impact in Eritrea: Results from the 2003 Round of HIV 
Sentinel Surveillance. Asmara, Eritrea.  
3
There are currently no statistics of the HIV/AIDS prevalence rate among clinical sex workers (CSW). It is likely 
that some of these hotel/bar/tea shops workers engage in commercial sex work. 
Page  3
Tuberculosis:
In 2004, MOH reported DOTS population coverage of 80%, a case detection rate 
of 70% and a treatment success rate of 82%. However, the TB recording and reporting system is 
not reliable and such statistics might not reflect the actual situation of TB control in Eritrea. The 
low proportion of smear positive cases (19%) and high proportion of smear negative pulmonary 
cases (65%) suggest problems with smear microscopy as well as over-reliance on radiology for 
TB diagnosis. The TB control program has been affected by inadequate capacity, weak 
supervision, lack of quality assurance as well as a limited information base for decision making. 
For these reasons, progress in TB control progress is lagging behind that in malaria and 
HIV/AIDS/STI.     
 
Reproductive health:
In 2002, while 70% of pregnant women had at least one ante-natal care 
(ANC) visit, only 28% were delivered by a skilled birth attendant. A very low 8% of women in 
the reproductive ages used modern contraceptive methods. The harmful practice of female 
genital mutilation (FGM) remains widespread with 89% prevalence in 2002. Accessibility, 
availability and quality of emergency obstetric care is limited. As a result, the maternal mortality 
ratio (MMR) remains very high at 998 per 100,000 live births, above the Sub-Saharan African 
(SSA) average. Disparity in reproductive health (RH) outcomes is large, with MMR in the 
Southern Red Sea zone (SRS) 30 times higher than that in the central zone. In summary, 
Eritrea’s RH indicators are among the worst in SSA and RH is an important outlier among an 
otherwise encouraging set of health indicators. 
 
Cross-cutting issues:
The cross-cutting issues identified in the HAMSET Project Appraisal 
Document are still relevant to varying extents. A highly mobile and disperse population provides 
a
challenge for the MOH to provide services. The lack of information for decision making has 
been addressed in malaria and, to some extent, in HIV/AIDS, but not in TB
4
and RH. The 
availability of sufficient health financing remains a great challenge for the sector. Little 
information is available on the effectiveness and efficiency of health expenditure. Coordination 
between the technical programs of the MOH remains weak, while collaboration across sectors 
has improved under HAMSET.  Shortage of qualified health staff, especially in remote areas, is 
still one of the most critical challenges, although the government has attempted to address this 
problem with (i) the establishment of the Orotta Medical School and (ii) scaling up the training 
of nurses, nurse assistants, public health workers and laboratory technicians (the latter supported 
in part by the IDA-financed Eritrea Health and HAMSET projects).  
 
Borrower’s policies and strategies:
 The Government of Eritrea (GoE) has formulated a draft 
health sector policy, which emphasizes equitable provision of basic health service to its people. 
Priority is given to the control of infectious diseases, especially HIV/AIDS/STI, TB and malaria, 
as well as the reduction of maternal mortality. With regard to specific HAMSET disease control 
programs, the country has developed and is implementing well-defined, comprehensive five-year 
strategic plans for HIV/AIDS/STI (2003-2007), TB (2004-2008) and malaria (the 2001-2005 
plan was successfully executed, the 2006-2010 plan has been adopted). Such strategic plans have 
provided the framework for the HAMSET project’s support. A National Strategic Plan for RH 
has not yet been prepared.  
 
4
The on-going TB prevalence survey financed by HAMSET, once completed, will provide useful information for 
TB control. 
Page  4
Borrower’s commitment and actions
:
The government is strongly committed to improving 
health in general and to the fight against HIV/AIDS/STI, TB and malaria in particular. This is a 
critical element behind Eritrea’s achievements in child health, malaria and HIV/AIDS as 
discussed above as well as the successful implementation of the on-going HAMSET project.  
HAMSET is the best performer in IDA portfolio in Eritrea. It also compares favorably with other 
IDA-financed MAP projects in the region. The Mid-Term Review of the HAMSET project 
concluded that the government has made impressive progress in the 
multi-sectoral control of 
HAMSET diseases
 (especially promoting healthy behavior though multi-level communication), 
strengthening HAMSET diagnostic, health care and counseling services
,
and 
community-based 
response
.
The strong leadership of the MoH and good collaboration with line ministries and civil 
society are the key to the good performance of this project.  
 
2. Objectives 
 
The project's development objectives are to: (i) contain the spread of HIV/AIDS/STI in high-risk 
groups as well as the general population through a focused multi-sectoral approach, with a 
renewed focus on the most high-risk populations, (ii) expand the coverage of Directly Observed 
Treatment (DOT), improve case detection and treatment outcomes for TB; (iii) further reduce 
malaria mortality and morbidity, and (iv) improve the coverage of Reproductive Health (RH) 
interventions. 
 
As HAMSET II supports the priorities and activities of the National Strategic Plans (NSP) for 
HAMSET diseases
5
,
the project has adopted selected indicators from the NSPs for HAMSET 
diseases as its key performance indicators.  
 
Key performance indicators 
End-of-project target 
HIV/AIDS/STI
 
-
HIV prevalence among CSWs and pregnant 
women aged 15-24 
 
-
Syphilis sero-prevalence among pregnant 
women 
-
Maintain HIV prevalence under 12% among 
CSWs and 3% among pregnant women aged 
15-24 
-
Reduce syphilis sero-prevalence among 
pregnant women from 1.6% to below 1%   
Tuberculosis 
-
Case detection rate 
 
-
Percentage of detected TB cases under 
Directly Observed Treatment  (DOT) 
-
Treatment success rate  
-
Detect at least 70% of infectious cases in the 
population 
-
Treat at least 80% of diagnosed TB case  with 
Direct Observed Treatment  
-
Successfully treat at least 85% of new smear 
positive cases 
Malaria
 
-
Further reduce malaria mortality and 
morbidity  
-
Reduce malaria morbidity by 30%  
-
Reduce malaria mortality by 50%   
Reproductive health  
5
In the context of HAMSET II, the terminology “HAMSET diseases” denotes HIV/AIDS/STI, TB, malaria and 
reproductive health.  
Page  5
-
Percentage of pregnant women who deliver 
with skilled birth attendance 
-
Facility-based maternal mortality audit 
-
Contraceptive Prevalence Rate 
-
Neonatal deaths 
-
Proportion of facilities offering post-abortion 
care 
-
Number of midwives 
-
Increase from 28% to 40%  
 
-
Audit 100% maternal deaths 
 - Increase from 4-8% to 10% 
-
Reduce from 25 to 20 deaths per 1,000 births  
-
Reduce by 25%  
 
-
Increase from 89 to 200 
3. 
Rationale for Bank involvement 
 
Implementation of the HAMSET project has been successful. With the prospect of the HAMSET 
credit being fully utilized soon, it is important to maintain the momentum in addressing 
HAMSET diseases and to scale up success.  As a very poor country going through a 
macroeconomic crisis, Eritrea is unable to raise adequate domestic resources for this purpose. 
Although Eritrea was allocated modest amounts of US$ 8.1 million for HIV/AIDS and US$ 2.6 
million for malaria by the Global Fund (GFATM), the country receives very little external 
financing for the health sector and thus IDA support is critical.   
 
IDA’s contribution to health sector development in Eritrea has been significant and has evolved 
over the years.  The recently closed Health project and the nearly fully disbursed HAMSET 
project both supported the implementation of key priorities for the sector.  Policy dialogue 
started within the context of the implementation of these projects has continued. Another pivotal 
development was the preparation of the Health Sector Note (Report No. 28267-ER, 2001) which 
formed the basis of the government’s health sector policy preparation. IDA is the largest external 
financier of the health sector and the few other donors typically provide supporting technical 
assistance (excluding the GFATM).   
 
4. Description 
 
The project’s total cost is estimated at US$ 26 million. This includes a US$ 24 million grant 
from IDA, US$ 1.5 million
6
from the GoE and US$ 0.5 million from the communities. The 
project has four components: 
 
Multi-Sectoral Response (US$ 3 million)
:
This component supports key (non-health) line 
ministries, local governments and civil society organizations at both national and zoba level to 
scale up prevention (especially stigma reduction and behavior change communication or BCC), 
care and support interventions for HIV/AIDS/STIs, malaria, TB and RH. The multi-sectoral 
response will be more focused than under HAMSET, and priority will be given to (i) the most 
crucial sectors and implementers, especially those who have demonstrated their ability to deliver 
under HAMSET and (ii) evidence-based interventions targeting high-risk, vulnerable groups. 
Thus, the work plans will be subject to a competitive appraisal process with a set of clear 
eligibility criteria. These criteria reflect the project’s priorities and take into account various 
factors such as the emergence of new effective organizations, implementers’ comparative 
6
This is a tentative number. 
Page  6
advantages, past performance as well as their compliance with M&E requirements. There will be 
no “hardware” activities (e.g. construction) under this component.    
 
For both national and zoba implementers, the project will support the development, 
implementation and M&E of their annual integrated HAMSET work plans which are to be 
prepared by October of each year for allocations to cover the following calendar year.  A work 
plan is expected to reflect the priorities of each sector or locality and the immediate needs of the 
most high-risk, vulnerable groups in its constituency. 
 
Health Sector Response (US$ 14 million):
 This has five sub-components – HIV/AIDS/STI 
(US$ 3 million), TB (US$ 2 million), malaria (US$ 2 million), RH (US$ 4 million) and Human 
Resources for Health (US$ 3 million). Each of the first four sub-components will comprise three 
activity categories: 
 
(a) Improve the information base for decision making:
 The project will support disease 
surveillance and reporting, surveys and operational research. Priority is given to (i) 
routine disease reporting over “drop-in” surveys; (ii) activities that build up in-country 
capacity and make use of existing mechanisms such as the Integrated Disease 
Surveillance system of the MOH; and (iii) practical operational research. For each of the 
HAMSET diseases, one major undertaking for the health sector response is to coordinate 
a
mapping exercise of high risk groups and the current coverage of interventions to 
identify strategic populations and areas for targeted interventions.   
(b) Scale up prevention interventions
:
The project will support the MOH (in close 
collaborating with other sectors and the communities) to scale up the successful BCC 
program for HIV/AIDS under HAMSET and, wherever appropriate, expand it to cover 
all HAMSET diseases in one integrated message.  The project will also support other 
effective non-BCC prevention interventions for HAMSET diseases. Details are 
elaborated in the Annexes on the project description and for each disease.  
(c)  Scale up diagnostic, treatment, care and support services:
 The project aims to help the 
MOH improve the availability, accessibility and utilization of quality services for the 
diagnosis, treatment, care and support services for HAMSET diseases.  
 
Human resources for HAMSET diseases (US$ 3 M):
 HAMSET II will improve its human 
resources for the fight against HAMSET diseases by supporting the development and 
implementation of an overall HRH policy and strategic plan. This will not be limited to pre-
service and in-service training.  This sub-component will address other systemic HRH issues 
such as HRH management, retainment and deployment, the piloting of incentive mechanisms 
for HAMSET service providers, etc.  
 
Community Managed HAMSET Response Program (US$ 4 million)
:
As a continuation of 
HAMSET’s Community-Managed HAMSET Response Program (CMHRP), this component 
aims to scale up and consolidate community initiatives to address HAMSET diseases, applying a 
community-driven development (CDD) approach which also builds human and social capital at 
the community level. Learning from the HAMSET experience, CMHRP will focus on (i) 
targeting the most vulnerable and high risk groups with effective interventions; (ii) strengthening 
the links, coordination, and synergies between community subprojects and activities by other 
Page  7
implementers; (iii) empowering communities to take charge of their health; (iv) strategically 
providing capacity development along with project implementation; and (v) ensuring effective 
use of resources. It has two sub-components.   
 
Community Sub-projects
 
(US$ 3.5 M):
 This subcomponent would finance demand-driven 
initiatives that directly address more than one HAMSET disease and are managed by the 
communities themselves.  Particular emphasis would be given to prevention (especially BCC),  
home and community-based care and support for HAMSET diseases, and support for orphans. 
An “open menu” of guiding principles will be used to help communities choose effective 
interventions and, at the same time, allow innovations and flexibility.  
 
Community Capacity Development (US$ 0.5 M): 
 This subcomponent will support activities to 
(i) mobilize communities; (ii) help communities to identify their HAMSET problems, and to 
develop appropriate subprojects to address them; (iii) train communities in participatory 
planning, subproject management and reporting; (iv) apply the RRI approach in community 
subprojects and (v) monitor and evaluate sub-projects, including participatory assessments to 
obtain feedback from beneficiaries. These activities will be provided throughout the project cycle 
by CMHRP in collaboration with other implementing partners. They will target community 
facilitators, peer groups, and Community Management Teams (CMTs).  
 
Project Management and Coordination, Capacity Building, M&E, and Innovation and New 
Policy Development (US$ 3 million)
:
This has four sub-components. 
 
(a) Project management and coordination (US$ 1 M):
 This will cover the operating costs of 
the existing national and zonal Project Management Units (PMU) as well as the costs for 
coordination of project activities at the central level.   
(b) 
 
Capacity building (US$ 0.5 M):
 
This aims to mobilize and build the capacity of non-
health cadres (e.g. in non-health sectors, communities, and local governments) in 
planning, management and implementation of project activities. The project will promote 
knowledge sharing and the dissemination of best practices among the implementers. 
(c) 
M&E (US$ 1 M):
 While the Health Sector Response Component supports 
epidemiological and behavioral surveillance, disease reporting, etc. (the outcome and 
impact aspects of the overall M&E framework), this sub-component focuses on cross-
cutting, operational aspects of M&E. These include the development and implementation 
of a comprehensive M&E system and the use of data to improve program management 
and decision making. Details are further discussed in section C3 and the Annex on M&E. 
 
(d) Innovation and New Policy Development (US$ 0.5 M):
 This sub-component supports the    
development, piloting and evaluation of innovative approaches in service delivery which  
can then be used for system-wide application; for example, incentive mechanisms for 
service providers and users, conditional cash transfers for maternal and child health, a 
community report card of HAMSET services, preparation work for a possible SWAP, 
etc.    
 
Page  8
5. Financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 5.1 
IDA GRANT FOR POST-CONFLICT 
24.0 
LOCAL COMMUNITIES 
.9 
 Total 
30.0 
 
6. Implementation 
 
The project will be implemented nationally in all 6 zobas (districts). Mapping of high-risk and 
vulnerable groups in each of the zobas will help identify hot spots and geographic areas of 
priority. Special attention will be given to (i) Asmara, Assab and Massawa for HIV/AIDS/STI; 
(ii) Gash-Barka, Debub, and parts of Maekel for malaria; (iii) Northern and Southern Red Sea 
zobas for tuberculosis; and (iv) rural areas, especially those of  Northern and Southern Red Sea 
zobas for reproductive health. 
 
Strategy and Oversight: 
Two high-level institutions have a strategic and oversight role in the 
control of HAMSET diseases in the country. The National HAMSET Steering Committee 
(NSC), chaired by the Minister of Health, provides strategic direction and approves the annual 
work program and budget of the HAMSET implementing partners. The Global Fund Country 
Coordinating Mechanism (CCM), chaired by the Minister of National Development serves a 
similar function for the GFATM work program in Eritrea and has almost an identical 
composition (with the exclusion of the Zoba governors and the inclusion of UN agencies)
7
.
Implementation: 
The project will be implemented by the Ministry of Health, selected non-
health line ministries, national and local civil society organizations, and community groups. A 
Project Management Unit will facilitate the implementation of the project. As a small country, 
Eritrea has been very effective in decentralizing project implementation with project 
Coordinating committees (Technical and Steering) and Project Management Units represented at 
the central and regional levels. HAMSET II will build upon the strong implementation 
arrangements established under HAMSET. 
 
National level Coordination & Implementation: 
Project Management Unit: 
reports to the Minister of Health, and is responsible for various 
aspects of project management such as financial management, procurement and facilitation 
support to the implementing agencies. Under HAMSET II, the project will recruit a Project 
Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist to support the Ministry of Health in project monitoring and 
evaluation. The 
Community Managed Response Program
 will also initially be managed from 
within the PMU, and will establish close working relations with all the multisectoral 
implementers, and units within the Ministry of Health (including the Health Promotion Unit). 
 
National Technical Committee (NTC):
 comprises the key implementing partners at the national 
level. Chaired by the Director General of Health Services of the MOH, the NTC reviews plans 
and activities of implementing partners and addresses strategic implementation and coordination 
7
It was felt by stakeholders during the MTR that the two committees were appropriate for  specific tasks, and 
merging them would not add value to either HAMSET or the GFATM work program. 
Page  9
issues. Under HAMSET II the NTC will be downsized to fewer (less than 10) members, 
representing only implementing agencies that have strategic roles to play in meeting the project 
development objectives. Representatives to the NTC will be at least at Director level. 
 
Non-Health Line Ministries and Civil Society Partners: 
As in HAMSET, the non-health 
ministries and civil society partners will target their activities to specific target groups (i.e. 
National Association of Eritrean Workers will focus on workplace advocacy, Ministry of Labour 
and Social welfare will focus on orphans and commercial sex workers, etc).  
 
Core Multisectoral Agencies  
 
Supporting Agencies: 
Ministry of Education 
National Association of Eritrean Workers 
Ministry of Defense 
National Association of Eritrean Youth 
Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare 
Faith Based Organizations 
Ministry of Local Government 
Ministry of Information 
National Association of Eritrean Women 
 
BIDOH (PLWHA) 
Others (on a competitive basis) 
Ministry of Health
:
Many of the units of the Ministry of Health will be active in HAMSET II, 
and will be expected to (i) implement health-sector HAMSET activities relating to HAMSET 
diseases and (ii) provide technical guidance on non-health and community interventions. Under 
HAMSET II, attention will be paid to strengthening the management of disease programs and 
supporting broader community participation. 
 
Ministry of Health Unit 
 
Responsible Area 
National HIV/AIDS/STI and Tuberculosis Control Division 
(NATCoD) 
HIV/AIDS and TB 
National Malaria Control Program 
Malaria 
Primary Heath Care 
Reproductive Health 
Epidemiology and Research Unit 
Monitoring and Evaluation 
Research & Human Resource Development Department
8
Training of health staff  
Health Promotion Unit (HPU) 
Behavior Change 
Communication (BCC) 
Zoba level Coordination and Implementation: 
largely mirrors the institutional arrangements at 
the national level.
 
Zoba Coordinating Committee
 
(ZCC)
 provides oversight and strategic direction and is led by 
Zonal Governors/Administrators. Under HAMSET only 3 Zobas had established a ZCC, but 
under HAMSET II all Zobas will be expected to establish a Coordinating Committee. To 
improve project governance and transparency (particularly of Community Managed Responses), 
the committees will be expanded to include elected councilors. The ZCC will be strengthened in 
HAMSET II to play its policy and oversight role to guide implementers in developing effective 
and integrated interventions.  
8
New in HAMSET II. 
Page  10
Zonal Project Management Units
 report to the Zonal Administration (Governor’s Office) and 
include a Project Officer, Community Facilitator and an accountant. Under HAMSET II, the 
ZPMU will take on a stronger role in programmatic monitoring and evaluation, in supervision of 
community interventions and coordinating capacity building activities.  
 
Zonal Technical Committee (ZTC)
 is chaired by the Zonal Medical Officer and will be reduced 
in size to include only key implementers (including Ministry of Health, select multisectoral 
implementers and PMU). However the membership in the ZTC should be flexible and responsive 
to Zoba priorities. The ZTC will be strengthened as a technical body, and will be encouraged to 
support development and implementation of Zoba level integrated workplan that are responsive 
to local targeting priorities (as identified through mapping and LQAS activities) and reviewing, 
and approving community subprojects.   
 
Non-Health Line Ministries and Civil Society Partners: 
Multi-sectoral partners in HAMSET II  
will work with the Zoba Technical Committee and with their central ministry to develop strategic 
workplans. Where community capacity is weak, it is expected that multi-sectoral partners may 
provide facilitation support to communities. The Zoba Administration (Ministry of Local 
Government) will have a valuable role to play, with the Zonal PMU, in coordination between 
implementers and outreach to communities.    
 
Zonal Health Management Office: 
Under the leadership of the Zonal Medical Officer, the units 
of the Zonal Health Management office will be coordinated to implement workplans that respond 
to the targeting priorities identified through mapping and LQAS data. The Health Promotion 
Unit has the additional functions of (i) coordinating the Behavior Change Communication 
activities by establishing and facilitating Peer Groups and (ii) providing, in coordination with the 
ZPMU, support to the Community Managed Response Component.  In order to scale up the BCC 
activities, the HPU will work with a cadre of BCC Coordinators to work directly with the peer 
groups.  
 
Community Management Teams (CMT): 
comprise of community members who plan, prepare 
and implement subprojects. Under HAMSET II, there will an emphasis on (i) reaching 
vulnerable groups and (ii) scaling up BCC groups. These CMT will benefit from additional 
capacity building under HAMSET II. 
 
Coordination and Planning
:
HAMSET II will emphasize (i) improved communication (including 
supervision, reporting, and sharing experiences) between national and Zoba level implementers 
and (ii) integrated planning at the national and regional level.  
 
7. Sustainability 
 
Institutional and capacity sustainability
.
The Government of Eritrea, with the support of 
development partners including IDA, has mobilized different sectors, mass organizations and 
communities to increase their capacity to respond to HAMSET diseases in a multi-sectoral 
approach. It is highly likely that even after the project, the social capital as well as the sectoral 
and community capacity built with HAMSET II contributions will continue.  
Page  11
For the health sector, the project would increase the institutional capacity to develop policies, 
implement programs, collect and analyze data as well as monitor and evaluate the effectiveness 
of interventions. HAMSET diseases require a long-term effort to be controlled effectively. This 
increased institutional capacity would enhance sector sustainability by enabling a long-term, 
well-targeted, and multi-sectoral disease response.  
 
Technical sustainability: 
 In its multi-sectoral and community responses, HAMSET II rely on the 
Behavior Change Communication methodology. The advantage of peer groups and BCC 
approaches is that they are, by definition, sustainable -- relying on highly cost-effective modes of 
spreading prevention messages.   
 
Financial sustainability
:
Although HAMSET’s approach is to focus on “software” and minimize 
the financing of recurrent costs, financial sustainability in the short and medium-terms is unlikely 
given the current macroeconomic crisis and very limited domestic resources for health in Eritrea. 
However, the control of communicable diseases such as HAMSET can be considered public 
goods and its high return justifies the investment despite the unlikely financial sustainability. In 
addition, it is likely that Eritrea would be able to access more resources from a wider range of 
development partners as macro-policies and fiscal transparency continue to improve. Thus, the 
capacity of HAMSET to demonstrate results will be crucial.  Long-term financial sustainability 
ultimately rests with Eritrea’s ability to raise and allocate domestic resources for health in 
general and HAMSET diseases in particular.  
 
8.  Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector 
 
HAMSET as the foundation of the new project
:
HAMSET is a success and provides a solid 
foundation for HAMSET II. Key findings of the HAMSET MTR are incorporated in the design 
of HAMSET II and successful interventions such as malaria control, RRI, BCC under HAMSET 
will be the basis for scaling up under the repeater project. Project design will be further fine-
tuned as new lessons from HAMSET emerge.  Key cross-cutting lessons from the MTR of the 
HAMSET project include: (i) a simple, functional M&E system which incorporates regular 
feedback is crucial for decision making and program management; (ii) communities can be 
mobilized for disease control efforts and behavior change, but they need to take charge and 
community initiatives need to be genuinely community driven, and (iii) all implementers 
(especially those at the local levels) need to give priority to the most effective interventions.  
 
The need for a renewed focus on targeted interventions for high-risk groups:
 Currently, HIV 
prevalence in Eritrea is highly concentrated among certain high-risk groups such as CSWs, truck 
drivers, bar/tea houses/hotel workers, conscripts and those living in urban hot spots. Evidence 
from other countries at the same stage of the epidemic shows that halting the spread of the 
infection among these groups significantly attenuates wider scale heterosexual transmission. 
Evidence from HAMSET shows that targeting high risk groups in Eritrea is feasible. For this 
reason, one of the key feature of the design of HAMSET II is a renewed focus on interventions 
aimed to halt transmission of HIV/AIDS among high-risk populations and between such groups 
and the general population. This approach is also relevant for other HAMSET diseases such as 
malaria and RH, where mortality and morbidity differentials are very large between different 
Page  12
socio-economic and rural/urban groups and thus targeted interventions for the most vulnerable 
groups are appropriate. Successfully reaching these populations is thus strategically vital, and 
requires action from multiple sectors and actors as well as locally driven programs and 
responses. 
 
Other disease-specific lessons from HAMSET
:
These include: (i) strengthening management 
capacity and technical skills of health staff working in TB control; (ii) vigorous malaria control 
efforts needs to be continued to avoid the re-emergence of malaria outbreaks; (iii) the links 
between reproductive health and HIV/AIDS/STI and malaria are two-way and cannot be 
adequately addressed without improving RH services themselves; and (iv) the commonality and 
synergy of interventions for HAMSET diseases could be further exploited, especially in primary 
health care. 
 
Lessons from the Eritrea Health Project:
 The draft ICR for the recently closed IDA-supported 
Eritrea Health Project
9
emphasizes the importance of realistic and focused project development 
objectives which have clear links to project components and activities (a clear 
input-output-
outcome
 production chain)
.
It also points to the need for a balance between “hardware” and 
“software” activities. IDA support in malaria control and blood safety under the Health Project 
was shown to be very cost-effective
.
9. 
Safeguard Policies (including public consultation) 
 
Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project
 
Yes
 
No
 
Environmental Assessment
(
OP
/
BP
/
GP
4.01) [x] 
[ 
] 
Natural Habitats (
OP
/
BP
4.04)
 
[
]
[x] 
Pest Management (
OP 4.09
)
[x] [ 
] 
Cultural Property (
OPN 11.03
,
being revised as OP 4.11)
 
[
]
[x] 
Involuntary Resettlement (
OP
/
BP
4.12)
 
[
]
[x] 
Indigenous Peoples (
OD 4.20
,
being revised as OP 4.10)
 
[
]
[x] 
Forests (
OP
/
BP
4.36)
 
[
]
[x] 
Safety of Dams (
OP
/
BP
4.37)
 
[
]
[x] 
Projects in Disputed Areas (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
7.60)
*
[
]
[x] 
Projects on International Waterways (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
7.50)
 
[
]
[x] 
10. List of Factual Technical Documents 
 
·
Monitoring and Evaluation Framework for HIV 
·
TB 5Year National Strategic Plan 
·
Proceedings of the Seventh National Annual Assessment Malaria workshop March 2004 
·
National Strategic Plan on HIV/AIDS/STIs  2003-2007 
9
Eritrea Health Project (IDA credit US$ 21.1 million, effective May 1998, closed December 2004) supported (i) 
expansion of secondary care in two of the six regions, (ii) strengthening rural primary health care nationally, (iii)  
development of national blood bank services, and (iv) capacity building. 
*
By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims on the 
disputed areas
 
Page  13
11. Contact point 
 
Contact: Christopher D. Walker 
Title: Lead Health Specialist 
Tel: (202) 458-0729 
Fax: (202) 473-8299 
Email: Cwalker@worldbank.org 
 
12. For more information contact: 
 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-5454 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
