FILE-COp
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use
Report No. P-1606-BD
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
FOR THE
BARISAL IRRIGATION PROJECT
April 9, 1975
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published,
quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept
responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS-
(as of February 28, 1975)
Currency Unit       = Bangladesh Taka (Tk)
US$1.00             = Tk. 7.8
Tk. 1                  US$0.128
Tk. 1 million       = US$128,000
US$ 1 million       = Tk. 7,800,000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES EQUIVALENTS
1 acre              = 0.405 hectare (ha)
1 mile              =  1.609 kilometres
1 sq. mile          =  640 acres
=  259 ha
1 foot              =  30.5 centimetres
1 maund (md)        =  82.3 lbs.
=  37.3 kg.
1 long ton          =  1.016 metric tons
=  27.2 md
1 cu. ft. per                 3
second         =  0.028 m /second
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS USED
BADC      - Bangladesh Agricultural Development Corporation
CEC       -  Central Evaluation Committee
HYV       - High Yielding Varieties (of rice)
IPIC      -  Interdepartmental Project Implementation Committee
IRDP      -  Integrated Rural Development Program
TCCA      -  Thana Central Cooperatives Association
TTDC      - Thana Training and Development Center
WDB       - Water Development Board
GLOSSARY
Aman      -  Rice planted before or during monsoon and harvested
in November or December.
Aus       -  Rice planted during March and April and harvested
during July and August.
Boro      - Rice planted in winter and harvested during the period
April to June.
Thana     -  Smallest administrative unit of Bangladesh Government
of which there are 413. Six or seven thanas form a
sub-division, three or four sub-divisions form a
district, and there are 19 districts in the country.
FISCAL YEAR
ends June 30
The Taka is officially valued at 18.9677 to the pound sterling.  The
pound now floats relative to the US Dollar with the result that the
Taka - US Dollar rate is subject to change. The exchange rate used
for the purposes of preparing data for this report is US$1 to Tk. 8.0,
except where stated to the contrary.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH FOR THE
BARISAL IRRIGATION PROJECT
*  1.     I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the People's Republic of Bangladesh for the equivalent
of US$27 million on standard IDA terms, to help finance an irrigation
development project in the vicinity of the city of Barisal.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A Basic Economic Report on Bangladesh, entitled "Bangladesh:
Development in a Rural Economy" (Report No. 455b-BD, dated September 15,
1974) has been distributed to the Executive Directors. The Basic Report
and a follow-up mission in September 1974 delineated a number of critical
areas where the Government needed to take action in the short-run. These
are discussed in the ensuing paragraphs. The first meeting of the Aid Group
for Bangladesh in Paris on October 24 and 25, 1974 indicated that donors shared
the Bank's view of the need for the Government of Bangladesh to take action
in these areas. An economic updating mission was recently in the field.
It assessed the progress made in response to the views expressed by the
Bank at the Aid Group meeting. The mission's Report is expected to be
available for distribution to the Aid Group and the Executive Directors in
the first half of April, 1975. Annex I contains the country data.
Background
3.        The Basic Economic Report describes the obstacles to development
in Bangladesh and outlines a course of action to maximize the country's
limited development prospects. The high ratio of population to natural
resources, the slow development of the productive-and infrastructural base
and the weakness of the administrative and institutional framework led the
Report to project a growth rate of GDP over the next five years of between
2% and 3.5% per year in real terms only, the variation within that range
depending on the appropriateness of the policy framework and on levels of
aid. This compares with an expected population growth of about 3% per year
so that, even under the most optimistic assumptions, per capita GDP --
already one of the lowest in the world -- is not likely to rise by more than
0.5% per year during the period ending in 1977/78.
4.        Encouraging progress was made in the period immediately following
Bangladesh's independence as an enthusiastic Government, supported by
massive external assistance, strove to overcome the devastations of the
cyclone of 1970 and the struggle for independence in 1971. Large amounts
of food aid were distributed, refugees were resettled, vital port, road and



- 2 -
rail facilities were brought back into operation, a new constitution was
adopted, and the first national elections, held in March 1973, brought
Sheik Mujibur Rahman's Awami League party into power with an overwhelming
parliamentary majority.
5.        But such achievements pall in the face of the problems which
remain to be solved. The country is desperately poor, with a per capita
income of only about US$70, and overcrowded, with more than 1,400 people
per square mile. Continued population growth puts ever-Increasing strains
on a nation lacking most basic resources. Bangladesh remains extremely
vulnerable to the devastations of both drought and flood. Stocks of
raw materials and spare parts are very low, many staple consumer items
continue to be scarce or simply not available, and inflationary pressures are
a serious continuing problem. Law and order deteriorated in both rural and
urban areas during 1973 and early 1974. In March and April 1974 there
were civil disturbances in Dacca. The problem became severe again late
in 1974 and contributed to the Government's decision to declare a State of
Emergency in December. On January 25, 1975, the Constitution was amended
to provide for a presidential system of government with greater power
concentrated in the Office of the President. It was stated that one of
tne reasons for the change was to be able to deal more effectively with the
law and order situation.
6.        With the attention of policy-makers focused on the immediate
short-term needs, especially on ensuring an adequate food supply, and on
the preparation of the First Five Year Plan, many fundamental policy decisions
concerning such issues as pricing of external resources and capital and the
widespread subsidies, on which realization of the Plan itself was based,
were not taken. Drought and other natural factors also undermined recovery
efforts, bringing 1972/73 per capita GDP down to 80-85% of 1969/70 levels.
Substantial increases in production during 1973/74 brought GDP closer to
the 1969/70 level. However, severe flooding in July-August 1974 reduced
rice production. In addition, the foreign exchange crisis slowed down the
flow of imports and thus industrial recovery. Output in 1974/75 is estimated
to be lower than in the previous year. Per capita income today stands at
20% below the level attained in the late 1960's.
7.        Even a healthy, well-managed economy would have been badly hurt
by the adverse shift in the terms of trade which Bangladesh experienced
during 1973/74.   For Bangladesh the impact has been severe.   As discussed in
more detail in paragraph 17 below, while the average prices of Bangladesh's
imports rose by some 65%, the average price of exports rose by less than 6%
and export volumes did not reach projected levels, so that the gap between
foreign exchange expenditures and receipts widened rapidly. Early in the
summer of 1974, Bangladesh sought assistance from a number of donors to
ease this crisis and asked the Bank to form an Aid Group to raise additional
resources. The already critical balance of payments situation was made
far worse when floods of record levels struck the country, inflicting wide-
spread human misery, decreasing crop production and increasing the need for
.ood imports.  At the Aid Group meeting held in Paris on October 24 and 25,
1974, members gave indications of new aid they were prepared to commit for
19 4/75.



-3-
8.        Bangladesh is in an extremely difficult situation.   While import
prices have risen much faster than export prices, Bangladesh, as the
paragraphs below indicate, remains dependent on substantial food imports
even in years of favorable weather. Meanwhile its volume of jute exports
has recently declined. The import-dependent industrial sector has been
starved for raw materials and spare parts and must operate well below capa-
city. During the October Aid Group meeting discussions took place concerning
the need for Government action to improve the farmgate price of jute vis-a-
vis rice, accelerate implementation of aid financed projects and increase
internal procurement of food for the ration system. The policy changes
cited above are critical to successful development in Bangladesh, but their
adoption will not reduce the dependence for the foreseeable future on
substantial quantities of aid, especially program aid.
Agricultural Production
9.        The gravest problem confronting the Government has been, and is,
the food situation. The 1970/71 crops were poor and the crop of December
1971 was disrupted by the war. Large-scale foodgrain imports of about 1
million tons during the first six months of 1972 prevented famine. Imports
continued at record levels during 1972/73, but as the table below indicates,
drought reduced local production of rice, so that estimated per capita
foodgrain availabilities remained well below 1969/70 levels. This, combined
with internal transport difficulties, and smuggling of foodgrains into India,
led to a 50% rise in food prices over the year. Foodgrain production in
1973/74 reached a near record of about 11.8 million tons, an increase of
about 18% over 1972/73 levels, due primarily to very favorable weather and
continued increases in the use of high-yielding varieties. Foodgrain pro-
duction in 1974/75 was greatly reduced by the floods and by an acute shortage
of urea fertilizer. It is expected to be substantially below the target
of 13.1 million tons and even below the 1973/74 crop.
FOODGRAIN PRODUCTION, IMPORTS AND AVAILABILITY
1969/70   1972/73   1973/74    1974/75
Production (mn. tons)                 11.9      10.0      11.8       11.5
Net available (mn. tons) /a           10.7       9.0      10.6       10.3
Imports (mn. tons)                     1.5       2.8       1.7       2.3
Total available (mn. tons)            12.2      11.8      12.3       12.6 /b
Total available per capita
(oz. per day)                       17.1      15.4      15.6      15.7
/a   Excluding seed, feed and waste; excludes changes in stocks, for which
accurate data are not available.
/b   This includes stock build-up of 0.2 million tons.



-4-
10.       In spite of the increase in foodgrain production in 1973/74, sub-
stantial foodgrain imports were required both because production was not
as great as anticipated and because the Government's domestic rice procure-
ment program had little success, leaving the public rationing system almost
entirely dependent on imported supplies. A build-up of domestic stocks by
farmers, hoarding by dealers and smuggling continued to reduce the amounts
available on the open market. As a result, the domestic price of rice rose
rapidly in the early months of 1974, from Tk. 87 per maund (US$0.13 per lb.)
in January to Tk. 130 per maund (US$0.20 per lb.) in April. The Government,
in response, placed orders for large amounts of foodgrain (wheat) imports
at prices some 90% higher than the previous year's. The composition of
available aid was such that much of these imports had to be financed from
the Government's own cash resources. When the Government realized in May
1974 the effect these orders were having on its foreign exchange reserves
many orders were postponed. Food imports in 1973/74 amounted to about 1.7
million tons, significantly below 1972/73 imports, but which resulted in
drawing down much more of the nation's foreign exchange than had been expected.
The floods of mid 1974 exacerbated the situation, destroying 750,000 - 1.2
million tons of grain. The lack of a buffer stock, the depletion of foreign
exchange, the crop damage, the failure of aid shipments to arrive in time,
and the increase in relief needs led to a famine situation and the deaths
of 20,000-30,000 people. Since November 1974, foodgrain arrivals have
picked up and imports are expected to reach 2.3 million tons by the end
of 1974/75. The Government launched a Special Agricultural Rehabilitation
Program (SARP) to expand output of winter crops to moderate the effects of
the floods but it was largely unsuccessful due to a failure to procure seeds
in time.
11.       Estimates of the Aman rice crop by the Ministry of Agriculture
put the yield at about 6 million tons. This would be below last year's crop
by about 700,000 tons. The Government has intensified its procurement
drive and taken punitive measures against hoarding and smuggling. It is
estimated that procurement out of the Aman crop may equal 140,000 tons
(double that of 1973/74) while it may be possible to procure another 60,000
tons out of the Boro crop. Rice prices however have not declined from the
very high levels that obtained in early 1974/75. They had increased from
Tk. 168 per maund in July to over Tk. 200 per maund (US$0.31 per lb.) in
early August 1974, and to Tk. 360 per maund (US$0.56 per lb.) by October
1974, but by early November they had declined to Tk. 280 per maund (US$0.43
per lb.). This decline was reversed recently and the price of rice has
already climbed to Tk. 330 per maund in January and February 1975 and may
not fall during the remainder of the current fiscal year. High levels of
foodgrain imports seem to be inevitable for the next few years, representing
a considerable drain on the foreign exchange resources of the country. In
the longer run, productivity should be increased by increasing fertilizer
use, better water control, more research and use of new high-yielding
varieties, and improvements in farm extension work.
12.       The rapid increase in the price of rice over the past two and a
half years has increased the profitability of cultivating rice relative to



-5-
jute, Bangladesh's second most important crop-and the source of about 85%
of its foreign exchange earnings. Consequently, farmers have shifted out
of jute into rice cultivation, bringing production of jute and similar
fibers in 1973/74 down to about 6.0 million bales, well below the 1972/73
level of 6.6 million bales. The relative price of jute continued to
deteriorate throughout 1973/74, and as a consequence the 1974/75 jute crop
was about 4.2 million bales. Because of the large-stock carryover into
1974/75, there has been no supply shortage of raw jute and as jute goods
production and exports have fallen, a carryover of 1.4 million bales will
be available-for 1975/76. To prevent a further reduction in raw jute
production in 1975/76, steps are needed to increase the domestic. jute
procurement price. However, the Government's jute policy announced in
March 1975 does not set a minimum price for jute. Jute problems are com-
pounded currently by inadequate primary and secondary collection centers,
a serious lack of and deterioratioft in storage space, and shipping
difficulties. In the longer run more effective extension of improved jute
cultivation techniques and an intensive research effort will be essential
if jute is to become competitive with rice cultivation at home and synthetic
substitutes abroad.
Industrial Production
13.       Many components of the industrial- sector registered substantial
increases in output during 1973/74, due primarily to increased availability
of essential imported raw materials and spare parts and to reduced labor
unrest. Program lending by IDA and other donors was instrumental in making
additional imports available. Nevertheless, production for most industries
was well below 1973/74 targets and for many industries even below 1969/70
actual levels. Towards the end of 1973/74 shortages of raw materials and
spare parts emerged again, bringing monthly production rates in many indus-
-tries below those achieved earlier in the year. With imports constrained
and with continuing inflation threatening to upset an uneasy peace with
labor, the outlook for the industrial sector in 1974/75 looks far from bright.
During the first half of 1974/75 industrial production did not show much
improvement over the previous year and capacity utilization rates remain
quite low. As a result of the balance of payment crisis experienced during
the first half, actual industrial imports during the second half may be
adversely affected. In particular, the jute industry, employing about
200,000 workers and contributing more than half of Bangladesh's export
earnings, is now in dire financial straits due to rising domestic costs and
sluggish world demand for jute products. The low level of industrial output
has been one of the major factors contributing to high levels of inflation
in the country. Although limited availability of imported spare parts
and raw materials has been detrimental to industry recovery, other factors
have equally contributed to poor performance. The inadequacy of infra-
structure facilities, especially power and transportation, continue to
hamper efficiency in most industries.



- 6 -
The First Five Year Plan and the 1974/75 Annual Plan
14.       The changes in Bangladesh's terms of trade in the past year and
the effects of last year's floods have rendered the First Five Year Plan's
financial and economic projections and development program almost completely
out of date. The Five Year Plan, however, remains useful as an indicator
of broad policy options. Within this broad framework major revisions will
have to be made. The 1974/75 Annual Plan, prepared in the midst of the
emerging crisis, provides no specific guideline for restructuring the
development program in the light of the dramatic change in the terms of
trade. Already, however, the implications of the past year are clear: a
much less ambitious development program (and hence rate of growth) will
require more resources, foreign and domestic, than projected for the
original, larger program. Foreign resources are not the only constraint.
Domestic resources have not been mobilized at anything like the levels
envisaged in the Five Year Plan, while rapid domestic price increases have
raised the requirements for domestic finance for both the current and
development budgets. As a result, substantial deficit financing (Tk. 1.8
billion as opposed to the planned Tk. 0.2 billion) was required in 1973/74
merely to achieve a level of development expenditures lower in current prices,
and far lower, in real terms, than originally projected. In fact, the level
of development expenditures in 1973/74 was some 28% below that of 1972/73 in
real terms. The budgetary deficit has in turn contributed to the nearly 20%
expansion in money supply during the year and further fueled domestic infla-
tion. It seems now that development expenditures in 1974/75 are unlikely
to exceed 1973/74 levels in nominal terms and thus would be much lower in
real terms.
Trade and Balance of Payments
15.       During 1973/74, the average cost of imports rose by about 65% over
that of the previous year, so that the import bill of US$920 million bought
less, in real terms, than the US$680 million spent on imports in the depressed
year of 1972/73. The volume of non-food imports, while greater than in 1972/
73, continued to be inadequate to lift industrial production back to 1969/70
levels. Export performance was also far from satisfactory. W4hile export
prices began to rise in the latter part of the year, they did not rise as
fast as import prices and because most of Bangladesh's exports are shipped
on a deferred payment basis, their impact on earnings was postponed. More-
over, export volume did not improve substantially. Aa a result, the total
value of exports in 1973/74 amounted to only about US$318 million, in con-
trast to the target of US$400 million.
16.       As the gap between Bangladesh's imports and exports grew during
1973/74, reserve_ dropped sharply despite substantial, short-term borrowings
and a drawing of US$35 million from the IMF. When the emerging foreign
exchange crisis became evident in May 1974, the Government sharply restricted
imports which, while easing the short-term crisis, implied low levels of



-7-
industrial production in the near future as supplies of imported inputs
dwindled.
17.       Exports in 1974/75 are estimated to be about US$354 million, due
primarily to export price increases. A 'minimum' import program for the year
was originally estimated to be about US$1400 million with an additional
US$50 million for fertilizer imports as a result of a shortfall in production
resulting from the explosion at the Ghorasal fertilizer plant.   This import
program was based on a modest US$185 million for imports of capital goods
(primarily for aid-financed projects); food imports of 2.3 million tons
(about US$514 million); and other non-capital goods imports totalling about
US$700 million (representing an increase of less than 10% over the 1973/74
volume).
18.       The Government now feels that as a result of the stringent licens-
ing program imports may not exceed US$1300 million in 1974/75. It also
estimates disbursements to be about US$983 million. In addition, Bangladesh
has received US$61.8 million from the IMF under the terms of the Oil Facility.
Hence international reserves may increase by about US$48 million in 1974/75.
A significant part of this increase is however attributable to deposits
with the Bangladesh Bank and other special transactions of a short-term
nature.
19.       The basic balance of payments position of Bangladesh is, neverthe-
less, still a weak one and a cause for concern and corrective action.
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS ESTIMATE 1974/75
(US$ Million)
Merchandise Imports             -1300
Merchandise Exports               354
Trade Balance                   - 946
Other Current Account (net)     -  21
Current Account Balance         - 967
Amortization                    -  45
Other Receipts and Payments        15
IMF Oil Facility                   62
Gap                        - 935
Financed by:
Disbursements:               983
Food Aid             (384)
Project Aid          (149)
Commodity Aid       (450)
Change in Reserves
(-= increases)            -  48
Source:  Planning Commission, Govern-
ment of Bangladesh.



-8-
External Assistance to Bangladesh
20.       Tit is clear that Bangladesh depends on a substantial increase in
aid merely to prevent the economy trom retrogressing, let alone achieving
any significant growth. Roughly US$983 million of aid disbursements could
be obtained in 1974/75 from the pipeline existing on July 1, 1974 and from
newcommitments so far made in 1974/75. This includes a sum of US$61.8 million
Bangladesh has obtained from the IMF oil facility. Bangladesh has not yet
reached agreement with the IMF on the terms and conditions of additional
credit tranches under the Regular Facilities. If an agreement were reached,
it could have access to about US$75 million. An IMF mission is currently
in the field for consultations with the Government. The composition of the
new commitments and disbursements is, however, as important as their level;
much more finance is required for food and other commodities than for
capital goods, which are already we.l1 covered by a pipeline of project aid.
While new project aid is required, it will need to be restricted to projects
of the very highest priority. At the Aid Group meeting in Paris there was
considerable evidence that donors were fully seized of this problem and a
number of delegations emp1hasized that they would endeavor to structure
their aid to maximize early disbursement.
21.       About a year ago, Bangladesh's economic situation justified a
sharply different view of aid priorities; then it appeared that commodity
assistance would be an important but diminishing part of the aid package
as an increasing portion of aid would be used to finance the development
projects outlined in the First Five Year Plan. But the events of the past
year have altered that view. The shift in Bangladesh's terms of trade,
combined with the effects of the flood, make necessary substantial increases
in food and other commodity aid merely to maintain last year's relatively
low level of both food consumption and non-food imports in real terms. The
Bangladesh Government, shortly after the payments crisis emerged, indicated
to major donors its desire to shift the composition of foreign assistance
from project to commodity or program aid, and donors hiave already responded
to this request. In an effort to raise the additional resources it requires
and to achieve better coordination of aid, the Government in July 1974 took
steps to establish an Aid Group of countries and institutions which are
interested in Bangladesh's development. The first meeting of the Group was
held in Paris on October 24 and 25, 1974; the second meeting will take place
from June 3 to 5.
22.       For the foreseeable future, program lending is likely to be a
major feature of development aid to Bangladesh. At the same time, however,
a carefully selected group of priority projects needs to be implemented,
in a phasing consistent with available resources, which will reduce the
country's dependence on imports (e.g. by increasing production of food and
fertilizer and by reducing the rate of population growth) and promote
exports. For this approach to contribute to the long-term development of
Bangladesh, it will be increasingly important for the Government to adopt
an appropriate policy framework. The administrative system will have to
deal more effectively with the development tasks ahead. While the events



-9-
of the past year have severely disrupted planning efforts, in the current
fiscal year, the Government has taken a number of difficult economic decisions.
Interest rates were increased in June 1974, with the central bank's lending
rate rising from 5% to 8% and the commercial banks' lending rate rising from
a maximum of 10% to about 13%. New taxes have been levied which the Govern-
ment projected would increase revenues by 50% over 1973/74 levels. Steps
have been taken to reduce subsidies, particularly those for rationed food
items, fertilizer and pesticides. A major change in industrial policy has
greatly increased the scope for private investment by raising the ceiling
on private investment in industry from US$330,000 to nearly US$4 million.
The army has been posted on the borders to restrict smuggling and an anti-
corruption drive has led to the removal of a number of officials. Concerns
with population programs have resulted in better coordination of the work
of different ministries. A separate Bureau has been established to facilitate
Project Implementation and monitor progress.
23.       If Bangladesh is to survive its present difficulties without even
greater human tragedy than the past has witnessed, many more difficult steps
will have to be taken to bring the economy to grips with the realities of
the world economy and to increase the effectiveness of the administration.
Of particular importance will be efforts to improve the competitive position
of jute, to restructure the subsidized food distribution system and reduce its
dependence on imports, todmobilize domestic_resources and to improve the
performance of the public sector enterprises. If appropriate action is taken
in such areas and if the world community responds to Bangladesh's needs with
adequate amounts of aid of the proper composition, then Bangladesh stands a
chance of passing through the current situation and establishing the founda-
tions for future economic development.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BANGLADESH
24.       After Bangladesh became a member of the Bank and the Association
in August 1972, Bank Group operations in Bangladesh concentrated initially
on reactivation of IDA credits for uncompleted projects financed under
credits to Pakistan before the independence of Bangladesh. Eleven such
credits in an aggregate amount of US$151.35 million (including US$44.1
million for the repayment of amounts that had been disbursed under the
corresponding previous credits to Pakistan) have been made to Bangladesh.
In addition, nine new credits have been made, totalling US$258.6 million:
US$50 million for the Reconstruction (First) Imports Program Credit; US$7.5
million for the Cereal Seeds Project; US$4.0 million for the Technical
Assistance Project; US$4.1 million fot the Inland Water Transport Rehabil-
itation Project; US$50.0 million for a (Second) Imports Program Credit;
US$20.0 million for a Second TeiecommunicationE. Froje, US$75.0 million
for a (Third) Imports Program Credit; US$33.0 million for the Ashuganj
Fertilizer Project; and US$15.0 million for the Population Project.



- 10
25.       Negotiations are underway between the Government of Bangladesh
and the various bilateral and multilateral donors concerning the assumption
by Bangladesh of a portion of the debt contracted by Pakistan before
Bangladebhi becarme iLdepenadeit.  Until such negotiations are cv.nplete, it
is not possible to estimate precisely Bangladesh's total public indebted-
ness, or its total debt service. With respect to the Bank Group, Bangladesh
has agreed to accept liability as of Julv 1, 1974 for about US$92.4 million
of debt with respect to projects in Bangladesh completed before independence.
Agreements for a Consolidation Loan of about $54.9 million and a Consolida-
tion Credit of about $31.0 million (based on January 1, 1960 exchange rate)
were signed on February 14, 1975.
26.       Annex II contains a summary statement of IDA credits and Bank loan
made to Bangladesh as of February 28, 1974, and notes on the status of exec-
ution of ongoing projects. Bangladesh is not a member of IFC. After an
initial slow start, disbursement performance under the program credits has
been good, exceeding the pace of the appraisal estimates. This improvement
represents the results of efforts by the Government to uncover and eliminate
procedural bottlenecks, and efforts by IDA staff to familiarize Government
officials with IDA procurement requirements and disbuirsement procedures. In
contrast, disbursements under project credits has lagged far behind expecta-
tions. Out of US$142.8 million of effective project credits (excluding repay-
ments of amounts disbursed under corresponding credits to Pakistan) only
about US$24.0 million has been disbursed since independence. This poor
performance is attributable to a combination of factors including Government
procedures for hiring consultants and for awarding procurement and civil
works contracts, and shortages of construction materials such as cement.
Various ways of improving this situation are being discussed with the Gov-
ernment. Monthly meetings to discuss project issues were initiated in
January 1975, both in Washington and in Dacca. Recent signs of progress
inave included some improvements in Government procedures for revising tender
awards and consultants contracts, and the establishment in the Office of the
President of a Project Implementation Bureau, to monitor the progress of
projects and to assist in breaking bottlenecks. While it is too early to
expect these efforts to have a noticeable effect on disbursement performance,
it is hoped that the results will soon become as noticeable as the effects
of the earlier efforts with respect to program credits. The recent allevia-
tion of shortages of construction materials in Bangladesh should also lead
to improved progress in project implementation in the near future.
27.       As the analysis in paragraph 21 above indicates, Bangladesh's
severe balance of payments difficulties require that increased amounts of
aid be given in a flexible, fast disbursing fashion. Program lending must
therefore remain a necessary feature of IDA assistance, and the amount
should be commensurate with Bangladesh's needs and performance.     For the
next several years the requirements ot existing productive capacity will
remain higlh for the types of goods - spares, components and raw materials -
financed by IDA program credits. However, long-term improvement in the
Bangladesh economy can be expected only if sound policies, programs, and
development projects are pursued. Thus, projects of the highest priority



must also be supported. Given its low per capita income, Bangladesh's
investment needs cannot be met from local resources. Taking into account
the level of financing expected to be available from other external lenders,
and in order to direct IDA lending to those sectors (such as rural develop-
ment) where the percentage of foreign exchange costs is relatively low, the
financing of local currency expenditures is justified. The Association
recognizes the prime importance of the agricultural sector and of efforts to
close Bangladesh's food gap. The recently approved Population Project fits
within the strategy of reducing the food gap in the future. The Ashuganj
Fertilizer Project and the currently proposed Barisal Irrigation Project are
designed to assist in increasing food production in the more immediate future.
28.       Other priority projects are at an advanced stage of preparation -
many of them in the agricultural sector. These include irrigation works in
the Muhuri and Karnafuli river areas, and Rural Training and Rural Devel-
opment projects. The growth of other sectors, particularly as they provide
infrastructure for, or process or provide outlets for the products of, the
rural economy, is also important. Several sector studies supported by the
Association - for example in industry and transportation (also assisted by
the United Kingdom) - should help the Government and the Association to
develop a suitable pipeline of projects consonant with mutual assessments
of economic priorities. Further economic studies will be oriented to the
same goal. Finally, the Association has provided funds under the Technical
Assistance Credit to assist the government in preparing development projects
for financing by the Association and other lenders.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
29.       Agriculture is clearly Bangladesh's most important economic sector,
on whose development growth as well as welfare depend. Agriculture produces
more than 55% of the nation's GDP and 80% of employment. The rice crop,
which covers approximately 75-80% of the cultivated area, provides most of
the country's foodgrain requirements. Wheat acreage is still relatively
small, though it is likely to become a more significant part of foodgrain
supply. Between 1969/70 and 1974/75 jute cultivation earned between 75 and
87% of Bangladesh's foreign exchange, either directly, through the export
of raw jute, or indirectly through the export of jute goods. At the same
time, jute manufacturing is Bangladesh's most importan, industry.
30.       Bangladesh lies on a deltaic plain of 33 million acres, of which
approximately 22.5 million acres are cultivated. Most of the soils are
fertile. It has a tropical monsoon climate with high rainfall (over 50
inches a year). About 80% of the rainfall is concentrated in the monsoon
months of June to October, with the remainder occurring primarily during
the period March to May. In areas with adequate moisture, many farmers
plant two or more crops, resulting in a relatively high cropping intensity
(about 140% in recent years). There are, however, many problems inherent



- 12 -
in the agricultural sector:   few opportunities exist for expanding the
area under crops; as much as one-third of the country is threatened by
severe annual floods; during the dry season some 80% of the land remains
fallow due to lack of water; severe cyclones periodically afflict farms
near the coast; with Bangladesn's extremely high population density, farms
are generally small and fragmented, and agriculture is characterized largely
by subsistence farming. As a result of these facters, while population has
grown at about 3% per year during the last ten years, foodgrain production
has increased by less than 1% per year, which resulted in a growing gap
between foodgrain supply and demand and a consequent need for large-scale
foodgrain imports.
31.       Faced with these problems the Government is evolving a development
strategy which concentrates on increasing agricultural (particularly food-
grain) production through the rapid spread of new high-yielding rice var-
ieties (HYV), with provision, where possible, of irrigation by low-lift
pumps and tubewells. Irrigation has thus become of crucial importance to
increase cropping intensity and yields, and to decrease uncertainties and
wide fluctuations in the farmers' production. The reality is, however,
that, even with improved and expanded irrigation facilities and an increase
in crop production, Bangladesh will continue to require substantial food-
grain imports for a number of years.
Irrigation in Bangladesh
32.       The development of water resources in Bangladesh has presented
many difficulties involving irrigation, flood control, drainage, and pro-
tection from both saline intrusion and saline inundation. The need to
maintain a minimum flow in the rivers during the dry season (both in order
to prevent saline intrusion and harmful effects on navigation and fisheries),
constrains the potential for surface water irrigation. The flat terrain
precludes the development of large storage reservoirs for either control-
ling the impact of the floods or releasing water for irrigation in the dry
season. Partially for this reason, irrigation has been slow to develop in
Bangladesh.
33.       Farmers in Bangladesh have for centuries used bucket-lift irriga-
tion methods for cultivating their land near the numerous rivers, man-made
channels, and low-lying water bodies. Early in the 1960s small pumps (low-
lift, diesel driven pumps of one or two cubic feet per second capacity)
were introduced, and this was the key factor in expanding dry-season irri-
gation from 1 million acres in 1960 to over 2.5 million acres in 1974.
34.       In view of the favorable response of the farmers to low-lift
pump irrigation, the -overnment is giving prioritv to proiects which would
create suitable conditions for this type of development. The area near
the city of Barisal in the Bakerganj District is one of the more favorable
areas in the country for rapid expansion of agricultural production by low-
lift pumps. Wet-season flooding levels over much of the area do not inhibit



- 13 -
the cultivation of high-yielding rice varieties in the monsoon season, and
existing channels provide a natural distribution system for pump irrigation
in the dry season.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
35.       The proposed project was prepared by an Interdepartmental Govern-
ment Unit (IGU) responsible to the Planning Commission, with assistance from
the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program. The IGU was comprised of seniQr technical
officers of the Water Development Board (WDB), the Bangladesh Agriculture
Development Corporation (BADC), the Ministry of Agriculture, and the Inte-
grated Rural Development Program (IRDP). An Association mission appraised
the project in October/November 1973 and negotiations were held in July,
1974. The Government's negotiating team was led by Mr. M. Syeduzzaman
(Secretary to the Ministry of Planning). It was agreed during negotiations
that, prior to presenting the proposed credit to the Executive Directors of
the Association, the project implementation organization would be established.
The Government's agreement on the negotiated draft legal documents was re-
ceived in September, 1974, but the establishment of the project implementation
organization was not completed until January, 1975. However, during this
period project cost estimates had risen and the project financing plan needed
to be revised. In March, 1975 agreement on a revised allocation of credit
proceeds was reached. The appraisal report (No. 449a-BD, dated April 9, 1975)
on the proposed project is being circulated separately. Annex III provides
a credit and project summary.
Description of the Project
36.       The project would provide reliable irrigation water supply in four
Thanas of the Bakerganj district in the Southwest Region of Bangladesh. The
four Thanas have a gross area of 207,000 acres, and a net agricultural area
of 147,000 acres. Irrigation facilities provided by the project would com-
mand about 140,000 acres. Dry season irrigation would primarily take place
in areas suited to boro rice and this crop is expected to expand from 13,000
acres at present to 112,000 acres. In the wet season, areas free from deep
flooding and suited to transplanted aman would be irrigated, and this is ex-
pected to result in a shift to high yielding varieties from local varieties
on about 87,000 acres. About 2,500 5HP diesel-powered low-lift pumps, or
other devices, each serving an area of 40-60 acres will irrigate the area
from an extensive network of natural channels. This is a mode of develop-
ment which has already been adopted on a large scale in Bangladesh in areas
where the natural channels carry water throughout the year. A distinctive
feature of this project, however, is that small pump irrigation will be
extended to about 90,000 acres where year-round irrigation cannot presently
be practiced because the creeks are non-perennial (carrying water only in
the wet season), or semi-perennial (dry-season water available only at high
tides). In these areas, the project will provide about 750 sluice structures



- 14 -
constructed on the creeks. About 100 primary pump stations will be provided
to raise water from the perennial channels to the creek storage ponds. Sec-
ondary pumps will raise water to the farmers' fields from perennial rivers
and from the creek storage ponds. In addition to pumps and civil works, the
project would provide supporting facilities and equipment, and the necessary
operation and maintenance services.
37.       Two pilot primary units of about 400 acres each would be developed
in the 1975/76 dry season to allow experience to be gained in the operation
of primary pumps and secondary pump groups, and to serve as a guide for
project planning and design. Possible improvements in on-farm development
and water distribution in the secondary units would also be explored. The
pilot areas would be formed by constructing temporary earth dams and deploy-
ing pumps already available to BADC.
38.       The Directorate of Extension in the Ministry of Agriculture will
maintain offices in each Tliana, and Village Extension Agents (VEAs) in each
village, and will assign one VEA to about 1,000 farmers in the project area.
The IRDP, in association withi the Directorate of Extension, will conduct at
the Thana Training and Development Centers (TTDCs) periodic one-day courses
for VEAs and selected farmers from each pump group. The project will pro-
vide offices, office equipment, agricultural implements for demonstration
purposes, and vehicles for the thana extension officers. In agreement with
the farmers' groups, two secondary pump units near each of the four TTDCs
will be designated as demonstration areas to serve as focal points for train-
ing VEAs and farmers under practical conditions. A detailed program for
agricultural services and training in the project area will be prepared for
review with the Association within one year of signing of the proposed credit
(see Section 3.09 of the dratt Development Credit Agreement).
Project Execution
39.       The inter-agency approach adopted by the Government in the prep-
aration of this project will be continued for its implementation. During
the construction period the responsibility for each aspect of project
implementation will remain with the individual agencies normally involved
in such matters, the WDB handling construction of sluices and creek exten-
sion, BADC handling pump procurement and maintenance, the Ministry of Agri-
culture handling extension and IRDP handling cooperatives and credit. An
Interdepartmental Project Implementation Committee (IPIC) headed by a gov-
ernment official appointed as project officer (titled'Executive Director)
will be responsible for expediting execution of the project. The Executive
Director would report, through the Member, Planning and Implementation, WDB,
to a Central Evaluation Committee, under the Chairmanship of a senior
representative of the Government, which would meet periodically to review
project progress and resolve any major coordination problems. Proposals
for Project Management and interagency coordination have been agreed upon;
and the Government has appointed the Executive Director and designated the
representatives of WDB, BADC, IRDP and the Ministry of Agriculture on the
IPIC and the Central Evaluation Committee (see Sections 3.02 and 6.01 of
the draft Development Credit Agreement).



- 15 -
40.       The Government will retain a consulting firm to advise and assist
the Executive Director and the IPIC in the drawing up of annual work programs
for each agency, the preparation of designs and contract documents, cons-
truction, supervision, and preparation and establishment of operation and
maintenance procedures, and to assist the extension services in the project
area. Proposals for consulting services have been obtained, and the appoint-
ment of such consultants is a condition of effectiveness of the Credit (see
Sections 3.03 and 6.01 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
41.       The Government intends that, as soon as practical, farmers' asso-
ciations in the project area, under the direction of Thana Central Coopera-
tive Associations (TCCA's), would assume the responsibilities for operation
and management of most of the project facilities. This would be accomplished
gradually after managers and technicians have received training and gained
significant experience on each job. In the transitional period BADC would
retain responsibility with respect to operation and maintenance of pumps and
sluice gates. The Government has undertaken to prepare and submit to the
Association within two years from the date of the Agreement, and annually
thereafter, for review and comment, detailed proposals for the operation
and maintenance organization (see Section 3.08 of the draft Development
Credit Agreement).
Cost Recovery
42.       The Government's Five-Year Plan proposed a gradual decrease in
nationwide subsidies to farmers for low-lift pumps. The Government also
intends that farmers benefitting from primary project installations will
pay their operating and maintenance costs and eventually repay as much of
the investment costs as practicable. It has been agreed that during the
next two years the Government would formulate and submit to the Ass6ciation
proposals for the recovery of project operation and maintenance costs, and
as large a proportion of project capital costs as appears compatible with the
maintenance of adequate incentives for participating farmers. In preparing
these proposals, consideration would be given to arrangements for the purchase
by farmers groups of low-lift pumps on terms within their means (see Section
3.10 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Project Cost and Financing
43.       The project is estimated to cost US$46 million equivalent, in-
cluding US$2.5 million of taxes and duties, with a foreign exchange com-
ponent of US$20.5 million. The proposed IDA credit of US$27 million would
finance the foreign exchange costs plus some of the local costs, or 62%
of project costs, net of taxes. The remaining US$19 million would be con-
tributed by the Government through annual budget appropriations.



- 16 -
Procurement
'44.      Con' racLs for civil works (sluice structures, creek excavation,
buildings, a,i st-j age facilities, estimated to cost US$11.6 million), are
not suitable fc- internaLional competitive bidding, because they involve
many small operations, scattered over a wide area, which can only be under-
taken in the dry season. The WDB policy is to supply materials and equip-
ment so that the contractor's main input is labor and management. Unit-
price contracts, which might typically cover three or four sluices, would
be awarded after local competitive bidding. The bidding and evaluation
procedures to be followed for civil works contracts would be submitted
to IDA for review and comment. Mlaterials such as sand, bricks and timber
would be procured on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally
under procedures which are satisfactory.   Contract documents relating to
civil works and locally procured construction materials would be retained
by the Borrower and would be available for inspection by IDA in the course
of project supervision.
45.       Vehicles, equipment, and importecl materials would be procured
after international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group
Guidelines. A 15% preference margin, or the prevailing customs duty if
lower, would be extended to local manufacturers of vehicles and equipment
in the evaluation of bids. Off-the-shelf items costing less than US$5,000
each which are not suitable for international tendering would be purchased
througlh normal government procurement procedures which are satisfactory.
The aggregate cost of such items would not exceed US$100,000.
Disbursements
46.       The credit would be disbursed over a period of 6 years.    Disburse-
ment from the proposed credit would be made at 100% of the c.i.f. cost of
directly imported vehicles, pumps, gates, cement, steel and other equipment;
at 100% of the ex-factory price of equipment manufactured locally; and at
65% of the off-the-sihelf price of locally procured imported equipment, cement
and reinforcing steel. For expatriate consultants' and specialist services,
and for overseas training, disbursements would cover the total costs (foreign
and local). Disbursements for civil works executed under contract, and for
locally procured materials, other than cement and reinforcing steel, would be
at 50% of expenditures.
Economic Justification
47.       The primary benefit of the project would be increased rice produc-
tion.  This would lessen the burden on the balance of payments, and help
raise farm incomes in the Project area. Because of the limited scope for
expanding the area of land being cultivated in Bangladesh, any increased
rice production must come from greater productivity of land already under
cultivation. The project would achieve this by introducing shifts in the
cropping calendar, thus enabling the cultivation of higher yielding varieties.



- 17 -
The project would expand dry season rice cultivation, and allow high-yielding
rice varieties to replace local varieties over most of the project area in
the wet season by providing better water control and the necessary agricul-
tural supporting services. The project area has an estimated population of
650,000, including about 110,000 farm households averaging 5.5 members, and
about 14,000 families of landless wage-earners or non-agricultural property
owners. Virtually all the agricultural land in the4project area is owned by
the farmers. More than half of the farms in the area are less than one acre,
and most of the holdings are fragmented into five or more plots which aver-
age about 0.20 acres in size. Taking a range of farm sizes in the project
area, from 0.5 acres to 3.0 acres, present annual farm incomes which range
from Tk. 420-2,050 (US$52-256) - depending on the size - would rise to
Tk. 1,110-5,050 (US$139-631) at full project development. Rice production
in the area would increase from its present 143,000 tons per year to about
345,000 tons per year at full development. The economic rate of return on
the project would be about 28%. Foreign exchange savings of about US$15
million per annum are expected, and farm employment opportunities are expected
to increase by about 20% as a result of the project.
Environmental Impact
48.       The project woul-d have no adverse environmental effect during the
wet season (May-October) when all gates on the creek control sluices would
be fully open and the natural water regime would be unchanged. Since fish
enter the creeks and flooded paddy fields to spawn during May, June and
July, the project would not affect their breeding cycle and, in fact, the
perennial habitat created by maintaining water in presently non-perennial
creeks during November-April could improve the growth potential and decrease
the mortality rate of the fish. Bilharzia is not present in Bangladesh. The
daily replenishment of water in the creeks, during the dry season, should
-offset any toxic effects which might result from increased return flows from
fields under intensive dry season cultivation using fertilizers and pesti-
cides.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
49.       The draft development Credit Agreement between the People's
Republic of Bangladesh and the Association, the Recommendation of the
Committee provided for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of
Agreement of the Association and the text of the Resolution approving the
proposed Credit are being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
50.       Features of the draft Development Credit Agreement of special
interest are referred to in paragraphs 38 through 42 of this report. In
addition to these special features: (a) dissolution or disestablishment of
WDB, BADC or IRDP have been added as events of suspension (Section 5.02 of
the draft Development Credit Agreement); and (b) representation of certain



- 18 -
agencies on the IPIC and CEC, and the appointment of Consultants have been
made additional conditions of effectiveness of the Credit (paragraphs (a)
and (b) of Section 6.01 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
51.        I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
52.        I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
April 9, 1975



Pape 1 of 3 papas
ODUNTRY DATA - BANGlADEM
kmE                                                   POPULATION                                        51STT
131Wu  k.s2                                           72.-5million (mid-1972)84                               Pe     2farbead
SOCIAL DIDICAIVRS
Ne,PfesersaCntries
ON?  ER APITA USM(TSBsi)a.                                                         70 /a90 /a                    noI0          (jOA
DREMORAPHIC
rRu'd-Elrrth rate(per thea.ad)                                    4.7/b c          (../2(48I                      38/cAn       3   /.d
Crude deathrate (per thosasd)                                     20 tj            21               19ta.         1 6~          771e
Infant mortality rate (par thousand liva births)                 ..140                 c            .        120-14.0          4 (.1
Lit. expactancy at birth (years)                                 4.(8 7?                            48            50           59
Oross reproduction ratse/i                                       3 .5 /b          3:1  I3:2                ~     2/9          2.7
40                            ~~~~~~~~~Population grocti rats  j2C-                                                                2:    I       2329
Pnpolation grauth rats - urban                                                    .                  5Z            4 (.
Age strctura (peroent)
04b                                                            4.7 /h          4.5/cl            4.5/c         (.2          4.3/d
15-64                                                           4.9              527T             53 7;         55           53 71
65 and ovac                                                      4.7             3     !27-1                     34(7a
D-ndandecy ratis                                                 1.6  wl          1.57             1.4 7.        1.2 /~j,w    2.3 7a.
Urban population as peroant of total                             ...17                                            20 /lo        29 /d 
Family planning:   N.On! accaptors cumulative (ihous.)           *.                                175            .            220 -4
No..of ussr, (% of nurriad    -ean)                                                                          15.  .  .i  71
Toalbl r br   (thousands)                               17,100 L.       22,300 L          4.(0,100/c   221,000 ,.i3,200 /d
Percentags employed in agriculture                              76               71               63            71            h (5 71
Percentage oneoployad                                          ...2                                             .8 71
INcOOE DISTIBUDTION
Percent ofnational i.oose renaiod by highest 5%                   19/    r        17      c        ..22 /.                      22 /r t u
Percent of netional incose reci-d by highant 20%                  4.5              42    an         .4(8 /                      52 7   t
P.r.snt ofnationa    income received by lowest 20%                  7/,             9 /r.a.         .               8            47tTt'
Percent Of nationul incom.ecacivad by lowest (.0%                 18 22           20 /2j -         ..             19 __         12 7ttf
MSTRIBUTION OF LAND OWdENSHIP
% ownd by top 10% o7ownrs                                        ..34 /v
% nend by smallest 10% Of owners                                  .1 77
NEAITH AND NUTRITION
Population par physician                                      10,000 /c         7,600 /ic       27,650         (.,800       3,860/dc
Population per nursing person                                110,000 7;        72,030 zt         8,oi          5,110        l,08o ____
Population per hospital bed                                   ll,00            Bcl0 /r.          1,2            ,2    /..       3
Per capita calorie supply as % of requirsenots/...                                                   82 /c         87 /ab       91. /d s
Per capita protein supply, tots]l (grass per dey)L U2.                             .                 .7            49 7-        (.9
Of which, animal and pulse                                      ..                                14/           16 1t         207t
Death rate 1-4 yearn /2                                           ..                                ..                           6 _
ERONCATION
XAaFstd /8 primary school enrollssnt ratio                         (.2 /ad as      50 /ahbaae        71            79 laf       89 /d
Adjusted 7;scnaysholerlmn                  ai                       8 7      ~     15 /a,g          12             28 7.?       31. 71
Te.ar of lihooling provided, first and eso..nd level              10               10 7iF           12            12            13 71
Vc-atinonl enrollment an % Of sac, school enrollemot              ...28                                             6 /ai        3 
Adult literacy rats %                                             ...56 djan,an                                   .36 T_.L      89 
;g;tSINO
Ave-rape No. of persnone per roos (urban)...
Percent of Occupied units wtthsut piped cater...
Access in elecoicity (as % of total population)...
Percent of taal popolatiim    connocted in electricity                            .
_0T.Mr  i~...per 1000 population                                .                                114            21           5
Passenger cars per 10D   ppulation                                ...2                                              12
Electric poser cosmption (loc     p.o                               3              11                19           III          366
Newsprint consumption p.o. log per yeara.                                                          0.2           0.3           3.8Wa
Notes,   Figure  rsfer either to the loteat periods or to               asosunt Of eovlromnetal temprature, bndy weights, and
the latest yearn,   latest periods roto   in principle to               distribution by age as] sex of nationa    populations.
the years 1956-60 or 1966-70; tie latest yeara in prit.-           /6   Protein standards (requirement.) for all countries -     aeteb-
ciple in 1960 and 1970.                                                 loled by USDA Esonsocin Roeasarch Dervise provide for amimu
/I  Ths Per Copito GNP estinate is at aarot prices fur                  allowance of 60 greats of total protein par day, and1 20 greams of
yoaro other than 1960,calculated by the non     convrs-ion          animal and palses protein, of which 10 grass should he animal
technique as the 1972 World Bach Atlas.                             protein.  These standards are as    ,hats 1owe than thoe. of 75
12  Avera.ge nuber of daughters per onna     of reproductive            greao of total protein and 23 grass, of animal Protein as an
age.                                                               average for the world, propose.d by PAO In the Third World Food
2 Population growth reten ar    for the decodes .nding in             Sur,rey.
1960 and 1970.                                                 /2   Son  studies hove suggested that crude death rates of children
AL Ratio Of under 15 and 65 and o-r age brodlketo t                     ages 1 through i nay be used asafirst appronimation Index Of
thoseinaortn          brackoet of og.a 15 through 61..              malnutrition.
/2  AO rference   toodorde re-Present physiologiosa re-           /8  Percentage enrolled Of co-repuading population of school age
quirescnte for   or-ea activity and health, taking                  an defined for each nuotry.
19722     A    1961;   /0   Estimate;    /d  West Malaysmia;    /a  Registered. sonly;   If   PJojection, 1973;    I    1 965-70;
196o-61;7 /1    1960-72;    LI   Municipalities, regency capitals and other places with urban characteriatics;          A    Por
dafinitinm of urban me UN Densr a       o Tearbolok 1972   p). 154j  a2   1972-731    Lm   Ratio Of populatien under .15 and 65
and over t to ital laor force;      /-ai           oulto       ue    15 and 65 and, Over to total labor force in age group 15-59;
/o   Gomatted a.reas of 10,00    or mnore irhbitants;     /P  AITD estimate of labor force in ag     group 15-59; IBRD report gives a
figure of 180.4 sillion based On the 1971 populatimn census.        The difference is due is changes in the definition Ofa
corloer. Is the 1971 census, persons were classified only son the baois of their main activities; thin led to the
exclusion of several categorios, such as housewives;        L/  1963-64;    /r   Houu..hold.;   /s  1964-65;    At   1969;
/u Towns;    /v  1967-68, geographical interpolation;      /wMmber so the r-egister, not all. ;.rkong In tIn country;
.r.ars   insgovene-     srvcscIy;        lyovovenentChospitals Only;         /z   1968;    /a.  Including rural hospitals;
4   99-70;   /a    1964.-66;  /ad   1959-60;    /00  ApproxImate enrolment as- percentage of population In 6-10 age groop;
71?   Estimate w    Icincludes overage students;     -aj Approximate enrollment as prerentage Of population in 11-15 age group;
7Z    Up to sod of second level;     /ai   1965;   /aJ   15 years and over;     /ako Population of 10 year~s and over based Oc one
percent sample data of 1971; _7a1       1960;/am      Definition of literacy unkonown;     /j    1971;   Lii. 1966-67.
aSelection of Molaysia as an objective country ie hosed on Malaysia's success in ea.totaling a high rate Of ec.onoic
growth and adequate level of welfare conourrently with diversifying itin economic structure.
Al Jonury 2, 1975



ANNEX   I
NARLADESH                                                          Page 2 of 3 Pagea
EONIOOMIC I   IPO     ITATA
(Aounta in    illon   ofU..     oUe
EAST PAKISTAN                   BANGLADESH
Actual "a' 1/Proi-cted                                    19  -   19 60f-   1965 -    19 74 -   190        74      95
1965      1970      1973 '      1994 975          1976       19,_ 15 9701197
NAT_IOAL ACCCGIMnT___                                                          __     ___         __
;jYc rAs..raget 16- ~196 9 Prices8 & ExchaneIoe                 A-erage Aa.us   Groth Rates          As ?-r-et of GDY
Gros. Do-etic Pr-duc t              570        75        ,0          ,6        ,0        ,8                  .7      3.0      3.2       101.6     102.0    103.2
Gains from Terms of Trade Cc)           21      -97         0        -127      -194      -130                                            -1.6      -2.0     -3.2
rotD.oc-tic Incom                5-,324    6,7054    5,7-02        233     T,01      6,5                5.6       2.6        --       00.1    1TO00.0   100.0
Import (incl. NFl)                    64        508       727         592       643       712             20.6      -4.7
Ex sr ts      (Impot 5515 ity         485       334       358         247       201       290              12.3      7.7
Resource Gap                          *T-3Tn3           -=         --        -77          Z5542 
Cosa. =ptiss Epe-ditures            4,948     5,514     5,806       6,320     6,234     6,789              5.7       2.2
In,est-et         (Scsi.cl  stocks)   531       712       265         258       223       387             13.3       6.0 
D-restic las-lgs.                     376       536      -104         -87      -219      -135              4.3       7.4        ..
Ratiosal Sa-Ings                       258      525       -99         -93      -212      -130               8.7     15.2 
MERCHANDISE TRADE                             Annoual Oats at lo-rrent Prices                                                           As P-eret of Total
lnports
Capit.a1 goods                                176       105         155       165       250                                            30        17       14
Tsternediate goods (mt2.,foeis)     --        117       250         239       350       421                                            27        26       27
Fools aod related materials
of whIch:   Petrolesso                       II1       25          87        98       132                                             2         7        8
Connsmvtios goods                 ~~~~     ~~239  352   436       667       510.                                            41       48     *.J,
Tital MercR. Tmpsrts (clf)          -                             - 77  m   T'        1,313                                          -10D0      100o     100
Exports
Primary prsdsct3 (excl. f'iels)      -        212       150         120       1210      11.2                                           41        38       34
Puel. and related materials
or which: Petrolean
7issof.stured goods                           301       208         198       224       280                                            59        62       66
Total Merch. Exports (fob)                    51         5           1         54       32,-                                                       ~
Tourism end Hocrer    Trace                  -1         38         -1         34      -9
Merchandise Trade Tndices                       Average 1967- 69- i~OO
Export Price Sodsa                    95       89       100         107       119       120                       -1.4
Import Price Index                    71      167       100         162       210       191                       18.7
Term   .i Trade la,d-                134       53        100         66        57        63                      -20.0
Exports Vslux    Index               505      118       100          83        83        91                         3.0
VALUE ADDED BY SECTOR               A=opsl Data at 1967- W9rices end EKchaLnge Rates                Average Annual Growth Sates         As Percent of Total
Agrlsuit...                       2.904     3.458     3,402       3,788     3,460     3,946                         3.5      1.5       56        60       56
M-nf..tsrimp & Miming               601       783       412         494       498       528                        5.5      4.5                  31       3
Other                             1,605     1,870     1,8         2.07     _LL5_      2AIQ                         3.1      5.5       -?     -
Total                             5.110     6.111     5,702       6,360     6.209     6,784                        3.-6     3T.2      100       105      100
PlUBL.IC FIVANCE                                                                                                                          As Percent of~ GDP
)FtestO. Go-ermet)
Curret Receipts                               318       286         472       627                                                       4.9       5.7      4.8
Curr. ont Expenditures                        148       389         576       771                                                       2.3       7.0      5.9
Buo!G,tctsy las,logs                          170    -:-10-3      -104      -144                                                        -2.6    -1.3     -1.1
Other Public Sector
P.blic Sector Investment                      389       250         284       400                                                       6.0       3.4      3.0
UTS $ million 2i/
CUJRRENT EXPENDITURIE DETAILS                   Actual.         Eat.      Budget ProJ.          rETAIL IN                                At end 19 7 2 P sod Eli
As % Total Current Expend.)               iT97      1)72/3    19/74    19)74/75 19           PUBLIC SECTOR                        Fir-t Plan        of Total.
Education                                          I1TT8         T       19.1                IRVESTl03f PRIORASI                   (197 3 /74      9 977 /7~
Other Social Services                                4.0         3.3      4.5                Social Sectors                            758           15.3
Agriculture & Other                                                                          Agriculture                             1,302            26.4
Eronoale Sereicee                                    11.2       10.7       5.9                Industry and Mieing                    1,024            20.7
Ad.linitr.tion end Defene                            67.4       68.0     61.4                Poser                                     529            10.7
UIther                                                2.7        3.1       9.1               Transport and csonunicmtiomo              802            16.3
Total Csseret Expenditures                          100.0 o   100.0     F 10.0O              Other                                     524           10.6
_______________________________________________________________________________  Total ExpExpendeturesw100.0
SELEC TED INDICATORS                                 1960-      1965-     1970-    1973-       PINANCINRG
(Calcsl.lted from  3-Year aveaged data)              196S       1970     1975     1978            Dnewetic Borrowln                      784           15.9
Averge ICOB                                                      3.74       .      2.2             Public Sector Savngs                2,022           40.9
Import Elasticity                                               1.29                               Pro6r-aid nOuntepart
PR,ginAl Domestic Savinge Rae0.22                                                                 Foreign   rjctAdH
M4arginal National Savings Rate                                 0.35       T...ftaL Financing                                          4,940           o00,0
IAW0 FORCE AND                                   Total Labor Porce                                   Value Added Per Worker (l96e746~9     Prices & Eacc. Rates)
OUTPUT PER WORKER                  In B4ifliona         % o1 Total           191-73             I  lS.Dollars       Percent ofAerg9                   -
1-9-60/6  1-972/73    619       1973       1r9hRt               90         93'     ~              j,        Growth Bate
Agriculture                        16.1        20.5      85         78          2.0              .          166                    76
industry                            1,0         1.8      5           7          5.0              .          229                   105
Rervlce                             1.8         3.9      10         15          6.7               .         484       __          222
Total                    ~~~~    ~   ~~~~~~~18.9  26.2  100  100       2.8              246         218                   100
1/ Seta up to 1969/70 pertain ts erstwhile East Pakistan.
2/ 1972/73 onwards ace ann,ual data, in0 1972/73 prices end exchange race and hence are not atrictly comparable to data of the prevlnos ypsas.
3/  These are original Plan targets, which are sot of reach in the present circ-statnces.
NBet:    All fig.res are on fiscal year ha.sI July 1 - Jane 30.
not applicable          - nil or negligibhle
not available         1--8lssthan half the
asmallest unIt show



Page 3 of 3 pages
BALaNCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERN7   ASSISTANCE AND DEDT
7amculnts in m-llions of U.S. dollars at current prices)
ESTiIAFED FOR EAST PAKISTAN                                       BANGLADESH                                                              Avg. Anmual
Actual                         Estimated                                    Projected                                   Orowth Rate
1l%6,67     1%7/68       l958/b9 l-T9-/70          197 2/7 3     ja93J74     197_4 75    IZ.i76      1.9          19._        19           1965-1970
SUMMARY BENCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports (incl. NFP)                        447          403         446         485          358            339        389           410
Io,Do~rts(i.ic3.I~~cl.N9i)-566              -540        -616         -694         -727           -958     -1,367       -137         ___
0hesorce balancNe 1(X)-M)                 -119         -137        -150        -209          -369          -619      - 978        - 966
Intermst (net)
Direct Investment Income                                                                       30            10          11           20
Workers  Remittance
Current Transfers (t)
3alance on Currert Accounts                                                                        -        60        -            -
-339           -609       -967         -946
Private Direct Inves tment
Official Capital Grants                                                                       183            204        335          200
Public M&LT Loans
Disbursements                                                                                67           297         648          300
-Repayments                                                                                                -10          45          -89 
Net Disbursements
Other M1LT Loans
Disbursements
-Rpymets
Actusl                     Estimated
Capital Transactions n.e.i.                                                                   108             75         77    19 T                     19     13 9                  1975
Shanwe in Not Reeervee (+-IIncrease)B+19                                                                 33BT AND DEBT SERVICE-
Gros3 Reserves (ena year)                                                                    157        Public Debt Out. & Disbursed               37.1     137.4     490.8        771.0
GRANT AND LOAN C3OMMIINTS
Official Grants & Brant-like                                                                  168          Interest on Public Debt                   ..        .          7.1        10.8
Repayments on Public Debt                 ..       ..         10.2        44.5
Public 3,.T Inane                                                                                          Total Public Debt Service                 ..        .         17.3        55.3
GBRD                                                                                                     Other Debt Service (net)                  ..
TDA                                                                                         212          Total Debt Service (net)
Other
Other Multilateral                                                                           16        Burden on Export Esrnings (S)
Governments                                                                                 104
Suppliers                                                                                    47          Public Debt Service                         ..      ..         5.1        14.2
Financial Insti tutions                                                                       6          Total Debt Service
Bonds                                                                                                    TDSaDirect Invest. Inc.
Public loans n.e.i.
Total Public FM&L5i--ns                                                                       385        Average Terrs of Public Debt
1/                                Actual Debt Outetanding on Dec. 31,1974                      Tnt. as % Prior Year D3&D
K3TNAL DIEH -                                    Daburzed Only               Percent                         Amort. as % Prior Tear DO&D
World Bank                                            - 
IDA                                               204.0                      26.2                        3RiD Debt Out. & Disbursed
Other P6sltilateral                                  5.6                      0.7                          n   as % Public Debt 0&D
Goverriments                                      369.2                      47.5                             as % Public Debt Service
Suppliers                                          119.6                     15.4
Financial Institutions                              23.8                      3 1                        IDA Debt Dat. & Disbursed
horids                                                _                                                    l as % Public Debt O&D
Public Debts n.e.i                                                                                         ' as % Public Debt Service
Total Public M&LT Debt                            777.T                     100.0
Other M&LT Debts
Short-term Debt (disb. only)                        27.2
n cot applicable                                                     e staff estimate
not available                                                     - nil or rngligible
...  not available separately                                         --  less than half the
but included in total                                                smallest unmt show,
1/ Negotiations ate ondervay between the Government of Bangladesh and various bilateral and multilateral donors concerning the assumption of a portion of the debt contracted by Pakistan
before Bargladesh became independent. Until such negotiations are complete it is not possible to estimate precisely Bangladesh total public debt or debt service.



ANNEX II
Page 1
BANGLADESH
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
As of February 28, 1975
A.   IDA Credits to Bangladesh
Credit                                                        US$ Million
Number   Year               Purpose                       Amount    Undisbursed
339      1972     Cyclone Area Reconstruction
(replaces Credit No. 228-PAK of 1971) 25.0         19.0
340      1972     Chandpur Irrigation II (replaces
Credit No. 184 of 1970)                13.0        10.1
341      1972     Tubewells (replaces Credit No. 208-PAK
of 1970)                               14.0         11.4
343      1972     Telecommunications (replaces part
of Credit No. 145-PAK of 1969)          7.3          5.1
345      1972     Reconstruction Imports                    50.0         2.9
353      1973      Small-Scale Industry (replaces
Credit No. 192-PAK of 1970)             3.0          0.6
367      1973      Chittagong Water Supply (replaces
Credit No. 42-PAK of 1963)              7.0          2.5
368      1973      Dacca Water Supply and Sewage (replaces
Credit No. 41-PAK of 1963)             13.2          3.9
S-14     1973      Irrigation Engineering (replaces
Credits Nos. S-8-PAK and S-1-PAK
of 1969 and 1970)                       3.15         0.1
381      1973      Foodgrain Storage (replaces Credit
No. 83-PAK of 1966)                    19.7          0.8
407      1973      Education (replaces Credit Nos. 49-PAK
and 87-PAK of 1964 and 1966)           21.0         12.0
408      1973     Higihways (replaces Credit No. 53-PAK
of 1964)                               25.0         18.6
409      1973     Technical Assistance                       4.0         3.5
410      1973      Cereal Seeds                              7.5         7.5
424      1973      Inland Water Transport Rehabilitation     4.1         3.8
458      1974      Imports Program                          50.0        11.1
487      1974      Second Telecommunications                20.0        20.0
515      1974     Third Imports Program                     75.0        58.8
527      1975     AShug,nj Ferti]jzer                       33.0        33.0
529      1975      Consolidation Ciedit                     31.0        31.0
533      1975     Population                                15.0        15.0
SUBTOTAIL,                       440.95e     27O.7
B.   IBRD Lcans to Bangladesh
1087     1975     Consoli.dation Loan                      54.9         54.9
'I OTAL                          495.85      325.6



ANNEX II
Page 2
B.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
Cr. No. 339    Cyclcne Area Recontruct5on. Project; I!S$25.0 Million
Credit of October 18, 1972; Closing Date: June 30, 1976
Credit became effective January 17, 1973. Implementation of the
original project, financed under Credit No. 228-PAK of 1971, had not commenced
prior to the suspension of disbursements. Earthwork has been completed for
fifty-four miles of primary roads, and 60 cyclone shelters are under construc-
tion. However, progress has been slow due to the severe shortages of construc-
tion materials in Bangladesh. For the other subprojects (inland water trans-
port, telecommunications, feeder roads, coastal fisheries and cyclone warning)
progress has been mainly limited to the preparation and floating of tenders
and ordering of equipment and materials. Project completion is expected to
be about two years behind the schedule anticipated at appraisal. In June
1974, the Government submitted to the Association a proposal for reducing the
scope of the project in order to cope with the sharp increase in construction
costs since the Project was appraised. The proposal involved reductions in
the feeder roads to be financed by the Credit (a proposal for financing these
roads is under discussion with the World Food Program), reductions in the
fisheries subproject, and minor reductions in other project items. Given
the very early stage of procurement under the project, it was decided not
to formally amend the project at this stage. Meanwhile it was agreed that
the Government's proposals for reducing the project provided a reasonable
basis for proceeding for the time being. By about June 1975, based upon
revised cost estimates and experience concerning the success of the various
project components, a decision will be made concerning the amendments required
under the credit.
Cr. No. 340    Chandpur Irrigation II Project; US$13.0 Million Credit of
October 18, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1977
Credit became effective January 17, 1973. The Project is far
behind schedule and continues to be plagued with problems. Major flooding,
work stoppages caused by 100% increase in construction labor costs, short-
ages of cement and operable construction equipment, ineffective management,
inadequate provision of local funds and general inflation are factors which
affect the project adversely. Recent procurement of 1,600 tons of cement
has slightly eased the shortage. Spare parts are now available for repair
of construction equipment, but the lack of trained medhanics and repair
facilities will delay getting the equipment into operation. Manufacture
of the electrical and mechanical equipment for the regulators and pumping
plant has been completed, but no delivery has been made. The low-lift pump
specifications are being finalized by WDB and the consultants. The award of
contracts is scheduled for the second quarter of 1975.    EsGentil m_echanical
equipment (particularly embedded parts) is not yet on site. Borrow pit canal
and Khal improvement excavation has commenced. Since establishment of the
Project Implementation Bureau there has been improvement in WDB staff per-
formance and diesel fuel deliveries to site. Continuing inflation and other
adverse factors are expected to increase the Project costs to more than 50%
above the latest estimate.



ANNEX II
Page 3
Cr. No. 341    Tubewells Project; US$14.0 Million Credit of November 6, 1972,
Closing Date: December 31, 1976
This project was originally financed by IDA Credit No. 208-PAK of
1970 and credits from Sweden and Canada. Although bids had been received
in 1971, no contracts were awarded before the disturbances. The present
Credit, again in conjunction with a US$6 million Credit from Sweden and a
construction on this project began during January, 1974. In April 1974,
IDA approved award of the contract for supply of the well pumps and engines.
However, completion of the contract documents were delayed. The draft con-
tract has now been received and our comments have been sent to the Government.
Due to initial delays, present implementation is about one year behind sched-
ule, and new dates have been agreed for the completion of the activities on
which original deadlines have passed. Due to increases in project costs the
Government has requested a reallocation of credit proceeds, reducing the
amounts allocated to local currency financing. We are consulting with Sweden
concerning this request. In January 1974, the Government and the engineering
consultants signed a revised contract providing for the addlional engineer-
ing and agriculture consulting services needed for the project. In February
1974, the agricultural consultants (who were under sub-contract to the en-
gineering consultants) withdrew from the project, stating that the salary
scales in the revised contract signed by the engineering consultants were
inadequate to attract staff of the calibre required for the project. The
Consultants also noted the lack of progress by the Government in making
necessary preparations for implementation of the agricultural development
component of the project. While progress on implementation of the agricul-
tural component has meanwhile improved, the Government has remained unwilling
to pay the agricultural consultants more than had been agreed in the contract
with the engineering consultants. The engineering consultants have now sub-
mitted proposals for new arrangements to provide the required agricultural
consulting services.
Cr. No. 343    Telecommunications Project; US$7.3 Million Credit of
November 15, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1975
Credit became effective January 17, 1973. The project was origi-
nally financed as part of Credit No. 145-PAK of 1969, and goods and services
valued at about US$2.2 million were received in Dacca prior to suspension of
disbursements. Most of the suppliers for the remaining equipment required
under the project were willing to renew their prior contracts with Pakistan,
at no increase in cost. These items are expected to be delivered shortly.
However, the coaxial cable supplier expressed his inability to supply equip-
ment at the original price due to increases in the price of copper and lead.
Due to this cost increase and the changes in currency parities, the credit
amount was no longer adequate to complete the project. Consequently, it
was decided that the coaxial cable systems would be replaced by microwave
systems and that financing of the Bogor-Rangpur section would be transferred
to the second telecommunications project. The amendments to the first tele-
communications project are incorporated in the credit agreement for the sec-
ond telecommunications project. Due to the need for a new tender for the
microwave equipment, an extension of the Closing Date will probably be neces-
sary.



ANNEX II
Page 4 -
Cr. No. 345    Reconstruction Imports Project; US$50.0 Million Credit
of November 30, 1972; Closing Date: August 31, 1975
Credit became effective January 30, 1973. As of February 28,
1975, disbursements were US$47.1 million and, in addition, letters of
credit guaranteed by IDA had been opened for US$2.1 million. Of the
remaining -US$0.8 million, approximately US$0.3 million is required as
a reserve against currency fluctuations affecting .he guaranteed letters
of credit. Thus about US$0.5 million is available to reimburse the
Government to eligible items paid for after the signing of the credit.
The Bangladesh Bank is now preparing these applications. Due to initial
delays, the Credit had no impact on production in 1972/73, and its impact
on production only began to be felt during 1973/74. Due mainly to the
above-mentioned initial delays, and subsequent delays in finalizing con-
tracts with suppliers and arranging shipping for the imported goods, the
Credit was not fully disbursed by-August 31, 1974, the original closing
date. Delays in the manufacture of certain items and in arranging for
shipments continued into 1975, and suppliers requested extensions of the
deadlines on their letters of credit. The Association agreed on February 28
to second extension of the Closing Date for this Credit from March 31, 1975
to August 31, 1975.
Cr. No. 353     Small-Scale Industry Project; US$3.0 Million Credit
of January 19, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1976
Credit became effective May 14, 1973. The project was originally
financed by IDA Credit No. 192-PAK of 1970. The Credit has financed notional
repayment of amounts previously disbursed under Credit No. 192-PAK (US$187,000)
and payment of outstanding amounts for consulting services performed under
Credit No. 192-PAK (US$12,000). Disbursements for new activities up to
February 28, 1975 amounted to approximately US$2.2 million. Projects pipe-
line requirements now exceed available foreign exchange resources during
1975/76. A UNDP/UNIDO technical assistance project is expected to help BSIC
reorganization during 1975/76.
Cr. No. 367     Chittagong Water Supply Project; US$7.0 Million Credit
of April 9, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1975
Credit became effective June 7, 1973. The project was originally
financed by IDA Credit No. 42-PAK of 1963. By December 1971 when disburse-
ments were suspended, US$4.4 million had been disbursed. The project, as
reappraised in 1972, is now about 65% completed. Construction progress has
been slow due to problems with land acquisition, poorly performing and default-
ing contractors and suppliers, and the shortage of supplies and materials.
Construction and material prices have risen sharply. Construction progress
is expected to improve as materials become available, but extension of the
closing date by at least two years may be required. Management, labor and
union problems are diminishing following appointment of a new Chairman of
the Chittagong Water and Sewerage Authority. While collection performance
has improved recently, financial operations and financial management remain
weak. The Water Authority and the Planning Commission are currently pre-
paring proposals for revising tariffs, billing and collection procedures and
arrangements for capital financing.



ANNEX II
Page 5
Cr. No. 368    Dacca Water and Sewerage Project; US$13.2 Million Credit
of April 9, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1975
Credit became effective June 7, 1973. The project was originally
financed by IDA Credit No. 41-PAK of 1963. By December 1971, when disburse-
ments were suspended, US$6.0 million had been disbursed. The water supply
portion of the project, as reappraised in 1972, is now about 60% completed
and the sewerage portion about 30% completed. Construction progress has
been slow due to problems with land acquisition, poorly performing and
defaulting contractors and suppliers, and the shortage of supplies and
materials. Construction and material prices have risen sharply. Construc-
tion progress is expected to improve as materials become available, but
extension of the closing date by at least two years may be required. Man-
agement, labor and union problems continue. The financial operations and
financial management are weak. The Water and Sewerage Authority is cur-
rently preparing proposals for revising tariffs and capital financing.
Cr. No. 381    Foodgrain Storage Project; US$19.7 Million Credit
of May 18, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1975
Credit became effective July 17, 1973. The project was originally
financed by a US$19.2 million IDA Credit No. 83 of 1966 and a 25 million
Kronor credit from the Kingdom of Sweden. The project is almost completed
and 95% of the new IDA and Swedish credits were used for repaying the pre-
vious credits. The remaining funds (US$1.25 million from IDA and about
US$0.25 million equivalent from Sweden) are being used to pay outstanding
bills for work completed prior to the war, completion of some supporting
facilities for the grain storage silos, replacement of spares and equipment
damaged during the war, and a feasibility study for a second grain storage
project. The closing date has been postponed by one year to December 31,
1975 due mainly to delays in reaching agreement with the consultants who
are designing modifications for the jetty at Chittagong and with the con-
sultants preparing the feasibility study for a second stage project. The
designs for the jetty modifications are expected shortly and will be fol-
lowed by invitations to tender for the construction. The draft final report
for the feasibility study was completed in December and is being reviewed
by IDA and the Government. A supervision mission which visited in November
reported serious deterioration in the silos mechanical equipment due to in-
adequate maintenance. In addition, delays in ordering spare parts (for
which funds are available under the credit) increased the risk of break-
down. Measures to be taken to alleviate these probleTis are under discuss-
ion with the Government.
Cr. No. 407    Education Project; US$21.0 Million Credit
of June 29, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1978
Credit became ef-fective September 27, 1973.  The project was
originally financed by two IDA credits, Credits Nos. 49-PAK and 98-PAK.
By December 1971, when disbursements were suspended, US$7.7 million had
been disbursed out of US$17.5 million, the aggregate total of the two
former credits. The credit adds US$3.5 million to the total of the
original credits, in order to help the government meet part of the in-
crease in total project cost. Progress on the agricultural university



ANNEX II
Page 6
portion of the project has been delayed due to difficulties in reaching
agreement with the consultant architects on a revised contract. These
difficulties have now been finally resolved. Construction has also been
delayed due to shortage of building material, delays in the preparation
of equipment lists, and furniture designs. Implementation is about 15
months behind the appraisal schedule in the case of BAU and 10 months
behind for the TIs. There are some signs of improvement. Cement is now
starting to become available and some equipment lists have been prepared
and approved. Due to the rapid increase in civil works costs, project
costs have increased by over 60% since appraisal.
Cr. No. 408    Highways Project; US$25.0 Million of June 29, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
The Credit Agreement became effective on September 27, 1973. The
project was originally financed by IDA Credit No. 53-PAK. By December 1971,
when disbursements were suspended, US$3.62 million had been disbursed, out
of the original credit of US$22.5 million. The new credit adds US$2.5
million to the original credit amount, in order to help the Government meet
part of the increase in total project cost as a result of currency realign-
ments. Four construction contracts were signed in September 1973 for the
Sitalakhya Bridge and the Feni Section of the Dacca/Chittagong road worth
about US$9.2 million. A fifth contract with consultants for construction
supervision was signed in February 1974 but they were in the field earlier.
The progress of the project is slow but it is improving and the outlook,
generally, is satisfactory. The major problems are shortage of essential
supplies, like cement and steel, and rising prices. The Government is
making its best efforts to make materials available for the execution of
the project and, at least for the present construction season, no disruption
of the work is anticipated. A cost overrun is likely as prices continue to
rise. A supervision mission was in the field in February/March and new cost
estimates are currently being prepared.
Cr. No. 409    Technical Assistance Project; US$4.0 Million Credit
of June 29, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1975
Credit became effective August 20, 1973. Consultants contracts
have been signed for an inland water transport study, technical advisory
services for preparation of the fertilizer project, a study of areas
suitable for rainfed HYV rice and for preparation of a fisheries project.
Discussions are under way concerning several other subproject proposals.
Cr. No. 410    Cereal Seeds Project; US$7.5 Million Credit
of June 29, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1977
Credit became effective January 30, 1974. A contract for con-
sultants services has been signed and the consultants (specialists in
seed production, seed legislation and certification, and farm machinery)
commenced their duties in Bangladesh March 1974. Bids for the major items
to be purchased (farm equipment and processing plants) are expected to be
received early in 1975.



ANNEX II
Page 7
Cr. No. 424    Inland Water Transport Rehabilitation Project; US$4.1 Million
Credit of August 10, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1975
Credit became effective September 27, 1973. Detailed investiga-
tions have indicated that the damage to the Chittagong offshore oil terminal
was more severe than previously believed. Consultants appointed late in 1973
to study several alternative technical solutions sulmitted their findings and
recommendations to the Government in late January. The government has re-
quested the Association's agreement to a modification of the project descrip-
tion to enable the implementation of a proposed alternative solution which
will require more foreign exchange than has been provided in the Credit.
This is presently under review. The Association has cleared, after some
modifications, the lists of spare parts, tools and equipment submitted by
the Bangladesh Inland Water Transport Authority, Bangladesh Inland Water
Transport Corporation, Chittagong Port Trust and Bangladesh Engineering and
Shipping Corporation for financing under the Credit. The lists submitted
may have to be reduced to remain within the credit allocations.
Cr. No. 458    Imports Program; US$50 Million Credit of February 7, 1974;
Closing Date: March 31, 1976
Credit became effective February 13, 1974. By June 1974 licenses
for the full amount of the credit had been issued to the various eligible
industries. As of February 28, 1975 disbursements amounted to US$38.9 mil-
lion and, in addition, letters of credit guaranteed by IDA had been opened
for US$7.6 million. Import arders have been placed for the balance. and
the credit is expected to be fully disbursed by December 31, 1975.
Cr. No. S-14   Irrigation Engineering Project; US$3.15 Million Credit
of April 9, 1973; Closing Date: July 31, 1975
Credit became effective July 8, 1973. When IDA suspended dis-
bursements under the original credits to Pakistan (Credits Nos. S-8 and
S-10) in December 1971, the Dacca Southwest feasibility studies were com-
pleted and the Karnafuli-Muhuri studies were about three-quarters completed.
Interim financing from Sweden allowed the work to continue. The feasibility
studies for the Muhuri and Karnafuli projects are now completed. A prelimi-
nary draft report for the Comilla-Noakhali project (Dakatia Unit) was
submitted, but the Government decided not to proceed with the project at
this time. Funds remaining in the Credit are being used to finance detailed
engineering and preparation of contract documents for the Muhuri project
by the Consultant.
Cr. No. 487    Second Telecommunications Project; US$20.0 Million Credit
of June 26, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1979
Credit became effective on July 23, 1974. Tender documents for
the microwave systems and multiplex equipment have now been prepared and
approved by the Association for tendering. Proposed legislation for estab-
lishment of a teleconmunications board has been prepared and submitted to



ANNEX II
Page 8
the Minister of Coimnunications for approval. Consultants proposals for
accounting services have been submitted and are being reviewed by the Tele-
communications Department.
Cr. No. 515     (Third) Imports Program; US$75 Million Credit
of October 9, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1976
Credit became effective on October 10, 1974. Provision was made
to reimburse the Government for up to US$10 million for eligible imports
paid for after July 1, 1974, but prior to the date of the credit. Disburse-
ments amounted to US$16.2 million as of February 28, 1975, and in addition
letters of credit guaranteed by IDA amount to US$16.9 million. The Credit
approved on October 9, 1974 was for US$50 million, but after the Fourth IDA
Replenishment Agreement became effegtive, an amendment increasing the credit
amount was approved on February 27, 1975. The Amending Agreement was signed
on March 10, 1975 and became effective on April 7, 1975. The Government has
allocated the full amount of the Credit among the various eligible industries,
and import orders are being processed. It is expected that by July 31, 1975
a significant amount of the Credit will be committed by the Bangladesh Bank.
Cr. No. 527     Ashuganj Fertilizer Project; US$33 Million Credit
of February 11, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Credit is not yet effective.
Cr. No. 533     Population Project; US$15 Million Credit
of February 25, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Credit is not yet effective.



ANNEX III
Page 1
BANGLADESH
BARISAL IRRIGATION PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:                 People's Republic of Bangladesh
Amount:                   US$27 million
Terms:                    Standard
Project Description:      The project includes:
(a) Construction of 750 sluice structures to control
water levels and provide storage in the dry
season, and permit drainage and movements of
boats in wet season;
(b) widening and deepening of creeks, where necessary,
to facilitate water distribution;
(c) installation of 100 primary pumps to raise
water from the perennial channels to the creek
storage ponds;
(d) installation of 2,500 secondary pumps or other
devices to raise water to farmers' fields from
perennial rivers and from the creek storage
ponds;
(e) provision of storage and distribution
facilities for fuel and fertilizers;
(f) provision of equipment and spares for workshops
which will maintain and repair the low-lift pumps;
(g)  construction of offices and housing for project
staff;
(h) procurement of vehicles and construction equip-
ment and equipment for agricultural extension
centers and demonstration areas;
(i) consultant services to assist in project planning,
design, supervision of construction, and in the
strengthening of agricultural extension services.



ANNEX III
Page 2
Estimated Cost:          US$46 million equivalent of which US$20.5 million
is expected to be in foreign exchange and US$25.5
million in local currency.
Foreign
Local  Foreign  Total  Exchange
(US$ Million)       (%)
Land Acquisition          0.7      -      0.7       0
Civil Works               9.0     2.6    11.6      22
Materials, Equipment
and Vehicles            1.7    10.8    12.5      86
Consulting Services       0.3     0.6     0.9       67
Engineering and
Construction
Management              2.8      -       2.8      0
Base Cost Estimate       14.5    14.0    28.5      49
Contingencies
Physical                  1.0      1.0    2.0       50
Price                    10.0     5.5     15.5      35
Sub-Total           11.0     6.5    17.5      37
Total Project Cost       25.5    20.5    46.0      44.5
Estimated
Disbursements:             Fiscal             Annual        Accumulated
Year            Disbursements  Disbursements
(US$ Million)
1976                1.2            1.2
1977                4.8            6.0
1978                6.0           12.0
1979                6.5           18.5
1980                6.0           24.5
1981                2.5 .         27.0



ANNEX III
Page 3
Procurement:              (a)  Civil works (sluice structures, creek excavation,
buildings and storage facilities) involve many
small operations scattered over a wide area and
would not be suitable for international competi-
tive bidding. These works would be carried out
under unit-price contracts to be awarded after
local competitive bidding under procedures which
are satisfactory. Materials, such as sand,
bricks and timber, would be procured locally
after competitive bidding.
(b) Vehicles, equipment and imported materials
would be procured after international compe-
titive bidding. Procurement of off-the-shelf
items costing less than US$5,000 each whose
aggregate would not exceed US$100,000 would
be through normal government procurement pro-
cedures which are satisfactory. A preference
limited to 15% of the c.i.f. price of imported
goods would be extended to local manufacturers
in the evaluation of bids.
Consultants:              Consultants would be retained to advise and assist
in the preparation of work programs, designs and
contract documents; supervision of construction,
preparation and establishment of operation and
maintenance procedures, and the development of
extension services in the project area. About
120 man-months of consultant services would be
provided.
Rate of Return:           28%.
Appraisal Report:         Report No. 449a-BD dated April 9, 1975.
South Asia Department



