Report No. 449a-BD                                                                      *%
Bangladesh                                                                FIE C
Appraisal of the
Barisal Irrigation Project
April 9, 1975
Irrigation Division
South Asia Projects Department
Not for Public Use
Document of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not
be published, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does
not accept responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
The Bangladesh Taka (Tk) is officially valued at
18.9677 to the Pound Sterling. The Pound now floats
relative to the US Dollar with the result that the
Taka-US Dollar rate is subject to change.  The rate
below has been used throughout this report, except
where stated to the contrary.
US$1.00        =  Tk 8.0
Tk 1.00        =  US$0.125
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 acre (ac)               -  0.405 hectare (ha)
1 mile (mi)               =  1.609 kilometers (km)
1 square mile (sq mi)    =  640 ac
= 259 ha
1 foot (ft)               =  30.5 centimeters (cm)
1 maund (md)              =  82.3 lb
= 37.3 kg
1 long ton (lg ton)       =  1.016 metric ton-s (m ton)
=  27.2 md
1 cubic foot per second              3
(cfs)                   -  0.028 m /second
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ADC       -  Agricultural Development Corporation
CP        -  FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program
CEC       -  Central Evaluation Committee
HYV       -  High Yielding varieties (of rice)
IGU       -  Interdepartmental Government Unit
IPIC      -  Interdepartmental Projee:t Implementation Committee
IRDP      -  Integrated Rural Develc'ment Program
TCCA      -  Thana Central Cooperati. -s Association
TTDC      -  Thana Training and Devec pment Center
WDB       -  Water Development Board
GLOSSARY
Aman      -  Rice planted before or during the monsoon
and harvested in November or December.
Aus       -  Rice planted during March and April and
harvested during July and August.
Boro      -  Rice planted in winter and harvested during
the periQd April to June.
Thana     -  Smallest administrative unit of Bangladesh
Government, of which there are 413. Six or
seven thanas form a subdivision, three or
four subdivisions form a district, and there
are 19 districts in the country.
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



BANGLADESH
APPRAISAL OF THE BARISAL IRRIGATION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUWMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  .......................i-li
I.     INTRODUCTION  ..........................................                             1
II.    BACKGROUND  ............................................                               1
General  ......................................                                    1
Irrigation Development  ............................. .                           3
III.    THE PROJECT AREA  ....                ..................................               5
General                                 .           .... 5
Climate .        .............................................                    5
Topography  and  Soils  .......            .................. .                   6
Water  Resources   .................................. .                           6
Farm Size and  Land  Tenure  ......              ................ .               6
Irrigation  in  the Project Area  .....                .............. .           7
Agricultural  Production  .......              ............... .                  7
Transportation  .................................... .                            8
IV.    THE PROJECT  ...................................... .                                  8
Project Features  ....................................                            8
Water  Demand,  Supply and  Quality  ....................    10
Engineering Design  ................                                             10
Construction  Schedule  .............                                            11
Cost  Estimates  ......................................    11
Financing  ...........................................                           13
Procurement  .........................................    13
Disbursements  .......................................                           13
Accounts  and Audit  ..................................                          14
Environmental  Impact  ................................    14
V.     ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT  ...........................    14
Management  and  Coordination  for Project  Implementation   14
Consulting  Services  ..... ..........................                           15
Operation and Maintenance ............................  16
Agricultural  Supporting  Services  ........                  ............    17
Recovery  of Costs  .............................. .                             18



-2-
Page No.
VI.   MARKETING AND PRICES ..............................  19
Marketing .........              ................    19
Crop Prices ...............................    20
Cost of Inputs ...................   21
VII. PRODUCTION AND FARM TNCOMES    ...22
Crop Calendars and Cropping Patterns .22
Yields and Production .23
Fam Income .23
VIII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION .24
IX.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS   .       .26
ANNEXES
1.   Climate
2.   Present and Projected Cropping Patterns and Production
3.   Project Works and Cost Estimates
4.   Irrigation Water Requirements
5.   Proposed Credit Allocation
6.   Schedules of Expenditures and Disbursements
7.   Consultants' Services:  Terms of Reference
8.   Agricultural Supporting Services
9.   Economic Analysis
10.   Crop Inputs and Farm Budgets
11.   Farm Labor Analysis
CHARTS
Construction Schedule No. 8655 (R)
MAPS
Project Location, No. 10849
Project Area, No. 10850
Sample Area Layout, No. 10851



BANGLADESH
APPRAISAL OF BARISAL IRRIGATION PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        Agriculture dominates the economy of Bangladesh.  It accounts
for over half of GDP, 75% of employment, and over 80% of exports. Although
rice is grown on about 80% of the cultivated acreage and represents about
two-thirds of the value of agricultural production, rice production has
been unable to meet the requirements of a rapidly growing population. Food-
grain imports amounted to 1.5 million tons in 1969/70 and in 1973, a record
production year, rose to 2.4 million tons. The First Five-Year Plan (1974-78)
gives high priority to increasing rice production through promotion of modern
inputs (improved seeds, fertilizers and pesticides) and through further
expansion of irrigation from low-lift pumps and tubewells.
ii.       This report appraises a proposed irrigation project in the vicinity
of the city of Barisal. The project was prepared in 1973 by a specially
organized Interdepartmental Government Unit responsible to the Planning Com-
mission. It was appraised in October/November 1973. The proposed project,
by providing reliable dry-season irrigation and supplementary wet-season
irrigation by low-lift pumping, would be in accordance with the water and
agricultural development strategy of the First Five-Year Plan.
iii.      Irrigation facilities provided by the project would command about
141,000 acres of 147,000 acres of cultivable land. Irrigation is expected
to expand the area cropped to rice in the dry season from 13,000 acres
at present to 112,000 acres. In the wet season, areas free from deep flood-
ing and suited to transplanted rice would be irrigated and this is expected
to result in a shift to high yielding varieties from local varieties on
about 87,000 acres. About 2,500 diesel-powered, low-lift pumps, each
serving an area of 40-60 acres, would irrigate the area from an extensive
network of natural channels. This is a mode of development which has
already been adopted on a large scale in Bangladesh in areas where the
natural channels carry water throughout the year. A distinctive feature of
this project, however, is that small pump irrigation will be extended to
about 90,000 acres where year-round irrigation cannot presently be practised
because the creeks are non-perennial (carrying water only in the wet season),
or semi-perennial (dry season water available only at high tides). In these
areas, the project will provide numerous small control structures to form
ponds which will be filled from the perennial channels by primary pumps.
Some creek excavation will also be carried out to remove obstructions and
raise the banks, and thereby facilitate water distribution. In addition to
pumps and civil works, the project would provide supporting facilities and
equipment, the necessary operation and maintenance services, and improved
agricultural supporting services to the farmers. Several government agencies
would be involved in implementing the project. Interagency coordination
would be provided by an Executive Director leading an Interdepartmental
Project Implementation Committee. A Central Evaluation Committee, headed
by a senior representative of the Government, would periodically review



- ii -
project progress and resolve coordination problems. A consulting firm would
be engaged to assist the Executive Director and the implementing agencies.
iv.       The estimated cost of the project is US$45 million equivalent,
of which US$20.5 million would be foreign exchange and the remainder local
currency. Contracts for the supply of imported equipment, vehicles and
materials amounting to US$12.5 million (US$8.4 million for pumps) would be
awarded after international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group
Guidelines. Contracts for construction of the civil works, amounting to about
US$11.5 million, would be awarded after only local competitive bidding as the
work involves many small operations, scattered over a wide area, which can
only be undertaken in the dry season. Construction of the total project works
would take five years, but individual primary pump service areas would be
sequentially coming into operation after the second construction season.
v.        The primary benefit from the project would be a 240% increase,
over a five-year development period following completion of construction,
in rice production in the project area, which would lead to an increased
income for some 103,000 farm families, most of whom are very small farmers --
the average area farmed is less than 1.5 acres. Production would increase
from the present 143,000 tons of paddy to 345,000 tons at full development.
The net foreign exchange saving from incremental rice production under
the project would be around US$15 million per year. At the projected world
market price for milled rice cif Chittagong, of US$215 per metric ton, the
project's economic rate of return would be about 28%.
vi.       The proposed project is suitable for an IDA credit of US$27 million
equivalent. This credit would contribute 62% of the estimated total project
costs, excluding local taxes and duties, covering all foreign exchange costs
and about 28% of local costs. The Borrower would be the People's Republic
of Bangladesh.



BANGLADEH
APPRAISAL OF THE BARISAL IRRIGATION PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of the People's Republic of Bangladesh has
requested a credit of US$27 million to assist in financing the Barisal
Irrigation Project. This would be the third IDA credit for an irrigation
project in Bangladesh since independence. Two IDA credits have also been
provided to finance technical assistance to the Government in project pre-
paration. The status of IDA-financed projects and irrigation development
in the country is described in Chapter II.
1.02      An FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program (CP) mission visited Bangladesh
in October 1972 and prepared a project identification report for the Barisal
Project. CP staff also helped an interdepartmental government unit (IGU)
prepare the basic data for project appraisal.
1.03      This report is based on the findings of a mission, comprising
Messrs. R. R. Morton, E. D. Hunting, and S. Okabe, which visited Bangladesh
in October-November 1973.
II. BACKGROUND
General
2.01      Bangladesh has over 55,000 sq mi of territory of which 8,500 sq mi
are forest and about 35,000 sq mi are cultivable. Practically all suitable
land is under cultivation, but about one-third of the land is flooded every
year by three of the world's biggest rivers - the Brahmaputra, Ganges and
Meghna. With a population of about 75 million, increasing at about 3%
annually, Bangladesh has the highest population density in the world and
its per capita income of about US$70 per year is among the world's lowest.
About 90% of the population is rural and at least 80% of it is dependent on
agriculture, predominantly rice and jute cultivation. About 30% of the
work force is under-employed and over 80% of the people are illiterate.
The gravest problem confronting the Government continues to be the food
deficit and the resultant outflow of foreign exchange for essential food-
grain imports.
2.02      Agriculture contributes about 55% of GDP and accounts for about
90% of total export earnings (mainly raw jute, jute goods, and some tea).
Although soil fertility is generally high and temperatures allow year-round
cropping, agricultural development is constrained by a number of factors:



- 2 -
(a)  Possibilities for further expanding the cultivable area
of 22.5 million acres are limited, and gains in agricul-
tural production will require more intensive land use
and higher yields.
(b)  About 2.5 million acres is deeply flooded (over 15 ft)
and cultivation is only possible after the flood
subsides in November, and a further 5.5 million acres
which is annually flooded from 3-15 ft is suitable
for cultivation of only one crop of floating rice.
(c) During the dry season from November to March, irrigation
is essential for crop production.
(d) Abnormal floods, droughts and cyclonic storms occurring
from time to time hamper agricultural production.
(e) With a population density of over 2,000 per square mile
of cultivated land, farms are generally small and frag-
mented and agriculture is characterized largely by sub-
sistence farming.
2.03      The total cropped area is 31 million acres giving a cropping
intensity of about 140%'.  Of this, rice accounts for 24.5 million acres,
jute 2.0 million acres and other crops 4.5 million acres. Rainfed and flood
dependent rice account for abouc 22 million acres, and this has not changed
significantly since 1960, but irrigated dry-season rice has increased by
about 150% (from 1 to 2.5 million acres) during this period. Although rice
production in the 1960s increased at an average 2% per year, it did not keep
pace with population which was i:ncreasing at an estimated 3% per year. By
1969/70, imports had reached 1.5 million tons of food grains (about 12%o of
total consumption). Because of crop losses in the 1970 cyclone, the 1971
war, and the 1972 drought, shortages increased and 2.5 million tons were
imported in 1972. In 1973, a year of good rainfall, imports reached 2.3 mil-
lion tons.
2.04      The average land-owning villager possesses about 1.5 acres.  He
often rents another acre from farmers with larger holdings. His total area
is usually fragmented into five or more plots, some of-which may be over a
mile away from his home. Most cf the rice produced by the average farmer
goes to feed his family, and as a result his cash earnings are small and
he is usually in debt.
2.05      A primary objective of the Government, therefore, is improving
living standards at the village level, with emphasis on raising agricultural
production. To this end, the First Five-Year Plan (1974-1978) aims at rapid
spread of high-yielding rice varieties (HYV), with provision of irrigation
by low-lift pumps and tubewells wherever possible, as the key short-term
approach to increasing food grain production.



- 3 -
2.06      The ministries and agencies principally involved in agricultural
development are:
(a)  the Ministry of Agriculture, in particular its branches
responsible for research, training and extension, and
the Bangladesh Agricultural Development Corporation
(ADC), under the Ministry, which is responsible for the
procurement and distribution of rice seed, fertilizers,
insecticides, low-lift pumps, tubewells and fuel for
their operation;
(b)  the Ministry of Flood Control and Water Resources,
through its Water Development Board (WDB) which is
responsible for the planning, design and construction
of water development projects; and
(c)  the Ministry of Local Government, Rural Development
and Cooperatives, through its Rural Development and
Cooperative Division and its Integrated Rural Develop-
ment Program (IRDP), is responsible for developing,
strengthening and expanding farmers' cooperatives and
cooperative associations.
Irrigation Development
2.07     W4ater resource development over the past 15 years has brought under
construction six major water-control projects (Coastal Embankments, Ganges-
Kobadak, Brahmaputra Right Embankment, Dacca-Demra, Chandpur, and Thakurgaon
Tubewells), involving flood protection for 1.1 million acres, protection from
saline water flooding in the coastal area for 1.6 million acres, but
irrigation for only about 0.2 million acres. IDA has financed two completed
water control projects: Dacca-Demra (Credit No. 11-PAK, 1961, US$1 million)
providing partial flood protection and irrigation for about 15,000 acres,
and Brahmaputra Right Embankment (Credit No. 39-PAK, 1963, US$5 million) pro-
viding partial flood protection for a gross area of about 580,000 acres.
IDA is presently financing construction of the Chandpur II Project (Credit
No. 340-BD, 1972, US$13.0 million), to provide flood protection for about
140,000 acres and irrigation for about 75,000 acres, and the Northwest
Region Tubewells Project (Credit No. 341-BD, 1972, US$14.0 million), to
provide irrigation from groundwater for about 180,000 acres. The flat
terrain dominated by the major rivers, the climate which alternates between
flood and drought, and the very high population density, have caused unusual
difficulties in the formulation and execution of agriculture projects in
Bangladesh. During 1971 and 1972, the Association reviewed alternative
strategies for the development of the agriculture and water resource sector
over the next few years.1/ This review suggests that, in view of the immense
technical and financial problems encountered in carrying out water control
1/   IBRD.  Land and Water Resources Sector Study, Bangladesh (in nine volumes).
December 1, 1972. Report No. PS-13.



- 4 -
projects of a capital intensive nature and the immediate critical need to
increase food production as quickly as possible, future strategies should place
stronger emphasis on less ambitious projects designed to yield results more
rapidly. The proposed Barisal project reflects this view. In addition,
IDA is financing engineering studies (Credit No. S-14-BD, 1972, US$3.15 million)
for the preparation of four irrigation and flood protection projects in
Bangladesh, and a Technical Assistance credit (Credit No. 409-BD, 1973, US$4.0
million) to assist the Government in planning and preparing various types of
projects, including irrigation schemes. Also, US$18.2 million was allocated
under the Reconstruction Import Credit (345-BD, US$50.0 million, 1972) and
US$1.0 million under the (third) Import Program Credit (515-BD, US$75.0
million, 1974) for procurement of materials and spare parts for tubewells
and low-lift pumps.
2.08      Farmers in Bangladesh have for centuries used bucket-lift irriga-
tion methods for cultivating their land near the numerous rivers, manmade
channels, and low-lying water bodies. Near perennial rivers and lakes they
can cultivate a dry season rice crop (boro) and market vegetables (rabi),
and also supplement rainfall for the main monsoon rice crop (aman). Intro-
duction of small pumps (low-lift, diesel-driven pumps of one to two cubic
feet per second capacity) early in the 1960's has been the key factor in
expanding dry-season irrigation - from 1 million acres in 1960 to over
2.5 million acres in 1974. About 50% of this irrigation is by low-lift
pumps, most of them provided under ADC's low-lift pump program, about
90,000 acres are irrigated by 2,800 tubewells and the remainder is irri-
gated by traditional bucket-lift methods.
2.09      During the rapid development under ADC's program, average pump
utilization has declined, from about 38 acres per cusec of pump capacity
in 1960/61 to about 20 acres per cusec in 1972/73, with the result that per
acre irrigation costs have increased. One reason for this has been the
heavy government subsidy of pump costs to the farmers, originally justified
as an incentive for rapid irrigation development. This has enabled even
small groups of farmers to use pumps profitably, often only for partial
irrigation.  Also, the growthi in the number of additional pumps fielded
each year has outpaced ADC's supporting services: fuel distribution to
farmers often has been neither timely nor adequate; pumps withdrawn for
annual maintenance are not returned to the farmers until after the start of
the boro season; other problems include absenteeism among the ADC-employed
pump operators, and siting of pumps in areas where the water supply is in-
adequate. Furthermore, without strong support from the ministries, other
agencies have not provided the complementary services originally envisioned
under the program. Advice in the organization and management of pump groups
has been lacking and group memberships have been unstable and pump utiliza-
tion inefficient. While the Government's efforts to introduce new rice
varieties have, on the whole, been successful, there has not been suffi-
cient follow-up advice on improved farming metnods and inputs.



- 5 -
2.10      In view of the favorable response of the farmers to low-lift pump
irrigation, the Government is giving priority to projects which would create
suitable conditions for this type of development. The Bakerganj District is
one of the more favorable areas in the country for rapid expansion of agri-
cultural production by low-lift pumps. Wet-season flooding levels over
much of the area do not inhibit the cultivation of high-yielding rice var-
ieties in the monsoon season, and existing channels provide a natural dis-
tribution system for pump irrigation of a boro crop. Concentrated develop-
ment in the proposed project would aim at improved interagency coordination
in providing supporting services for pump operations and maintenance and in
strengthening agricultural extension services and farmers' cooperatives.
III. THE PROJECT AREA
General
3.01      The project is located in Bakerganj District in the flat delta
south-west of the confluence of the Ganges, the Brahmaputra, and the Meghna
Rivers, an area laced with fresh water creeks and river channels. The proj-
ect area comprises the four thanas - Kotwali, Babuganj, Jhalakati, and
Nalchiti - which surround the district capital of Barisal, some 70 miles
south of Dacca (Map 10849). About 782,000 people now live in these thanas,
about 650,000 of them in the rural areas. The project has a gross area of
about 207,000 acres and a net agricultural area of 147,000 acres. The non-
agricultural area is taken up by towns and villages, water-ways, swamps and
in the higher areas by roads.
Climate
3.02      The area has a monsoon climate with three main seasons (Annex 1):
the monsoon from June to October during which about 80% of total annual
rainfall is recorded; the dry season from November to February which has
very little rainfall and the lowest temperatures and humidities; and the
pre-monsoon season from March to May which has the highest temperatures and
evaporation rates with some rain through occasional thunder showers of high
intensity.  Cyclones, which originate in the Bay of Bengal in April-May and
September-November, periodically have caused severe damage along the coast
south and east of the proposed project area.
3.03      Mean monthly temperatures vary between about 68°F in January and
85°F in May. The mean diurnal range in temperature is about 20°F in the
dry season and 9°F in the rainy season. Relative humidity is high throughout
the year, ranging from 70% to 90%. Mean annual rainfall increases from 80
inches in the north, to 110 inches in the south of the project area. Totals
vary considerably from year to year. Evaporation is highest in April anid
May (5-6 inches per month) and is lowest in December-January (2-3 inches per
month).



-6-
Topography and Soils
3.04      The area lies within the old Lower Meghna tidal flood plain and
is formed on recent alluvium. Between the deltaic channels, extensive level
basins are bounded by narrow natural levees.  Soils are predominantly clays,
have slow internal drainage, moderate but well-sustained fertility and are
suitable for rice. All lands are less than 10 feet above sea level and most
are seasonally flooded, mainly by rainfall whose runoff is impeded by high
river levels during the monsoon. On about two-thirds of the area, flooding
seldom exceeds three feet and is suitable for cultivation of HYV rice varie-
ties during the wet season. During the dry season, irrigation is essential
for rice production in most areas, although vegetable crops may be cultivated
on residual moisture after harvest of the monsoon aman crop.
W4ater Resources
3.05      All rivers and creeks in the project area are fresh, fed bv dis-
tributary channels from the major rivers. The larger creeks and rivers
carry water at all tidal stages during the dry season (maximum amplitude
is 4 feet) and provide for low-lift Dump irrigation. Smaller creeks are
either semi-perennial (water at high tide only) or non-perennial (no dry-
season water). Control structures and primary pumps would be needed on
these creeks to secure a year-round water supply for low-lift pump irriga-
tion.
Farm Size and Land Tenure
3.06      The project area outside the urban centers has an estimated popu-
lation of about 650,000 persons, including about 103,000 farm households
averaging 5.5 members per household, and about 14,000 families of landless
wage earners or non-agricultural property owners. As shown below, more than
50% of the farms are less than one acre.
No. of holdings      Area of holdings
Farm Size                       as % of total         as % of total
Less than 1 acre                            54                     16
1 - 2.5 acres                               30                     37
2.5 - 5.0 acres                             11                     23
5.0 - 12.5 acres                             4                     20
Over 12.5 acres                         Less than 1                 4
Virtually all the agricultural land in the project area is owned by the farm-
ers. About 55% is exchanged or rented to other farmers to reduce the risk of
crop damalge and about 40% is owner-operated. The remainder is cultivated by
farmers who ovn no land of their own.  Most holdings are fragmented into five
or more plots, averaging only about 0.20 acres in size.



- 7-
Irrigation in the Project Area
3.07      Low-lift pumping was introduced into the project area during the
1967/68 dry season and quickly adopted by farmer groups. ADC records indi-
cate that about 800 low-lift pumps are presently in use. The larger pumps
are operated by groups of 20 to 30 farmers and, where properly sited and
supported, command an average of about 40 acres each. In 1972/73 (a dry
year), only about 13,000 acres of boro crop received a full supply of irri-
gation water because of low river levels, incorrect siting of the pump,
periodic shortages of fuel, and various operating problems. Low-lift pumps
are presently procured and distributed to farmers' groups by ADC on a rental
basis. At the end of each season the pump is collected by ADC for mainte-
nance and then reissued on payment of an annual rental charge. At present,
ADC also is responsible for distributing fuel for sale to the farmers.
Agricultural Production
3.08      The present cropped area is about 257,000 acres which, on a net
cultivable area of 147,000 acres, gives a cropping intensity of 175%. Rice
accounts for 90% of the cropped area (28% aus, 20% broadcast aman, 37%
transplanted aman, and 5% boro) and jute and rabi crops for 4% and 6%,
respectively (para 7.01). Present production is 143,000 tons of paddy,
5,000 tons of jute and 3,000 tons of vegetable (rabi) crops.
3.09      Aus, a crop with a short growth period, is usually broadcast in
April-May and harvested in July-August. Aman, the main crop, is either
broadcast or transplanted depending on water availability and flood depths.
Broadcast aman, which has a 220-250 day growth period, is sown about the
same time as aus, may grow up to 15 feet depending on the depth of flooding
during the monsoon, and is harvested in November-December. Transplanted
aman is sown in nurseries in June-July, transplanted in July-August, and
harvested in November-December. It has an average growth period of 150 days.
The boro crop, which is cultivated with irrigation, is sown in December-
January and harvested in April-May (Annex 2).
3.10      The 8-month March to October rainfall permits the farmers to
practice double cropping on about two-thirds of the project area, mostly
aus followed by transplanted aman and about 10,000 acres of jute followed
by transplanted aman. However, as the remaining third of the project area is
liable to flooding of over three feet, it can be only cultivated with one crop
of broadcast aman in the wet season. During the dry season, about 19% of the
cultivable area is cropped; 13,000 acres of irrigated boro, and 15,000 acres
of pulses, oilseeds, and vegetables grown on residual soil moisture after
harvesting broadcast aman.
3.11      High yielding rice varieties (HYV) account for only 5% of the area
devoted to rice. The remaining 95% is planted to local rice varieties, and
yields are low because of uncertain rains, disease and limited use of fertil-
izers: only 13 maunds of paddy per acre for aus, 15 for broadcast aman and
17 for transplanted aman. These may be compared with HYV yields of 25 maunds



- 8 -
of paddy per acre for rainfed transplanted aman and 35 maunds per acre for
irrigated boro rice. Without reliable irrigation, farmers are reluctant to
invest in fertilizer and insecticides for transplanted aman, both local and
HYV, as this crop often suffers from drought during flowering and ripening.
The boro crop suffers fewer natural hazards but is dependent upon a reliable
water supply and, hence, on efficient servicing of the pumps, the maintenance
of the farm distribution systems and the availability of cash to buy diesel
fuel.
Transportation
3.12      Most of the movement of goods and people within the project area,
and between the project and the major cities of Dacca, Khulna, and Chittagong,
is by water. A paved road, with eight ferry crossings, connects Barisal
with Dacca. An airstrip north of Barisal is suitable for light aircraft.
IV. THE PROJECT
Project Features
4.01      Irrigation facilities provided by the project would command about
141,000 acres of 147,000 acres of cultivable land. Dry season irrigation
would primarily take place in areas suited to boro rice and this crop is
expected to expand from 13,000 acres at present to 112,000 acres. In the
wet season, areas free from deep flooding and suited to transplanted aman
would be irrigated and this is expected to result in a shift to high yielding
varieties from local varieties cn about 87,000 acres (Annex 2). About 2,500
5HP diesel-powered, low-lift pumps, each serving an area of 40-60 acres, will
irrigate the area from an extensive network of natural channels. 1/ This is
a mode of development which has already been adopted on a large scale in
Bangladesh in areas where the natural channels carry water throughout the
year. A distinctive feature of this project, however, is that small pump
irrigation will be extended to about 90,000 acres where year-round irrigation
cannot presently be practised because the creeks are non-perennial (carrying
water only in the wet season), or semi-perennial (dry season water available
only at high tides). In these areas, the project will provide numerous small
control structures ("sluices") to form ponds which will be filled from the
perennial channels by primary pumps. Some creek excavation will also be
carried out to remove obstructions and raise the banks, and thereby facili-
tate water distribution. In addition to pumps and civil works, the project
would provide supporting facilities and equipment, and the necessary opera-
tion and maintenance services.
4.02      The principal features of the project summarized below are described
in more detail in Annex 3.
1/   Most of the 800 existing pumps in the project area will become due
for replacement during the -roject implementation period.



- 9 -
(a) About 750 control structures constructed on the
creeks to control water levels in about 100 primary
irrigation units; the gates would be opened in the wet
season to allow drainage and the movement of boats;
(b) Widening and deepening, where necessary, of creeks to
facilitate water distribution;
(c) About 100 primary pump stations (capacity about 25 cfs)
to raise water from the perennial channels to the creek
storage ponds;
(d) About 2,500 secondary pumps (capacity about 2 cfs), each
serving 40-bO acres, or other devices to raise water to
the farmers' fields from perennial rivers and from the
creek storage ponds;
(e) Pump repair and maintenance workshops;
(f) Storage facilities for fuel and fertilizer;
(g) Offices and housing for project staff;
(h) Vehicles and construction equipment; and equipment for
extension centers and agricultural demonstration areas; and
(i) Consultants to assist the government in project planning,
design and implementation and in strengthening agricultural
extension services and organization of cooperatives.
4.03      On-Farm Water Distribution.  Farmers in the project area, and
elsewhere in Bangladesh where low-lift pumps are used, have shown an ability
to adopt irrigation without need for substantial on-farm improvements. Paddy
fields are already leveled and, in many cases, are fully or partially diked.
Water distribution is from plot to plot with small ditches constructed by the
farmers where necessary. Where difficulties have been encountered it has
largely been a result of improper siting of the pump or inadequate pump group
management. Pump groups will be formed in the project area with guidance
from IRDP, assisted in pump siting and distribution layout by WDB and ADC.
Pump groups will complete their own water distribution systems within areas
served by each low-lift pump. At the Thana Training and Development Centers,
IRDP will conduct training programs for selected members from each pump group
in improved irrigation practices.
4.04      Pilot Area Development.  Two pilot primary units of about 400 acres
each would be developed in the 1975/76 dry season to allow experience to be
gained in the operation of primary pumps and secondary pump groups and to
serve as a guide for project planning and design. Possible improvements in
on-farm development and water distribution in the secondary units would also



- 10 -
be explored. The pilot areas would be formed by constructing temporary
earth dams and deploying pumps already available to the Agriculture Devel-
opment Corporation.
Water Demand, Supply and Quality
4.05      Water Demand.  The monthly irrigation requirement would range
from about 1 inch in November to about 13 inches in March (Annex 4). The
seasonal requirement for the boro crop would be about 48 inches or some
400,000 ac-ft. The peak demand in March would require a withdrawal from
perennial rivers of 1,800 cfs. Supplementary irrigation for the aman crop
in September and October would require a total 90,000 ac-ft, with a peak
withdrawal from the rivers in a dry year of about 700 cfs.
4.06      Water Supply.  The project area is interlaced by a large number of
rivers and creeks constituting part of the delta of the Ganges, Brahmaputra
and Meghna rivers. Although under tidal influence, all rivers and creeks in
the project area carry fresh water from the Padma through the Arial Khan, and
by side channels from the MIeghna (Map 10849). Tinimum river discharges gen-
erally occur in March with an average discharge in the Arial Khan of 1,300 cfs
and in the main stream of the Meghna of 265,000 cfs. The peak withdrawal in
March of 1,800 cfs for the project is less than 1% of the March flow, and ample
water is therefore available for the Project.
4.07      Water Quality.  As the river flows recede in the dry season, salt
water from the Bay of Bengal moves inland (Map 10849), but does not extend
into the project area and all water courses carry fresh water throughout
the year. The Joint Rivers Commissicn, established bv Bangladesh and India
to coordinate plans for development of the Ganges and Brahmaputra, will take
into consideration the downstream effects of diversions from the twqo rivers.
Irrigation developments currently under consideration, including diversions
from India's recently completed Farraka Barrage, would not affect the water
quality in the project area.  Major developments, which might cause an ad-
vance of the present salinity boundary far enough to affect the southern part
of the project, will take many years to plan and implement and are to be re-
garded as distant prospects in relation to the life of the proposed project.
Engineering Design
4.08      The basic design criteria, quantities and unit costs are based on
detailed studies of sample areas conducted by the Interdepartmental Govern-
ment Unit (IGU) with assistance from the CP. Three sample areas covering a
total of 14,500 acres were studied. Additional topographic surveys covering
the remainder will be required for final designs. Such mapping is currently
being carried out by IWDB regional staff, and coverage will be sufficient to
allow a start on final designs in mid-1975.
4.09      Sluice Structures.  The IGU has proposed the construction of about
750 sluices on the semi- and non-perennial channels. Sluices, as originally
proposed, would be of brick and concrete with one to three standard sized



- 11 -
(six feet wide) vertical-lift steel gates.  However, on the smaller channels
(six to twelve feet wide) it may be possibl'e to substitute earth dams for the
permanent structures; the dams would have to be reconstructed each year at
the end of the monsoon season. Experience in the pilot areas (para 4.04) may
show this approach to be feasible,' in which case some'cost savings might be
realized.
4.10      Secondary Pumps.  Existing pumps in the project area are centrifu-
gal pumps designed for a 40-foot head and driven by 16-HP diesel engines.
The IGU has proposed the adoption of 5-HP'diesels-driving 6-inch axial-flow
pumps designed for a 10-foot head because they would be more efficient than
those currently used. However, few suppliers specialize in this type of
axial-flow pump and price competition might be limited. Therefore, the
Government and the consultants will undertake a detailed review of low-
lift pump technology in preparingAdesigns and specifications which should
aim at (a) a reasonable balance between efficiency and initial cost and (b)
simplicity in pump design and fabrication,to allow a wider choice of sup-
pliers, including local manufacturers. The review will also take into con-
sideration possible use in place of secondary pumps in very low-lift areas
of simple man- or animal-power operated mechanical equipment such as Persian
wheels.
Construction Schedule
4.11      The project works would be completed in five years in accordance
with the proposed schedule shown in Chart No. 8655. Construction of civil
works would commence in the 1975/76 dry season with completion of irrigation
facilities by mid-1980.
Cost Estimates
4.12      Total project costs are estimated at US$46.0 million equivalent,
including US$2.5 million equivalent local taxes and duties. The foreign
exchange component is estimated at US$20.5 million or 47% of the total cost
excluding taxes and duties. Estimates are based on design for the sample
areas, with unit prices at late-1974 levels. Physical contingencies of 10%
for civil works and materials and of 5% for equipment and vehicles have been
included. Projected price increases due to inflation have been applied to
estimated annual expenditures at the following percentage rates:
Foreign Exchange
YeAr      Civil Works    Equipment        Local Costs
1975           16             12                25
1976           14             10                20
1977            12              8               17
1978           12              8                15
1979            12            '8                13
1980           10               7               11



- 12 -
The resulting expected price increases amount to US$15.5 million, or 51% of
the estimated project cost at 1974 prices and 34% of the estimated total
project cost.
4.13      The project costs are sunmarized below:
Foreign
Exchange
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total   Comp.
---(Taka-tdllion)--    --(US$ million)----    (%)
I. Land Acquisition           5.6      -       5.6      0.7     -        0.7      -
II. Civil Contract Works
Sluices                  43.2      9.6    52.8      5.4     1.2      6.6
Creek Excavation          6.4      -       6.4      0.8     -        0.8
Fuel Storage              4.0      1.6     5.6      0.5     0.2      0.7
Fertilizer Storage        4.0      0.8     4.8      0.5     0.1      0.6
Buildings                14.4      8.8    23.2      1.8     1.1      2.9     _
Sub-Total            72.0    20.8    92.8       9.0     2.6    11.6      22
III. Materials, Equipment
and Vehicles
Cement                     0.8      5.6     6.4      0.1     0.7      0.8
Reinforcing Steel          0.8      1.6     2.4      0.1     0.2      0.3
Gates                      2.4      8.8    11.2      0.3      1.1     1.4
Primary Pumps              1.6    14.4    16.0       0.2      1.8     2.0
Secondary Pumps            6.4    44.8    51.2       0.8     5.6      6.4
Vehicles                   0.8      4.8     5.6      0.1      0.6     0.7
Construction, Agricultural
Extension and Miscel-
laneous Equipment        0.8      6.4     7.2      0.1     0.8      0.9     _
Sub-Total            13.6    86.4   100.0       1.7    10.8    12.5      86
IV. Consulting Services         2.4     4.8      7.2     0.3      0.6     0.9      67
V. Engineering & Construc-
tion Management         22.4      -      22.4      2.8     -        2.8     _
Base Cost Estimate       116.0   112.0   228.0    14.5    14.0    28.5         49
VI. Physical Contingencies    8.0       8.0    16.0      1.0      1.0     2.0      50
Total               124.0   120.0   244.0    15.5    15.0    30.5        49
VII. Expected Price In-
creases (51%)           80.0    44.0   124.0    10.0       5.5    15.5       35
Total Expected Cost           /a               /a  2     b  2.
of Project             204.0/  164.0   368. a   25. a    20.5    46.0/    44.5
/a   Includes Tk. 20 million taxes and duty.
/b   Includes US$2.5 million taxes and duty.



- 13 -
Financing
4.14      The proposed IDA credit of US$27 million would finance the full
foreign exchange costs and about 28% of the local costs of the project. It
would cover 62% of the estimated total cost of the project. The remaining
38% would be contributed by the Government through annual budget appropria-
tions for the agencies participating in project implementation. The Govern-
ment has approved the "Project Evaluation Proforma for Development Projects
(Form PC-1)" for the project and budget allocations to provide adequate funds
for the first year of project implementation.
Procurement
4.15      Vehicles, equipment, and imported materials would be procured
after international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group Guide-
lines. A 15% preference margin, or the prevailing customs duty if lower,
would be extended to local manufacturers in evaluation of bids. Off-the-
shelf items costing less than US$5,000 each, which are not suitable for in-
ternational tendering, would be purchased through normal Government procure-
ment procedures acceptable to IDA. Such purchases would be limited to a
total of US$100,000.
4.16      International competitive bidding would not be practicable for
civil works (sluice structures, creek excavation, buildings, and storage
facilities) with an estimated cost of US$11.6 million. This is because they
involve many small operations, scattered over a wide area, which can only be
undertaken in the dry season. Unit-price contracts, which might typically
cover three or four sluices at a cost of about US$40,000, would be awarded
after local competitive bidding. The WDB policy is to supply materials
and equipment such that the contractor's main input is labor and management.
The bidding and evaluation procedures to be followed for civil works contracts
and locally procured materials, such as concrete aggregate and bricks, would
be submitted to IDA for review and comment. Contracts for civil works and
locally procured construction materials would not be submitted to IDA for
review before award, but all documents would be retained by the Borrower and
be available for inspection by IDA in the course of project supervision.
Disbursements
4.17      Disbursements from the proposed credit for vehicles, pumps, gates,
cement and steel would be at 100% of the cif cost if directly imported; 100%
of the ex-factory cost if manufactured locally; and at 65% of the off-the-
shelf price if imported but locally procured. For consulting services, dis-
bursements would cover the total costs (foreign and local). Disbursements
for civil works executed under contract, and for locally procured construc-
tion materials, other than cement and reinforcing steel, would be at 50% of
total expenditures. Disbursements would not be made against taxes and duties,
land acquisition, staff salaries, or overheads and expenses incurred by the
local implementing agencies. The categories to be financed, the allocation
of the proposed credit, and expenditure percentages to be financed for each
category are summarized in Annex 5. Expenditure and disbursement schedules
are attached as Annex 6.



- 14 -
Accounts and Audit
4.18      Assurances were obtained from the Government that it would cause
the project accounts and financial statements of WDB, ADC and any other govern-
ment departments or agencies responsible for carrying out the project, or any
part of the project, to be maintained in accordance with sound accounting
practices, and would employ independent auditors acceptable to IDA to audit
project accounts annually. Certified copies of all accounts and financial
statements, and of the auditor's report, would be sent to IDA within six
months of the close of each fiscal year.
Environmental Impact
4.19      The project would have no adverse environmental effect during
the wet season (May-October) when all gates on the creek control sluices
would be fully open and the natural water regime would be unchanged. Since
fish enter the creeks and flooded paddy fields to spawn during May, June
and July, the project would not affect their breeding cycle and, in fact,
the perennial habitat created by maintaining water in presently non-peren-
nial creeks during November-April could improve the growth potential and
decrease the mortality rate of the fish. Schistosomiasis is not present in
Bangladesh. The daily replenishment of water in the creeks, during the dry
season, should offset any toxic effects which might result from increased
return flows from fields under intensive dry season cultivation using fer-
tilizers and pesticides.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Management and Coordination for Prolect Implementation
5.01      The Government adopted an inter-agency approach in the preparatory
studies and preliminary engineering for the Barisal Project in an attempt
to improve coordination between WDB, ADC, IRDP and the various ministries
and other agencies involved. The preparation studies were successfully
carried out under the direction of an Interdepartmental Government Unit
(IGU) comprising senior technical officers in WDB, ADC and IRDP (para 2.06).
A WDB Chief Engineer was 'team-leader' of the IGU. FAO/IBRD Cooperative
Program missions provided technical assistance, and liaison with the Planning
Commission was provided by the Commission's Flood Control Section Chief.
5.02      The Government has formally established an Interdepartmental
Project Implementation Committee (IPIC) to provide for continued coordination
between the agencies with specific responsibilities in project implementation.
The IPIC, comprising senior technical officers of the participating agencies,
would be headed by a senior government official as Executive Director.
Assisted by the IPIC, he would prepare annual work programs and budgets,
and would be generally responsible for expediting execution of the project.
The Executive Director would report, through Member, Planning and
Implementation, WDB, to a Central Evaluation Committee (CEC) comprising



- 15 -
senior representatives of the participating agencies and secretaries of
their respective ministries. The CEC, under the chairmanship of a senior
representative of the Government, would periodically review project progress
and resolve any major coordination problems. The CEC and the IPIC have been
established, agency and ministry representatives have been designated by
title, and the Executive Director appointed. A condition of credit effect-
iveness would be appointment of the other members of the CEC and IPIC.
5.03      The WDB would be responsible for the planning, design and construc-
tion of all civil works. ADC would be responsible for the procurement of the
primary and secondary pumps and their installation, for upgrading the main-
tenance workshops in the area, and for staffing the workshops and primary
pump sites with trained mechanics and operators (paras 5.07 and 5.08). ADC
would recruit and train primary pump operators and work with IRDP in the
training of secondary pump operators. IRDP's chief role in project imple-
mentation would be establishing the farmers' pump groups and would, there-
fore, work closely with ADC. During the implementation period IRDP will
arrange with ADC a training program for members of farmers' associations
which would prepare them to eventually assume responsibility for operation
and maintenance (para 5.06).
5.04      Annual Work Programs.  Annual work programs, to be prepared by the
Executive Director with assistance of the IPIC before each construction season
will specify in detail, separately for each agency, the works and activities
to be implemented during that year. Assurances were obtained from the Govern-
ment that the Executive Director would prepare and submit to IDA for review
and comment annual work programs, supported by maps and a description of
physical works to be executed, not later than June 30, 1975, and there-
after on August 31 of each year.
Consulting Services
5.05      The Government would retain a consulting firm, acceptable to IDA,
to assist the Executive Director and the agencies responsible for project
implementation. The consultants would help the agencies to prepare work
programs, designs and contract documents; to supervise construction; to pre-
pare and establish operation and maintenance procedures, and to assist the
extension services in the project area. An irrigation engineer and construc-
tion engineer would be assigned full time through the first two years of the
construction period, followed thereafter by periodic visits to advise on the
solutions to problems encountered in project implementation. The consulting
firm would provide, when necessary, on short-term assignments, the services of
a mechanical engineer with experience in pump design and an agriculturalist
specializing in agricultural extension. Proposals for consulting services
have been obtained from a list of qualified firms with experience in irrigation
projects locally or in similar areas elsewhere in Asia. In preparing proposals
for this assignment, the consultants were advised to give full consideration
to using the technical skills available in Bangladesh -- such as using Bangalee
specialists or local consulting firms under sub-contracts. The appointment of



- 16 -
a qualified consulting firm, acceptable to IDA, on terms and conditions ap-
proved by IDA would be a condition of effectiveness of the credit. Draft
Terms of Reference are attached as Annex 7.
Operation and Maintenance
5.06      ADC would be responsib:Le for operation ane maintenance of the
primary pumps and sluices, and the provision of supporting services for the
secondary pumps. However, the Government intends that, as soon as practical,
farmers' associations in the pro;ject area, under the direction of Thana
Central Cooperative Associations (TCCAs), would assume the responsibilities
for operation and management of most of the project facilities. This would
be accomplished gradually after managers and technicians have received
training and gained sufficient experience on each job. The development of
secondary and primary pump groups and TCCAs under the Government's Inte-
grated Rural Development Program (IRDP) is currently the responsibility
of the Ministry of Local Government, Rural Development and Cooperatives.
The IRDP will be active in the project area, during and after the construction
period, providing management training and assistance to farmers' groups es-
tablished under the project. It would work closely with ADC in preparing for
eventual transfer of project operating responsibilities to appropriate farm-
ers' associations. Assurances were obtained from the Government that (a) suf-
ficient funds would be made available at all times to operate and maintain
facilities at standards acceptable to IDA and (b) the Executive Director in
consultation with ADC and IRDP would prepare annual programs for project
operation and maintenance and submit to IDA for review and comment on
August 31 of each year.
5.07      Secondary Pumps.  ADC will be responsible for maintenance of the
secondary pumps until the TCCAs have gained sufficient experience to take
over this responsibility. The project provides for up-grading the ADC work-
shops in the thanas and for training mechanics. The farmers will be
responsible for pump operation and selected members from each group will be
trained at the Thana Training and Development Centers (TTDCs) in secondary
pump operation and basic maintenance requirements. ADC has discontinued
its practice of employing operators for low-lift pumps. Minor repairs would
be carried out by the primary pump operators, employed by ADC, who would
have received the necessary training and have access to spare parts, and
who would guide the pump groups in adequate and timely maintenance. The
practice of returning secondary pumps to the workshops each year would be dis-
continued since this often leaves the farmers without a pump when it is most
needed. Pumps would be returned only for major repairs and a replacement pump
wqould be provided. The need for repairs and replacement would be identified
through annual field inspection by the primary pump operator. A review of
present performance and servicing of existing low-lift pumps in the project
area (para 3.07) will be carried out under the direction of the Executive
Director in the 1975/76 dry seasona. A report identifying problems and
recommending improvements in fuel supply and pump operation and maintenance
will be prepared in consultation with ADC. Assurances were obtained from
the Government that the report would be submitted to IDA for review and
comment within one year of signing the Credit Agreement.



- 17 -
5.08      Primary Pumps and Sluices.  Operation and maintenance of the
primary units would be ADC's responsibility until cooperative associations
have developed the capability and gained sufficient technical operating and
maintenance experience. Each pump will be manned by an operator and an
assistant.  These will be selected from among ADC's m,ore experienced operators
and given special training by ADC and by engineers of the pump suppliers
as part of their contract. Responsibility for supply of replacements and
spare parts for the primary pumps and sluice gates would remain with ADC.
WDB would prepare a simple sluice operating manual for ADC and provide maps
showing sluice locations, land elevations and preliminary operating sched-
ules and water levels for each primary unit. In general, operation would
require closing all sluices (averaging about 8 per unit) at the end of the
monsoon season, and opening them in time to provide drainage soon after the
start of the rainy season. The primary pumps would operate as required to
maintain the water levels in the storage ponds as high as possible without
flooding agricultural land. Routine maintenance would be carried out at the
site by the operator, who would be a trained mechanic and be provided with
tools and spare parts. Major repairs would be undertaken by thana-level
mechanics either at the site or, if necessary, at one of the four central
workshops.
5.09      Fuel Supply.  Initially, fuel would be procured in bulk from the
oil companies by ADC and later by the TCCAs as they assume responsibility
for pump operation. Local boat transport companies would be engaged to
carry fuel from the oil companies' storage depots at Barisal and Jhalakati
to the primary pump sites where the project would provide landing stages
and intermediate storage facilities for fuel drums and crop inputs. ADC's
primary pump operators would be in charge of the storage facilities. The
primary storage sites would be easily accessible to both the suppliers and
the farmers, who live within short boating distances on the interior channels.
Agricultural Supporting Services
5.10      Extension Services.  The Directorate of Extension in the Ministry
of Agriculture will maintain offices in each Thana and Village Extension
Agent (VEA) in each village. The Directorate will assign one VEA to about
1,000 farmers in the project area. The IRDP in association with the Director-
ate of Extension will conduct at the Thana Training and Development Centers
(TTDCs) periodic one-day courses for VEAs and selected farmers from each
pump group (Annex 8). The project will provide offices, office equipment,
agricultural implements for demonstration purposes, and vehicles for the
thana extension officers. In agreement with the farmers' groups, two
secondary pump units near to each of the four TTDCs will be designated as
demonstration areas. These will serve as focal points for training VEAs and
farmers under practical conditions. Assurances were obtained from the Govern-
ment that the Ministry of Agriculture, in consultation with IRDP, would pre-
pare a detailed program for agricultural extension services and training in
the project area for review with IDA within one year of signing of the proposed
credit.



- 18 -
5.11      Research.  The project would draw on the services and facilities
of the Bangladesh Rice PResearch Institute (BRRI) including the Institute's
substation in the project area. This substation now has a 20-acre field
and is staffed with one research officer and several technicians.
5.12      Fertilizer.  ADC will procure and distribute fertilizers and agro-
chemicals to Thana Central Cooperative Associations and ADC-approved retail
dealers for distribution to farmers in the project area. The intermediate
storage facilities to be provided by the project at the primary pump sites
would improve distribution of inputs to farmers (Annex 8).
5.13      Seed.  ADC will be responsible for multiplying and distributing
seeds for high yielding rice varieties. Seed is produced on ADC farms and
also by ADC approved private growers under the registered growers' scheme.
Once new varieties have been introduced into an area the farmers retain seed
from the previous harvest or obtain seed from their neighbors. However, to
sustain high yields, it is necessary to periodically introduce fresh seed.
The Cereal Seed Project (Credit 'o. 410-BD) aims to improve the quality of
seed production and the output of high quality seed should be sufficient
to meet the demand for HYV in the project area.
5.14      Credit.  Non-institutional sources (relatives, nrominent villagers,
or money lenders) provide over 70% of the agricultural credit needs of
farmers in Banqladesh.  The Government intends to improve the availability
of institutional credit in connection with expansion of tlhe Integrated Rural
Development Program (IRDP) by establishing in the project area a two-tier
cooperative structure consisting of small village cooperatives and the Thana
Central Cooperative Associations. The TCCAs wqould extend short term credit
to villaRe cooperatives for on-lending to their members.  A Bank rroup/FAO
mission reviewed the agricultural credit situation in 1973 and discussions
with the G7overnment are planned to consider proposals for improving the
country's agricultural credit institutions (Annex 8).
PRecovery of Costs
5.15      The Government's Five-'ear Plan proposes a gradual reduction in
nation-wide subsidies to farmers for low-lift pumps. The Government also
intends that farmers benefitting fron primary project installations w-ll
pay their operating and maintenance costs and eventually repay as much of
the investment costs as would be compatible with an adequate incentive for
the farmer to use modern inputs and technology.
5.16      Farm incones in the project area at present average about
Tk 800 per acre, with farm incomes of beneficiaries of the existing low-
lift oump program around Tk 1,500) per acre. Among those with irrigation,
the smaller farmers who do not control the pumps are paying Tk 80 to Tk 100
per acre to pump holders for irrLgation water. With current Government



- 19 -
subsidies, the actual cost to the large farmers is only half these rates. 1/
In the future, without any subsidies, the annual cost of secondary pump
irrigation including fuel, maintenance, and recovery of the initial pump
cost over five years would be about Tk 180 per acre 2/, or about 12% of the
projected increase in farm incomes. For the primary pumps and sluices the
annual operation and capital recovery costs would amount to Tk 275 per
acre 3/, or about 18% of the projected increase in farm incomes.
5.17      Based on these figures, the project would benefit farm holders
sufficiently to enable repayment of secondary irrigation costs and a reason-
able portion of the primary costs in addition to providing an adequate in-
centive for farmers to adopt the new technology. However, before establishing
rates or taxes for irrigation water in the project area, the Government wishes
to review the full range of farm incomes and the capacity for repayment in
light of subsistence requirements of the farm households. Assurances were
obtained from the Government that within two years of signing the credit
agreement, the Government will prepare for IDA's review and comment, proposals
to recover project operation and maintenance costs and as large a proportion
of the capital costs as appears compatible with the maintenance of adequate
incentives for participating farmers; in preparing these proposals consider-
ation will be given to arrangements for purchase of low-lift pumps by farmer
groups on terms within their means.
VI. MARKETING AND PRICES
Marketing
6.01      Over the last decade, Bangladesh foodgrain imports doubled to
over two million tons per year. Current rice consumption is about 12 mil-
lion tons and, with population growing at close to 3% annually, annual
foodgrain demand is expected to amount to more than 20 million tons by the
late 1980's. The proposed project would enable foodgrain production in-
creases that will help to meet the Government's plans to achieve self-suf-
ficiency in foodgrains.
1/   Annual fuel costs averaged an estimated Tk 30 per acre and pump charges
amounted to Tk 300 per year for pumps serving arqas ranging from about
20 to 35 acres each.
2/   Estimates for a 40-acre unit include annual costs of Tk 36 per acre for
fuel and Tk 25 per acre for maintenance, and assume a discount rate of
10% per year on capital recovery.
3/   Includes Tk 30 per acre for fuel, Tk 95 for maintenance and operation.
and Tk 150 for recovery of the initial investment costs of the primary
pumps (over 10 years), sluices (30 years), workshops and facilities
(20 years) assuming a 10% discount rate.



- 20 -
6.02      The Bakerganj/Patuakhali area, due to high population growth over
the last quarter century, present:ly has an overall deficit in rice and thus
a large part of the increased rice production under the proposed project
will be either consumed on farms or marketed locally. Nevertheless, not
long ago this area produced a surplus and was a primary supplier for deficit
areas elsewhere in the country. Even now, roughly 10% of local rice pro-
duction (particularly the favored "Balam" variety) iq exported to other
areas. Thus, a well-organized market system exists which is still active
and capable of handling a substantial increase in output. On the periphery
of the project area two major rice marketing centers link it with other
major markets in Bangladesh. Marketing channels are varied and involve
numerous long-established private intermediaries. Paddy processing includes
parboiling and drying before husking, giving an overall average clean rice
yield of about 63%.
Crop Prices
6.03      Prices of crops and farm inputs used in this appraisal are derived
from projected world-market prices in terms of 1974 dollars.  Conversion
to Bangladesh Taka (Tk) is at the exchange rate of US$1.00 = Tk 8.0 (approx-
imately the official rate) for the prices derived below for the farm budget
analysis. A shadow rate of US$1.00 = Tk 14.0, to reflect the scarcity of
foreign exchange, has been used in deriving prices for the economic analysis
(Annex 9).
6.04      Rice.  The projected 1985 price used as a basis for economic and
financial analyses is US$195 per metric ton of clean rice (25%-35% brokens)
fob Bangkok. 1/ This represents a sharp decline from the shortage-related
prices which have recently averaged more than US$335 per metric ton.  Adding
shipping and insurance costs, the projected price cif Chittagong would be
US$215 per metric ton. Since the. anticipated production increases would
partially offset the need for future rice imports, transport and marketing
costs between Chittagong and likely deficit areas are added to the forecast
cif price to give a market price for milled rice of US$247 per metric ton
(Tk 74 per maund). Assuming milling yields average 63%, and deducting 9%
for processing, the corresponding farmgate paddy price wqould be Tk 42 per
maund. Prices of the least expensive varieties (HYV and aus) in 1973 were
about 89% and 86% respectively of the higher priced aman varieties, which
have roughly the same quality as imported rice (25-35% brokens). Thus, the
corresponding farmgate prices for HYV and aus paddy would be Tk 39 and
Tk 38 per maund, respectively.
6.05      Jute.  The export price, of jute is expected to decline from US$304
per metric ton to about $290 per metric ton (export bale) fob Chittagong or
Chalna. This assumes a more statle jute market, but continued competition
from synthetics. After deducting in-country marketing and transportation
costs, and allowing an overall processing yield of about 77%, the farmgate
price would be Tk 49 per maund (loose).
1/   Projections of the Bank's Economic Analysis and Projections Departments
(December 1974).



- 21 -
Cost of Inputs
6.06       Diesel Fuel.  The price of high speed diesel fuel (IISD) by 1985
is expected to be about US$10.10 per barrel fob Ras Tanura (Saudi Arabia),
representing a decline from the prices during the recent fuel crisis which
have been close to US$12 per barrel. 1/ Shipping and insurance rates to
Chittagong are taken to be about US$1.00 per barrel, giving a price of
US$11.10 per barrel (Tk 2.45 per Imperial Gallon) cif Chittagong. In-
country marketing, transportation, and Government tax between Chittagong
and the oil companies' depots at Barisal and Jhalakati amounts to Tk 1.91
per gallon, of which Tk 1.45 is Government tax and development surcharge.
Allowing an additional Tk 0.24 per gallon for local river transport and
handling to the farms based on the current average cost of fuel distribu-
tion in the area, the total price to project farmers after 1985 would be an
estimated Tk 4.6 per gallon. For purposes of economic analysis, the taxes
have been deducted from the farm price.
6.07       Fertilizers.  Nitrogen and phosphate fertilizer prices by 1985 are
expected to decline from the present shortage-related highs of around US448
per kg nitrogen nutrient fob Persian Gulf and USJ44 per kg phosphate nutrient
fob Morocco to about USd24 per kg and US422 per kg, respectively. Potassium
fertilizer prices are expected to drop less sharply from the present US48.7
per kg fob Vancouver to about US45.8 per kg. Transportation and insurance
costs are expected to add an average of about USt^4.0, USi4.6, and USJ4.7 per
kg nutrient, respectively 2/. For application in Bangladesh in the form
of urea (46% N), triple super phosphate (46% P205) and muriate of potash
(60% K), the estimated unsubsidized prices to farmers in the project area,
after adding 25% for in-country marketing and distribution costs, would be
as follows:
(Tk/md)
Urea (46% N)                      46
TSP (46% P205)                    45
M/P (60% K)                       20
1/   In the absence of specific price forecasts for HSD, this estimate is
derived from the price (US$3.61 per barrel for HSD fob Ras Tanura
(8.6 USO/US Gal.), in effect in mid-January 1973, assuming subsequent
increases through 1985 equal to those for crude oil of $6.50 per barrel
(in 1974 terms).
2/   These cover costs to Chittagong for phosphate and potassium fertilizers.
By 193'0, Bangladesh is likely to produce sufficient nitrogeneous fer-
tilizer to meet its own requirements and possibly an exportable surplus.
The price derived from world market forecasts represents the opportunity
cost of using the fertilizer domestically.



- 22 -
VII. PRODUCTION AND FARM INCOMES
Crop Calendars and Cropping Patterns
7.01      Rice would continue to be the dominant crop after completion of
the project. About 10% of the total cropped area would be under jute and
such dry season 'rabi' crops as pulses, mustard, potatoes and chillies. The
present cropping pattern and the future pattern assumed in the appraisal
are the following:
Future with
Present        Project
Rice (paddy)                   (in thousand acres)
Aus                        72               6
B. Aman                    51              13
T. Aman (local)           93                6
T. Aman (HYV)               3              87
Boro (local)                1               -
Boro (HYV)                   12             112
Sub-total             232             224
Jute                       10              10
Rabi Crops                 15              15
257             249
7.02      After project works are completed, the command area would receive
a reliable water supply throughout the year, which would enable high-yielding
boro rice cultivation in most areas in the dry season and a switch to high
yielding varieties for the transplant aman crop in the monsoon season. With
a reliable water supply, the boro crop will produce higher and more stable
yields than aus and broadcast aman crops. Since the maturing of boro
overlaps with the growing period of broadcast rice in the early rainy season,
the increase of the boro area will be accompanied by a decrease of the aus
and B. aman area; the net effect would be a slight decrease in the overall
cropping intensity from about 175% at present to about 170%. About 13,000
acres are expected to remain under B. aman in poorly drained depressions or
on lands subject to river erosion. Rice often replaces jute when irriga-
tion becomes available but it has been conservatively assumed that the jute
area will remain unchanged. Similarly, the area under rabi crops is assumed
to remain the same. Thus, the dry-season irrigated rice acreage would in-
crease from 13,000 acres at present to about 112,000 acres or 76% of the
total cultivable area.



- 23 -
Yields and Production
7.03      Estimated paddy yields at present and at full development are
summarized below:
Present                      Projected
Maunds/ac    m.tons/ac       Maunds/ac    m.ton/ac
B. Aus               13          0.48             13           0.48
B. Aman              15          0.56             15           0.56
T. Aman (local)      17          0.63             22           0.82
T. Aman (HYV)        25          0.93             40           1.49
Boro (local)         20          0.75              -            -
Boro (HYV)           35          1.30             48           1.79
These yields were projected on the basis that use of fertilizers and pesti-
cides in the project area would increase from an aggregate 7,600 metric tons
per year at present to about 31,500 metric tons per year at full development.
Use of pesticides is projected to increase to about 150 metric tons (Annex 10).
7.04      Paddy production would increase from 143,000 tons at present to
345,000 tons at full development. With irrigation, the large proportion of
pulses in the rabi crop is likely to be replaced in part by higher value
vegetables, but for conservatism this has not been taken into account in
the evaluation of the project.
Farm Income
7.05      Income to farm households includes the net value of crops produced
on the farm, such as rice, jute, betel, and vegetable crops, and off-farm
earnings which vary, depending on farm household requirements and opportuni-
ties, and which are derived from a number of activities and occupations such
as fishing, paddy processing and wage labor. Statistics on average household
incomes are not available, but current consumption levels indicate that hold-
ings of less than 1.0 acre, the majority of holdings in the project area, are
too small to support the average household. Most farm families in the proj-
ect area, therefore, are dependent on supplementary incomes averaging about
Tk 1,400 per year. Adopting irrigation generally would not reduce off-farm
earnings of farm households in the area, since farm labor requirements
would have increased only marginally (Annex 11). Most rice production is
consumed on the farm but part of the production from larger farm-holders and
others with substantial off-farm incomes is sold for cash. The high popula-
tion densities and complex land tenure arrangements have resulted in a wide
variety of livelihoods and income levels in the rural area.
7.06      Present and projected farm budgets (including as income only the
value of crops production) have been analyzed on the basis of three repre-
sentative farm sizes: 0.5 acres, 1.5 acres, and 3.0 acres (Annex 10). Since
the Government intends to reduce or eliminate subsidies to farmers in the



- 24 -
purchase of cropping inputs, pricing for this analysis assumes no subsidies.
The annual farm net income including the imputed value of produce consumed
on the farm (in 1974 terms) for the three representative farm types are:
Farm Size     Present      Future with Project
(ac)       (Tk)              (Tk)
0.5          420              1110
1.5         1120              2920
3.0         2050              5050
In the derivation of farm incomes only cash payments for hired labor and
inputs, including the operating and capital recovery costs of secondary
pumps (para 5.16), have been charged as production costs.  Cost recovery
charges for the primary pumping facilities in relation to incremental farm
incomes are discussed in para 5.16. The estimates for the 1.5 acre farm are
based on a cropping pattern which reflects the average for the project area.
A slightly higher intensity is assumed for the 0.5 acre holding and a slightly
lower intensity for the 3.0 acre holding.
VIII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
8.01      The primary benefit of the project would be increased rice pro-
duction. At full project development, farmers would realize nearly triple
their present annual rice production. Most small holders, who now are
dependent on off-farm income for balancing family consumption requirements,
would become self-sufficient in rice production. Medium and large holders
would realize a marketable sur?lus and substantial increases in farm incomes.
At present, per capita income in the project area is about 53% of the national
average, including farm income of about US$24 and off-farm income of about
US$15. By 1985, per capita income under the project would be an estimated
US$70, by then about 80% of the national average, assuming overall growth
in the economy at the rate of between 1% and 2% per year. In addition,
the project would benefit other elements of the rural population with greatly
increased activity in the local transport and marketing sectors. Thus, by
improving the livelihood of the major part of the rural population in the
area, the project would tend to discourage emigration to the already crowded
urban areas of Dacca, Khulna and Chittagong.
8.02      Incremental production of milled rice with the project would be
about 110,000 tons, assuming a steady production increase without the project
at a rate of about 1% per year. Considering Bangladesh's position as a net
importer of essential foodgrains, this would represent annual gross foreign
exchange savings of about US$21 million (in 1974 dollars) based on1 a projected
rice price of US$215 per metric ton cif Chittagong. After deducting foreign
exchange costs of spares and replacements, fuel, fertilizer, and pesticides,
the net foreign exchange savings attributable to the project would be about
US$15 million per year.



- 25 -
8.03      Increased production would result from the cultivation of higher
yielding rice varieties and shifts in the cropping calendar rather than
more intensive land use. Therefore, farm labor requirements in the
area at full development would have increased only about 20% (Annex 11).
Over the same period, the available agricultural labor force in the area
would have grown by slightly more than 42%, from an estimated 200,000 persons
in 1974 to about 285,000 in 1985 (excluding women, who in Bangladesh normally
do not work in the fields). Annual field labor requirements in the area
presently amount to an estimated 16 million man-days, about 32% of the
present labor supply, 1/ and at full development would reach about 19 mil-
lion man-days, or about 27% of the estimated supply. Consequently, the
growth of the labor supply would exceed the increase in labor demands under
the project. On the other hand, most of the paddy processing (parboiling,
husking, and drying) is carried out by women in rural (mainly landless)
households. For this, the househdld receives a small payment in cash or
kind. Thus, the increase of over 200% in paddy production will provide in-
creased employment opportunities and incomes for many landless rural house-
holds which are near the bottom of the income scale.
8.04      The project's economic rate of return 2/ is estimated to be about
28% (see Annex 9) based on the following assumptions:
(a) an overall five-year construction schedule;
(b) a five-year development period in each primary
unit beginning the year after completion of
irrigation facilities;
(c) projected world market prices in terms of 1974 dollars
for rice, fuel, and fertilizers (see paras 6.03 - 6.07);
(d) all farm labor valued at 50% of the market wage and
construction labor at the market wage;
(e) foreign exchange at the rate of US$1 = Tk 14;
(f) production increase without the project taken at a
steady rate of about one percent per year;
1/   Assuming an average of 200 man-days per year for males in the age
group 10-60 years.
2/   The analysis was carried out with prices estimated as of mid-1974.
Since that time, price changes due to inflation have occurred. Cost
tables in para. 4.13 reflect the latest estimates, but as the economic
analysis is based on real rather than nominal prices, the results of
the study could not be significantly affected by the inflation that
has taken place.



- 26 -
(g) no salvage value for the existing low-lift pumps in
the area; and
(h) omitting internal taxes and subsidies.
Other important benefits, such as increased commercial activity and incomes
in trade and industry based on agriculture production in the project area,
were not quantified. A 30-year period was used in the analysis.
8.05      The sensitivity of the estimated rate of return to changes in
costs, prices and other assumptions is as follows:
Economic Rate of Return
15% decrease in the price
of rice                                   24
15% increase in construction
costs                                     26
15% increase in costs of crop
inputs                                    27
All farm labor valued at the
full market wage                          27
25% increase in fuel and
operation costs                           27
8.06      The economic rate of return was also computed for an alternative
in which low-lift pump irrigation would only extend to a maximum of about
34,000 acres in those areas where natural waterways are perennial and sluices
and primary pumps would not be needed. The economic rate of return on the
required investment was estimatecd to be about 39%. The rate of return on
the additional investment which would be needed to expand irrigation from
34,000 acres to the proposed project area was estimated to be about 26%.
IX. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
9.01      Assurances on the following major points have been obtained from
the Government:
(a)  the Government would establish a Central Evaluation Committee,
and an Interdepartmental Project Implementation Committee under
the leadership of an Executive Director to coordinate the work
of the ministries, agencies and authorities responsible for
execution of the project (para 5.02);



- 27 -
(b) the Executive Director would prepare, and submit to the
Association for review and comment, annual physical work
programs for the project (para 5.04) and annual proposals
for the operation and maintenance organization for the
facilities constructed under the project (para 5.06);
(c) the Government would provide adequate and timely funds
for satisfactory operation and maintenance of the project
facilities (para 5.06);
(d)  the Ministry of Agriculture, in consultation with IRDP,
would prepare and submit to the Association for review
and comment a detailed program for agricultural extension
training and services (para 5.10); and
(e) within two years from the date of the Credit Agreement the
Government will prepare proposals for the recovery, from
farmers benefitting from the project, of the operation and
maintenance costs of the irrigation facilities provided and
as large a proportion of the capital costs of the project
as appears compatible with the maintenance of adequate
incentives for participating farmers. In formulating these
proposals, the Government will keep the Association informed
and take into consideration such comments as the Association
may make in respect of the proposals (para 5.17).
9.02      Conditions of Credit effectiveness would be:
(a) The Ministry and agency representatives on the CEC and
IPIC shall have been appointed (para 5.02); and
(b) A consulting firm, acceptable to the Association, shall
have been appointed upon terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Association (para 5.05).
9.03      With the above assurances the proposed project would be suitable
for an IDA Credit of US$27 million under standard IDA terms. The Borrower
would be the People's Republic of Bangladesh.






BANGLADESH
BARISAL IRRIGATION PROJECT
CLIMATE (Barisal Station)
Years
Recorded         JAN      FEB      MAR       APR       MAY       JUN       JUL       AUG__  SEPT         OCT      NOV      DEC
Season                                                           Dry                 Pre-Nonsoon                             Monsoon                     |Dr
Temperature (OF)
Mean of Maximum monthly Teilperatures        30           78.7    82.9    90.5        93.0      92.1      89.4      87.1      87.5      88.6      88M2    84.0    86.8
Mean of Minimum monthly Tei,,peratures       30           56.5    61.3    69.8        75.7      78e2      78.8      78.5      78.5      78.6      75.8    66.7    58.7
Relative Humidity (%)
08:30 his,      30           76       74       74        74        74        83        87        85        83        7Q       75       78
17:30 hrs.      25           60       56       56        66        74        82        83        82        77        69       64       71
Wind - Daily run in Miles                    1964-71         54.2    63.9   102.4    150.7        1252.    157.1   147.3    133.1    108.7          67,9    52,4    38.9
Sunshine - Hours per Day                     1968-71         8,4      8,5      8.1       8.0       7,8       3.2       3,7       3.6       5.4       7,1      8,5      8.6
Mean Monthly Rainfall (ins.)                 1934-69          0,58    0,59    1.49       3.27      7.62     16,86    16,95    16,82    11.65          8,51    1,20    0.20
Variation of Monthly Rainfall (ins)          1934-69
Minimum                            0        0        0         0         0,32      6.24      7.64      7.40      4.28      1.39    0         0
Lower quartile                     0        0        0.22      1,08      3,55    12.07    13A14    12.26         7.14      4.23    0         0
Median                             0.07    0M25    0.74        3.52      7,45    14.02    15.04    11.70         9.34      8.09    0O40    0          _
Upper quartile                     0.72    0,54    2.37        5.24    10.77    21.11    21.38    18.47    13.29    11,49    1.71    0.02
Maximum                            4.15    2,53    8.37        8.19    20.54    35v25    33.50    39.14    36.03    23355    7.06    3,53



ANNEX 2
Page 1
BANGLADESH
BARISAL IRRIGATION PROJECT
PRESENT AND PROJECTED CROPPING PATTERNS AND PRODUCTION
Crops and Cropping.Seasons
1.        Rice accounts for 90% of the present cropped area in the project area
and about 95% of the total crop production value. Jute is a minor crop.
Cropping calendars are governed by the annual rainfall and flooding patterns
and there are three main rice cropping seasons:
(a) Aman, summer monsoon period - transplanted varieties in
areas with shallow flooding and broadcast varieties in
areas flooded over about 3 feet;
(b) Boro, winter dry period - transplant rice cultivation near
perennial water sources;
(c) Aus, early rainy period, leading into the monsoons -
primarily broadcast varieties.
Jute is grown during the aus season and oilseeds, pulses and vegetable crops
(Rabi crops) are grown in the winter boro season.
2.        The crop calendars are shown in Figure 1.  A large part of the area
presently is already double or triple cropped. The following major crop ro-
tations are present:
(a) B. Aman - Rabi
(b) T. Aman - Rabi - Aus
(c) T. Aman - Rabi - Jute
(d) T. Aman - Boro
3.        Aus rice is grown on lands where flood depths do not reach 3 feet
before the end of July. Sowing occurs in March/April and crop harvesting
by mid-August. Only traditional varieties are grown, most of them photo-
period-sensitive. Plowing begins with first showers and is followed by
broadcasting (primarily) onto slightly moist soils. Cloudv weather, heavy
weed growth and high incidence of pests and diseases affect aus adversely;



ANNEY 2
Page 2
thus yields are usually low and grain auality is verv poor. Because of the
instability of aus yields, there is little incentive for farmers to use
adequate a,gricultural inputs.
4.        Broadcast Aran rice is growTn in areas too deeplv flooded for trans-
planted rice plants, e.g. at flood depths of 3 feet or more. Seedinp occurs
at the onset of pre-monsoon rains, at the same time as aus, and harvesting
occurs after the monsoon season in Uovember.  The growing neriod is very long,
usually about 250 days. Because of inherentlv low yields and risks of damage
by rapid flooding and pests during its long growth period, B. anian is a low
input/low yield crop. Rice varieties used for B. aman, all unimproved, are
highly sensitive to photoperiod. In the project area, flooding nowhere ex-
ceeds 5 feet, so floating rice varieties are. not growTn.
5.        Transplanted Anan rice is cultivated in areas flooded less than
3 feet.  Plantirg follows aus or jute harvest in June/July and harvestin- is
done in November/December.  Present crons are usually rain-fed.  Late rains
mean a late aus crop, which in turn usuallv reans delaved transplanting of
T. aman. The rise in river levels during the monsoon season also determines
the tirme of transplanting.  Although T. aran varieties allow considerable
flexibility in planting dates because of their high photoperiod-sensitivity,
delayed transplanting after early August generally results in lowJer yields.
Under rain-fed conditions, adequate water is not alwavs available during the
later part of the growing period, in which case crop yields are affected
adversely.  Since 1970 the Government has developed a special program for
expanding aman acreage under a new improved variety, IT2f, locally called
Irrisail.  Because of its higl yields, good qualitv and higher resistance
to d3isease, IR20 has been readilv accepted bv rice growers.
6.        Boro rice has heen grown traditionallv along perennial streams and
near undrained depressions that hold water after the rainv season. Seedlings
are transplanted in Decemlber/January after one month in a nurserv bed and
harvested in Nlay/mid-June.  Introduction of new varieties, such as IPq,
together with controlled water conditions, intensified inDuts and irproved
farming Practices, enable the boro cron to have the highest yield potential.
pecently another new F{YV, Chandina, has been released for boro.  Cornared
TTith IR?, Chandina has a slhorter growrth duration, bigh-fer resistance to
disease, higher tolerance to low temperature and better grain qualitv.
7.        Jute can tolerate intermittent flooding, but not sustained flooding,
which affects the quality.  It is usually grown on hin+'er land, ridges, which
are under late and shalloxw flooding. Jute is competitive w1ith aus rice, but
farmers grow jute in only a small part of the project area, less than 1r,O0
ac, mainly because farmers need rice for their owTn consumption it' the surmer
season.
Present Cropping Pattern and Production
n*        Present and future cropned areas and production are given ir Table 1.
About 35, of the cultivable area, which is flooded over arout 3 feet, is not
suitalz le for transplanted rice and is planted under T. aTnan.  Tn t1e 'ry



A,N,rIEY 2
Page 3
season, an estimated P%' of the cultivable area is used for growing HYI' boro
by low-lift pump irrigation; an additional 1% is planted to local varieties
under traditional, bucket-type irrigation. Apart from rice, dry season crops
are mostly oilseeds, pulses and vegetables, planted in December. The remain-
ing area (about 80%) is left fallow in the dry season at present.
9.        Paddy production in the project area is estimated at about 140n,nno
tons, most of which comes from the wet season at present. About 25% is
produced in aus, 20% in B. aman, 45,' in T. aman and only about 107 in the
Boro season.  According to the District Agricultural Office, there has been
no significant increase of wet season rice production in the last five years
in the project area, but there has been some increase of dry season rice
(except for the 1971/72 dry season).
10.       The present overall average of paddy yields in the project area
is estimated at 16.5 maunds per ac, or 1.5 tons per ha.  The yield of HYV
boro rice in places has already reached 35 maunds per ac, or 3.2 tons per ha.
However, the overall average boro yield now is only slightly higher than the
present national average of 1.2 tons per ha. Present crop yields are given
in Table 1.
11.       Most crops presently are generally rain-fed and not well managed
by farmers to protect them from damage by drought, flooding, pests and diseases.
Of the three rice crops, T. aman is the most reliable, but has only an average
paddy yield of 17 maunds per ac, or 1.6 tons per ha, at present. Balam, a
leading high quality grain variety in the project area, is an unimproved local
variety having low yields and limited response to fertilizer application and
improved practices. Average quantities of only 0.5, 0.4 and 0.1 md/ac of
urea, TSP and muriate of potash equivalent to about 45, 37 and 9 kg/ha respec-
tively, are presently used for local varieties of T. aman, and much smaller
amounts, if any, are used for B. aman and aus rice. The area presently
sprayed by pesticides is limited, probably less than 20%c of the total cropped
area in the wet season, mostly aus and partly T. aman. In addition, inadequate
amounts of pesticides are used.
Future Cropping Patterns and Production
12.       Irrigation would permit cultivation of boro rice in the dry season
and a switch to high yielding varieties for the transplanted aman crop in the
monsoon season. The cultivation of boro rice would replace cultivation of
aus or B. aman, since boro harvesting generally could not be completed in
time to allow the next planting before the early rains. The area of 112,000
acres suitable for irrigated boro has been derived as follows:



ANT1EX 2
Page 4
one acres
Net agricultural land                             147
Less:  land outside of command/i                - 6
poor soils                              -14
area under jute                         -10
land taken by field channels            - 5
Area suitable for HYV boro                        112
/1   Land elevated or isolated by topography or villages.
13.       With an assured water supply, higher and more stable yields
will be produced from the boro crop than from the aus and B. aman crops.
Improved HYV varieties would be grown for the entire Boro crop and most of
the T. aman crop, although the local Balam variety would still be grown on
about 5% of the cultivable area due to the prevailing demand.
14.       Upon completion of the project, total paddv production would be
about 345,000 tons. About 55% (200,000 tons) of this would be produced fror
boro in the dry season. The residual 457 comes from the wet season crops:
mainly T. aman (135,000 tons) and a very small portion from broadcast rice
Details of crop production are presented in Table 1.
15.       In evaluating the project it has been assumed that jute production
and the value of rabi crops would be unchanged. This is a conservative
assumption since, with irrigation, rice often replaces jute and higlner-value
rabi crops would possibly replace pulses which presently are the largest
component of the rabi crops.
Future Crop Yields
16.       With an assured water supply, improved farm management, an adequate
supply of inputs, expanded use of HYV seed, and an improved extension service,
crop yields are projected to increase over the five-year development period
as shown below.  The projected yields are derived from those presently achieved
under irrigation in the project area and in Bakerganj District.
Present Yields       Future Yields
md/ac---------------
Aus                            13                   13
B. aman                        15                   15
T. aman (local variety)        17                   22
T. aman (HYV)                  25                   40
Boro (HYV)                     35                   48
Jute                           13                   1b
Rabi Crops                      6                    6



BAINGLADESH
BARISAL IRRIGATION PROJECT
CROP YIELD AND PRODUCTION
Crop                             Present                      Future Without Project                 Future With Project
Area       Yield    Production          Area      Yield    Production          Area   Yield   Productio'
ac'OOO      md/ac       t'O0O           ac'OOO    md/ac        t'OOO           ac'OOO  md/ac      t'OO0
Rice (Paddy)
Aus                          72       13            35              65      13             31             6      13           3
B. arnan                    51        15            29              51      15             29            13      15           7
T. aman (local.)            93        17            59              86      18            58              6      22
T. aman (HYV)                 3       25             3              10      26             10            87      40        130
Boro (local)                  1       20             1                3     21.             2              -       -         -
Boro (HYV)                  12        35           16               17      36             23           ii2      48       2r.CC
Sub-total              232        16          143              232      17           153            224      41        345
Jute                          10       13             5               10     13              5            1.0     13           5
Rabil/                       15         6             3               15      6              3            15       6
Sub-total               25                      8               2>                     8             2
Total                       257                     151             257                    161           249                 353
1/ Including pulses, mustard, potatoes and chili.
Yield and production are represented by pulses.
cr3S



SNEX 3
Page 1
BANGLADESB
BARISAL IRRIGATION PROJECT
PROJECT WORKS AND COST ESTIMATES
1.        The project would provide pumps, sluices, and related facilities
commanding an area of 141,000 acres in the project area. The area irrigated
would be about 112,000 acres (dry-season) and 87,000 acres (wet-season).
The project works would be constructed over a period of 5 years (Chart No.
8655).
2.        Primary Pumps.  For efficient water distribution and control using
the existing creek networks in the project area, the sample surveys indicate
that irrigation units should serve an average of about 900 acres. For cost
estimating purposes, the peak monthly irrigation water requirement is 13
inches (Annex 4), and, with a daily running time of about 16 hours, the prim-
ary pump discharge capacity required is 25 cusecs. For pump lifts ranging
from 6-12 ft and such a low discharge, a single 24 inch diameter axial-flov
pump is most efficient. The pump would have an inclined-shaft and would be
installed with minimum civil works on the river bank adjacent to the sluice
structure. The pump would require a 45 BHP diesel engine. Detailed sample
surveys of 15,000 acres in the project area indicate that about 100 primary
pumps would be required to service the creek distribution system.
3.        Secondary Pumps.  Based on experience in Bangladesh, the IGIT has
proposed a 2 cusec capacity pump which, when operating the current average
of 8 hours per day, would irrigate 40 to 50 acres. The pump lift from the
creek distribution system would seldom exceed 6 feet and the lift from
perennial water courses would not exceed 10 feet. Ideally for such dis-
charge/lift conditions, an axial-flao  pump operated througb a speed reduction
gear by a 5 BIIP diesel engine would be most efficient. howTever, th?is size
of unit is not widely manufactured and efficient maintenance would be de-
pendent on the import of spare units and replacement parts. To date, all
pump experience in Bangladesh has been with heavier duty, and simnler, cen-
trifugal pumps, and such pumps are currently being both assembled and manu-
factured in the country. They are generally designed for a head lift of
40 feet and operated by imported 16 BF.P diesel engines. While maintenance
can be carried out locally, the capital cost and the fuel consumption, in
relation to required duty, of these units is unnecessarily high.- There is,
therefore, an urgent need for development for Bangladesh of a low-cost
pump-engine unit to deliver capacities of about 2 cfs over a static head
range of 4 feet to 12 feet, with an operating speed consistent with optimum
engine life and fuel consumption. The Covernment and the project consult-
ants would therefore undertake a detailed review of low-lift pump technology



ANNFX 3
Page 2
in preparing designs and specifications which should aim at: (a) a reasona-
ble balance between efficiency and initial cost; and (b) simplicity in design
and fabrication to allow a wider choice of suppliers, including local manu-
facturers.
4.        The low-lift pumps currently in use in the project area were
procured from a number of manufacturers (Indian, Cet.nan, Japanese, U.K.,
and U.S.A.) and the variety of types imposes an unnecessary burden on the
ADC maintenance workshops. Since most of these pump units will require to
be replaced during the project construction period, the appraisal has
assumed that all existing pumps would be returned to ADC (for use else-
where, if practical) and replaced by the standardized, and more efficient,
pump unit to be provided under the project. An estimated 2,500 secondary
pump units would be required to service the project area. The possibility
of substituting simple mechanical devices to lift water in very low-lift
areas will be investigated.
5.        Sluices.  Sluices would be constructed on semi- and non-perennial
creeks at the outfalls to perennial channels to control water levels for
storage and distribution in the primary service areas and at other points
on the creeks where needed to isolate primary pump service areas from each
other. Sites would be chosen on the basis of surveys of the creek network
in each area. Preliminary estimates based on the sample surveys indicate
that the project would require about 750 sluices in all. Of these, about
100 would be constructed to accommodate primary pump installation. All
sluices would be constructed of brick and concrete and fitted with from
one to three standard sized (5 feet wide) vertical-lift steel gates. The
number of gates per sluice would be selected on the basis of present creek
dimensions to avoid interference with estimated wet season drainage flows.
Approximately 1,250 gates in all would be needed (including about 2%' spares).
The possibilities for using earth dams instead of sluices in some locations
would be investigated in pilot areas and in preparation of the final designs.
6.        Creek Remodelling.  Storage capacity required in the creeks would
be small (about 50% of the peak daily requirement), since water would be
replenished daily by the primary pumps. Some bed and bank excavation would
be required to insure free flow within creeks and to keep the water level
at maximum storage about 2 feet below field level in the service area. This
would permit surface runoff and adequate drainage to the storage pool for
re-use. Earthwork would be completed according to individual surveys of
each primary service area. Based on results of the sample surveys, the
appraisal has conservatively allowed for about 2.4 million cubic yards.
This would be soft excavation done by hand.
7.        Fuel Distribution and Storage Facilities.  Commercial water trans-
port companies, which now deliver diesel and kerosene fuel from the oil com-
pany depots at Barisal and Jhalakati throughout the area, would handle the



ANNEX 3
Page 3
increased diesel fuel distribution requirements for the project.1/ To ease
storage and distribution for the farmers' pump groups, landing stages and
intermediate storage facilities for fuel drums would be provided at the pri-
mary pumping sites (about 100). These sites, at the creek outfalls to pe-
rennial channels, would be on existing commercial boat routes and close to
the pump groups. The landing stages would be pattorned after existing
structures in the area which comprise earth-filled retaining walls and
wooden piers. Storage facilities would be one-story brick structures built
on elevated ground. Each would provide space (700 sq ft average) for about
1.5 times average month's fuel and oil supply (100 barrels). 2/ They would
also stock spares and equipment for routine maintenance of secondary pumps.
8.        Repair and Maintenance Workshops.  The Thana Training Development
Center (TTDC) buildings which the Government now has under construction, one
in each thana, will include workshops to be operated by ADC for repairing
and maintaining low-lift pumps. The Project will provide in these workshops
additional equipment for major repairs on the primary pumps and vehicles and
replacements and spare parts for the primary pumps, vehicles and secondary
pumps.
9.        Other Support Facilities, Equipment and Transport.  Other works
to be constructed include offices and housing for staff, initially for those
supervising construction and implementation and eventually for staff operating
and maintaining completed project works. The project would provide addi-
tional storage facilities in each thana for fertilizers and other crop inputs.
Other equipment to be procured includes concrete mixers and dewatering pumps
for construction; and grain drying, husking equipment, sprayers, weeders,
and pedal threshers for use in demonstration areas. Transport to be provided
includes four-wheel drive vehicles, motor cycles, boats, and launches for
construction and for project operation and maintenance (Table 1).
10.       Cost Estimates.  Total project costs are estimated at US$46.0
million equivalent, including US$2.5 million equivalent local taxes and
duties. The foreign exchange component is estimated at US$20.5 million
or 47% of the total cost excluding taxes and duties. Estimates are based
on design for the sample areas, with unit prices at late-1974 levels.
Physical contingencies of 10% for civil works and materials and of 5% for
equipment and vehicles have been included. Projected price increases due
to inflation have been applied to estimated annual expenditures at the
following percentage rates:
1/   Due to the abundance of perennial channels, commercial water transport
is the best means of delivery throughout the area for fuel, agricultural
commodities, materials, goods, livestock, and passengers.
2/   Project fuel requirements wotld amount to about 1.25 million Imperial
Gallons (35,700 barrels) per year, an average of about 60 barrels per
site each month during the irrigation season (5 full months for boro and
2 partial months for aman).



ANNEX 3
Page 4
Foreign Exchange
Year            Civil Works      Equipment       Local Costs
1975                 16             12                25
1976                 14             10                20
1977                 12              8                17
1978                 12              8                15
1979                 12              8                13
1980                 10              7                11
The resulting expected price increases amount to US$15.5 million, or 51%
of the estimated project cost at 1974 prices and 34% of the estimated total
project cost.



ANNE 
MATERIALS AND EQUIPMENT LIST
Estimated Cost
Item                                    Quantity     cif Chittagong
(US.$)
(a) Implementation
(i) Materials and Installed Equipment
Cement                                           7,000 t.       650,ooo
Reinforcing Steel                                  300 t.        250,000
Gates and Ancillaries                            1,250 no.    1,100,000
Low-lift Pumps - Primary   (45 BHP)                100 no.    1,800,000
- Secondary  (5 BHP)              2,500 no.    5.600,000
Sub-total                                                      9.,400,000
(ii) Construction Equipment
Survey and Mapping Instruments                                    10,000
Miscellaneous Office Equipment                       -            20,000
Concrete Mixers                                     75 no.       150,000
Concrete Vibrators                                  75 no.        50,000
De-watering Pumps                                  100 no.       220,000
MisceIlaneous Construction Equipment                 -            50,000
Sub-total                                                        500,000
(iii) Vehicles
Survey Parties - Field Vehicles                      4no.         24,000
- Boats                              .8 no.       40,000
Construction Management - Field Vehicles            15 no.        90,000
- Trucks                    6 no.        60,000
- Pickups                    6 no.       30,000
- .Motorcycles             15 no.         8,000
- Boats                     20 no.      100lO,0
- Launches                   h no.       4B,000
Sub-total                                                      4hOO,ooo
(b) Operation and Maintenance
(i) Equpment
Agricultural Extension - Demonstration Areas                      5o,0ooo
Workshop Equipment                                               25o,000
Sub-total                                                        300,000
(ii) Vehicles
FieldVehicles                                        5 no.        30,000
Motorcycles                                         30 no.        17 000
Bicycles                                            50 no.
Boats - Passenger                                   12 no.        60,ooo
- Cargo                                        8 no.        88,000
Sub-total                                                        200,000
Grand Total                                                              10,800.000



-A4NNEX 3
Tabl,e 2
COST SIUTNl0P;Y
Forei,~
Exchan re
ILocal  Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign  Total-   _C C__p
---7Taka mil1ion7:-    ---(S$ million)-
I.  Land Acquisition         5.6      -        5.6      0.7       -      0.7
II.  Civi; Contract Works
Sluices              43.2      9.6     52.8      5.4      1.2    6.6
Creek Excavation      6.4       -       6.4      o.8       -      0.8
Fuel Storage          4.0      1.6      5.6      0.5      0.2    0.7
Fertilizer Storage   4.0       0.8      4.8      0.5      0.1    0.6
Buildings            14.4      8.5     23.2      1.8       1.1    2.9
Sub-Total         72.c.   20.5      92.8     9.0       2.6   11.06          22%
III. Materials, Equipment
and Vehicles
Cement                0.8     5.6       6.4      0.1      0.7    0.8
Reinforcing Steel    0.8       1.6      2.4      0.1      0.2    0.3
Gates                 2.4      8.8     11.2      0.3      1.i    1.4
Primary Pumps         1.6    114.4     16.0      0.2      1.8    2.C
Secondary Punps       6.4    44.5      51.2      0.8      5.6    6.4
Vehicles              0.8     4.8       5.6      0.1      0.6    0.7
Construction, Agri-
cultural Extension
and Miscellaneous
Equipment             0.8     6.L       7.2      0.1      0.8    0.9
Sub-Total         13.6    86.L    100.0      1.7      10.8   12.5           86%
IV.  Consulting Services    2.4       4.8       7.2     0.3       0.6    0.9           67%
V.  Irigineering & Construc-
tior. Management     22.4      -       22.4      2.8       -      2.8          -
Base Cost Estimate   116.0    112.0   228.0    14.5         14.0   28.5           49 `
VI.  Physical Contingencies 8.0        8.0    16.0      1.0       1.0    2.0           5 /a
Total              124.0    120.0   244.0    15.5       15.0   30.5           la9,
VII   Expected Price In-
creases (51%)          80.0     44.0   124.0    10.0        5.5   15.5            35%
Total Expected Cost of    =204.0    164.= =368.0    25.5_5        20.5   46.0 -         44.5,0
Project
1/  -  Includes Tk. 20 million taxes and duty
2/  -  Includes US$2.5 million taxes and duty



A-TNEX 4
Page 1
BANGLADESH
BARISAL IRRIGATION PROJECT
IRRIGATION WATER PEQUIREENTS
1.        Average annual and peak monthly irrigation water requirements were
determined for the proposed cropping patterns under 75?/ probable rainfall.
Since the pumping capacities were selected on the basis of only 8 or 16 hours
daily operation, excess capacity would be available to meet requirements
under more extreme rainfall conditions.  Rainfall was assumed 1ln% effective
in the extreme dry months March and April (Boro crop) when it is low in
amount and intensity and would be retained by the bunded (diked) fields.
Rainfall was assumed 807 effective at the end of the monsoon season (Aman
crop).
2.       Mlonthly crop water requirements were determined for the Boro crop
and for supplementary irrigation of the Aman crop using modified Penman
indices multiplied by growth stage factors. Percolation losses of 3.7 inches
each dry month (3 mm per day) were included and pre-planting requirements of
2 inches for the Boro crop were added to the November/December requirements.
For the most part, percolation losses would recirculate in the closed net-
work of the primary service areas and would not constitute a requirement for
the primary pumps.
3.        Runoff due to overwatering will become available to lower lving
plots or will be returned to the creeks supplying the secondary pump. Also,
wastage would be minimal since the secondary service areas are small and
pumps can be stopped as soon as irrigation is comn]ete.  The overall appli-
cation efficiency is estimated to be about 75,' for both the secondarv and
primary pumps. The monthly application requirements for Boro and for T.
Aman, calculated in Tables 1 and 2, would be as follows:
Boro                                Aman
November:       1 inch              September:      5 inches
December:      9 inches             October:        8 inches
January:       9 inches
February:     10 inches                            13 inches
Ilarch:       13 inches
April:         6 inches                             (330 mm)
48 inches
(1220 mm)



ANNEXV 4
Page 2
Over the entire project area the seasonal requirements would amount to about
400,000 acre-feet for the boro crop and 90,000 acre-feet for the aman crop.
The March peak withdrawal from the perennial rivers would amount to about
110,000 acre-feet at an average of about 1800 cfs.
4.        On the basis of a 2 cusec pump irrigating 40 acres, the total
secondary pump operational time for Boro crop irrigation would average
about 960 hours and for supplementary irrigation of the Aman crop about
240 hours. The average daily pump operating time in March, the month of
peak demand, would be just over 8 hours.  For 60 acres the pumps would have
to operate just over 12 hours.



BANGLADESH
BARISAL IRRIGATION PROJECT
WATER REQUIREDWiTS (BORO CROP)
Jan.    Feb.    Mar.    Apr.    May       June    July    Aug.    Sept.   Oct.    Nov.    Dec.
Uean Monthly
evaporation index       2.2      2.7     4.2     4.9      5.1      4.2     l.0     3.9      3.7      3.8     2.6      2.1
(inches of water)
Boro Rice Crop
½  monthly crop         1.25/   1.35/   1.45/   1.30    -                                                             1.20/
factors                 1.30    1.40    1.50                                                                          1.25
Evapotranspiration
(inches)                2.8     3.7      6.2     3.2      -       -        -       _        _        _       _        2.6
Percolation losses      3.7      3.7     3.7     1.8      -        -       -        -       -        -        -       307
75% probable monthly
rainf all (inches)      0       0        0.2     1. 1    3.6      12. 1   13.2    1203    7.2        4.3     0        0
Net water require-
ment (inches)           6.5      7.4     907      4. 5    -        -       -        -       -        -        -       6.3
Pre-planting require-
ment (inches)           -        -       -        -       -        -       -        -       -        -         .8      .7
Pumping requirement
(inches) assuming 75%
overall application
efficiency              8.6     9.8    12.8      5.9      -       -        -       _        _        _       1.0      9.3
ICD 



BANGLADESH
BARISAL IRRIGATION PROJECT
WATER REQUIREMENTS (AMAN CROP)
Jan.    Feb.    Mar.      pr.    May      June    July    Aug.    Sept.   Oct.    Nov.    Dec.
Mean Monthly
evaporation index       2.2      2.7     4.2     4.9      5.1     4.2      4.0     3.9      3.7      3.5     2.6      2.1
(inches of water)
Aman Rice Crop
3 monthly crop          -        -       -        -       -                1 1.2    1.5/   1.4/   1.50/   -           -
factors                                                                    1.25    1.30    1.45    1.35
DEapotranspiratlon
(inches)                -       -        -       -        -       -        2.5      5.0    5.5      5.2    _          _
Percolation losses      -        -       -       -        -       3.7      3.7     3.7      3.7      3.7     _        _
75% probably monthly
rainfall (inches)       -        -       -       -        _      121    13.1    12. 3    7.1         4.3     -        -
Effective rainfall
80% (inches)            -       -        -       -        -       9,6    10.5      9,8      5.7      3.4     -        -
Net water
requirement (inches)   -        -        -       -        -       0        0       0        3.5      5.5
Puxping requirement
(inches) assuming 75%
overall application
efficiency              -       -        -       -        -       -        -       -        4.6      7.                          r
N.3 C



ANNEX 5
BANGIADESH
BARISAL IRRIGATION PROJECT
PROPOSED CREDIT ALLOCATION
Amount of the
Credit Allocated                % of
(Expressed in              Expenditures
Category                        Dollar Equivalent)            to be Financed
(1)  Civil Works                          9,200,000                     50%
(including
Construction
Materials
Procured
Locally, other
than cement
and reinforcing
steel)
(2)  Consulting
Services                            1,000,000                     100%
(3)  Vehicles, Equip-
ment and Materials
(other than under
Category 1)                        14,8C0,000
(a)  Directly Imported                                            100% of foreign
expenditures
(b)  Manufactured Locally                                         100%
(ex-factory)
(c)  Imported but Procured                                         65%
Locally
(4)  Unallocated                          2;000;000
TOTAL                27,000,000



ANNEX 6
Table 1
BANGLADESH
BARISAL IRRIGATION PROJECT
SCHEDULES OF EXPENDITURES AND DISBURSEMENTS
Estimated Schedule of Expenditures
(US- Million)
Total                 Fiscal Year-/
Item                 Cost     75176   76/77   77/78   78/79   79/8P
Land Acquisition                 0.7      0.3      0.2     0.1     0.1     -
Civil Works                     11 5      1.8      2,9     2.7     2.4     1.8
Materials, Eq:uipment
and Vehicles                   12.5       1.5     3.0     2.9     2.9     2.2
Consulting Services              0.9      0.3      0.2     0.2     0.1     0.1
Engineering and Construction
Management                      2.8      o.6      o.6     o.6     o.5     o.5
Contingencies (Physical and
Price)                         17.5       1.1     3.0     4.0    4.9      4.5
Total Project Cost              46.o      5.6      9.9    10.5   10.9      9.1
1/: July 1 - June 30



ANNEX 6
Table 2
BANLAESH
BARISAL IRRIGATIUN PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of IDA Disbursements
IDA Fiscal Year           Accumulated Disbursements
and Semester              US$ Million Equivalent
1976
1st                              0.2
2nd                              1.2
1977
lt                              2.7
2nd                              6.0
1978
1 at                             8 .7
2nd                             12.0
1979
1st                             15.0
2nd                             t8.5
1980
1st                             21.5
2nd                             24.5
1981
1st                             27e0



ANNEX 7
Page 1
BANGLADESH
BARISAL IRRIGATION PROJECT
CONSULTANTS' SERVICES: TERMS OF REFERENCE
I.   Objectives and Scope of Services
1.        Consulting services are required by the Bangladesh Water Develop-
ment Board (hereinafter referred to as BOARD) an instrumentality of the
Government of the People's Republic of Bangladesh, created by the Presiden-
tial Order No. 59 of 1972 to provide specialized advisory services in con-
nection with Barisal Irrigation Project including assistance in planning,
design, preparation of tender document and supervision of construction.
The consultant would render such services to the Board or its Authorized
Representative (Executive Director) during implementation of the project.
2.        The competent expatriate consulting firms invited to submit
proposals shall be required to recruit experienced personnel in fulfill-
ing the prescribed terms of reference, bio-data of which will be approved
by the BOARD and IDA.
3.        It is expected that consulting services will be required over a
period of five years covering design and construction of the project works,
commencing about May, 1975.
4.        Water Board undertakes to provide required technical personnel to
carry out planning, design and supervision of construction of the project.
In the event of non-availability of required personnel with the Board, the
same may be engaged from outside for timely completion of the work.
II. Barisal Irrigation Project
5.        The project comprises pumping irrigation on about 140,000 acres
around the town of Barisal in the district of Bakerganj together with sup-
porting facilities and equipment, training and technical assistance to
strengthen agricultural extension services, and organization of co-opera-
tives, and consists of the following parts:
Part A:   Civil Works
(1) Construction on natural creeks of about 750 sluice
structures, to control water levels and provide
storage in the dry season;



ANNEX 7
Page 2
(2) Widening and deepening, where necessary, of creeks
to facilitate water distribution;
(3) Construction of about 100 primary pump stations
(capacity about 25 cfs) to raise water from peren-
nial river channels to the creek storage ponds;
(4) Construction of workshops for pump repair and
maintenance;
(5) Construction of storage facilities for fuel and
fertilizer;
(6) Construction of offices and of housing for project
staff; and
(7) Procurement of equipment and vehicles for the purposes
aforementioned.
Part B:   Pumps
(1) Procurement and installation of primary pumps for the
pump stations to be constructed under Part A of the
project;
(2) Procurement and installation of about 2,500 secondary
pumps (capacity about 2 cfs) or other devices to raise
water from perennial river channels and from creek storage
ponds to farmers' fields; and
(3) Provision of vehicles for the purposes aforementioned and
of pump maintenance equipment.
Part C:   Training and Agricultural Extension Services
(1) Training of Village Extension Agents and model farmers,
and provision of management training and assistance to
farmers' groups or cooperatives;
(2) Establishment of 8 agricultural demonstration area; and
(3) Provision of equipment and vehicles for the purposes
aforementioned. The project is expected to be com-
pleted by June 30, 1980.
6.        The consultant shall carry out the advisory services including
the assistance in design and supervision of construction of project works
in a manner consistent with good practice and sound objectives and to
satisfy the requirements of Board and of IDA.



ANNEX 7
Page 3
III. Works to be Performed
7.        Implementation of the project requires execution by the project
staff of the following work items:
(a) Preparation and implementation of the field survey
work;
(b) Layout of the creek and secondary pumps groups and
location of the sites for sluices, primary pumps
and secondary pumps, and design of on-farm works;
(c) Preparation of final designs, specifications, working
drawings and tender dozuments for the sluices, includ-
ing local and internat:ional tenders for the gates;
(d) Preparation of specifications and documents for local
and international tenders for the primary and secondary
pumps;
(e) Preparation of designs:, specifications and documents
for tenders for fuel sl:orage installations;
(f)  Preparation of designs, specifications and tender
documents for jetties and landing stages;
(g) Preparation of designs, specifications and tender
documents for all buildings, required by the project,
including workshops, st:ores, offices, living quarters, etc;
(h)  preparation of lists of required workshop equipment, in-
cluding preparation of specifications and documents for
local international tender;
(i)  Preparation of lists of road and waterborne transport
required by the project, including preparation of
specification and documents for local and interna-
tional tenders;
(k) Design of improvement to creeks and preparation of
specifications and tender documents;
(1)  Evaluation of tenders, award of contracts and placing
of orders;
(m)  Assistance to farmers' pump groups in the design and
implementation of on-farm works;
(n) Supervision of all construction works and installation
of plants and equipment;



ANNEX 7
Page 4
(o) Commissioning of workshops, preparation of main-
tenance manuals, setting up of field maintenance
service and training of staff;
(p) Preparation of logistics of procurement and distri-
bution of all inputs required by the project; devel-
opment of administrative organization and its imple-
mentation;
(q)  Coordination with IRDP and agricultural officers on the
agricultural development of the project area by providing
advisory training and demonstration to extension, coop-
erative and other development staff in the project area;
(r) Training of farmers in the use of improved cultural
practices;
(s) Formulation of the administrative set-up of the project
for the 0 & M phase for consideration of the Government
and of IDA;
(t) Preparation of a water management manual for advice and
guidance of project personnel;
(u) Preparation of a manual of instruction for operation and
maintenance of project equipment and structures; and
(v) All other technical matters required for execution of
the project.
IV. Responsibility of the Consultant
8.        The consultant is to be responsible for providing specialist
advice and assistance with particular regard to optimum design and con-
struction for prevailing condition in Bangladesh in executing the work
items detailed in Article III above.
9.        In this regard, the consultant is expected to provide the serv-
ices of four expatriate specialists experienced in irrigation and agricul-
tural development with specific expertise in the following fields:
(i) Irrigation Engineering and Project Management;
(ii) Mechanical Engineering, in particular low-head
pump motor unit and small gate design;
(iii) Labour-intensive construction engineering and
scheduling, and materials and equipment pro-
curement; and



ANNEX 7
Page 5
(iv) Rice-intensive agriculture, with particular
reference to extension services and farmers'
cooperatives.
It is proposed that the Irrigation Engineer be appointed as Team Leader.
10.       Individual specialists will be required to perform the following
broad functions:
(i)  Expatriate Irrigation Engineer (Team Leader)
He will advise and assist in the planning, design
and supervision of construction of the project, in
the preparation of tender documents and evaluation
of tenders, and in the preparation of progress
reports. He will be responsible for managing and
coordinating the work of the individual consultants
with project management.
(ii)  Expatriate Mechanical Engineer
He will advise and assist in the preparation of
specifications for pumping units, gates and workshop
equipment, etc. Hle will participate in the detailed
planning of supporting services for primary and sec-
ondary pumps with particular reference to fuel storage
and distribution, workshop design and construction,
maintenance organ:Lzation, equipment and schedules,
and the training of local mechanics.
(iii)  Expatriate Construction Engineer
He will assist in the supervision of field survey
and construction of sluices, placement of primary
and secondary pumps and advise on drainage, on-farm
works and planning of field distribution systems.
(iv)  Expatriate Agriculturalist
He will advise on all aspects of the agricultural
support program, particularly in the organization
of extension services and cooperatives, and in staff
training.
11.       The Board proposes that: the consultant provide the services of
the Irrigation Engineer (Team Leader) and of the Construction Engineer for
a continuous period of 24 months following initiation of the Consultant's
contract, and on a basis of six months (October-March) per year over the
succeeding 36 months. The services of the Mechanical Engineer will be



ANNEX 7
Page 6
required for an initial period of 6 months followed by annual visits total-
ling 12 months over the succeeding 48 months. The services of the Agricul-
tural Specialist will be required for periods of 3 months annually over the
60 month project implementation period.
V.   Reporting
12.       The Consultant shall assist the Executive Director in the prepara-
tion of the project quarterly reports, semi annual reports and annual reports
for submission to the Government and to IDA.
VI. Undertaking of the Government
13.       Providing that established procedures are followed, the Government
shall:
(a) Exempt or bear the cost of, any taxes, duties, fees,
levies and other impositions imposed under its laws
and regulations or the laws and regulations in effect
in its territories or any political sub-division of
agency thereof, on the Consultant and his personnel
(other than personnel who are citizens or permanent
residents of Bangladesh) in respect of:
(i) any payments made to the consultants or to such
personnel in connection with the carrying out of
the agreed to services;
(ii) any equipment, materials and supplies brought into
the country for the purpose of carrying out the
services and which, after having been brought into
such territories, will subsequently be disposed of
in a manner to be decided by Government of Bangladesh;
(iii) any property brought into Bangladesh by the personnel
of the consultant and dependents for their personnel
use and which, after having been brought into Bangladesh,
will subsequently be withdrawn therefrom upon departure
of such personnel; after obtaining clearance of Govern-
ment of Bangladesh, however, to qualify for these
exemptions, shipment of such property will have to
be arranged by contract no later than three months
after the arrival of the staff member;
(b) facilitate prompt clearance through customs of any equip-
ment, material and supplies required for the services and
of the personal effects of the consultants' personnel;



ANNEX 7
Page 7
(c) ensure that:
(i) the consultants' personnel and their dependents
are promptly provided with any necessary entry
and exit visas, residence permits, exchange
permits and travel documents required for their
stay in the territories of the Government;
(ii) all necessary permits and authorization for
carrying out of the services, including prompt
review of the experience resume of the con-
sultants' proposed staff are provided promptly
and that if the consultant has not been advised
of approval or disapproval of the proposed em-
ployee within a period of 15 days from the date
of receipt of such proposal from the consultant
by the executing agency, the proposed employee
will be considered as accepted for employment;
(iii) the consultants' personnel are provided with
reasonable rent for family/single accommodation
while in Bangladesh in connection with the project
work. But the consultant shall be responsible for
furnishing and maintenance of the house and the
cost of the same will be reimbursed by the exec-
uting agency;
(iv)  all existing aerLal photographs, maps, drawings,
data, reports and other information pertinent to
the execution of contract are furnished to the
consultants when required;
(v) the executing agency shall provide or permit the
consultant to arrange for at the reimbursible cost
to the consultant, suitable office facilities,
furnishings and the equipment therefor and trans-
portation for office and field activities of the
consultants personnel.
VII. Necessary Procedure to be Followed by Invited Consulting Firm
14.       Consulting firms invited to submit proposals are requested to
state clearly in their proposals, the following:
A.  Experience
1.   Experience of the firm and its principals in the
design and construction supervision of water
resources projects similar in nature to that
described herein.



ANNEX 7
Page 8
2.   Experience of the firm and its principals and key
employees in working with local personnel in
Bangladesh or under similar condition elsewhere.
3.   Experience of any firm or firms with which the
consulting firm plans to associate in the per-
formance of this work.
B.   Present Capacity
1.   A statement, by general categories, of the normal
staff maintained by the consulting firm in its
home office from which personnel requirements for
the project will be drawn.
2.   Detailed resumes of experience for at least the
four members of the staff of the firm whom the
firm would propose for work on this assignment
in Bangladesh.
3.   A statement of intent and probable capability of
assigning certain additional personnel to the work,
if required.
C.   Approach to Work
1.   An outline of the proposed approach towards per-
formances of the work by the firm.
2.   A schedule of operation in reasonable detail which
the firm intends to follow.
3.   The proposed composition of the team and related
number of man-months of each expatriate, specialists
that the firm intends to assign to the project (see
also para 11 above).
4.   The list of vehicles and equipment which the firm
anticipate would be required in carrying out of their
work.
5.   The category and number of local non-technical
staff which the firm would wish to be provided
by the Board to work for them.
6.   Terms and conditions under which the firm intends
to carry out the duties and responsibilities speci-
fied above.



ANNEX 7
Page 9
7.   Advice on any factors not covered above which the
firm believes favourably affect its availability
to provide the desired services with competence
and economy.
If appointed to provide the required services, foreign exchange and local
currency budgets will be prepared at the time of contract negotiations in
Dacca and will form an integral part of the "Agreement for Professional
Services". These budgets will cover in addition to staff salaries, the
following:
Transportation expenses;
Cost and import of vehicles, electrical appliances
and project equipment;
Communications (but not clerical services in the
home office);
Office accommodation, equipment and expenses in
Bangladesh;
Residential housing expenses for expatriate personnel
(including a reasonable allowance for essential fur-
nishing);
Per diem allowance; etc, etc.
It is considered that the information requested herein will suffice for a
determination of the specific qualifications for performing the subject work
by the firm. However, any pertinent information the firm cares to supply
in addition to the above shall be welcomed by the BOARD.



_AITEX 8
Page 1
BANGLADESH
BARISAL IRRIGATION PROJECT
AGRICILTURAL SUPPORTING SERVICES
Extension
1.        The Directorate of Agricultural Extension and Management is respon-
sible for introducing improved technology to the farmers through demonstra-
tions and training programs. Agricultural Officers are assigned to exten-
sion services at district, thana, and union levels. District Agricultural
Officers are college or higher graduates; other officers are generallv high
school matriculates or junior high school graduates trained in the Agri-
cultural Extension Training Institute for two years. Kev personnel for
extension work are the Thana Agricultural Officers (TAOs). Under their
direction, the Union Agriculture Assistants (UAAs) train and advise farmers
and demonstrate improved methods of farming. Presently one UAA looks after
about 1,500 - 2,000 individual farmers within 15 to 20 villages. One TAO
covers 15-20 unions on the average. TAOs and UAAs generally are not provided
with transport of any kind.
2.        Under the First Five-Year Plan, the Ministry of Agriculture intends
to strengthen extension services throughout the country. Agriculture graduates
will be assigned as Thana Extension Officers (TEOs) with TAOs serving as their
deputies. The Plan aims to more than double the number of UJAAs, who will be
renamed Village Extension Agents (VEAs). Salaries would be raised, particularly
for lower level officers, and better transportation and facilities would be
provided.
3.        To improve extension services, the project would provide:  (i) audio-
visual unit, office equipment and extension materials, (ii) better transport
and (iii) agricultural equipment for use in eight demonstration areas. Exten-
sion workers and selected farmers would be trained at TTDCs and in the
demonstration areas.
Agricultural Research
4.        The Bangladesh Rice Research Institute (BRRI) is responsible for
multi-disciplinary research work on rice. So far, the Institute has been
concentrating on screening, selecting and field testing materials supplied
mainly by the International Rice Research Institute. Under the screening
program several promising new varieties, in addition to IR-8 introduced prior
to the establishment of BRRI, have been released: IR-5, IR-20 (Irrisail),
BRRI-1 (Chandina) and BRRI-2 (Mala). All of these varieties are suitable for
the project area.



ANI'TEX 8
Page 2
5.        Four substations for rice research have been set up to complement
the research activities of the main BPRT station in Joydepur near Dacca and
to make it possible to test and select varieties under the different soil,
climatic and hydrologic conditions in the country.  One of the substations
is located in the project area and has a ?0 ac field with one research
officer and several field assistants.
Fertilizer
6.        ADC is responsible for the procurement and distribution of
fertilizer. Fertilizer is brought into the project area through tle port
at Barisal and distributed by barge to Nalchiti and Jhalakati and by road
to Babuganj.  Within the thanas, fertilizer is distributed to farmers
through private dealers approved by ADC.  The total number of such dealers
is about 230 in the project area at present. Thus, fertilizer is available
within a few miles of his doorstep to almost every potential buyer. But due
to the complexity of the present administrative procedures for ordering and
delivery, fertilizer sometimes is not supplied to the farmers when they need
it.
7.        Although the Government currently subsidizes the cost of fertilizer,
only 5% of the farmers in the project area use the recommended dosages;   45%
use a half dosage and the rest seldom use any fertilizer at all. In the past,
farmers have been reluctant to use fertilizer for several reasons: (i) their
experience has taught them that for the wet season rice, particularly for
aus, they frequently risk losing their investment because of flood, drought
or pest attack, (ii) the farmers are generally too poor to purchase agri-
cultural inputs, (iii) institutional credit for purchasing fertilizer re-
quires lengthy and tedious procedures, (iv) local rice varieties widelv used
by the farmers are not responsive to higher dosages of fertilizer, and (v)
the extension services are weak in the project area. However, with the
introduction of high yielding varieties of rice (HYVs) which are responsive
to fertilizer, farmers are now well aware of the benefits of using higher
dosages of fertilizer on IYV rice.  Annual fertilizer requirements in the
project area would rise from about 7,600 tons at present to 33,000 tons at
full development, and additional storage facilities would be provided by the
project.
Seeds
8.        Farmers usually retain seed from the previous harvest or obtain
seed from their neighbors. However, to sustain high yields, farmers periodi-
cally introduce fresh seed. ADC is responsible for importing, producing
and distributing seed in Bangladesh. Rice seed is produced locally on ADC
farms and by private growers approved by ADC under a Registered Growers
Scheme.
9.        ADC occasionally imports seed of high yielding varieties for
distribution to farmers.



ANNEX P
Page 3
10.       Aiming at annual production of 10,000 tons of certified rice seed
for the entire country, the Government has recently started a new seed pro-
duction program under IDA financial assistance: Credit 410-BD, Cereal Seed
Project.
Plant Protection
11.       Three branches of the Ministry of Agriculture are involved in Dlant
protection in Bangladesh: (a) the Directorate of Plant Protection, which
controls aerial spraying; (b) the Division of Plant Protection, whiclh, as
part of the Directorate of Agricultural Fxtension and Management, is responsible
for controlling pest and disease on the ground, for reporting insect attacks
and for doing research work on plant protection; and (c) ADC, which is
responsible for the procurement of pesticides.
12,       Aerial spraying is sometimes needed wlere the land is covered bv
floodwater or where areas require fast spraying because of energercy infesta-
tion.  Lately there have been verv few cases in the project area w1-ere this
type of service is needed.
13.       The Division of Plant Protection has a Plant Protection Inspector
in each district, with Assistant Inspectors at the district level and Thana
Assistants at the thana level. One thana htas only two or three sprayer
operators, called IMukaddams, whose role is ostensibly to apply pesticides
with the machines allocated to the thanas. But the maior role of the Mukaddams
actually is to supervise the farmers themselves spraying with hand spravers.
14.       Major rice pests are stemborer, leafhopper, armv worm, rice hispa,
leaffolder and rice mealy bug, the first two of which frequently cause severe
damage to crops.  Diseases such as bacterial leaf blight and virus diseases
have expanded with with introduction of new rice varieties. At present,
however, the damage caused by diseases is less serious than that from pests.
15.       At present, pest control is fully subsidized by the Government.  To
improve efficiency and to reduce wastage, the Government proposes in the First
Five-Year Plan to sell pesticides and equipment at sulbsidized prices instead
of using free distribution as at present.
16.       More intensive pest control will be needed in the project area
following wide adoption of new varieties.
Rural Development Programs
17.       In the early 1960's, the Bangladesh Academv for Rural Development
at Comilla initiated in the Comilla District rural development involving the
farmers in schemes and programs such as the Rural WTorks Program (RlT), the
Thana Irrigation Program (TIP), the Thana Training and Development Centers
(TTDCs), and the Thana Central Cooperative Associations (TCCAs) which today
comprise the basis for the Government's nationwide Integrated Rural Development



ANNEXv 8
Page 4
Program (IRDP). The Academy remains the center for research work on rural
development and training of government officers and farmers. Througk exten-
sive socio-economic research and experiments it has evolved suitable patterns
for rural development based on the initiatives of the rural people themselves
and framed by rural leaders in partnership with government officials. TInder
this idea, known as the "Comilla approach?, the thana level has proven the
most effective administrative level for rural development. It enabled con-
trolled decentralization of authority wherebv local officials controlled
expenditures and provided technical services including farmer training and
agricultural input supply. Farmers participated in formulating development
proposals, preparing plans and executing them.
18.       IRDP, which started functioning in 1970, is an institutionalization
of the Comilla approach. Under 1:he Five-Year Plan, the IRDP will be extended
from the present 99 thanas to 250 tfiroughout Bangladesh including the four
in the proposed project area.  In 1971, the Rural Development Board (PD1)
was established to administer the IRDP activities. The functions of the
RDB are:
(a) to lay down the policy and exercise general supervision
of IRDP implementation;
(b) to coordinate the activities of various departments/
agencies related to the program;
(c) to approve the operational program and the annual budget
and arrange for the aucit of accounts; and
(d) to take responsibility for other measures relating to
rural development.
19.       TTDC is a key element in integrating rural development activities
of different departments. Training is provided for model farmers and local
leaders in various fields.  Under the "Comilla Approach", it was found that
farmers adopted improved practices and new technologv more readily from local
leaders trained at the thana than from visiting Government officers. At the
thana center are the offices of the thana-level officials from each development
agency: the Thana Agriculture Officer (TAO), the Thana Fisheries Officer
(TFO), the Thana Irrigation Officer (TIO), etc. A senior thana official,
Circle Officer (Development), manages and coordinates the various activities
and implementation of local development schemes.  In addition, he is resnorsi-
ble for approving formation of pump groups. In the project area, the Govern-
ment is now constructing the central buildings (offices, training hall,
workshops and storage facilities).
20.       RWP, started on a country-wide basis in 1963, involved the construction
and maintenance of roads, bridges, irrigation channels and culverts, community
buildings and emnbankments.  The Program made considerable progress until it
began to deteriorate in 1967 because of political interference and later
because of annihilation of local government institutions; today it is almost



AT-NEX 8
Page 5
inactive. The Government proposes to revive the Program Tith several charges,
including greater emphasis on water control systems, more representation
in project committees by village institutions and more intensified supervision
and financial control of the project work.  New staff will have to be re-
cruited and trained, and new working assignments properlv given to the local
institutions and government officials.
21.       TIP, started in 1966 as an extension of the RIZP, provided the
infrastructure to systematically carry out formation of pump or tubewell
irrigation groups and develop other small-scale drainage and water control
schemes. Each group was to function as a primary cooperative societv
affiliated with a Thana Central Cooperatives Association or a Cooperative
Central Bank. Each group was to have a manager and model farmer who 'receive
training in water management and modern agricultural techniques at Thana
Training and Development Centers (TTDC). Prior to the war, some farmers in
the project area were so trained and the early expansion of low-lift pump
irrigation was achieved under the TIP. Hmowever, Government suDnport and
assistance were not maintained and pump group formation has continued
haphazardly. Nevertheless, the area irrigated by pumps in Bangladesh has
markedly increased, from about 320,000 ac in 1967/68 to over one million
acres in 1972/73.
Credit
22.       Overall Agricultural Credit Structure.  Non-institutional sources
(relatives, prominent villagers, or money lenders) provide over 70%, of agri-
cultural credit used by farmers in the country. The institutional credit
sector is controlled by the Bangladesh Bank (BB), which as a Central Bank
is prepared to refinance agricultural loans. Institutional credit is supplied
by Government in the form of relief or "Taccavi" loans, the Agricultural
Bank (Bangladesh Krishi Bank - BKB), the Cooperative Bank (Bangladesh Jatiyo
Samabaya Bank - BJSB) and its affiliated cooperatives, and commercial banks.
BKB is Government owned and BJSB is a federation of cooperatives with
Government participation.  Each derives part of its funds from the Government
and BB and part from its own deposits. The main sources of commercial banks
are deposits. The BKB, through a network of 102 branches, advances mostly
medium-term loans to individual farmers. BJSE advances mostly short-term
credit and a small amount of medium-term credit through a complex network
of cooperatives. (Many of them have performed poorlv and are either dormant
or moribund). Commercial banks have made mostly short-term loans to
cooperatives.
23.       The performance of BKB, BJSB and its cooperative affiliates has
been inadequate for the majority of farmers, who must continue to depend
on non-institutional sources. They have weak financial structures because
of little capital, few deposits and heavy dependence on advances at conces-
sional rates from the Government and BB.  The equity of both banks has been
greatly impaired by borrowers' defaults, and their income is insufficient to
cover borrowing costs at current rates and administrative expenses. In



AfN1E! 8
Page 6
addition, they have organizational problems such as inadequate staffing and
accounting methods and lending policies which are security rather tPar
production oriented. Loans are not supervised effectively and ari probably
misused to a large extent. Branches and primary cooperative societies are
loosely controlled and many are either dormant or moribund. Coverage is
limited; only about 1.5 million farm families out of some 5.3 million have
benefitted from loans, mostly those farming on area over the national
average farm size.  Over recent years, BKB's and BJSB's collection rates
have been less than 25% of dues, and heavy defaults can be anticipated if
stringent recovery measures are not enforced.
24.       Credit in the Project Area.  At present, about half the farrers
get some form of credit:  about C5 percent fror non-institutional sources such
as relatives, neighbors, mill owners, merchants ard money lenders and only
15 percent from institutions.
25.       The institutions which presently serve the project area are:
(a)  Two branch officers of BKB;
(b) Barisal Central Cooperative Bank (BCCB) and affiliated
primary cooperatives;
(c) Barisal Land Mortgage Bank (BLMB); and
(d) Eighteen branches of nationalized commercial banks.
26.       The BCCB is the intermediate tier of the cooperative system between
BJSB on one hand and the primary cooperative (Krishi Samabava Societies -
KSS) and the Union Cooperative Multipurpose Societies (ITCM1S) on the other
hand. With a field staff of only one for every 180 affilisted cooperative
societies, the BCCB has to rely for appraisal and supervision of loans and
control of cooperatives on the Cooperative Department, a division of the
Ministry of Local Government Rural Development and Cooperatives. The limited
field staff presently cannot pursue an active policy of debt collection.
27.       The BCCB issued loans totaling Tk 1.9 million in 1069-70 and Tk
1.4 million each in 1970-71 and 1971-72.  nver 95'/ of these were for crop
production with the security of land mortgage. The security offered was
frequently insufficient even for small loans. Loan amounts were only Tk 100
per acre for cultivating local varieties and Tk 250 per acre.for HYV rice;
and an overall limit was Tk 350 per farm.
28.       The Government intends to improve credit availability in connection
with expansion of the Integrated Rural Development Program under wqhich- it
would establish in the project area a two-tier cooperative structure as
developed at Comilla by the Bangladesh Academy for Rural Development. This
structure would consist of small village cooperatives (YSS-Corilla type) and
a federation (TCCA) at thana level.



ANNEX P,
Page 7
29.       The TCCA functions as a supporting organization to promote the
growth of primary cooperatives as self-managed and self-reliant bodies and
to integrate them into one cooperative system. The main activities of the
TCCA are: (a) to extend agricultural credit through the primary societies
affiliated to it, (b) to collect members' saving deposits, (c) to assist
in planning and supplying inputs and services and (d) to train primarv
cooperative managers and model farmers. Primarv cooperatives comprise
30-50 farmers associated at village level for the purpose of sharing use of
a low-lift pump, tubewell, and marketing facilities.
30.       Comilla type cooperatives have performed more satisfactorilv than
the BJSB cooperatives from the point of view of loan collections and raising
deposits.  However, even at Comilla the coverage does not exceed 25% of
the farm families, and the KSSs still have financial difficulties. They
usually charge interest at about 15," per annum.
31.       Nationalized commercial banks, more specificallv the Solani Bank,
may develop agricultural lending operations in the project area, in which
case they would lend to the primary cooperatives througk the TGCAs. Their
experience in commercial banking, adopted to agricultural credit operations,
could impose more rigorous financial discipline in agricultural credit opera-
tions.
32.       A Bank Group/FAO mission reviewed the agricultural credit situation
in 1973 and discussions with the Government are planned to consider proposals
for improving the country's agricultural credit irstitutions.



PITMT- 9
Page 1
BANGLADESH
BARISAL IRRIGATION PROJECT
ECONOMIC AIIALYSIS-I/
1.        The economic analysis is based on the assumDtions discussed below.
In addition to estimating the economic rate of return for the pronosed proiect,
the rate of return x as computed for an alternative development in whicO. lov-
lift pump irrigation, with full support services, would only extend to a
maximum of about 34,000 acres in those areas where natural waterways are
perennial and sluices and primary pumps w.ould not be required. From these
analyses, the rate of return on the additional investment needed to expand
irrigation from 34,000 acres to the proposed project area was computed. Thus,
three cases have been analyzed and compared:
W    -  Without the proposed project
W    -  With the proposed project
WL   -  With development limited to 34,000 acres
(a) Benefits
The net production value is obtained by deducting
production costs 2/ from the gross value of crop
production. In each case, the net production value
that would result without the project was subtracted from
the net production value estimated for the project to
obtain the benefit stream (Table 3). The expected crop-
ping patterns, yields, and crop inputs requirements for
each case are given in Annexes 2 and 10. The prices for
this analysis were derived along the lines discussed in
Chapter VI but using the shadow exchange rate of US$1 = Tk 14
in converting the cif price components to local currency
and excluding Government duties, taxes, and subsidies in
computing for farmgate prices. The economic farmgate
prices and values of crop production,inputs and labor are
given in Tables 1 and 2.
1/   This Annex was written with prices estimated as of mid-1974.  Since
that time, price changes due to inflation have occurred. Cost tables
in the main body of the text reflect the latest estimates, but because
the economic analysis is based upon real rather than nominal prices,
the results of this Annex could not be significantly affected by the
inflation that has taken place.
2/   Excluding fuel costs, which are treated with the project operating
costs.



ANNEX 9
Page 2
(b) Urea Price
Bangladesh now operates two ammonia/urea plants and has
asked the Bank Group for assistance in financing construc-
tion of a third plant which would begin operation in 1978.
The combined output of the three factories would meet
Bangladesh's requirements and might produLe an exportable
surplus in some years. A Bank mission, which visited Bangladesh
in October 1973, estimated that Bangladesh would be able to
export at world market prices because of comparative advantages
in production costs and its close proximity to India. Since
foreign exchange earnings from urea exports would be an
alternative to foreign exchange savings from the proposed
Project, forecasted world market prices for urea have been
used as a basis for the urea prices in this analysis.
(c) Costs
The cost streams (Table 4) include the initial investments,
capital costs, replacement and operating costs. In the
"without project"r, the cost streams cover only the recurring
replacement and operating costs associated with the esti-
mated 13,000 acres already under irrigation. 1/ The esti-
mates exclude price escalation, interest during construction,
and Government taxes and duties. Investment cost estimates
assume no salvage value for pumps currently in the project
area. Replacements are assumed every five years for
secondary pumps and ten years for primary pumps.
(d) Exchange Rate
A shadow exchange rate of US$1 - Tk 14 (60% above the
official rate) was used in this analysis to reflect the
scarcity of foreign exchange in Bangladesh. Present import
duties imply a similar shadow rate for goods not in compe-
tition with local manufacture. Export taxes, in contrast,
imply a lower shadow rate of (about 30% over the official
rate) but understate the scarcity of foreign exchange to
justify local exports. 1Unregulated exchange, wkich is not
officially permitted, implies an unrealistically high rate
(about 100X over) reflecting risks and extreme scarcity in
the black market.
1/   The ages and condition of existing pumps are unknown.  In the analysis
the replacement and operating costs have been derived from the project
estimates.



AtT7i'EX 9
Page 3
(e)  Development Phasing
Construction would be phased over five years (Table 5).
Facilities would be completed in Yotwali Thana in' the
second year and in Baluganj, >'alchity, and Jhalakati in
the subsequent three vears. Full benefits would be
achieved over a five year ('1S-Curved") development period
1beginning in each phase the year after construction, pump
group formation and secondary pump installation is com-
plete. Although it is anticipated that construction of
primary units and formation of pump groups would be com-
pleted in the same year, the benefits plasing (Table 5)
allows for one year delay in forming pump groups in 257
of each phase (except in the last phase, where pumn group
formation is assumed to be completed all in year 6,
taking into account three years experience gained in the
preceding phases).  Thus, full project benefits would be
achieved five years after all project construction is com-
plete. Production without the project is assumed to in-
crease over the development period at a steady rate of
about 17 per year from the present level.
(f)  Pricing of Labor
Farm labor, the bulk cf which is family labor having only a
limited opportunity fcr other employment, has been conser-
vatively shadow priced in the base analysis at an average
wage of Tk 2.5 per man-day, one-half of the average market
wage for hired labor during peak activity. The analysis
of farm labor supply and demand in the project area (Annex 11)
indicates that the economic cost of all farm labor required
under the project would be only about 30% of the cost of all
labor valued at the peak market wage. Unskilled construction
labor has been valued at market wages.
2.        The economic rate of return for the full project was estimated at
28>%. For the project component which would enable extension of irrigation
from 34,000 acres to 112,000 acres, the rate of return was estimated at 26%,
and for the limited 34,000 acre development, the rate of return was esti-
mated at 39%. A 30-year period was used in the analysis.
Sensitivity Analysis
3.        Following are the results of tests made to determine the sensitivity
of the rate of return estimates to various alternative assumptions which may
reflect the uncertainty in the more important factors in the analysis:



ANNEX 9
Page 4
(a)  Price of Labor                              Project Rate of Return
(i) Farm labor valued at the
peak market wage:                                27%7
(ii)  Farm labor valued at 307
of the peak market wage:                         29%
(b) Commodity Prices
15% decrease relative
to the cost of crop inputs:                           247
(c) Crop Inputs Prices
15% increase relative
to commodity prices:                                  27'
(d) Construction & Replacement Costs
157 increase:                                         267
(e) Fuel & Operating Costs
25% increase:                                         277



ANNEX 9
Table 1
BANGLADESH
BARISAL IRRIGATION PROJECT
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
AVERAGE ANNUAL GROSS REVENUES (ECONOMIC)
Prices       Gross Revenues
P     F       p   W   WL   W
147,000 Acres                       (Tks/Md)     --- (Tks m) ---
Aus                              57   58        91  49 45   4
B. Aman                         113   67        66  51  41  26
T. Aman (local)                 113   67       177 102 110   9
rT. Aman (HYV)                 o100   60         7  16  45 208
Boro (local)                    106   63         3   14  17   0
Boro (HYV)                      100   60        42  37  68 288
Subtotal (Paddy)                             406 259 326 535
Jute                             96   96        13  12  13  13
Rabi                             33   33         3   3   3   4
Total                                        422 274 342 552
US$1 - Tks 14
NOTES: P - All future cases
P - Present
- Without the proposed project
Wl - With development limited to 34,000 acres
W - With the proposed project



ANNEX 9_
Table 2
BANGLADESH
BARISAL IBRIGATION PROJECT
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
AVERAGE ANNUAL CROP PRODUCTION COSTS (ECONOMIC)
Prices                Production Costs
P      F              P      W    WL      W
(Tks/Unit)               ---(Tks m)---
147,000 Acres
Fertilizers (Mds)
Urea (46% N)             1314   69             15     Y   1L      2
TSP (46% P05)            126    79             iC     7   10      20
M/P (60% k7               44    30              1     1    2       4
S3ubtotal                                    26    17   2      5
Pesticides (lbs)
Diazinon                 -      20              0     1    1       14
Sumithion                -      30              0     0    1       6
Sevin                    -      13              0     0    0       0
Subtotal                                     0      1    2     10
Farm Labor (man-days)        52"   5a/           79    79    83    98
Animal Power (an.-days)    7.5   6.5             31    27    26    26
Seed (Hds)                  75    65             18    15    14    11
Miscellaneous (Tks)          1     1              2     3      4     8
Total                                      1 56   1142   155   2014
a/  Average narket wage during peak activity.
Us$1 = Tks 114
NOTES: P - All future cases
P - Present
W - Without the proposed project
WL - W4ith development limited to 34,000 acres
W - With the proposed project



ANNE 9
Table 3
BAMIGTADESH
BARISAL IRRIGATION PROJECT
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
PROJECT PRODUCTION VALUE AND BENEFTT STRE1S
BD-BARISAL I PROJECT
RUN DATED 7 tMAY 74
DATA FILE 3D)1HY
US$1 = TKS 14.0
TESTS:
LAB3OR RATE-AVER. /MARKET PEAK 50r
PPODUCTION VALUE STREAtMS              BENEFIT STREAtMS
(TIS tM)                           TK' tM)
YEAR        \l lIL                                                    I '-'.  -IL  -
1        272.4      272.4      272.4            .0        .0        -.0
2        262.6      262.6      262.6           .0         .0         .0
3        252.8      257.5      255.9          3.1       -1.6        11.7
4         )1 3.0    255.1      256.8         13.8        L.8q      12.1
5        233.2      250.8      270.2         37.0       19.4       17.6
6        223.4      245.6      29.7          76.14      5l.2       22.2
7        213.6      2112.0     337.6        124I.3      95.6
8        203.7      241.2      372.5        168.8      131.14      37.41
193.9     241.2      396.2        202.2      155.0       147.2
10- 30         184.1      '41.2      4o.4 .       220.3      163.2       57.0
US$1 = Tks I14
NOTES:  W - Without the proposed project
1hI -  i.th development lirnited to 34,OOO acres
W - W'ith the proposed project



ANNEX q
Table 4
BANGLADESH
BARISAL IRRIGATION PROJECT
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
PROJECT EXPENDITURE AND COST STREAMS
Year                  Ex=enditure Streams          Net Cost "treams
W      WI   w              w-W  wIrIW   w-wi
--- (Tks m) ---             -- (Tks m) ---
1                     1       1    28             27      0      27
2                     2      16    80             73     t2    6b
3                     3      28    51             7                 5 3
4                     3     2 5    75             7 2    22      50
5                     3      5    68              65      2      63
6                     3      6    21              18      3      15
7                     3     18    32              29     15      124
8                     3     16    38              35     13      22
9                     3      7    40              37      4      33
10                    3      7    141             38      4      34
11                    3      7    21              18      4      14
12                    3     18    37              34     15      19
13                    3     16    44              41     13     2'-
14                    3      7    46              43      4     39
15                    3      7    46              43      4      39
16                    3      7    21*             18*    44*    14*
17                    3     18    32*             29*    15*    124*
18                    3     16    38*             35*    13*    22*
19                    3      7    40-             37*     4*F   33-
20                    3      7    41*w-           38-     4*    34*
21                    3      7*   21*            18*F    4*    14*
22                    3     18*   37*            34*    15*    1 9*
23                    3     16*   4414*           41*    13*    28'
24                    3      7*   46*             43*F    4*    3*
25                    3*     7*   46*            43*      4*    39c
26-30                    *     *                 *       *      *
US$1=Tks 14
NOTES:  W - Without the proposed project
WI - With development limited to 34,000 acres
W - lWith the proposed project
* - Indicated seu-3nce repeats.



ANNEX 9
Table 5
BANGLADESH
BARISAIL IRRIGATION PROJECT
ECONOIqC AiALYSIS
DEVELOPMENT PHASING
Construction Phasing                     Benefit Phasing
Improved      New        Total        Existing      New        Total
Area ./    Area        Area       Irrigation    Area          Area   2'
Year   (Existing)  Completed  "ompleted       Improved   Irrigated  Benefited -
--- ('000 ac net irrigation)          --(TOOO ac net irrigation) ----
1          0           0           0             0            0         0
2          3          23          26             0            0         0
3          3          26          29             2           17        19 (25)
4          4          27           31            3           25         28 (37)
5          3          23           26            4           28        31 (41)
6          0           0           0             4           29        34 (44)
Total      13          99          112           13           99       112 (147)
1/ Where irrigation exists, old pumps wvll be replaced and agriculture
supporting services will be provided.
2/ Figures in parenthesis show the corresponding cultivable area ('000 ac)
for which the future full development cropping patterns were constructed.



AT'T_Tv,kX 1 0
Page 1
BX1GLADESH
BARISAL IRRIGATION PROJECT
CROP INPUTS A4D FARM BUDGETS
Crop Inputs Requirements
1.        Present and projected unit inputs requirements under the project
are given in Table 1. The estimated total annual requirements and costs
of production with and without the project are given in Table 2. The
estimates are based on the following assumptions:
(a) Fertilizers and Pesticides. Future reauirements are based on
recommendations by the Directorate of Agricultural Extension and Management.
The estimates for future "without project" conditions were made assuming
only small improvements in farm practices and use of inputs.
(b)  Farm Labor.  Total annual labor requirements, including botb
family and hired labor, are the sum of the estimated monthly requirements
by crop given in Table 3.
(c)  Irrigation.  The requirements for pumps, fuel, and maintenance
are treated separately as part of the initial and recurring project costs.
(d)  Animal Power, Seeds, and Other Pequirements.  Bullocks are used
for land preparation, usually owned by the large landholders and rented
by the smaller holders. In addition, the estimated crop inputs include
requirements for seed and cash for rent (or depreciation) of pesticide
sprayers and other equipment.
Farm Budget Analyses
2.        Budgets on an annual cash flow basis for three representative
farm sizes in the project area (with and without irrigation) are given in
Table 4. The following assumptions were made in the analyses:
(a) Crop Yields and Inputs Requirements. Projected yields used in
the analyses are given in Annex 2. Crop inputs were estimated using
the unit requirements discussed above and given in Table 1. Hired labor
(at the peak market wage of Tk 5 per man-day) was assumed where the monthly
labor requirement exceeded 50 man-days per month (the assumed availability
of farm household labor).



ANNEX 1 0
Page 2
(b) Prices. Present and future production and innuts are valued using
the projected and unsubsidized prices (in 1074 Takas) discussed in Chanter V1T.
(c) Farm Sizes. The analysis was made for farm sizes of 0.5 acres,
1.5 acres, and 3.0 acres. The average size in the project area is about
1.5 acres.  The smallest analyzed, 0.5 acres, is too small to support an
average family, but represents about 50 percent of the holdinqs.  A tyOical
family of this type supplements its income writh off-farm emnlovment and
by cultivating additional landl on lease or loan. Foldings over 3.n acres
are rare.
(d)  Cropping Patterns  (Table /) reflect the average for t1e project
area, but give a somewhat hig'rer cropping intensity for the small farm and
somewhat lower intensity and higYer proportion of low-vield Prcadcast Aman
for the large farm.
(e)  Irrigation Costs.  Without Government subsidies, t-e average per
acre cost to the farmers of secondary purp irrigation, including fuel,
maintenance, and pump rent or instaJlment payments recovering tb-e initial
investment cost over 5 years, could be as higih as Tv 220n Per vear for a pump
group serving as little as 3' acres or as MT? as Tk 1%5 per vyar J,'lcre
serving fO acres. 1/  A per acre cost of Tk 1Rn per vear (!o acres) is used
in the analysis.
(f)  Family Sizes.  Data are not available on th-e size of farm households
in the area. 2/ Fowever, recent surveys in other rural areas indicate that
farm households at present range from about 5.0 persons average orn holdinps
less than 1.0 acre to about 7.0 persons average or holdings between 2.f and
5.0 acres, and that over the last 5 years they have increased between about
0.3 and 0.3 persons each. Therefore, the th-ree farms analyzed were assumed
to support future households having the following sizes:
Holdings        number of Persons          Number of Adults
0.5 acre               5.5                         3.1
1.5 acres              6K0                         3.6
3.0 acres               7.5                        L,3
1/   Estimates include annual costs of Tl. 36 per acre for fuel and Tk 25
per acre for maintenance, and assume a discount rate of 10 percent per
year on capital recovery. These do not include any costs, initial or
recurring, for primary pumping, agricultural support, or other project
components.
2/   The agro-economic survey conducted in 1073 during project preparation
did not collect information on familv size or village populations.



ANNE' 10
Page 3
(g) Consumption Levels. Government statistics indicate that ner capita
consumption of rice presently averages about 1.2 md per year (1c otunces per
day). Since current nutritional levels are believed less than adenuate,
the analysis used the value of 4.6 imid of rice (7.3 mds paddv) per vear for
each adult (half for each child).
(h) Off-Farm Income. The high population densities and complex
land tenure arrangements have resulted in farm families, particularlv on
smallholdings, deriving income from a variety of off-farm activities.
However, introduction of irrigation to a farmer in the project area is not
expected to reduce-his off-farm earnings, since labor requirements under
irrigation would be only about 20 percent greater than without irrigation
and a change in his off-farm employment pattern is not expected. (The cost
of additional hired labor has been taken into account in the cost of crop
inputs.)



BANGLADE SH
BARISAL IRRIGATION PROJECT
UNIT CROP INJl1'T REQUIREMENTSI'
As                   B. Amian            T. Amian (local)           T. Amsan (IIYV)         _Boro _(local)_             Boro (HYV)                   JueRabi
P             W          P       j      N         P w            W          P p                      P      1       W         p       i7     w          P              w  
FERTTLIZERS & PESTICIDES
Urea (46% N)        (-d-s/7a c      0.3    0.3    0.3         0.3    0.3    0.3         *5      .6      .8      1.2    1.3    2.0          .5      .6     .8       1.2    1.3    2.0          .7      .8    1.0        -      -       -
(Tkcs/ac)      14     14      14        14     14      14        23      38     37        55      60      92        23     28      37        55      60      92        32      37     46          -       -      -
TSP  (467. P 205)   (mds/ac)        0.2    0.2    0.2         0.2    0.2    0.2         .4      .5      .6        .9    1.0    1.5         .4      .5      .6        .9    1.0    1.5         .5      .6      .7       -      -       -
(Tkcs/ac)       9      9       9         9       9      9        18      23     27        41      45      68        18      23     27        41      45      68        23      27     32          -       -
N/P  (607. K)       (mds/ac)         -      -       -         -      -       -          .1      .1      .2        .4      .4     .8        .1      .1      .2       .4      .4      .8       -       -        .2       --
(Tkcs/ac)       -      -       -         -              -         2       2      4          8      8      16         2       2      4         8       8      16                 -      4--
Dia-inon            (mds/ac)        -       -      -         -       -       --                       -         -        .01    .01      -       -       -         -        .01    .01       -      -       --                -       -
(Tks/ac)        -      -       -         -       -                -               -         -     20      20         -       -      -          -     20      20         -       -       --                -      -
Simithion           (ads/ac)        -       -      -          -      -       -         -      -       -         -        .01    .01       -      -       --                 .01    .01              -       --                -       -
(Tkcs/ac)       -      -       -         -              -          -      -       -         -     25      25         -       -       -         -     25      25-                -       --                -      -
Sevin               (ads/ac)        -       -       -         -                        -       -      -                 -       -         -  -   -                         -       -         -        .02    .02      -       - 
(Tks/ac)        -      -       -         -       -      -         -       -       -         -      -       -       --        -                        -       -         -      2 2    22          -      -       -
Subtotal  (Tks/ac)        2 3     23      23        23     2 3     23        43      53     68       104    158    221          43     53      68       104    158    22 1         55     86    104          -       -       -
ANNUAL FAMiILY & HIRED LABOR
Preparation         (mn-dIac)      22      22     22        22      22     22         22     22      22        22      2 2    22        22      22      22        22     22      22        22      22      22        10      10     10
Planting &          (m-d/ac)        1       1       1         1      1       1        1.8    18      1.8       18      18     19        18      is      18        19     19      22          1      1       1         1       1       1
Nursing
Crop Management  (n-dIsc)           5       5      5         5       5       5        10,    10      13        13      13     15        13      13     13         15     1.5     16        14      14      1.4        4       4       4
Harvesting &        (rn-d/ac)      18      18     18        22      22     22         23     23      24        24      24     26        24      24     24         26     26      30        43      43      43        20      20     20
'threshing
Subtotal  (m-d/ac)        46      46     46        50      50      50        73     73      77        77      77     82        77      77     7 7        82     82      90        80      80)    80         35      3 5    35
OTHER INPUTS
Animal Power        (a-d/ac)       17      17     17        17      17      17        18     18      11        18      18     18        17      1 7    17         17     17      17         17     17      17,        8       8       8
(Tkcs/ac)    11.0   110    110         110    1.10   1.10       113 115    115      11.5 115    115          11      0    130 110     110       110        110ii     110    110    110          50      50      50
Seed                (mds/ac)Z/    1.4    1.4    1.4          1.4    1.4    1.4          .6      .6     .6        .6      .6      .6        .6     .6      .6        .6      .6     .6       1.0    3.0    1.0          .4      .4      .4
(Tkcs/ac) 5   lO1     10      10       10      10      10         5       5      5        10      10     10          5      5       5        10      10     10        20      20      20         5       5       5
Miscellaneous    (TIcs/ac)         1t      10     10        10      10     10         10     10      15        3 5    35      50        10      10     10        3 5     40    120         30      20     40          -       -       -
Subtotal  (TIcs/ac)    1310    130    130         IJ0    130    1-30       150    ISO    135        160)   160    175         32 5    125    121       1 55    160    240        160    160    170          55     55      55
1/ Discrepancy is due to rounding.
/Awounts shown are fresh seed used every 8th year for local varieties and every 5th year for HTV.
T/Average annual cost per acre.
US$ 1 = Tkc  8.0
Noes    - Priethottepooe    rjc
Noes  7 - WiSethottepooe    rjc
Wd - With the proposed project



9JIEEX 10
Table 2
BANGLADESH
BARISAL IRRIGATION PROJECT
ANTUUAL PROJECT PRODUCTION REQUIREMENT AND COSTS (FINANCIAL)
Requirements                    CnstI  (Tks m.)
P     W    NWL      W         P       W     WL       W
Fertilizers r'tns '000t
Trea (146% 1)              4.1   4.9   7.2   15.6         5o0    6.1    8.9   19.2
TSP (146% P 05)            3.0   3.8   5.3   1106         3.6    465   6.14   14.0
M/P (60% K0 o.6   0.8   1.9    5.7                        0.3   0,4    1.0    3.0
Subtotal                                           8.9   11.0   16.3   36.2
Pesticides (tons)
Diazino'n                  -    15    20    90            -       0.6    0.9    4.1
Sumithion                  -      5    20    90           -      0.3    1.3    6.0
Sevin                      -    10    10    10            -      0.3    O.3    0.3
Subtotal                                           -      1.2    2.5   10.4
Other Inputs
Animal Power               4.1   4.1   4.0   4.0         26.7   26.7   26.0   26.0
(min animal-days)
Seed (md '000)            37    35    314   214           2.14    2.3    2.2    1.6
1M1iscellaneous (Tks m.)    2.4   2.8   4.2   9.1         2.4    2.8    4.2    9.1
Total                                            140    44       51     83
Farm Labor (m. man-days)    16    16    17    20             1/      1       1/    1/
1/ See Farm Labor Analysis, Annex 11.
US$ 1 - Tks 8.0
Notes: P - Present
W - Withoat the proposed pro-6ct
VTL - With development limited to 314,000 acres
W - With the proposed project



BANGIADESH
BARISAL IRRIGATIO11 PROJECT
Monthly Labor Requirements for Various Crops (man-days/ac)
Jan   Feb   Mar  AE            Jun   Jul A.   g   Sp   Oct  liov  Doc    Total
Rice B. aus               P                       23      3     2    18                                      46
W                       23     3      2    18                                     46
W                       23     3      2    18                                     46
B. aman              p                       23     3      2                             22            50
W                       23     3      2                              22           50
W                       23     3      2                              22           50
T. aman (local)      p                                          18    34    3       3    20      3     73
W                                          10    34    3       3    20      3     73
w                                          10    37    3       3    20      4     77
T. aaan (HYV)        P                                          10    37    3       3    20      4     77
iw                                         10    37    3       3    20      4      77
w                                          10    40    3       3    20      6     82
Boro (local)        p    30      7     3      3    20      4                                    10     77
W    30     7      3     3    20      4                                    10     77
W    30     7      4     4    20      6                                    10     81
Boro (HYV)          P    30      8     4      4    20      6                                    10     82
W    30     8      4     4    20      6                                    10     82
W    34     8      4     4    20    10                                     10     90
Jute                      p                       23     6      5     3    38    5                           80
W                       23     6      5     3    38    5                          80
W                       23     6      5     3    38    5                          80
Rabi Crop (Pulses)        p     3      2    20                                                      10       35
Wi    3     2    20                                                       10       35
W     3     2    20                                                       10      35
1/ P - Present, W   Without the proposed project, and W   With the proposed project



ANNEX 10
Table 4
BANGIADE5Hi
BARISAL IRRIGATION PROJECT
FARM PRODUCTION BUDGETS
0.5 Acre Farm    1.5 Acre Farm    3.0 Acre Farm
P    W    w      p    W    w       p   W    w
Cropped Area (acres):
Aus                             .4   .4   -      .9   .9   -      1.6 1.6   .1
B. Aman                        --    -           .4   .4   -      1.0 1.0   .4
T.Aman (local)                 .5   .5   -      1.1  1.1   -      2.0 2.0   -
T.Aman (HYV)                   -    -    .5      -    -   1.1      -   -   2.0
Boro (local)                   -    _-           -    -    - _     _       _
Boro (HYV)                     -    -    .4      -    -   1.3      -   -   2.1
Jute                           -    -    -       -    -    -       .2  .2   .2
Rabi                           .1   .1   .1      .2   .2   .1      .3  .3   .3
Sub-total., Paddy          .9   .9   .9    2.4  2.4  2.4    4.6 4.6  4.6
Paddy Intensity (%)       180  180  180    160  160  160    150 150  150
Total, All Crops          1.0  1.0  1.0    2.6  2.6  2.5    5.1 5.1  5.1
Overall Intensity (%)    200  200  200    170  170  170    170 170  170
Production (maunds):
Paddy                          14   14   39      36   38  106      70  72  188
Jute                           -    -    -       -    -    -        3   3    3
Rabi                            1    1    1       1    1    1       2   2    2
Gross Prod. Value (Tks)         560  590 1510   1500 1550 4060   2990 3080 7370
Production Costs (Tks):
Crop Inputs L/                140  150  310    380  390  830    740  760 1540
Hired Labor                     0    0    0       0    0    0    200  200  270
Net Prod. Value (Tks):          420  Lh40 1200   1120 1160 3230   2050 2120 5560
Increase (Tks)  /           2/ -    -   760      -    -  2070      -    -  3440
Inc.per Acre Irrig.(Tks/ac)_-    -  1900         -    -  1590      -    -  1640
Irrigation Costs (Tks):
Secondary O&M                  -    -    20      -    -    80      -    -   130
Sec. Cap. Recovery             -    -    70      -    -   230      -    -   380
Sub-total                            90               310               51o
Primary O&M & C.R.                       110            . 360               570
Total                               200              r67                o&
Net Prod. Value (TIks):
a) After Sec. Costs           420  440 1110   1120 1160 2920   2050 2120 5050
b) After Sec. & Prim.Costs   420  4X0 1000   1120 1160 2560   2050 2120 lj8o
Notes:- Column figures may not agree with totals due to rounding.
P= Present
W; Uivtout the proposed project
W= 1,th the proposed project
1/ Excluding irrigation costs.
7/ Increase is the difference between the future estimates ("with" minus "without').



ANNEX 11
Page   1
BANGLADESH
BARISAL IRRIGATION PROJECT
FARM LABOR ANALYSIS
1.        Due to the high population density and relatively limited commercial
activity, farm workers in the Barisal area have limited wage earning oppor-
tunities. Hired farm labor is estimated to have supplied less than 10% of
farm labor requirements in 1973 and the 1961 Census indicated that subsidiary
occupations involved less than 14% of the agricultural labor force. There-
fore, current wage levels (reported in the project area) probably overstate
the economic opportunity cost of farm labor. For the economic analysis,
shadowed wage rates were derived using the economic supply curve for labor,
shown in Figure 1. The following assumptions were made in the analysis.
Labor Supply
2.        The 1961 census, the most recent, recorded a population of 521,000
in the four thanas in the project area, including 438,000 in rural areas.
Of the rural population, about 30% comprised agricultural farmers and labor-
ers (males between the ages 10 and 60), including about 7% landless laborers. 1/
The Bangladesh Census Organization estimates the 1973 population in the four
thanas at about 758,000. For this appraisal, the size of the agricultural
labor force in the rural area has been projected on the basis of the 1973
estimates.   With the relatively uniform and high population density in this
and surrounding areas, it is assumed that the local labor force will not be
augmented by seasonal or permanent migration into the project area. The
estimates of field labor supply, given below, were made assuming 20 full
work days per man in peak months and 200 full days over a year. These con-
servative estimates allow for less than a full day of work from persons of
extreme ages included in the labor force estimates.
Field Labor Supply
Year           Agricultural Field Labor Force   Annual Aver.  Peak Months
(persons)               ----(million man-days)----
1974                     200,000                    40              4.0
1980                     245,000                    49             4.9
1985                     284,000                    57              5.7
1990                     327,000                    65              6.5
1/   In Bangladesh, women normally do not work in the fields and, therefore,
are not included in estimates of the agricultural field labor force.



ANNEX 11
Page 2
Labor Demand
3.        Other than farm production, activities which may occupy the rural
labor force are limited to (a) farm and home maintenance (b) off-farm sub-
sidiary occupations such as crafts, commercial activity, fishing, and clerical
and other services, and (c) new development schemes. Many of the activities
under categories (a) and (b) are undertaken by women, who usually do not
work in the fields. Category (c) includes local construction work in both
rural and urban areas. Other than the proposed project, no major develop-
ments have been planned for this area, and work in this category would be
limited to the current levels of construction in the towns and in rural
improvement schemes, such as the Rural Works Program. These activities
usually are performed during the off-peak agricultural season.
4.        Estimates of monthly farm labor requirements for various crops are
given in Annex 10. Estimates of average annual and peak monthly requirements
over the project area are given in Table 1 of this annex. At present, about
25% of the annual agricultural labor requirements occur in August, with rela-
tively low activity during the other months of the year. After introducting
irrigation, annual labor requirements will increase by about 20% overall,
with peak requirements still occurring in August, and a second lower peak
occurring in January.
Existing Wage Rates
5.        Most of the farm labor requirements at present and at full develop-
ment will be provided by family labor without wages. Hired labor is used
for less than about 10% of requirements, usually in the peak month of August:
In 1973, the Government fixed labor rates at Tk 5 per man-day, and the agro-
economic survey conducted in the area during project preparation recorded
predominantly the same figure. However, mission interviews with farmers and
farm laborers in the area indicated that while Tk 5 per man-day may be the
value of wages and food usually paid for day labor at times of peak activity,
and Tk 7 per man-day the maximum, values ranged as low as Tk 2.5 per man-
day during slack periods.
Pricing of Labor
6.        Scarcity of data on farm income levels, off-farm employment oppor-
tunities, and the agricultural labor force profile make evaluation of economic
shadow rates for farm labor extremely subjective. Economic farm labor costs
were estimated by using monthly shadow rates which reflect the different
opportunity costs associated with different segments of the labor force and
which reflect the monthly variations in demand relative to supply between the
slack and peak periods. Figure 1 gives the curve of approximate shadow
rates used in the analysis. The curve is a plot of the estimated marginal
economic labor cost as a function of demand (stated as a proportion of the
supply). Since the additional farm employment under the project is needed
to help offset the foodgrains deficit in this and neighboring areas, critical
points on the curve were determined on the basis of the following:



ANNEX 11
Page 3
(a) At minimum employment levels, the marginal cost would be
the value of additional consumption needed for family
members to undertake field work (Tk 0.5 per man-day); 1/
(b) at monthly employment just exceeding the off-peak farm
family labor supply 2/ (60% of the full labor supply),
the marginal cost would be the minimum market rate (Tk 2.5
per man-day);
(c)  at monthly employment in the area corresponding to the
present peak level (90% of the full labor supply), the
marginal cost would be the maximum market rate (Tk 7.0
per man-day) during peak activity.
Applying these rates on the basis of the monthly labor requirements with
and without the project, 3/ the average annual economic farm labor costs were
estimated as shown in Table I and summarized below:
WL       W
Annual Farm Labor Requirement (m.md)          16        II      20
Annual Economic Cost (Tks m) 3/               23        24      29
Average Economic Wage (Tks/m-d)                1.4       1.4     1.5
Note:     W  -  without the project.
WL - 34,000 actes irrigated.
W - 100,000 acres irrigated.
1/   Taken as 75% of the current average daily consumption of food grains
(16 oz. per day).
2/   Farm family members of the labor force not regularly employed else-
where during slack periods.
3/   Monthly supply times the area under the marginal cost curve up to the
fraction of monthly supply required.



ANNEX21_
Table 1
BANGLADESH
BARISAL IRRIGATION PROJECT
FARM LABOR ANALYSIS
FUTURE ECONOMIC FARM LABOR COST
FUTURE LABOR SUPPLY: 5.7 million man-days per month
Future Requirement       Future Requirement      Total Economic Cost
W      EI    W            W     WL      W         W      WE      W
(m. m-d)                (% of supply)              (Tks m)
Jan.            .7     1.2   3.5          12    21      61        .48  1.02    5.28
Feb.            .2       .3    .8          4      5     14        ol3   .17      .59
Mar.             .       .5    .8.          7     9     14          .25   .33    .59
Apr.           3.0      2.7   1.3         53    47      23       4.18  3.43    1.16
May             .8     1.0   2.1          14    18      37        .59   .82    2.35
June            .4       *6   1.1          7    11      19        .25  .43       .88
July           2.1     2.1   1.1          37    37      19       2.35  2.35      .88
Aug.           3.7      3.9   4.1         65    68      72       5.95  6.54    7.46
Sep.           2.3     2.3   2.3          40    40      40       2.66  2.66    2.66
Oct.           1.9     1.9   1.9          33    33      33       1.97  1.97    1.97
Nov.           3.0      2.8   2.4         53    49      42       4.18  3.68    2.87
Dec.            .6       .9   1.8         11    16      32        *43   .70    1.88
Total Annual  16      17    20                                  23.4  24h1    28.6
NOTES:   W - Without the proposed project
W-  - With development limited to 34,000 acres
W - With the proposed project
Column figures may not total exactly due to rounaing.






O                                                     U)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L
--o                                                         -
o          x                                                       -
co -
O ==== -= - -==- -_         - - -==- -  -  -  -  -   -====   - -  -
- = ==   = _ _ = - == = -=- - =- - ===-_ _ ==   - ---===-_
0)    ===-=-=---=---=---- ----=t=--------=-= ---=---= -===
-w _= -===--====-==    ---  ---  - =-    -=  -  ==     -  =-   - - - - - - - - - - - -
Eo -     =  =              _--------===----====  ==_-_
co         -  - ---- -                                                 
- - - - - - - - - - - - -i- - -- - -_        ------- - - - -====   - ==  -_- --
O - - =- - - =- - = =- - =- =- =- =- = ==-_- = ==- - _ - - - - - - - - - - - -
=========-- =-_-=-  - =-  - =-=---- =-- :=- --- --- ---
--C--- - - =--=- -- ---  - -- -==--  -  = -= --- -=====- - - == -
c, ==========--=-==- =_=----=--=---=
-==---   - ->=----------= =---=--          =====
_=---=---  -               , ===________________
--- -----               -        -------- -- ---=
W   O   U)    -- -- _---=  =--  -===   -==_ -===-              ====-
d   <     O   --=-  -=-   =-=-----------= ----= ===-= =
tO  o     ----_  _________           -____________--           ___
q = _- =~- - =-  - --  --
U)   -            -~~~~~~~~---      ----    
Ns      =    =                   -  =  -   - -     - - - - - - - --
O  :~~~~~~~~- - - =-=-  -     -=  - - _              - - - -=- - - -- - -
_ = _ < -=~~~~ - - - - - - - - - ==== -==- - -= - == -
C)  ___ -----
-0     -          - - -
I.                                            '
_~~      ~~~ Q     J 
- =                                                     --. -
o-~~            =_=             = -  - - - - - - - - -_         -  -     - -====  - --
__________---== -=-----
_                            - _- -=    - --- - - ======   _- - -- -=
,     ----------    --   -      b-  -       °    z     -J - -
c)    )   WO      4    0    E       L    LU QL°2U
CD      CO   00  8                  CO - o            _






IBRD 1084
MARCH 1974
0 o
F-
LU
Z
cr
b
A
13
Uj
LLI                                                                                                                                                 kl-ZP
Z
0, 11,1-,,-,iN,,L,,,,,
&
Ft A   AN






IBRD 10850
r ~ ~   ~     ~ ~ 5 ,, 92 ,T'                                                                                                     4
10'                              9015                                                                     9O30'                                                                       MARCH  1974
C Ck,                                   '* 
\ i Tbaksrmollik \ - : = ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2255'
BANGLADESH
BARISAL IRRIGATION  PROJECT
Ehs  ,-                                                        PROJECT  AREA
-  SAMPLE AREAS
K.n_                                                                              -. PERENNIAL STREAMS
-22'50'                         j&<                                         /   \    5 <|   .                                         ~                             ~~        SEMI AND NON-PERENNIAL STREAMS
/  I~~~~~~~~~55@                                                    U~~~~~~~~~F   FARM VILLAGES WHERE SAM4PLE SURVEYS WERE CONDUCTED2,5,~
/3  \   \   jfF   \ u   "                                                                   0    OTHER VILLAGES
"             Bol?   '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'o',~~~~~~~~ ~0                                       FERTILIZER TRIAL EXPERIMENTS
7 \   /   ft Mumli=l   EabOtIDunl   .S 41   .                                        EBRICK PAVED ROADS
ei X /                                                       _J \ , x - : VILLAGE ROADS
A                                                                                                                        THANA BOENDARIES
Wo~~~~rO  '       -      S.., ~~~~~~~~~~~~INTERNATIGNAE BOUNDARIES
/:7 rAN  7 n * ,  AB IP   \         BA          B U G                   NJ         U                           -               o       r Nr              P ROJECT  AREA BOUNDARY
f~~~~~~~~AIA SWRPKT                                       A [1         U                       j  To° > J             /C                           N     u             
V~~ INt. U                                                    --.           -
I~~~~~~~~~~~~IE
X H -~ t 9 - . L A D E5               1'    4X
WARUPKATI                                     E2245- '         /                              '                                                                 2       2     4
90'~,6t,, O'    N//  90'1S  90 20    7                          9025   ,. _,9013 22-0'   S09 00 \   adyof -    kU,i
.(H    A    L~A K    A    T    .....K                                                       ARSL        AL                        U
1-    'A \       0~~~~- -i                                                                           9
2240   ,   T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0o~~~~~~~ ~~~~               -            '9"                                                                                            22540'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~220
J~kHjl I                              REl,                                                                            ~2
-  SU',,,k,,d,I               --      -      --                               ,,N.
1/ ~~~~~~~  /  I     -        I E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   U"..~IN   )     
22'35'                         F~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~23                                                                                                    o'Bn
90050'                           9 4215                            BB'20                               90225                               B*0






4917                                             90 18'                                           90°19'                                           9'20'
BANGLADESH
BARISAL IRRIGATION PROJECT
--                                   4SAMPLE AREA ' SHOWING LAYOUT OF PUMP SERVICE AREAS
-t         B orpo, a                                             IHYDRAULIC UNIT I
> >'~t   j  |   A   \Ro,yposha  3aranl°                     X                                  S  HYDRAULIC UNIT 2  PRIMASRY PU Y
HYDRAULIC UNIT 3
AREAS SERVED DIRECTLY FROM
>  =   ,2  Char Karapurw;<  LMaizadi     ^[                 S                        /                 <t                                                     PERENNIAL STREAMS
2243'-
22                                                                                           X 4  tf C I <Xo - HYDRAULIC UNIT 80UNDARIES
I           Bophulla                              P21    PRIMARY PUMPS
\ fX   jt  South uKarApur  \......     /                              2                                                                  A       SECONDARY PUMPS
< | W / p < + t _ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SLUICES
A            -1&     A Ui  <   HDhormadi    \                                   4      <5=  ~ PERENNIAL STREAMS
X < ' A/                                              4 / > a \.                                                                                 SEMI AND NON-PERENNIAL STREAMS
A                   f<A3s,    ~t       ll           KuroIlona       ,<                                                                                                -         -BVILLAGE ROADS
A  -                                 A\   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                     - -                      /1                 BR~~~~~~~~~~~~~~---    ---ICKLAVED ROADS
V                                                                                                       N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~K 
AR A_|>   (   \  l                                           ASA   '   \\  /'  -_--        I                Jugiandor gi                          XC      CULVERTS
\,;=i                                                                                                                        It--  20--  --A          1/4         V2
S  :   g -DA-   A  le  A  Kuturokati  p}        °           |         MILE
t  q Suakoti  '|   } ,   Astakati .-,   ! -          h                         t/1 KILOMETER
-22 42'          I_ t %   \      A                   1 thFA           , - A              A'                    Ba'ikatI I     -9                              8                      9B 20'                                     22R42'
4                                                                                                        E                                    -   /;   A  ---.
A-A
. ,0           Ai  Chandipora1   |                                                           A         A                 -A,                                                                INDIA
!~~~~~~~~~>                                                                  *                    --                                                          ,A  L  ,, ahro vz-,5
~~- A  K     A           ~~~~~~Mokhorkati 
A- Ix  ------  oeS I   i' Khoyeroi                      A(                                    4
I  A/'    ~ ~ ~         ~          ~         ~         ~        ~         ~        ~ ~                   ~BANGLADS
\I                 .,                          A ,.-  ~"   t.   0   A, // HogloA                                                                          D E S H
'    =                                                                                  4~- A,  !    A  ,,                           ( J             -DOcca   J
'-.-         Bankr             A,'' 'rc ,'iol7
22'41;                                                    Kanor Char       -                              - 'i                                                           2241-   Z                 A 
A- 4-f-                                                %                                                              -              I                         bChltgongX
n                                                                                                                               
I                                                                                                                                   -T_he 77,6 hov,t,lanel S/Iown o 011   mrap du not -t -                                  ;        t . 7
- - .  _    W-_ h    rilBaI y  rnd B t"l, ,   '  met nmvoe b!  ISo  B a y   o f   B e n g a l  RURMA  x
90 17'                                          90°18'                                            90 19 - : -



