76- - M
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 542 BD
Development Credit
Agreement
(Barisal Irrigation Project)
BETWEEN
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED APRIL 29, 1975


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 542 BD
Development Credit
Agreement
(Barisal Irrigation Project)
BETWEEN
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED APRIL 29, 1975


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 29, 1975, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF
BANGLADESH (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreemen is of the
Association, dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were
fully set forth herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "Project Area" means the area comprising the four thanas of Kotwali,
Babuganj, Jhalakati and Nalchiti in the District of Bakerganj.
(b)   "BADC" means the Bangladesh Agricultural Development Corporation,
a corporate entity established under Ordinance No. XXXVII of 1961, and includes
any successor thereto.
(c)   "Water Board" means the Bangladesh Water Development Board, a
body corporate constituted by the Bangladesh Water and Power Development
Boards Order No. 59 of 1972, and includes any successor thereto.
(d)   "IRDP" means the Integrated Rural Development Program of the
Borrower's Ministry of Local Government, Rural Development and Cooperatives.
(e)   "Executive Director" means the government officer appointed as
Executive Director in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02(a) of this
Agreement.
(f)   "IPIC"   means   the  Interdepartmental  Project  Implementation
Committee established in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02(b) of
this Agreement.


﻿4
(g)   "CEC" means the Central Evaluation Committee established in
accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02(c) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agr. to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty-seven million dollars
($27,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule may be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, contracts for
the purchase of goods or for the carrying out of works or services (other than
consultants' services) for the Project to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit, shall be awarded in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1980 or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on June I and
December I in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each June 1 and December 1 commencing
June 1, 1985, and ending December 1, 2024 each installment to and including
the installment payable on December 1, 1994 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.


﻿5
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial,
engineering and agricultural practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b)   The Borrower shall carry out Part A of the Project through the Water
Board, Part B of the Project through BADC and Part C of the Project through
IRDP and the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture and with the full cooperation
and assistance of all other Ministries, agencies and authorities of the Borrower as
may be concerned with Project activities.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall employ an officer of appropriate
qualifications and experience as Executive Director to supervise the carrying out
of the Project, with such powers and functions as are considered by the Borrower
and the Association to be conducive to the satisfactory execution of the Project.
(b)   The   Borrower    shall  maintain   an   Interdepartmental  Project
Implementation Committee, the membership of which shall include representatives
of the Water Board, BADC, IRDP, the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture and all
other Ministries, agencies and authorities of the Borrower concerned in the carrying
out of the Project, under the leadership of the Executive Director, for the purpose
of coordinating the participation of such bodies in implementing the Project. Each
such representative shall be the senior technical officer concerned with Project
activities.
(c)   The Borrower shall maintain a Central Evaluation Committee, the
membership of which shall include the Secretaries of the Ministries, and Officers
of the agencies and authorities concerned in the carrying out of the Project, under
the chairmanship of a senior representative of the Borrower, for the purpose of
reviewing periodically the progress of Project implementation and resolving any
major coordination problems therein.
Section 3.03. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
and more particularly in the preparation of annual work programs, final designs


﻿6
and contract documents, supervision of construction, establishment of operating
and maintenance procedures and strengthening agricultural extension services, the
Borrower shall employ engineering and agricultural consultants acceptable to the
Association upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and
construction and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's accredited representatives to visit
the facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant records and
documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the
proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall cause the Executive Director to prepare
and submit to the Association, by not later than June 30, 1975, and thereafter
by August 31 of each succeeding year of Project implementation, for review and
comment by the Association, annual work programs for the Project, supported
by maps and a description of physical works to be executed.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall cause the Executive Director, in
consultation with BADC, to prepare and submit to the Association within one
year from the date of this Agreement, for review and comment by the Association,
a report identifying problems and recommending improvements in fuel supply and
in pump operation and maintenance.


﻿7
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall prepare and submit to the Association,
within two years from the date of this Agreement, and thereafter by August 31
of each of the succeeding 8 years, for review and comment by the Association,
detailed proposals for operation and maintenance organization for the facilities
constructed under the Project.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall cause its Ministry of Agriculture, in
consultation with IRDP, to prepare and submit to the Association, within one
year from the date of this Agreement, for review and comment by the Association,
a detailed program for agricultural extension training and services in the Project
Area.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall, within two years from the date of this
Agreement, prepare proposals to recover from  the farmers benefiting from the
Project, operation and maintenance costs of irrigation facilities under the Project
and as large a proportion of the capital costs as appears compatible with the
maintenance of adequate incentives for participating farmers; said proposals to
include consideration of appropriate arrangements for the purchase by farmers of
low-lift pumps. While formulating said proposals, the Borrower shall keep the
Association informed and take into consideration such comments as the Association
may make in respect of these proposals.
Section 3. 11. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all measures
required to ensure the adequate operation, maintenance and repair of works,
buildings, installations and equipment included in the Project in accordance with
sound engineering and financial practices and standards satisfactory to the
Association, and shall provide or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Water Board, BADC, IRDP,
the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture and any other Ministries, agencies and
authorities of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part
thereof to maintain separate records adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained sound accounting practices their operations and financial
condition related to the Project.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause the Water Board, BADC, IRDP, the
Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture and any other Ministries, agencies and authorities
of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof to:


﻿8
(i) have their accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of
income and expenses and related statements) related to the Project for each fiscal
year audited, in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied,
by auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon
as available, but in any case not later than six months after the end of each such
year, (A) certified copies of the financial statements for such year as so audited
and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the
Association such other information concerning the accounts and financial
statements and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.
ARTICL. V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. The Association may, upon the occurrence of certain events
specified in Section 6.02 or 7.01 of the General Conditions or in Sections 5.02
and 5.03 of this Agreement and the continuance thereof for the period, if any,
specified for the purpose: (i) suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower
to make withdrawals from the Credit Account or (ii) declare the principal of the
Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immediately together with the
charges thereon.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified, namely, that prior to the completion
of the Project, the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have
taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of the Water Board or
BADC or IRDP or for the suspension of operations of any such body unless
arrangements satisfactory to the Association shall have been made to replace such
body by another body which will assume and perform all its functions in respect
of the Project and covenants applicable under this Agreement upon such dissolution,
disestablishment or suspension.
Section 5.03. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified, namely, the event specified in Section
5.02 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 12.01(b) of the General Conditions:


﻿9
(a)  The representatives of the Water Board, BADC, IRDP and the
Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture on IPIC and CEC have been appointed, all in
accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02(b) and (c) of this Agreement.
(b)   Consultants have been appointed in accordance with the provisions
of Section 3.03 of this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The date July 31, 1975 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Secretary of the Ministry of Planning (Planning
Commission) of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Planning
(Planning Commission)
Bangladesh Secretariat
Dacca, Bangladesh
Cable address:
PARIKALPANA
Dacca
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.


﻿10
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
By /s / M. Hossain Ali
Authorized Representative
on behalf of the President
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s!/ M. L. Weiner
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿11
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1. The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)  Civil Works                    9,200,000          50%
(including
Construction
Materials
Procured
Locally, other
than cement
and reinforcing
steel)
(2)  Consulting                      1,000,000         100%
Services
(3)   Vehicles, Equip-              14,800,000
ment and Materials
(other than under
Category 1)
(a)   Directly                                    100% of foreign
Imported                                    expenditures
(b)   Manufac-                                    100%
tured
Locally
(ex-factory)
(c)   Imported but                                65%
Procured
Locally
(4)  Unallocated                     2,000,000
TOTAL              27,000,000


﻿12
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule the term "foreign expenditures" means
expenditures for goods or services supplied from, the territory, and in the currency,
of any country other than the Borrower.
3.    The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compliance with the
policy of the Association that no proceeds of the Credit shall be disbursed on
account of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on
goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof; to that end, if any event occurs which shall affect the amount of any
such taxes included in the cost of any item to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, correspondingly
adjust the disbursement percentage then applicable to such item.
4.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or the
disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph I above, if the
Association has reasonably estimated that the amount of the Credit then allocated
to any Category will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category to the extent required to meet the estimated shortfall
proceeds of the Credit which are then allocated to another Category and which
in the opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expenditures; and
(ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further
withdrawals under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
6.    Notwithstanding the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in
paragraph I above with reference to Categories (1) and (3)(c), if the Association has
reasonably determined that the proceeds of the Credit allocated to all other
Categories exceed the requirements therefor then the Association may, at the
request of the Borrower, reallocate such excess by increasing correspondingly the
amounts allocated to Categories (1) and (3)(c) and by increasing accordingly the
disbursement percentages having reference thereto.
7.    If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the procurement
of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting


﻿13
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association under the
Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Credit as in the Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿14
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is the provision of irrigation on about 140,000 acres around
the town of Barisal in the District of Bakerganj, together with supporting facilities
and equipment, training and technical assistance to strengthen agricultural extension
services, and organization of cooperatives and consists of the following parts:
Part A:     Civil Works
(1)   Construction on natural creeks of about 750 sluice structures, to
control water levels and provide storage in the dry season;
(2)   Widening and deepening, where necessary, of creeks to facilitate water
distribution;
(3)   Construction of about 100 primary pump stations (capacity about
25 cfs) to raise water from perennial river channels to the creek storage
ponds;
(4)   Construction of workshops for pump repair and maintenance;
(5)   Construction of storage facilities for fuel and fertilizer;
(6)   Construction of offices and of housing for Project staff; including
(7)   Procurement   of   equipment   and   vehicles  for  the  purposes
aforementioned.
Part B:     Pumps
(1)   Procurement and installation of primary pumps for the pump stations
to be constructed under Part A of the Project;
(2)   Procurement and    installation of about 2,500 secondary pumps
(capacity about 2 cfs) or other devices to raise water from perennial
river channels and from creek storage ponds to farmers' fields; including
(3)   Provision of vehicles for the purposes aforementioned and of pump
maintenance equipment.


﻿15
Part C:     Training and Agricultural Extension Services
(1)   Training of Village Extension Agents and model farmers, and provision
of management training and assistance to farmers' groups or
cooperatives;
(2)   Establishment of 8 agricultural demonstration areas; including
(3)   Provision of equipment and vehicles for the purposes aforementioned.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1980.


﻿16
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.    General Procedures
1.    Subject to paragraph 2 below, contracts with respect to vehicles, equipment
and imported materials shall be let under procedures consistent with those set forth
in the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in April 1972, as revised in October 1972 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bidding.
2.    Contracts with respect to vehicles, equipment and imported materials
estimated to cost less than $5,000 equivalent may be let through normal government
procurement procedures, provided that the aggregate of contracts let otherwise than
on the basis of international competitive bidding shall not exceed $100,000
equivalent.
3.    With respect to civil works and locally procured materials, contracts shall
be let on the basis of competitive bidding among local contractors and suppliers.
B.    Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for Domestic
Manufacturers
I.    For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the supply of
goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry)
price for imported goods, or the ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured
goods; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales
and similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded; and (iii) the
cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the
delivery of goods to the place of their use or installation shall be included.
2.    Goods manufactured in Bangladesh may be granted a margin of preference
in accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
(a)   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall clearly
indicate any preference which will be granted, the information required to establish
the eligibility of a bid for such preference and the following methods and stages
that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b)   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the
following three groups:


﻿17
(1)   Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Bangladesh if the
bidder shall have established to the satisfaction of the Borrower
and the Association that the manufacturing cost of such goods
includes a value added in Bangladesh equal to at least 20% of
the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2)   Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured in
Bangladesh.
(3)   Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c)   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared among
themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import taxes on goods to be
imported and any sales or similar taxes on goods to be supplied domestically, to
determine the lowest evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison, a bid
from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
(d)   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) above, the lowest
bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall be further compared with the
lowest evaluated bid from group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the
imported goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs duties and other
import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the importation
of the goods offered in such group C bid, or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of
such goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group
A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award;
if not, the lowest evaluated bid from group C shall be selected.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by Association
Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
I.   With respect to all contracts under Part A.1 of this Schedule:
(a)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and
other bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures
to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders.


﻿18
(b)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of
the bidder to which it intends to award the contract and the reasons for the
intended award and shall furnish to the Association, in sufficient time for its review,
a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together
with the recommendation for award and such other information as the Association
shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines that the intended
award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform
the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked
or prequalification invited.
(d)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of such contract.
2.    With respect to each contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and not governed by the preceding paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association, for its comments, before bids are invited, the text of the
invitations to bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of bidding and evaluation procedures to be followed, and shall
make such modifications in the said documents or procedures as the Association
shall reasonably request. Any further modification to the bidding documents or
to the bidding and evaluation procedures shall require the Association's prior
concurrence. The Borrower shall make available and furnish to the Association,
promptly upon request, two conformed copies of such contract, together with the
analysis of bids, recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines that
the award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.


