Report No. PID8843
Project Name                     Mauritania-Cultural Heritage Project
Region                           Africa
Sector                           Social Development
Project ID                       MRPE64570
Borrower(s)                      Islamic Republic of Mauritania
Implementing Agencies            Permanent Secretariat of the National CH Board
Environment Category             C
Date PID prepared                December 1998
Projected Appraisal Date         April, 2000
Projected Board Date             May, 2000
Country and Sector Background
1.       The Cultural Heritage of Mauritania developed over several milleniums.
It includes numerous prehistoric sites, which are unfortunately being looted
by foreigners or Mauritanians for whom the sale of relics of the past (cut
flints, potery works, tools, etc.) constitutes an income. The historic sites
are better known but are abandoned, except in the case of emergency
rehabilitations. These are cities like Azougui from where the Almoravides left
to conquest Morocco and Spain or Tegdaoust and Koumbi Saleh, which were key
cities of the Ghana empire in the Middle Age. The holly Cities of Chinguetti,
Ouadane, Tichitt, and Oualatta are registered as "Patrimony of the World" by
UNESCO. Mauritania CH also includes ancient prestigious libraries and
Archives which contain exhaustive documentation on the historic, economic,
cultural, social past of Mauritania, but may vanish if no action is taken to
preserve them. Over the centuries music and poetry also attracted crowds but
are being lost with time and should be preserved as well as nomad and crafts
skills.
2.       Expressions of artistic traditions are at nisk of being transformed
into "airport culture" to meet the demands of a limited tourist market.
Today, few of Mauritania's historic sites are managed with the view that they
have much to offer to the national, regional, and local economies. Despite
their significant influence on Mauritanian heritage, these rich centers of
culture are surrounded by communities of poverty.
Project Objectives
4.      Given this background, Government is seeking Bank support with a
Learning and Innovation Loan to assist it in testing out and developing the
means for more fully integrating the conservation and management of its
cultural heritage into local and national economic development. The decision
to process it as a LIL is because of strong capacity building elements, the
pilot nature of individual components for which viable technical, financial,
and social solutions need to be tested and developed, and the need for
experimentation with different partnership arrangements with respect to the
involvement of international private foundations, international and local



NGOs, local and regional administrations, communities, and groups of artisans
and craftsmen.
5.      The project would support the conservation and valorization of cultural
heritage assets through restoration and preservation of archaeological and
historic sites, ancient manuscripts, libraries, and would contribute to the
revitalization of economic activity in these areas through the creation of
small size enterprises and by capitalizing on tourism potential.
Project Description
6.      The project comprises three components:
A cultural heritage protection component that funds the inventory activities
of research, preservation (museums, manuscripts) and of rehabilitation
(buildings, sites etc). Training activities will enhance capacities in this
sector(preservation, archivist etc).
A Cultural heritage promotion component including the development of tourism
and craft industry. The funds for this component will be basically directed to
non permanent cultural initiatives (festivals, publications, exhibitions guide
books, micro-credit for local communities and craft industry cooperatives,
professional training)
A cultural heritage management component. aimed at setting up a new
institutional and financial plan, with the establishement of the CH national
Board, a Scientific Committee and the Secreatariat Permanent of the CH Board.
It will also finance manuals of procedures and some fees of the project
functioning and capacity building activities for IMRS, FNVA and Minister de la
Culture.
Project Financing
in US$ '000s
Component                          IDA             GOM                Subtotal
CH-Protection component            2,4              0,3               2,7
CH-Promotion component             1,5                                1,5
CH-Management component            1,1              0,2               1,3
5,0             0,5                5,5
Project implementation
7.      The project would be implemented over 3 years under the guidance of the
CH National Board and its scientific Committee.    The latter will assess the
eligibility of cultural initiatives to project financing and would comprise
experts, and representatives from the major institutions involved, including
the National Center for Reasearch (IMRS), the University, the Historic Cities
National Foundation, The Banc d'Arguin Foundation, the Mauritanian Tourism
department, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Development, etc     Project
management would be the responsibility of the Secretariat of the Board of the
CH National Board.
-2-



Project sustainability
8.      The project would be designed as a pilot, learning, operation with a
strong monitoring and evaluation component.
Environmental aspects
9.      No major environmental impacts are envisaged. It is expected that most
construction activities would involve the renovation of existing buildings,
and that little new construction will be required. A Project Implementation
Plan will be prepared prior to Appraisal will provide guidelines cost
effectively to mitigate any possible negative environmental impacts. The
implementing agency will invite the National Environment Bureau in the
Ministry of Rural Development to review the project proposal and, where any
monitoring is required, will involve the Directorate
Other contact points:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Task Manager
Jean Mazurelle
WB Country Office Manager
Nouakchott, Mauritania
Telephone: (222) 25 10 17
Fax:        (222) 25 13 34
Note: This is information on an involving project. Certain components may not
be necessarily included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending March 31, 2000.
- 3 -



