                                   Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                              Report No: 33821

                      IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                         (IDA-34010 PPFI-Q1430 PPFI-Q1431)

                                       ON A

                                      CREDIT

                       IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 3.8 MILLION
                          (US$ 5.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                      TO THE

                        ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA

                                      FOR A

                          CULTURAL HERITAGE PROJECT




                                   October 26, 2005




Water and Urban II
Country Department 15
Africa Region

                              CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                        (Exchange Rate Effective October 26, 2005)

                                Currency Unit = Mauritanian Ouguiyas
                                   MRO 1,000 = US$ 3.73
                                        US$ 1 = MRO 268.17

                                      FISCAL YEAR
                                 January 1    December 31

                         ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


AfDB     African Development Bank
BAPEM    Bureau d'Appui aux Petites Entreprises Mauritaniennes
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CECA     Caisse d'Epargne et de Crédit aux Artisans
CH       Cultural Heritage
CHF      Cultural Heritage Fund
CDHLCPI  Commissariat aux Droits de l'Homme, à la Lutte contre la Pauvreté et à l'Insertion
DCA      Development Credit Agreement
EU       European Union
FNSVA    Fondation Nationale pour la Sauvegarde des Villes Anciennes
GT       Gesellschaft fur Technische Zusammenarbeit
IDA      International Development Association
IMRS     Institut Mauritanien pour la Recherche Scientifique
LEHRI    Laboratoire d'Etudes et de Recherches Historiques
LIL      Learning and Innovation Loan
NGO      Non Governmental Organization
NSC      Project's National Steering Committee
PAD      Project Appraisal Document
PPF      Project Preparation Fund
PS       Project's Permanent Secretariat
PSVPCM   Projet de Sauvegarde et de Valorisation du Patrimoine Culturel Mauritanien (Cultural
         Heritage Project)
RFI      Radio France international
RM       Mauritanian National Radio
TF1      French TV private network
TVM      Mauritanian National TV
UNESCO   United Nations Educational Scientific and Cultural Organization
USAID    United States Agency for International Development




                               Vice President:    Gobind T. Nankani
                            Country Manager       François Rantrua
                              Sector Manager      Eustache Ouayoro
          Task Team Leader/Task Manager:          Christian Diou

                         ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
                                  Cultural Heritage Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            10
6. Sustainability                                                                12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 14
8. Lessons Learned                                                               15
9. Partner Comments                                                              16
10. Additional Information                                                       18
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             19
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             21
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             23
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             24
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             26
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                27
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            28
Annex 8. Borrower's Completion Report                                            29

Project ID: P064570                                                  Project Name: Cultural Heritage Project
Team Leader: Christian Diou                                          TL Unit: AFTU2
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: October 27, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: Cultural Heritage Project                                L/C/TF Number: IDA-34010; PPFI-Q1430;
                                                                                                     PPFI-Q1431
   Country/Department: MAURITANIA                                                          Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (70%); Other social services
                            (30%)
                  Theme: Participation and civic engagement (P); Analysis of economic
                            growth (S); Other environment and natural resources management
                            (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 12/10/1998                                     Effective: 10/15/2000                01/10/2001
     Appraisal: 04/03/2000                                         MTR: 12/31/2001                  09/14/2002
      Approval: 06/30/2000                                      Closing: 12/31/2003                 03/31/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF MAURITANIA/SECRETARIAT PERMANENT POUR LA
                                           VALORISATION DU PATRIMOINE
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Gobind T. Nankani                              Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:               A. David Craig                                 Hasan A. Tuluy
Sector Manager:                 Eustache Ouayoro                               Roger Sullivan
Team Leader at ICR:             Christian Diou                                 Jean Mazurelle
ICR Primary Author:             Brahim Ould Abdelwedoud;
                                Christian Diou


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time:

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The objective of the Project was to assist the Borrower in testing procedures to efficiently and adequately
preserve and promote its cultural heritage, through, inter alia: (i) establishing a participatory process
leading to the formulation of a coherent national cultural heritage preservation and promotion policy
conducive to poverty alleviation and equitable economic development; (ii) strengthening of central, regional
and local administrative capacity to manage the preservation of existing, and the encouragement of new,
cultural manifestations; and (iii) development of preservation methods and encouragement to revive and
create artistic expressions.

The project objective was in line with the objectives of the FY98-01 CAS to promote urban development,
develop human resources as well as improve the legal and institutional frameworks and ensure efficient and
effective management of public resources. The objective is still in line with the FY03-05 CAS objectives
and the Government's Governance and Poverty Reduction strategies of promoting diversified growth,
strengthening civil service and reinforcing institutional development. It was appropriate in view of the
existing lack of adequate framework for the sector prevailing during project preparation and its impact on
project design (see 3.5 below) and was confirmed at mid term. The Project was a timely response to the
Government to assist it in developing an adequate answer to the needs expressed by the civil society and
better include the sector in its development strategy through a strong participatory approach.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The original objective was not revised.

3.3 Original Components:
In addition to the project management and supervision component (US$0.45 million), the activities revolved
around four major components, as described in the DCA:

Component 1: Strengthening National and Local Institutions(US$0.43 million). The scheduled activities
included:
-        Strengthening of the administrative capacity;
-        Definition of a cultural-heritage policy;
-        Drafting of regulations;
-        Enhancing coordination and cohesion of cultural institutions;
-        Strengthening of local institutions;
-        Evaluation of the cultural values systems; and
-        Establishment of a cultural heritage fund.

Component 2: Testing of activities for Preserving and Enhancing Manifestations of Cultural
Heritage(US$2.90 million).        These pilot activities were intended to help test the feasibility of the
preservation methods used, particularly in the following areas:
-        Protection and accessibility of ancient manuscripts;
-        Preservation of archeological sites and ancient cities;
-        Promotion of cultural tourism;
-        Promotion of handicraft;
-        Strengthening for "living" arts; and
-        Information campaigns.

Component 3: Implementation of the initial program selected pilot activities(US$0.60 million). The



                                                     - 2 -

Project was aimed at carrying out an initial program of selected pilot activities including: (a) first
inventories of archives, (b) communication campaigns to alert beneficiaries, (c) safeguarding of prehistoric
sites, (d) publication of selected ancient manuscripts, (e) awareness campaigns for tourists, and (f) national
fair for artisans.

Component 4: Artisanal subprojects (US$0.63 million). The project sought to provide credits to selected
artisans and artisanal associations for the carrying out of subprojects pertaining to, inter alia, the design,
quality enhancement, revival, manufacturing and marketing of artisanal artifacts, including the construction
of four regional centers for the CECA (Caisse d'Epargne et de Crédit des Artisans or Craftsmen Savings
and Loan Bank).
3.4 Revised Components:
There was no formal revision of the components of the Project. However, the proposed actions were
reviewed in detail at mid-term in order to give priority to actions that could be replicated over time. The
following modifications were thus made at the sub-component levels with the Bank's approval, consistent
with the flexible nature of Learning and Innovative Loans (LIL):

a)       In component 2, the specific actions in favor of archeological sites were canceled (estimated at
US$100,000).      The project unit was unable to mobilize the community of Mauritanian and foreign
archeologists working in Mauritania and the relevant institutions (the University and IMRS) to cooperate
on protection issues. Despite many efforts, no agreement was reached on the ways to evaluate and protect
the sites, especially regarding the nature of physical protection of sites and the release of GPS coordinates
for creating the maps. Therefore, implementation of the actions originally envisaged for the preservation of
archeological sites, such as the GIS to map the sites and the establishment of a database, was not possible;

b)       In component 4, the set-up of a micro-credit system for craftsmen (estimated at US$500,000) was
droped. This subcomponent was based on the design of a previous pilot project prepared by the German
Cooperation (GTZ), but its preliminary implementation stage was not managed on a proper and transparent
way by the representatives of the community of craftsmen. Therefore, the NGO envisaged to manage this
micro-credit system was never established in office and the planned construction of four regional centers
for the CECA was cancelled. The negative impact of this cancellation is minor, as the craftsmen could
have access to this type of support within the framework of other funding mechanisms (AfDB). The other
activities in favor of the craftsmen, such as training, promotion activities, workshops, were implemented;
and

c)       In component 3, implementation of the pilot publication of ten ancient manuscripts (estimated at
US$150,000) was not possible, due to the very high costs of the bids tendered to perform this task, and in
spite of the mobilization of funding partners.         The contacts initiated by the project unit for the
establishment of a modern, digital library system would allow this activity to be pursued in the future at a
lower cost. The other activities planned for the manuscripts, such as the GIS-based inventory, association
of owners, protection measures and building, were implemented.

The amount of financing initially dedicated to these three actions were rerouted at mid term review to the
other project components which presented better prospects in terms of implementation and sustainability. It
ultimately strengthened the achievements of the project objectives by reinforcing the ability of the project
unit to fulfill important needs clearly expressed by the civil society.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
The quality of the preparation is rated satisfactory.




                                                      - 3 -

The preparation was financed by a project preparation facility (PPF) in the amount of US$450,000. The
specific features of the Mauritanian cultural heritage context were underscored in the documents prepared
for the project (PAD ­ June 2000). These documents highlighted the following points:
    - The richness and originality of the pre-historic, historic, written, and living cultural heritage;
    - The role of heritage and, more importantly, culture as an element of social cohesion, especially for the
    involvement of local populations along the southern border of the country (Soninke);
    - The role of heritage and culture as factors in the fight against poverty;
    - The need to build institutional capacity for the management of cultural heritage assets by encouraging
    participatory practices;
    - The need to strengthen know-how on the management of heritage assets; and
    - The need to carefully coordinate the interventions of bilateral and multilateral partners.

The unclear sector institutional context prevailing during project preparation made a thorough definition of
the components and the implementation mechanisms difficult, despite an appreciable groundswell of
support for Mauritanian culture. At this time, interventions in the sector were characterized by selective
and stand-alone actions generally financed by external partners, a lack of a global intervention strategy, a
governmental and paragovernmental structure lacking the basic competences required, and an obsolete legal
and administrative structure. Under these challenging conditions, preparation took the form of identifying
the dysfunctions and drawing up a list of corrective actions for the entire sector. The pilot nature of some
of the actions to be implemented and the need for experimentation were clearly identified during appraisal.
The lack of a clear action plan and a hierarchy of activities was addressed by the choice of a LIL and a
modest but adequate Credit amount.

Several features of the project design can be considered as having a positive impact on the project
outcomes.
(a) The choice of a LIL of was particularly appropriate to support the Project objectives, cope with the
challenges of (i) weak institutional framework, (ii) lack of global framework for dealing with cutlural
heritage issues and (iii) prevailing donor-driven approaches. The LIL offered the needed flexibility and the
piloting approach to adress the novelty and challengse of the sector.
(b) The special attention given during preparation to ensure a balance between the different cultures
prevailing in Mauritania ultimately led to developing the sense of the various etchnic groups of belonging to
the same nation and constituted a strong feature of the Project.
(c) The holistic approach at the outset allowed a global approach to cultural heritage to emerge.

Other anticipated impacts of the project, in terms of technical, institutional, social and participation
expectations, also materialized, as shown by the high level of awareness and commitment now existing for
cultural heritage.


4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The Project is rated satisfactory and attained its objective. The nature and amount of the Credit, unusual
for culture-oriented operations in Mauritania, provided the necessary momentum to: (i) heighten the
Government's awareness of the need for major institutional changes; and (ii) encourage joint action and
coordination among internal and external partners.

Although the overall risk rating was assessed as substantial, the project unit successfully mitigated the risks
identified, making full use of the appropriate Learning and Innovation process.



                                                      - 4 -

The Project was implemented during a critical period, which saw a significant increase of the awareness of
the authorities and the stakeholders on the need to protect the cultural heritage and to have a suitable
institutional and regulatory framework in place to do so. As a result, the Project provided the expected
outcome. Visibility of the actions supported by the Project increased over the implementation period,
progressively building a consensus on the proposed reforms.

a)       Objective 1 : The Project established a wide participatory process in support to its operations. Not
only this led to the formulation of a coherent national cultural heritage preservation and promotion policy,
but this contributed to the creation of several associations in various field on living culture and cultural
heritage preservation, especially in the field of ancient manuscripts and living arts. Public and private
partners that are already active have been sensitized and can be called upon again (American, French and
European Union cooperation agencies).          Knowledge of Mauritanian cultural heritage has increased
(dissemination of the manuscripts database, Musiques du mondecompact disk, film, exhibit and book on
ancient cities);

(b)      Objective 2 : The Project strengthened the main stakeholder administrative capacity to manage the
preservation of existing, and the encouragement of new, cultural manifestations. The major achievement,
at international level, led to the creation of the committee who organized in 2004 the Festival of Nomad
Music in Nouakchott. This organizing committee also kept working on developing the concept and
organized, with no support from the Project, a second Festival in 2005 opening the way for a more
sustainable activity. Other activities also led to the creation of capacity at local level, as evidenced by the
creation of the national association of owners of manuscripts and the strong local demand for instituting
Imraguen and Soninké days. Upon completion and as a result of the Project, Mauritania now has: (i) a
Ministry with responsibility for culture endowed with greater powers and the basic human resources
necessary, mainly because some of the project-unit managers were recruited at closing of the Project and a
specialized internal unit was created; and (ii) a re-organized institutional and legislative framework, in
particular, a law for the preservation and promotion of high-quality cultural heritage assets; and (iii)
structures which allow for replication or follow-up on actions initiated under the Project (Festival of
Nomad Music, Museum in Atar, Craft Center and International Fair, etc.)

(c)      Objective 3 : The project successfully implemented a very ambitious pilot operation on the four
ancient cities (Ouadane, Chinguetti, Tichit and Ouallata) with support from UNESCO. In doing so,
specific preservation methods were developed while placing these sites into the larger economic
development and poverty alleviation perspective. UNESCO considers this pilot operation, a first of this
kind, as 'best practice', as co-presented with the Bank during the 2005 Urban Forum. The pilot operations
created a comprehensive regulatory environment fitting within the new institutional framework developed
under the Project, which in turn provides an adequate framework for follow-up activities targetting the four
ancient cities. It also provides adequate answers to the commitments made by the Government to the
World Heritage Center with regard to the enrollment of the four cities on the World Heritage List. Upon
completion and as a result of the Project, Mauritania now has (i) these four ancient cities protected and
registered on the World Heritage List, with operational instruments for valorization and economic
development available and (ii) a set of instruments for the protection of heritage assets which facilitates
follow-up on actions initiated under the Project. These instruments include: a detailed database with
33,000 ancient manuscripts and over 800 libraries, a plan for the safeguarding and development of ancient
cities, the transcription of over 600 cassette tapes of oral traditions, and publishing of a book, a video and
CD of traditional music and the preparation of an exhibit and an active program for the development and
protection of ancient cities and manuscripts.




                                                      - 5 -

These objectives were attained by switching from a global sector approach to a more "thematic" approach
and by implying international quality standards: (i) The thematic approach was developed along the five
following themes : manuscripts, ancient cities, living culture, cultural tourism, and handicraft.        This
approach, which was formalized after the mid-term review, made intervention programs clearer, more
user-friendly, easier to implement by Project unit, and also helped to mobilize partners and civil society. It
motivated each operator in the sector in its usual sphere of activity, while at the same time observing the
management of objectives and principles applicable to all. This yielded good results without upsetting the
initial program and has been a key element in the results obtained. The need to reach international
standards, recognized early in the implementation process, led to agreement with UNESCO, the French
Ministry of Cultural Affairs and the national Library of France to enhance understanding on the issues
involved in protecting and developing heritage assets.


4.2 Outputs by components:
The project description detailed below by component is based on the DCA Although the number and the
description of the components varies according to the project documents (Appraisal Aide Memoire, PAD
and DCA), the content of the project remain the same.

Component 1: Strengthening national and local institutions (US$1.1 million)

Strengthening the administrative capacity, enhancing coordination and cohesion of cultural institutions.
 Following an audit of cultural institutions conducted by the Project in September 2002 and January 2003,
a new Ministry with responsibility for culture was established in 2003, bringing all the cultural institutions
under the aegis of the same Ministry. An organizational chart was adjusted, in keeping with the strategy
agreed, and a decree for the reorganization of the Mauritanian Institue for Scientific Research (IMRS) was
issued (2004). Based on this audit, plans for the strengthening of IMRS, FNSVA, the Department of
Culture, the National Archives, the National Libraries, and a Laboratory for Historic Research (LEHRI)
were prepared and implemented. Computers, office supplies and office furniture were provided (2004 and
early 2005) and training programs organized.

Definition of a cultural-heritage policy. A "National Strategy for Cultural Development 2004-2010"
(2003) was formulated, as approved by the Council of Ministers in April 2004. A "Communication
Strategy for Cultural Tourism" was also designed in July 2003. These processes were facilitated by the
organization of sensitization and awareness seminars, as supported by external partners, including
UNESCO

Drafting of regulations. A number of outputs contributed to concretely strenghtening the legal framework
for the protection of cultural heritage. A group of local jurists,       recruited under the supervision of
UNESCO, drafted the law for the protection of heritage assets in 2003. This law was reviewed by the
World Bank and UNESCO in 2004, then ratified by the National Assembly in August 2005. The Project
also prepared protection plans for historic centers in four cities registered as World Heritage sites (2004)
and introduced reforms to regulate the tourism sector (tax, classification). The Government ratified the
International Convention for Protection of Untangible Cultural Heritage in 2003. Lastly, preparations were
made for ratification of "The Hague" and "UNIDROIT" international conventions for protection of cultural
heritage against looting and war damages. Ratification is now pending.

Strengthening of Local Institutions. The Project prepared specific support programs in the four ancient
cities for the management of historic centers (2003-2005).          Municipalities were supported in their
preparation of a Protection and Development Plan, produced in 2005. Specific supports targeted: (i) the



                                                     - 6 -

Municipality of Chinguetti, specifically in their creation of          a municipal tourism agency; (ii) the
Municipality of Atar, specifically in their rehabilitation of an historic building to host the future Museum of
Adrar; and various municipalities, to help them organize festivals and cultural events (Ksar, Tidjikja,
Nema, Selibaby, Mamghar, Tichitt).

Evaluation of the cultural values systems. A study was conducted on the cultural values (March 2003), as
well as various seminars held: two on prominent Mauritanian cultural personalities (February 2002 and
April 2003), as well as a seminar on the contribution of women to Mauritanian culture (July 2001).

Establishment of a cultural heritage fund. The initial proposal for the creation of a multipurpose cultural
heritage fund was analyzed; it focused, as a first step, on the rehabilitation of the historic heritage assets in
the four ancient cities. The feasibility study was conducted and pilot intervention projects were
implemented with support from UNESCO, which allowed for the procedures to be tested. The Government
committed itself to follow through and create the fund to better coordinate the various interventions, which
will be managed by National Foundation for Preservation of Ancient Cities (FNSVA) and financed by
national contributions and donors funds.

Component 2: Testing of activities for preserving and enhancing manifestations of cultural heritage
(US$3.11 million)

Protection and accessibility of ancient manuscripts.          Support was provided for the creation of the
National Union of Associations of Manuscript Owners (2002) and for training of the owners of archival
libraries. An International Colloquium on Mauritanian manuscripts was organized (April 2002) and a
computer font based on ancient Mauritanian Arabic calligraphy created (2002).                A total of 21,000
neutral-tone cardboard boxes for archiving ancient manuscripts were procured (April 2005) and library
owners were trained in cataloguing, resulting in an inventoried and catalogued database of 33,000 ancient
manuscripts as held by more than 800 private and public libraries. A Geographic Information System was
created using the information from the completed inventory.             Three buildings were constructed or
rehabilitated for the House of Manuscripts: one each in Tichitt and Selibaby (2002 and 2004, with
US$37,000 USAID co-financing) and in Chinguetti (2005, with US$20,000 UNESCO support). The
National Library of France provided high-level expertise to design and consolidate the scientific approach.
The database is now operated by IMRS.

The preservation of archeological sites and ancient cities.An ambitious program involving the four
ancient cities focused specifically on the four ancient cities registered as heritage assets with the support of
UNESCO (Chinguetti, Ouadane, Oualatta and Tichitt). This program included case studies, safeguard and
development plans, publishing of maintenance and rehabilitation manuals (2003-2005); approval of
regulatory texts (2005); setting up on-site learning centers on the buildings or sites selected (2004-2005);
preparatory study for a special fund (Cultural Heritage Fund) for the rehabilitation of heritage assets in the
four cities (2005); and the development of a portfolio of rehabilitation and development projects portfolio
for future interventions.. The municipalities were involved and municipal staff trained. A workshop on
protection of heritage assets and the illegal trade was organized (August 2001) and support was provided to
establish a consensus among scientists (Convention 2001 IMRS-University Project) to implement the
program on the archeological sites. This activity had to be abandoned, primarily due to lack of support and
cohesion in the archeological community as well as disagreement on the impact the dissemination of the
inventory would have on the illegal trade in archeological material.

Promotion of cultural tourism. A "Communication Strategy for Cultural Tourism" was prepared as part
of the Project (July 2003), as was a "National Strategy for the Development of Tourism in Mauritania".


                                                      - 7 -

The Project provided support for the establishment of a National Tourism Office. Regulatory reforms for
the tourism sector were drafted (taxation, classification) and decrees/decisions issued by the Ministry of
Tourism on travel agencies (2004); hotel and catering (2004); and professional tour guides (2004).
Financing was provided under the Project for the participation of craftsmen in fairs in Dubaï (Nov. 2000),
Nancy (2003), and Paris (2003), a CD-Rom on national handicraft products (2003) was prepared, and a
web site was launched. The fact that the micro-credit operation was not implemented does not seem to
have an important negative impact, as other similar financing was available through other channels.

The promotion of handicrafts. The Project provided for analysis of techniques and the preparation of
training modules in goldsmithing, silversmithing, cabinet-making, carpet weaving, mat weaving, tent
making, dyeing, leather tanning, and leather goods (2003). A national workshop was organized on the
quality of handicrafts (Sept. 2002), which in turn supported the creation of the Chamber of Handicrafts. It
also provided training in organization, marketing, setting-up and participating in fairs and exhibitions, and
management and accounting (January-February 2003).

Strengthening of living arts was fully achieved.. An inventory of the associations involved in culture was
prepared (2002-2004) and co-financing was provided for specific activities on the basis of transparent
procedures. The Project also helped in the establishment of associations of musicians, Ulemas, Imams,
poets and writers, and the troops of Medh (2002-2003). It contributed to training in the rudiments of music
for 25 young traditional musicians (May 2002), the production of a compact disk by Malouma, a famous
local artist (2003), the preparation of an anthology of traditional Mauritanian music (2003, CD awaiting
release by UNESCO). It provided technical and financial support for the organization of various shows:
theatre, children's art competition, cultural festivals in Tidjikja (Medh), Nema (traditional music),
Nouakchott (poetry), Mouamghar (Imraguen culture), Selibaby (Soninké culture), Nouakchott (traditional
hairstyles), and Ksar (life of the griot storyteller). Finally, it supported the creation of the Mauritanian
Association for Art and Culture and the organization of the first Festival of Nomadic Music (February
2004) which was very successful with the people and the media, both nationally and internationally. It is
expected to become an annual event and the second festival took place in 2005 (financed by the French
Cooperation, the EU and private 5ponsors). 630 cassette tapes of oral traditions were transcribed onto
13,000 pages of text as a follow-up of a Project co-financed by the CDHLCPI and the French Cooperation
(May 2002 - May 2003).

Information campaignswere achived through the following outputs. The Project included production of the
Festival of Nomadic Music 2004 for radio broadcast; (RFI, RM); and for television broadcast (TVM, TF1,
ARTE, Abu Dhabi TV). Arrangements were made for regular broadcast on TVM of video recordings of
the Festival de Medh, Festival of the Life and Art of Griot Story-tellers, Soninké Cultural Days, Imraguen
Cultural Days, and the Festival of Instrumental Music. The Project contributed to the publication of
magazine articles in Aramco, Air France Magazine, and SSIAHA-Dubai. Lastly, an exhibition was
mounted and a video produced, as well as a book and a video on the implementation of the Project, with
special focus on ancient Mauritanian manuscripts and cities. The exhibition, opened by UNESCO in April
2005, will be circulated in Mauritania after the project's closing ceremony, before being split and
distributed in the four ancient cities involved.

Component 3: Implementation of selected pilot activities (US$0.55 million)

Preliminary inventory of archives, protection of prehistoric sites, and tourist information campaign.
These "emergency" activities were linked to the prehistoric sites and could not be implemented as
anticipated when the credit was issued. They were thus abandoned at the mid-term review. Nevertheless,
with assistance from the French Cooperation and UNESCO funding, the Project rehabilitated a historic


                                                     - 8 -

building, which will be used for the Adrar Museum in Atar. The French Cooperation already confirmed its
interest in supporting the equipment of the building (see 9.b).

Communication campaigns. A communication strategy was formulated late in the Project for Project
activities (2002-2003), followed by a communication strategy called "Showing off Mauritania" (2003).
Despite the substantial implementation activities (see paragraph on information campaigns above), if
communication had started earlier; this would have helped to better address the main sector issues and thus
secure more visibility for actions, especially in Mauritania.

Publication of selected manuscripts. The Project selected 10 ancient manuscripts and prepared them for
reproduction, which entailed the drafting of an agreement on reproduction rights. A call for bids was
issued and a service provider selected, but excessively high costs prevented execution of the contract.

Awareness campaigns for tourists.        This activity, carried out through the National Tourism Office
established with support from the Project, resulted in a general communication campaign, exhibit, video
and book produced by the project. However, the part linked to the preservation of prehistoric sites was not
implemented (see 3.4).

Organization of a national trade show. Bearing in mind the state of the buildings used for trade shows
when the Credit was issued, preparations had to be made under the Project to rehabilitate the Fair venue in
Nouakchott (2005). The works were completed too late for the staging of the trade show.

Component 4: Subprojects in the artisanal craft sector (cancelled)

The Project anticipated the issuing of micro-credits for handicrafts and the construction of four regional
centers for the Caisse d'Epargne et de Crédit des Artisans (Craftsmen Savings and Loan Bank). The lack
of transparency in the fiduciary arrangements in the profession and in the NGO set up by the craftsmen to
implement this activity (BAPEM) did not allow the implementation of these activities, which were cancelled
after the mid-term review with the Bank's approval.

Component 5: Project Management (US$0.68 million)

Administration, coordination, supervision, and evaluation of activities. The planned structures (Council
of Cultural Heritage and the Permanent Secretariat) were implemented and calls made, as the need arose,
for national or international technical assistance. Between three and six high-level national staff was in
charge of the implementation, with support from international short time consultants. At the end of the
Project, the material procured      was returned to the cultural institutions and three experts from the
Permanent Secretary were recruited by the Ministry in charge of culture, an encouraging sign for
sustainability.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Given the nature of the Project and the Credit (LIL), no economic analysis was conducted at the time of the
appraisal. Although a precise quantification of the benefits of the Project can not be produced, it is clear
that the benefits generated are very significant in relation to the cost (US$5 million). Its contribution to
tourism development, artisanal craft, the development of ancient cities, the year-round staging of major
cultural events, the strengthening of the entities operating in these different areas made it possible to create
many jobs and generate significant income for poor populations. The first Festival of Nomad Music
(2004) had several positive impacts in this regard: (i) creation of a permanent local steering committee and
transfer of know-how from the specialized international firm recruited; (ii) one-third of the financing



                                                     - 9 -

required for the Festival provided by the local private sector; and (iii) unusual number of attendants and
very high international visibility (TV, radio), with important impact on Mauritania's image. This led to the
organization of a second Festival in 2005 without Project's support.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
Actions taken within the framework of the Project made major improvements to the Mauritanian
institutional and legislative framework possible. These reforms were drafted and adopted as a whole with
the joint collaboration and support of UNESCO and are in conformity with the relevant international
standards. The effective implementation, through the Project, of a program of action designed to fulfill the
initial objectives also brought about a perceptible shift in the broader context of cultural heritage
management in Mauritania, now internalized at the higher level of the State. The new government in
charge since the recent institutional changes that occurred in August 2005 in Mauritania has already
confirmed its commitment to actually implement the remaining actions (see 6.2).

The provisions already adopted and those pending adoption by the Government ensure greater cohesion
among the cultural institutions subsumed in 2004 under the auspices of the Ministry with responsibility for
Culture, which now has clearer and more complementary powers. The Ministry of Culture is now better
organized to manage cultural heritage operations; and each institution's remit has been clarified and
coordinated as follows: for the IMRS, library and museum management ; and for the new department in
the Ministry of Culture, development of the protected cities as world heritage assets for the FNVA.

Based on the "National Strategy for Cultural Development 2004-2010" prepared in 2003, a decree was
issued to modify the powers of the Ministry of Culture (Decree 016-2004). This Ministry, formerly
responsible for Culture and Islamic Orientation, became the Ministry of Culture, Youth and Sports. In
order to complete the arrangement, another Decree redefined the remit of the Mauritanian Institute of
Scientific Research (IMRS) established in 1974 under the aegis of the Ministry of Culture. This new
document reinforces the mandates of research, protection, restoration, and the dissemination of heritage, as
well as the corresponding training activities. A new director was appointed and the IMRS modified its
intervention policy to adress and endorse the Project development outcomes, which will include
management of tangible and intangible heritage assets. The National Federation of Ancient Cities (FNVA)
maintains its development mandate for the four cities registered on the list of UNESCO World Heritage
List (Ouadane, Chinguetti, Tichitt and Oualata). Responsibility for the FNVA, formerly entrusted to the
Prime Minister, was transferred to the Ministry of Culture. In addition, the Ministry's aim is to ensure the
urban, economic, and social development of protected cities classified as world heritage assets.           Its
organizational chart also provides for the creation of a department within the National Library and
Museums to ensure the management of public institutions previously attached to the IMRS.

Tourism institutions has also benefitted from major reorganization. On the basis of the development
strategy for cultural tourism drafted and adopted in 2003, a National Tourism Office was established. In
2004, two decrees were issued which reorganized travel agencies, accommodation (especially hotels) and
tour guiding.


5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The Credit was approved on June 30, 2000, became effective on October 15, 2000 and was closed in April
2005. Implementation of the project was facilitated by (i) a relatively stable political environment; (ii) the


                                                     - 10 -

growing interest of national and international partners once detailed institutional assessments were
available; and (iii) a clarified implementing agency's strategy developed in the context of the mid-term
review.

Poor estimation of certain costs. The planned publication of ten manuscripts was cancelled because of
the unexpectedly high cost of reproducing ancient manuscripts. The Government and the implementing
agency successfully completed the title-selection phase and resolved the copyright issues. The service
provider was selected through a call for bids but the procurement could not be made, as there were
insufficient funds in the Credit account to cover the high costs of the consultancy.

Difficulties in mobilizing the archaeological research sector. It had been anticipated that the project
would include some actions for the inventory and urgent protection of archeological sites. Despite the
efforts made, the Project was unable to establish favorable conditions for the development of a common
doctrine for protection and development of the sites within the community of Mauritanian, foreign
archaeologists and relevant institutions (the University, IMRS). It was impossible for both the Government
and the implementing agency to build consensus between the different schools of research and to obtain
basic information essential for drafting the archaeological map, for example.

A new area of intervention. The innovative aspects of the project and the intervention of the Government
in this sector was a first in Mauritania. Disorganized and piecemeal at the outset, the Government's input
became more professional and structured.            The inherent difficulties of initiating public authority
intervention in this sector explain in large part the delays in project implementation.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Evidence of the need to preserve Mauritanian cultural heritage assets has gradually gained the attention of
the Mauritanian Government and the main local partners. Increasing governmental support facilitated a
significant mobilization of funds from private sponsors and support from external partners as well as the
implementation of most of the planned actions. Follow-up responsibility for the project was assigned to the
Secretary-General of the Office of the President, who is also President of the National Heritage Council.
This decision strengthened the authority of the implementing agency, particularly in the institutional reform
planning process.

No main counterpart fund issue. The Government regularly provided the required counterpart funding
(estimated at US$0.51 million), even during periods of budgetary constraints (late 2004 and early 2005). It
supported the adjustment proposals made at the mid-term review. The Government is also providing
additional funds for completion of works at the Atar Museum not included in the Project.

Genuine interest on the sector. Institutional and judicial reforms, initiated as part of the Project, or with
its support, were discussed by the Government and carried out. Important draft laws were considered by
the Ministerial Council and subsequently ratified by the National Assembly, with a view to providing a
suitable legislative framework. Similarly, the Ministry of culture was restructured and is better equipped to
fulfill its role in the future.

Ownership on the Project increasing over time.               To demonstrate its interest in cultural heritage
preservation, the Government brought a special emphasis to the closing ceremony. This was held at the
UNESCO Head Office in Paris in April 2005 in the presence of the President of the Islamic Republic of
Mauritania and the Director General of UNESCO. Notably, the occasion provided an opportunity to make
the announcement that the Government is committed to establish the Cultural Heritage Fund for the four
ancient cities prepared as part of the Project. An exhibition, a video and a book on the four ancient cities



                                                      - 11 -

supported by the project were also unveiled. Additionally, Mauritania presented its candidature in June
2005 to be part of the World Heritage Committee.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The implementation plan included two distinct entities: (i) a National Steering Committee, responsible for
providing strategic orientations and for coordination with the main institutions involved; and (ii) a
Permanent Secretariat, responsible for operational management of the project. Assigning implementing
responsibility to institutions other than those in charge of the sector, notably the Ministry with
responsibility for Culture, was a deliberate decision which ensured fobjective development of the reforms.

The National Steering Committee fulfilled its role. It provided a framework for implemented actions
from the beginning to the end of the project. It also constituted a validating authority for key decisions.
However, the National Committee could have played a more active role in supporting implementation at the
operational level and in reinforcing intra-sectoral synergies.

The Permanent Secretariat acted as planned. It was able to recruit and retain the local consultants
necessary for project implementation.       Nevertheless, start-up activities were difficult owing to local
managers' lack of familiarity with the culture sector. In reality, the staff was trained on the job by the
international firms or consultants recruited for the project. At the end of the project, some of the trained
managers were recruited by the Ministry with responsibility for culture. Financial management posed no
particular problem; audits were regularly carried out and procurement was conducted in compliance with
Bank standards.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The total cost of the project as estimated in the project appraisal report is US$5.51 million, including
US$5.0 million financed by the IDA Credit. Government counterpart funds were in the amount of
US$510,000. An additional US$100,000 amount is being provided by the Government for additional
works at the Adrar Museum in Atar.

Payments from the Credit stood at SDR3.55 million (or USD5.1 million) or 93.5% of the Credit amount.
This performance was possible due to a sixteen-month extension of the closing date.

The total cost of the Project was US$5.92 million. Although no co-financing had been identified at the time
of preparation, the Project was able to mobilize external donors: (i) the UNESCO World Heritage Center
participated in the preparation and implementation of the program for ancient cities to the tune of
US$72,000, obtained from the France-UNESCO Convention (30,000 Euros or approximately US$36,000)
and from the World Heritage Fund (30,000 Euros or approximately US$36,000). It also financed in part
the project design and construction supervision for the renovation of the Atar Museum by the External
Relations and Cooperation Section of UNESCO (US$10,000); (ii) UNESCO's Cultural Heritage Division
brought the necessary expertise to the management of the National Steering Committee put in place by the
project, and financed complementary support for consultancy missions for the improvement of quality
standards and the construction of the Chinguetti House of Manuscripts (US$20,000); (iii) US cooperation
(the United States Embassy in Mauritania) financed the Tichitt and Selibaby houses of manuscripts
(US$17,000 and US$20,000 respectively); and (iv) French cooperation (SCAC) supported the
establishment of the International Festival of Nomad Music (approximately US$120,000) and the
restoration of the Adrar Museum at Atar (about US$20,000). Both France's Ministry with responsibility
for culture and its National Library have also provided important support in terms of international expertise
in work done on ancient manuscripts. Private donors were mobilized for the Festival of Nomad Music to
an estimated amount of US$100,000 per festival.



                                                     - 12 -

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability is rated as likely.

The important measures already taken by the Government during the implementation of the Project and
during the past months after closing show a strong commitment to consolidate the project outcomes: (i)
laws and decrees have been approved to provide an adequate institutional framework; (ii) institutions are in
place with clearer mandates and better operational tools; (iii) links have been developed with the local
Governments and the private sector; (iv) conditions have been established to develop the cultural tourism;
and (v) decisions were made to allow for better resource mobilization and donors' coordination.

The follow-up actions aimed at improving sustainability were detailed in the Aide-Memoire of the closing
mission (January 2005).       They are currently providing the framework which will be be utilized for
monitoring purposes as part of the ongoing dialogue between the Bank and the Government. The need to
allocate more budget and to channel the external assistance to the sector through the newly organized
system was confirmed by the Government as an important factor of financial sustainability. Private sector
mobilization and external financing, successfully tested during the Project, is likely to increase in the near
future. Actual financial mobilization from both internal and external sources will provide monitorable
indicators for the future.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
As the direct result of the Project, the evolution of the institutional framework was significant. It provides
the Government with adequate and modern tools for managing the sector.              All activities previously
managed by the project unit were transferred to the adequate institution before closing. The following
specific agreements have been reached with the previous Government and were approved by the new
Government:

a)        Decrees enforcing the Cultural Heritage Protection Law will be introduced, with specific attention
to the establishment of the National Heritage Council as a steering committe for sector management, as
well as the operational procedures for protection of property (Classifying, Safeguard and Development
Plan, Safeguard Sectors) and the inventory of protected assets;

b)        A specific law or decree offering incentives for the private sector to finance heritage protection,
management and development actions will be prepared and introduced, in light of the prospect of an upturn
in the economy and an increase in private-sector financial resources, resulting mainly from oil production.
This will allow for the participation of private enterprises in financing preventive protective excavations,
patronage, and sponsoring and developing Foundations and Trusteeships;

c)        The development of cultural tourism in Mauritania will be supported so that tourism professionals
may be integrated into the international system and travelers and tourists can be guaranteed a quality
product. This will be supported through measures facilitating the movement of persons and goods, such as
facilitating access to tourist visas, currency exchange terms, development of credit card payments and cash
withdrawal machines.

d)        The Copyright Registration will be transferred from the Office of the President and the Interior
Ministry to the National Library under the responsibility of the Ministry of Culture. The current Copyright
Registration mechanism serves the dual purpose of ensuring the legality of publishing and archiving. The



                                                     - 13 -

National Library has no mandate to ensure legality but will be made responsible for the archiving of
documents. It is agreed that regulatory and, if necessary, legislative measures will be prepared and
implemented to transfer Copyright Registration to the National Library while legal control will remain with
the Office of the President.

e)       The database of the 33,000 ancient manuscripts compiled under the project and delivered to the
IMRS is already available to researchers and institutions. It will be made accessible to all kind of public
and the IMRS will propose and implement specific activities to further explore, protect and disseminate the
contents of the more notable manuscripts.

f)       The Government will ratify two important international conventions, namely the UNIDROIT
Convention on Stolen or Illegally Exported Cultural Objects and the Hague Convention on the Protection of
Cultural Property in the Event of Armed Conflict. The procedure has already begun and will be completed
in 2006. Ratification of these Conventions will allow Mauritania to access networks for tracking stolen
objects, simplify tracking procedures and quickly mobilize international support in the event of conflict.

g)       Finally, the Government will officially adopt the Plans for Protection and Development of the cities
registered on the World Heritage List and create the Cultural Heritage Fund for the rehabilitation of these
ancient cities, as already announced during the closing ceremony.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance is rated Satisfactory. The project was prepared in six months (September 1999 ­
April 2000) by a team led by the Bank Representative in Nouakchott composed essentially of the Bank's
Nouakchott Office staff, supported by local resource persons. The team benefited from the experience of
similar projects being prepared by the Bank, although not in sub-Sahara Africa. The main problems and
risks were correctly identified. The condition of the sector at the time of preparation (limited knowledge of
the sector, need for innovation, and multiple internal and external stakeholders) did not, however, allow for
prioritization of actions and detailed preparation of operational aspects, which led to both delays during the
first part of the implementation phase and an extension of the closing date. Using a LIL was therefore
highly appropriate, and provided a suitable framework for intervention, given the nature of the operation.

7.2 Supervision:
The Bank's performance is rated Satisfactory. There were two project managers for the Bank throughout
the supervision period. The first project manager was the one who prepared the project. He was not
replaced immediately after his departure in early 2001. Although this had limited impact on the project
final achievement, this was a factor contributing to the disbursement lag prior to mid-term. The second
project manager was appointed in January 2002. The supervisory team included the required specialists
and was able to develop excellent relations with the Mauritanian project team and the various ministries
and institutions involved in its implementation, as well as its external partners (USA, France and
UNESCO).

The mid-term review of September 2002 provided a key opportunity to remedy the serious project
implementation delays that led to a temporary Unsatisfactory rating in implementation performance.
Making use of the flexibility offered by the LIL, the project was able to refocus on its key physical and
institutional objectives. As a result, in particular : (i) an innovative and trend-setting pilot project for the
safeguarding of four ancient cities listed as World Heritage sites was launched and successfully
implemented; and (ii) relationships developed at several level with UNESCO's World Heritage Center and


                                                     - 14 -

Cultural Heritage Division enhanced credibility of the Government on the international stage.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The overall performance of the Bank is rated satisfactory. It facilitated the proper implementation of the
key actions identified during the project appraisal. The President of the Islamic Republic of Mauritania
and the Director General of UNESCO lauded the quality of the Bank's work at the closing ceremony in
April 2005.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The performance of the Borrower in the preparation phase is rated Satisfactory. The teams mobilized by
the Government for project preparation were capable of performing the functions expected of them and
fostered a high level of ownership of its content, despite its complexity.  All institutions were mobilized
and appropriate institutional arrangements were proposed for Project implementation. The Government
appropriately assisted the Bank team and facilitated their work. It developed a participatory process,
mobilized stakeholders and provided sufficient project preparation resources.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government's implementation performance is rated Satisfactory. The Project's NSC and PS were
established as planned and received technical assistance when necessary.            Relations between the
Government and the Permanent Secretariat were generally satisfactory. Government support became
stronger and more focused as the implementation process continued.

The President's Office involved itself in the critical decisions needed during implementation.          All
counterpart funding was mobilized, despite a few delays. LInstitutional and legal decisions were made
swiftly and are satisfactory to the Bank and the project's other partners. Recommendations made at mid
term were approved, helping to improve the Project implementation plan.

The Government further demonstrated its commitment by approving the need for a National Heritage
Council, which will let the Minister Secretary General of the Office of the President coordinate several
Ministers to establish policies and enhance Mauritanian cultural heritage protection and quality of sector
management.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of the Project Implementation Unit is rated satisfactory. The PS was able to implement
all planned activities, with the exception of those which the Bank and the Borrower agreed to cancel. The
PS was also able to maintain good relations with and develop coordination among the many stakeholders,
donors and entities relevant to the Project, in spite of their number, their diversity and--at times--their
differences. The PS succeeded in disbursing 93.5 percent of the Credit before closure while respecting both
the procurement and financial management procedures. It tried, in spite of the various extended deadlines,
to keep its operational costs within projected limits.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall performance of the Borrower is rated satisfactory. The Government acted on its commitments
and proved itself as a capable partner of the Bank both during preparation and implementation of the
Project. Partnership with donors and stakeholder are in place and functionning. Consistent with its
commitments, the culture and tourism sectors went through substancial reforms. The Ministries in charge
of these portfolios were restructured, a tourism agency was created, institutions with responsibility for
heritage were reformed and strengthened, the Cultural Heritage Protection Law was adopted and two
international conventions (the UNIDROIT Convention on Stolen or Illegally Exported Cultural Objects and


                                                     - 15 -

the Hague Convention on the Protection of Cultural Property in the Event of Armed Conflict) are in the
process of being ratified.

8. Lessons Learned

Lesson 1: Preliminary sector work in new areas like cultural heritage is essential to ensure adequate
project design, implementation plan and operational arrangements. The Project and the Borrower
would have benefitted from better upfront definition of the work plan and operational instruments by
seasoned sector specialists. As demonstrated by the difficulties experienced at the beginning of the project
implementation, the main problem was the lack of a preliminary detailed sector work by cultural heritage
and development professionals to determine a realistic action plan to achieve project objectgives. The lack
of Borrower's experience in the sector and the unclear situation of the sector in Mauritania at the time the
Project was being prepared meant that this situation was probably inevitable and justifies a posteriori the
LIL status granted to the Credit.        However, as a result, the arbitration between partners and the
prioritization of actions had to be done after effectiveness. Given the absence of this operational action
plan, the Project, which initially had only three years for implementation, had to accomplish simultaneously
too many key tasks in its early implementation period. This explains how the timeframe initially projected
had to be extended in order to complete the implementation.

Lesson 2: In a new area of development, simplicity of design and clarity in the selectivity and logic of
the packaging of activities are essential.        The reorganization of activities made at mid term for
implementation purpose was based on coherent packaging leading to easy-to-understand targets: (i) ancient
manuscripts; (ii) ancient cities; (iii) support to living culture; (iv) cultural tourism; and (v) support to
handicraft, rather than the component approach presented in the DCA and the PAD.                   As a result,
mobilization of stakeholders, implementation activities, monitoring and communication around project's
activities were made easier. The noticeable increase of the visibility of the project's activities quickly led to
a stronger mobilization of the project unit's staff, who was able to make the best use of the learning and
innovation character of the Credit (LIL). This important improvement in Project implementation benefitted
from the important range of the actions identified during preparation.

Lesson 3: Cultural heritage programs highly benefit from partnerships with key institutions with
comparative advantages. Ensuring close cooperation between the Borrower's and external partners was
key to the success of the project. Decision-making processes in a field where most staff from the project
unit were unfamiliar with at the beginning of the implementation were complex. The close cooperation
developed over time with external partners with strong knowledge of cultural heritage (UNESCO, World
Heritage Center, French Ministry of Culture, Bibliothèque Nationale de France) faciliatated transfer of
know-how to the Borrower unit and helped build confidence. It also confirmed the need for international
standards to be applied to the actions implemented. This was reinforced by the close relationship built by
the client with the Bank team and ultimately constituted the main reason for the success of the project.

Lesson 4: Institutional reforms cannot take place without seed money and a sustained flow of
resources over a period of time. The financing granted by the Credit was unusual for the sector in
Mauritania and provided an important leverage. The amount of the Credit was relatively low compared to
other projects in the sector or in the country. But it was but much more than the amounts usually provided
for financing sector activities, especially in Mauritania. Because of this, the Bank had exceptional leverage
and played an important catalyzing role for important reforms, particularly after the Project had clarified
its intervention strategy and confirmed good relations with the cultural institutions and external partners.
The good results obtained, notably at the institutional level, and with the manuscripts, the ancient cities and
living culture, demonstrate the timeliness and soundness of the Bank's intervention in this sector in



                                                     - 16 -

Mauritania.

Lesson 5: A mix of public and private funds are necessary to ensure sector sustainability. Many
actions were successfully implemented under the Project thanks to capacity built in the project unit and the
relevant institutions, but also because adequate financing was provided on a timely manner both by pubolic
and private sources. The sustainability rating is satisfactory, as most of the reforms and actions linked to
the Project objectives were implemented with strong support from the Government. However, there is
much more to be done and the challenge remains for several actions (living arts, support to associations ,
etc.). As financing will go back to pre-Project levels, this naturally poses an obstacle to implement further
actions. This obstacle is expected to be overcome by successfully tested pilot operations and post-project
activities discussed with and approved by the new Governement.            A simple mechanism that would
coordinate donors, public and private financing and be dedicated to coordinated activities would be an
appropriate arrangement for future activities in this sector.      The establishment of an effectively run
Cultural Heritage Fund for ancient cities, as forecast by the Government, is therefore particularly important
and will represent the beginning of a solution.

Lesson 6: The support to living arts played an important role in social cohesion. The many small
cultural events targeting specific segments of the population (Soninké, Imraguen, griots, etc.) had an
important positive impact at country level. Not only the populations targeted were very pleased to be
"recognized" and to receive support for organizing cultural events from the central Government, but the
reports from the Project units show an important expression of membership of a same culture. This is very
important in the case of a multi-ethnic country like Mauritania.


9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The report prepared by the Borrower is attached in Annex 8 of this ICR. The quality of the preparation is
deemed satisfactory, as well as the quality of the supervision and the Borrower is satisfied by the support
received from the Bank. The Borrower's report highlights the important positive impacts of the Project,
especially on the sector institutional framework. In spite of the small amount allocated under the IDA
Credit, the Project helped the Government make a difference on the ground, beyond expectations. The
Government is particularly pleased by: (i) the inventory and preservation of the manuscripts; and (ii) the
pilot operation implemented with help from UNESCO on the four ancient cities. A specific commitment is
made in favor of the ancient cities program, including the creation of the fund for rehabilitation prepared by
the Project, and the dissemination of the information related to the manuscripts.

(b) Cofinanciers:
Comments from UNESCO: We must attest to the exceptional collaboration that took place under the aegis
of this project between and among UNESCO, the Mauritanian Government and the World Bank under the
terms of a Convention signed in 2002. This allowed for involvement in a process of safeguarding and
developing the four ancient nomadic cities, namely Chinguetti, Ouadane, Tichitt and Oualata, registered on
UNESCO's Heritage List since 1996. The historical and cultural importance of these ksour justified these
large-scale efforts being taken in order to safeguard the remains of an urban desert civilization and to
stimulate their revitalization through a strategy aimed at encouraging rehabilitation initiatives and
promoting processes, modalities and technical expertise for economic, social and urban development.
Historic centers, places of interest and tourist attractions are vibrant and important centers for learning
about traditional know-how. This work was carried out by experienced technical experts under the direct
supervision of the UNESCO World Heritage Center.




                                                    - 17 -

This pilot project was part of a larger group of activities implemented in the framework of an overall
project for safeguarding and developing Mauritanian cultural heritage assets. The intangible aspect of
heritage, essential for preserving the spirit of an ancient civilization, is one very important aspect of this.
Our attention and our interest were therefore equally attracted by actions supporting nomad music, the
conservation of ancient manuscripts or the traditions and ancient crafts. These were also supported by the
Project.

Comments from the United States Embassy in Mauritania: The American Embassy in Nouakchott was
pleased to support the Project through the implementation of two projects financed in Tichitt and Selibaby
by the State Department within the framework of the Ambassador's Fund for Cultural Preservation. These
projects contributed positively to the strengthening of relationships between Mauritania and the United
States, thus reflecting the deference of the American people for the Mauritanian history and culture.

Our common objective is to help Mauritania cope with the needs for protection and safeguard of its rich
cultural heritage and its knowledge in the field of Islamic researches. We are particularly pleased about the
World Bank-financed activities aimed at preserving the invaluable ancient Islamic manuscripts and would
like also to encourage the investments targeting the development of national languages, the poesy and the
Mauritanian music.

Comments from French Cooperation: We first wish to highlight the good relationships established between
the Mauritanian Government, the World Bank and the French Cooperation (SCAC) for the implementation
of the Project. Two activities have been carried out with support from our Priority Solidarity Fund (FSP)
supporting the cultural heritage sector in Mauritania:

         (a)       The first Festival of Nomad Music, held February 8-14, 2004, was a great cultural event
of international level and had an important positive impact on the creation of local capacity. The success
of this first festival led to the Second Festival of Nomad Music, held April 4 to 8, 2005 with other sources
of financing; and

         (b)       The creation and development of the Adrar Museum in Atar is a good example of how
World Bank financed and SCAC financed activities can complement each other. After the preliminary
expertise, some difficulties were created by the change of site. When the program of rehabilitation of the
historic building is completed and the management structure is created, the French Cooperation will
mobilize additional financing in order to ensure appropriate support to the Museum and its impact on the
Mauritanian culture.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information

None.




                                                     - 18 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix




        Component               Result Indicators*                    Actual           Objective - End of Project
Inventory and Research    GIS developed for                Action cancelled            Action cancelled
                          archeological sites,
                          buildings and ensembles
                          Database designed by IMRS Action cancelled for               Action cancelled
                          and LHERI in cooperation prehistoric sites
                          with other partners
Protection and sites      Consensus reached among
management in a           stakeholders on:
cost-effective way
                          (i) development of model         Implementation in 4 ancient Implemented in 4 ancient
                          plan and launching of site       cities                      cities
                          activities
                          (ii) selection of priority sites Completed                     -
                          (iii) implementation plans       Completed                   Implemented in 4 ancient
                          for site management                                          cities
                          (iv) establishment of            Associations created :      Associations operational
                          multidisciplinary                Syndicat d'Initiative de
                          partnerships (archeologists, Chinguetti, Union Nationale
                          anthropologists, historians, des Association. de
                          artists, artisans, tour          Détenteurs de Manuscrits,
                          operators and ecologists)        Association. des Amis du
                                                           Musée d'Atar, Association
                                                           de Griots (4), Association.
                                                           des artistes, peintres,
                                                           plasticiens
Inventory, protection and Number of buildings, sites       3 completed                 2 completed
reproduction of ancient   rehabilitated as regards
manuscripts               priorities
                          Partnerships with                Associations' Union created Done
                          associations of owners of        and partnership operational
                          traditional libraries
                          Number of archivists and         Training completed          Training to at least 30
                          documentalists trained                                       archivists and
                                                                                       documentalists
                          Number of associations           All associations are being  Associations operational
                          supported                        supported through the
                                                           National Union; update of
                                                           an inventory of associations
                                                           and ongoing manuscripts
                          Easy publication of key          Cancelled due to high costs 10 manuscripts published
                          manuscripts
                          Number of requests for           Cannot be monitored         Indicator cancelled
                          access to manuscripts
Support to cultural       Number of proposals              Cannot be monitored
initiatives               submitted by local groups        (requests largely exceeded



                                                       - 19 -

                             (local NGOs, craftsmen,        offer). Completed
                             artisans, women's
                             associations
                             For the first year of          Target reached              At least 2 activities
                             operation, at least 10                                     sustained
                             activities are approved and
                             implemented
                             Tourism master plan            Target reached              Strategy approved
                             prepared, followed by an
                             action plan for tourism
                             activities
                             Joint venture to be            Target reached              Communication plan
                             established between                                        available
                             Mauritanian promoters and
                             foreign tour operators
                             Number of micro-credits        Cancelled                   Cancelled
                             granted to craftsmen
                             associations in all regions
                             (at least 50)
                             Number of traditional craft Works ongoing. Event will Market rehabilitated and at
                             activities created             be planned                  least two events took place
                                                                                        at the national level.
Institutional and capacity Steering committee               Operational                   -
strengthening                operational 6 months after
                             Credit effectiveness
                             Cultural Heritage Funds        Cancelled                   Cancelled
                             operational before the first
                             year of operations
                             Audits completed for the       Audit done. Strengthening Strengthening activities
                             existing cultural institutions activities ongoing.         carried out
                             Existing institutions have     Support to current          Action plans identified and
                             developed and implemented implementing institutions. being implemented.
                             an action plan, and have       Strategy document approved
                             taken an active role in the
                             promotion and execution of
                             cultural heritage activities.



The indicators were identified at the time of project appraisal but no baseline data was established.




                                                        - 20 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                              Appraisal    Actual/Latest   Percentage of
                                                              Estimate       Estimate        Appraisal
                        Component                             US$ million   US$ million
1. Strengthening of National and Local Institutions              0.43             1.10              256
2. Testing of Activities for Preserving and Enhancing            2.90             3.11              107
Manisfestations of Cultural Heritage
3. Implementation of the Initial Program                         0.60             0.55               92
4. Artisanal Subprojects                                         0.50             0.00                0
5. Project Management and Supervision                            0.63             0.68              108
6. Project Preparation Refinancing                               0.45             0.48              107

Total Baseline Cost                                              5.51             5.92
                           Total Project Costs                   5.51             5.92
                    Total Financing Required                     5.51             5.92
Actual/latest cost estimates include co-financing from UNESCO, US Cooperation and French Cooperation
(SCAC) which were identified during project implementation.




Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                        1
                                                    Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category              ICB              NCB                2       N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                                   Other
1. Works                              0.00             0.90          0.44          0.00           1.34
                                     (0.00)            (0.72)      (0.35)         (0.00)         (1.07)
2. Goods                              0.15             0.39          0.22          0.00           0.76
                                     (0.13)            (0.33)      (0.19)         (0.00)         (0.65)
3. Services                           0.00             0.00          2.33          0.00           2.33
and Training                         (0.00)            (0.00)      (2.33)         (0.00)         (2.33)
4. Operating Costs                    0.00             0.00          0.63          0.00           0.63
                                     (0.00)            (0.00)      (0.50)         (0.00)         (0.50)
5. PPF refinancing                    0.00             0.00          0.00          0.45           0.45
                                     (0.00)            (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.45)         (0.45)
   Total                              0.15             1.29          3.62          0.45           5.51
                                     (0.13)            (1.05)      (3.37)         (0.45)         (5.00)




                                                    - 21 -

   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                    1
                                                          Procurement Method
         Expenditure Category               ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                                Other
   1. Works                                 0.00               0.47              0.00             0.04              0.51
                                           (0.00)             (0.34)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.34)
   2. Goods                                 0.00               0.39              0.00             0.00              0.39
                                           (0.00)             (0.33)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.33)
   3. Services                              0.00               0.00              3.62             0.24              3.86
   and Training                            (0.00)             (0.00)            (3.44)            (0.00)           (3.44)
   4. Operating Costs                       0.00               0.00              0.68             0.00              0.68
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.54)            (0.00)           (0.54)
   5. PPF refinancing                       0.00               0.00              0.48             0.00              0.48
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.48)            (0.00)           (0.48)
        Total                               0.00               0.86              4.78             0.28              5.92
                                           (0.00)             (0.67)            (4.46)            (0.00)           (5.13)

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                IDA         Govt.        CoF.         IDA          Govt.      CoF.       IDA      Govt.     CoF.
1. Strengthening of             0.37         0.06         0.00        0.96         0.14       0.00       259.5    233.3      0.0
National and Local
Institutions
2. Testing of Activities for    2.73         0.17         0.00        2.63         0.20       0.28       96.3     117.6      0.0
Preserving and Enhancing
Manisfestations of Cultural
Heritage
3. Implementation of the        0.50         0.10         0.00        0.52         0.03       0.00       104.0     30.0      0.0
Initial Program
4. Artisanal Subprojects        0.45         0.05         0.00        0.00         0.00       0.00        0.0      0.0       0.0
5. Project Management           0.50         0.13         0.00        0.54         0.14       0.00       108.0    107.7      0.0
and Supervision
6. Project Preparation          0.45         0.00         0.00        0.48         0.00       0.00       106.7     0.0       0.0
Refinancing
TOTAL                           5.00         0.51         0.00        5.13         0.51       0.28       102.6    100.0      0.0




                                                           - 22 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Given the nature of the Project and the Credit (LIL), no economic analysis was conducted at the time of the
appraisal. Although a precise quantification of the benefits of the Project cannot be produced, it is clear
that the benefits generated are very significant in relation to the cost (US$5 million). Its contribution to
tourism development, artisanal craft, the development of ancient cities, the year-round staging of major
cultural events, the strengthening of the entities operating in these different areas made it possible to create
many jobs and generate significant income for poor populations.




                                                     - 23 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                 Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                        Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              09/19/1999                7    Task Team Leader (1);
                                             Sociologist (2); Procurement
                                             Specialist (1); Financial
                                             Management Specialist (1);
                                             Consultant (2)
              01/20/2000                6    Task Team Leader (1);
                                             Sociologist (1); Procurement
                                             Specialist (1); Financial
                                             Management Specialist (1);
                                             Consultant (2)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              04/13/2000                8    Task Team Leader (1);
                                             Sociologist (1); Procurement
                                             Specialist (1); Financial
                                             Management Specialist (1);
                                             Consultant (3)


 Supervision
              01/23/2001                3    Task Team Leader (1);                 S               S
                                             Procurement Specialist (1);
                                             Disbursement Assistant (1)
              06/30/2001                3    Task Team Leader (1);                 S               S
                                             Procurement Specialist (1);
                                             Disbursement Assistant (1)
              01/25/2002                3    Task Team Leader (1);                 U               S
                                             Procurement Specialist (1);
                                             Disbursement Assistant (1)
              06/14/2002                4    Task Team Leader (1);                 U               S
                                             Municipal Engineer (1); Cultural
                                             Heritage Specialist - Consultant
                                             (1); Project Assistant (1)
              09/30/2002                8    Task Team Leader (2);                 S               S
                                             Municipal Engineer (2); Cultural
                                             Heritage Specialist - Consultant
                                             (2); Procurement Specialist (1);
                                             Disbursement Assistant (1)
              01/11/2003                1    Task Team Leader (1)                  S               S
              04/30/2003                3    Task Team Leader (1);                 S               S
                                             Municipal Engineer (1); Cultural
                                             Heritage Specialist - Consultant
                                             (1)
              11/19/2003                2    Task Team Leader (1);                 S               S
                                             Municipal Engineer (1)
              06/16/2004                3    Task Team Leader (1);                 S               S



                                              - 24 -

                                                          Municipal Engineer (1); Cultural
                                                          Heritage Specialist - Consultant
                                                          (1)

 ICR
               01/21/2005                           4       Task Team Leader (1);             S    S
                                                            Municipal Engineer (1);
                                                            Senior Urban Specialist (1)
                                                            Cultural Heritage Specialist
                                                            - Consultant (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                             No. Staff weeks                     US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation
  Appraisal/Negotiation                                  30                          97,340*
  Supervision                                            79                          156,875
  ICR                                                     9                           17,100
  Total                                                118                           271,315
*Combined identification/preparation and appraisal/negotiation actual expenses




                                                           - 25 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
        Social cohesion
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 26 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 27 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Project Appraisal Document
Bank's Back-to-Office reports and Aide memoire
Bank's mid-term review report
Government's Completion Report, October 2005
Closing Ceremony Speech by the Director General, UNESCO, April 2005
Closing Ceremony Speech by Jean-François Rischard, World Bank, EXTVP, April 2005
Closing Ceremony Speech by the President of the Republic of Mauritania, April 2005
Villes de Mémoire, anciens ksour de Mauritanie, Centre du Patrimoine Mondial de l'UNESCO, April 2005
Etude sur les spécificités culturelles, March 2003
Inventaire et catalogage de 33,000 manuscripts anciens (2004)
Monographie des 4 villes anciennes mauritaniennes - plan de sauvegarde, de développement et manuel
d'entretien et de réhabilitation (2003-2005)
Audits des Institutions Culturelles (septembre 2002 et janvier 2003)
Stratégie nationale de développement culturel pour les années 2004-2010 (2003)
Stratégie de communiciation sur le tourisme culturel (juin 2003)
Loi de protection du patrimoine
Décret de la réorganisation de l'IMRS (2004)




                                                  - 28 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Completion Report

RAPPORT D'ACHEVEMENT DU PSVPCM


Le présent rapport constitue le rapport d'achèvement du Projet de Sauvegarde et de Valorisation du
Patrimoine Culturel Mauritanien (PSVPCM), financé par la Banque Mondiale au profit du Gouvernement
Mauritanien. La mise en oeuvre de ce projet a eu lieu durant la période du 10 janvier 2001 (date de mise en
vigueur de l'accord de crédit) au 30 avril 2005 (date de clôture). Le montant initial du financement accordé
à ce Projet était de 5 millions de dollars américains.

1 DESCRIPTION ET DEMARRAGE DU PROJET

1.1 Historique :

Le patrimoine culturel mauritanien court depuis plusieurs années un risque de dégradation physique certain
(sites archéologiques, monuments, manuscrits) ou même de disparition lorsqu'il s'agit du patrimoine vivant
(poésie, danse, musique, artisanat etc.). Il était devenu urgent de mobiliser l'ensemble des acteurs culturels
(institutions, groupes ONG, formateurs individuels, propriétaires de manuscrits, élus des villes historiques,
associations communautaires locales, propriétaires des Mahadras etc.) en vue de préserver, protéger et
valoriser ce riche patrimoine pour qu'il continue à jouer pleinement son rôle au service de l'identité de la
société mauritanienne et contribuer à son développement économique et social.

Plusieurs initiatives ont été lancées et ont abouti, entre autres résultats, à la tenue fin 1999 du Colloque
International sur le thème « Patrimoine et Cultures en Mauritanie ». Les résultats de ce colloque ont permis
au Gouvernement, avec l'appui de la Banque Mondiale, la conception et la mise en oeuvre du PSVPCM
par un Accord de Crédit (Crédit IDA No 3401 ­ MAU) signé entre la République Islamique de Mauritanie
et l'Agence Internationale de Développement (IDA).

La mise en vigueur de cet Accord de Crédit le 10/1/2001 a permis le démarrage des activités du Projet au
sein du Cadre Institutionnel et Financier prévu à cet effet (Conseil        national du Patrimoine, Comité
d'Orientation, Secrétariat permanent, etc.).

Le PSVPCM traduit ainsi la prise de conscience au niveau national et international de la situation du
patrimoine culturel mauritanien et de la nécessité de trouver des solutions adéquates aux problèmes
multiples et complexes que pose la problématique de sa sauvegarde et de sa valorisation. Les actes du
colloque international, le rapport de mission de 2000 et la mise en oeuvre du projet sont à cet égard assez
édifiants.

1.2       Objectifs du projet

L'objectif original du projet était d'aider le gouvernement de la Mauritanie à explorer des pistes et à
expérimenter des méthodes en vue de déterminer la façon dont le patrimoine culturel national peut être
sauvegardé et valorisé. Cette double action devait se réaliser à travers :

-         L'établissement d'un processus participatif conduisant à la formulation d'une politique cohérente
de protection et de promotion du patrimoine culturel ayant un impact sur la lutte contre la pauvreté et le
développement durable du pays ;



                                                      - 29 -

-        Le renforcement des capacités des administrations centrales, régionales et locales à gérer le secteur
de la culture et de patrimoine et à le développer ; et
-        Le développement de méthodes de conservation et l'encouragement à la création intellectuelle et
artistique.
Ces objectifs ont été confirmés lors de la revue à mi-parcours du Projet.

1.3 Composantes du projet

Lors de son évaluation, le Projet avait cinq composantes :

Composante 1 : Renforcement des institutions nationales et locales :

         Cette composante couvrait les activités suivantes :
         - Le renforcement des capacités administratives des institutions et du gouvernement ;
         - La définition d'une politique de préservation du patrimoine culturel ;
         - La préparation de règlement pour le secteur ;
         - Le renforcement de la coordination et de la cohérence des institutions ;
         - Le renforcement des institutions locales ;
         - L'évaluation du système de valeurs culturelles ;
         - L'établissement d'un fond pour la préservation du patrimoine ;

Composante 2 : Activités pilotes de préservation et de valorisation du patrimoine

         Ces activités couvraient en particulier :
         - La protection et l'accessibilité des manuscrits anciens ;
         - La préservation des sites archéologiques et des villes anciennes ;
         - La promotion du tourisme culturel ;
         - La promotion de l'artisanat ;
         - Le soutien à la culture vivante, et des campagnes d'information.

Composante 3 : La mise en oeuvre d'activités pilotes sélectionnées.

         Elle concernait essentiellement : l'inventaire préliminaire d'archives, diverses campagnes de
         communication , des action de confortement immédiat des sites archéologiques, la publication de
         manuscrits sélectionnés et une foire nationale pour artisans.

Composante 4 : Sous projets du secteur de l'artisanat

         Le projet prévoyait la mise en place de micros crédit en faveur de l'artisanat et la construction de
         quatre centres régionaux pour la caisse d'épargne et de crédit.

La revue à mi-parcours a permis de réorganiser et de réviser les composantes originales du projet sous
forme de filières, le programme ainsi retenu gagnant en cohérence et en efficacité d'exécution. Les filières
retenues sont :

-        Renforcement institutionnel,
-        Programme en faveur des villes anciennes,
-        Programme en faveur des manuscrits,
-        Soutien à la culture vivante,


                                                      - 30 -

-         Promotion du tourisme,
-         Programme de soutien à l'artisanat.
Pour des raisons multiples, les actions suivantes ont été abandonnées, avec l'accord de la Banque Mondiale,
il s'agit de :

-         La suppression des actions spécifiques en faveur de l'archéologie. Les acteurs intervenant dans ce
domaine, aussi bien les chercheurs que les institutions, n'ont pas pu faire preuve de la maturité nécessaire
pour entreprendre les actions qui étaient programmées et ce malgré les efforts importants menés par l'unité
du Projet ;
-         L'abandon de l'idée de mise en place de micro-crédit en faveur de l'artisanat en supprimant la
création de quatre caisses d'épargne et de crédit pour les artisans prévu dans l'accord de crédit initial. Le
manque de transparence de la profession et de l'ONG qui devait mettre en oeuvre cette activité ont conduit
le PSVPCM, en accord avec la Banque, à y renoncer. Par ailleurs, les artisans ont la possibilité d'accéder à
d'autres financements dans le cadre d'un projet financé par la BAD, ce qui fait qu'elle n'a pas affecté pas
le reste de la composante destiné à l'artisanat qui a pu être menée de façon satisfaisante ;
-         L'édition pilote des dix manuscrits anciens a été conduite jusqu'à la réception des offres. À ce
stade le Projet a été contraint d'y renoncer car les coûts proposés par les soumissionnaires dépassaient
largement l'enveloppe prévue.

1.4       Organisation de la mise en oeuvre du Projet.

La mise en oeuvre du Projet a impliqué les structures suivantes :

          - Le Conseil National du Patrimoine (CNP), comprenant l'ensemble des départements concernés.
          Le CNP était présidé par le Ministre Secrétaire Général de la Présidence de la République et devait
          approuver l'ensemble des orientations et les programmes avant leur mise en oeuvre dans le cadre du
          Projet.
          - Le Comité d'Orientation (CO). Cet organe devait traduire les orientations stratégiques du CNP
          en activités. Il devait étudier les différents dossiers et délibérer sur initiatives à financer dans le
          cadre du Projet.
          - Le Secrétariat Permanent du PSVPCM était chargé de l'exécution des programme et action
          retenues.



2.        CONCEPTION, EXECUTION, REALISATION ET IMPACT DU PROJET

2.1 Evaluation de la conception du projet

La conception du projet reflètait une perception approfondie de la réalité et de l'importance du patrimoine
culturel, ainsi qu'une grande ambition pour la culture en général. Toutefois elle a péché par sa trop grande
exhaustivité par rapport à la durée de vie initiale du projet (trois ans), à la multiplicité et à la complexité
des problèmes dans ce domaine, au montant de l'enveloppe financière (non négligeable mais peu par
rapport avec les immenses besoins), à l'absence d'expertise locale, etc. L'absence aussi d'une étude
préalable et d'un plan d'action détaillé a handicapé la mise en oeuvre des activités envisagées et la visibilité
de l'action des responsables du projet.

Mais les résultats obtenus concernant les objectifs institutionnels et physiques, ainsi que l'impact général du
Projet ont dépassé les espérances et l'ont transformé d'un projet risqué en un projet réussi.




                                                       - 31 -

2.2 Principaux résultats obtenus dans chacune des composantes du projet

On peut affirmer sans risque d'erreur, que le PSVPCM a atteint les objectifs et les résultats qu'il s'était
fixés tels qu'ils ont été confirmés lors de la revue à mi-parcours.

Grâce au Projet le Gouvernement a pris conscience de la nécessité de procéder à des changements
institutionnels importants. Ainsi un Ministère de la Culture de la Jeunesse et des Sports a été créé à la place
du Ministère de la Culture et de l'Orientation Islamiques. Les structures concernées par la gestion du
Patrimoine ont été placées sous la même tutelle. Un nouvel organigramme, basé sur les recommandations de
l'audit organisationnel des instituions culturelles, réalisé dans le cadre du PSVPCM, a été élaboré. Les
différentes institutions ont bénéficié de formations et d'équipements devant permettre l'amélioration de leur
travail.

Une stratégie de préservation du patrimoine culturel national a été approuvée par le gouvernement en Avril
2004. Cette stratégie s'insère dans la stratégie de réduction de la pauvreté du pays en stimulant le
développement d'activités liées au tourisme, à l'artisanat, la production artistique et à l'amélioration des
conditions de vie des populations des villes anciennes.

Dans le même sillage, une stratégie nationale pour le développement du tourisme a été adoptée par le
gouvernement en 2003.

Un programme ambitieux de préservation et de valorisation du patrimoine culturel a été mené à bien en
collaboration avec UNESCO dans les quatre villes anciennes inscrites sur la liste du patrimoine mondial
(Ouadane, Chinguitty , Tichitt et Oualata). Ces villes sont aujourd'hui dotées de plan de préservation et
dispose de plusieurs techniciens formés sur les techniques de réhabilitation des anciens bâtiments. Leur
patrimoine bâti a été pour la première fois étudié et inventorié.

la Mauritanie dispose désormais d'un ensemble complet d'instruments de protection de son patrimoine
culturel : base de données des manuscrits regroupant plus de 800 bibliothèques répertoriant plus de 33 000
manuscrits, enregistrement de plus de 600 cassettes de traditions orales, édition d'un CD de musique
traditionnelle et d'un cadre institutionnel et législatif réorganisé permettant la mise en oeuvre des actions
préconisés dans le cadre d'une politique nationale cohérente de sauvegarde et de valorisation du patrimoine
culturel mauritanien (Loi-cadre de la protection du patrimoine culturel tangible adoptée par le Parlement et
promulguée 01/08/05 ; Loi sur les spectacles vivants, approuvé promulguée le 02/09/05 ; Projet de loi
ratifiant la convention Unidroit, approuvé par le Conseil des Ministres le 20/07/05. Ce projet de texte
devrait être bientôt soumis au CMJD pour adoption).

2.3      Coordination et gestion du projet

Les domaines couverts par le PSVPCM relevaient de plusieurs départements ministériels (Culture et
Orientation Islamique, Artisanat et Tourisme, villes anciennes,...). L'unité d'exécution du Projet a été
placée sous la tutelle de la Présidence de la République pour marquer cette transversalité du Projet ainsi que
le poids politique que le Gouvernement entend lui donner. Cette situation, même si elle a créé au début
quelques problèmes d'appropriation pour certains départements, a fini par donner des résultats
satisfaisants. Grâce au dialogue ouvert et transparent avec tous les décideurs et structures concernés, l'unité
d'exécution du Projet a réussi à les faire travailler ensemble et atteindre avec eux les résultats recherchés.
Les changements institutionnels qui ont été opérés dans le secteur du Patrimoine ont fait que désormais,


                                                      - 32 -

celui-ci relève, pour l'essentiel, du Ministère de la Culture et donc les futures actions d'appui au secteur
devraient se situer à ce niveau.

3.       ANALYSE CRITIQUE DE L'ACTION DE LA BANQUE MONDIALE, DU
GOUVERNEMENT ET DE L'ASSISTANCE TECHNIQUE

3.1 Appréciation de l'action de la Banque mondiale au cours de l'exécution du Projet:

Le savoir faire, la compétence et la disponibilité de l'équipe de la Banque mondiale sont hautement
appréciés et ont joué un rôle déterminant dans le succès du projet. La revue à mi-parcours a constitué le
déclic qui a permis de lever les blocages, de relancer la dynamique d'exécution des programmes et de rendre
par conséquent visible l'action du projet.

Le Gouvernement et les responsables du projet n'ont ménagé aucun effort pour assurer le succès de celui-ci,
conscients des enjeux cruciaux de cette expérience inédite et salutaire pour le patrimoine culturel et tout le
pays.

L'assistance technique de l'UNESCO a été précieuse et exemplaire, garantissant un label de qualité
international aux actions réalisées par le projet.

La Coopération Française et l'Ambassade des Etats-Unis à Nouakchott ont également apporté un appui
considérable et très apprécié au Projet.

3.2      Appréciation de l'action du Gouvernement au cours de l'exécution du projet:

Le gouvernement n'a ménagé aucun effort pour faciliter la réussite de ce Projet. En le plaçant sous la tutelle
directe de la Présidence de la république, le Gouvernement a donné un signal fort pour marquer
l'importance et l'intérêt qu'il accorde à ce projet.

Certes, la multiplicité des structures allongeait parfois les délais, mais elle était nécessaire pour assurer une
bonne concertation et une bonne appropriation des activités du Projet.

Si par moment, les fonds de contrepartie ont connu quelques retards liés à des difficultés conjoncturelles, il
est à noter que le Gouvernement a, non seulement mobilisé les contreparties prévues dans l'accord de
Crédit, mais a mobilisé des fonds supplémentaires pour compléter le financement de certaines actions
(musée de l'Adrar).

3.3      Evaluation de l'efficacité et de la qualité des relations entre la Banque mondiale et le
Gouvernement durant l'exécution du projet.

Les relations entre l'équipe de la Banque et celle du Projet ont été excellentes. Toutes les requêtes du Projet
faisaient l'objet d'une attention particulière et recevaient une suite appropriée. Le Projet a bénéficié d'un
appui permanent au niveau de la mission Résidente de la Banque et pouvait bénéficier de l'appui des autres
membres de l'équipe de la Banque chaque fois que c'était nécessaire.

L'apport de l'équipe de la Banque a été très formateur pour l'équipe du projet et on peut même affirmer que
grâce à la compétence et au professionnalisme de ces membres, l'équipe de la Banque a réussi à transférer
un savoir faire important à l'équipe du Projet.




                                                      - 33 -

3.4      Evaluation des performances des différentes institutions, bureaux d'études et consultants
ayant participé à la réalisation du projet (coûts, bénéfices).

L'appui de l'Unesco et de la Coopération Française (Bibliothèque Nationale de France) a permis au
PSVPCN de disposer d'un excellent contrôle de qualité basé sur les normes internationales en la matière.
Ainsi la quasi-totalité des travaux et études réalisés dans le cadre du PSVPCM ont été jugés très
satisfaisants. Il est à noter que le projet a permis de valoriser et de renforcer l'expertise nationale dans des
domaines où celle-ci n'était même pas connue. La base de données sur les manuscrits, qui a été entièrement
réalisée par des consultants nationaux et dont le contrôle de qualité a été assuré par des experts de la
Bibliothèque Nationale de France, a été d'une très grande qualité. De même pour l'étude et l'inventaire du
patrimoine bâti des villes anciennes qui ont été réalisés par des équipes d'architectes mauritaniens sous la
supervision d'un bureau de renommée internationale. Grâce à ces équipes, la Mauritanie dispose
aujourd'hui d'une importante capacité technique pour la poursuite du programme des villes anciennes mais
aussi pour faire ce genre de travaux pour tout le patrimoine bâti de Mauritanie.

4        PRINCIPALES LEÇONS A TIRER

Le PSVPCM a certes confirmé ce que l'on savait sur la richesse et l'importance du Patrimoine Culturel
Mauritanien, mais il a surtout permis de montrer que, dans ce domaine, on peut, avec des moyens limités,
faire des choses très intéressantes et avoir un impact très important. Il a confirmé également que, par le
nombre d'emploi qu'il peut créer, par ses effets sur le tourisme et l'artisanat, par son impact sur la
sauvegarde de l'identité culturelle du Pays et le renforcement de son unité, le Patrimoine Culturel peut et
doit contribuer efficacement au développement économique et social du Pays en général et à la stratégie
nationale de réduction de la pauvreté, en particulier. Il appartient maintenant aux structures chargées de la
gestion du secteur et aux opérateurs privés de tirer le maximum de profit de ce résultat.

5.       PERSPECTIVES POUR LE FUTUR ET POUR LA PERENNISATION DES ACQUIS

L'importance que la Mauritanie accorde au Patrimoine Culturel n'est plus à démontrer. La présence du
président de la République en personne à la cérémonie qui a été organisée à l'occasion de la clôture du
PSVPCM à l'Unesco à Paris en avril 2005, et le discours qu'il y a prononcé sont édifiants à cet égard.

Le Gouvernement a déjà pris un certain nombre de mesures destinées à pérenniser les acquis de ce Projet et
à améliorer davantage la sauvegarde et la valorisation du Patrimoine Culturel Mauritanien.

L'Arrêté N0 0116 portant création d'une cellule d'appui au secteur de la Culture, a été pris le 31/03/04
dans ce sens. Déjà cette cellule travaille de plein pied avec les différentes structures pour que chacune
puisse, en ce qui la concerne, assurer le suivi et la continuité les actions engagées. Ainsi elle travaille avec
la Fondation Nationale des Villes Anciennes (FNVA) pour la finalisation et la mise en oeuvre des
documents et textes relatifs à la Sauvegarde des villes anciennes, avec l'Institut Mauritanienne de
Recherche Scientifiques (IMRS) pour la mise en ligne de la base de données sur les Manuscrits, avec
l'office des musées pour l'achèvement et la mise en service du musée de l'Adrar.

Elle travaille également sur les textes relatifs à la création d'un Fonds pour la réhabilitation du Patrimoine
bâti que le Gouvernement espère mettre en place très bientôt avec l'appui de ses partenaires.

6.       CONCLUSIONS

Le PSVPCM a constitué une avancée considérable et créé les conditions institutionnelles, techniques et


                                                      - 34 -

financières susceptibles d'assurer de façon durable la conception, l'impulsion et l'encadrement de toutes
les initiatives de sauvegarder et de valorisation du patrimoine culturel mauritanien. Il a réalisé l'essentiel de
ses objectifs et obtenu des résultats qui ont été reconnus par les prometteurs culturels nationaux et la
communauté internationale.

Mais le chemin menant à la mise en oeuvre systématique d'une politique nationale cohérente de sauvegarde
et de valorisation du patrimoine reste long et semé d'obstacles. C'est pourquoi le Gouvernement est décidé,
non seulement, à préserver les acquis mais aussi à poursuivre les efforts déjà engagés. Il est décidé, en
particulier, à parachever le cadre institutionnel et législatif, à ratifier toutes les conventions internationales
relatives au patrimoine culturel matériel et immatériel, et à mettre en place un mécanisme (Fonds du
Patrimoine Culturel) coordonnant les financements des bailleurs et du Gouvernement dans ce domaine.

Pour mener à bien son programme, le Gouvernement sait qu'il peut compter sur ses partenaires, en
particulier, la Banque mondiale et l'Unesco avec qui il vient de réaliser cette expérience très réussie.




                                                      - 35 -

- 36 -

