Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3401 MAU
Development Credit Agreement
(Cultural Heritage Project)
between
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated September 13, 2000
CREDIT NUMBER 3401 MAU
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 13, 2000, between ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A)  the Association has received a letter from the Borrower describing 
a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to enhance its cultural 
heritage (the Program) and declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the 
Program;
(B) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Association 
to assist in the financing of the Project;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Page  2
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 
1999) (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“Ancient Cities” means the following municipalities in the territory of 
the Borrower: Chinguetti; Tichitt; Ouadane and Oualata; and “Ancient City” means any 
one of these localities;
(b)
 “Annual Review” means any one of the annual reviews referred to in 
paragraph (5) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(c)
“BAPEM” means Bureau d’Appui aux petits entreprises mauritaniennes, a 
savings and credit institution established pursuant to an agreement, signed in 1993, 
between the Borrower and German Cooperation;
(d)
“Beneficiary” means each of the beneficiaries of Subprojects (as 
hereinafter defined);
(e)
"CECA” means Caisse d’épargne et de Crédit aux artisans, a credit and 
savings institution established pursuant to Agreement No. 1400/96 of the Ministry of 
Commerce, Tourism and Artisans of the Borrower, dated February 6, 1996;
(f)
“CHF”
means Cultural Heritage Fund, an independent entity to be 
established pursuant to paragraph 7 (a) (ii) of Schedule 4 of this Agreement;
(g)
“Cultural Institutions” means the following public and private entities, 
engaged in cultural activities: (i) MCOI (as hereinafter defined); (ii) IMRS (as 
hereinafter defined); (iii) the University of Nouakchott; (iv) FNSVA (as hereinafter 
defined), and (v) the administrative entities of the Borrower  engaged in the 
implementation of the Program, and “Cultural Institution” means any one of these 
entities;
(h)
“COP” means Comité d’Orientation pour la Valorisation du Patrimoine 
Culturel Mauritanien, the Borrower’s entity responsible for coordination of Project 
activities established pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to the Agreement;
(i)
“CNP” means Conseil National du Patrimoine Culturel Mauritanien, the 
Borrower’s body responsible for coordination of cultural heritage policy, to be 
established under the Project pursuant to Section 6.01 (e)  of this Agreement;
(j)
“DC” means the Directorate of Culture in MCOI (as hereinafter defined);
(k)
“FNSVA” means Fondation Nationale de Sauvegarde de Villes Anciennes, a 
Foundation for the preservation of the Ancient Cities, established pursuant to Decree 
No. 93-05, dated April 6, 1993, of the laws of the Borrower;
(l)
“IAPSO” means Inter Agency Procurement and Services Organization, the 
procurement entity of the United Nations Development Program;
(m)
“Initial Program” means the program referred to in Part C of the Project; 
defined in more detail in PMP (as hereinafter defined);
Page  3
(n)
“IMRS” means L’Institut Mauritanien de Recherche Scientifique, the 
Borrower’s scientific and research institute established pursuant to Decree No. 
74-243, dated December 31, 1974, of the laws of the Borrower;
(o)
“LEHRI” means Laboratoire d’Etudes et de Recherches Historiques, a 
history research institute within the University of Nouakchott, established pursuant 
to Arrêté 281-231, dated December 24, 1981, of the laws of the Borrower;
(p)
“Mauritanian Ouguiya” and “UM” mean the currency of the Borrower;
(q)
“MCOI” means Ministère pour la Culture et de l’Orientation Islamique, the 
Borrower’s Ministry for Culture and Islamic Affairs;
(r)
“Midterm Review” means the review referred to in paragraph (7) of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(s)
“Project Manual of Procedures” and “PMP” means the Manuel de procédures 
referred to in paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, and adopted by the 
Borrower as transmitted by letter, dated May 11, 2000, containing, inter alia, 
institutional arrangements, work-plans, monitoring and performance indicators and 
procedures to be used for the purpose of implementing the Project, as the same may be 
amended from time to time with the approval of the Association, and such term includes 
any schedules to the Project Manual of Procedures;
(t)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(u)
“Project Preparation Advance” means the cumulated  project preparation 
advance granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to the letter agreements 
dated June 29, 1999, as amended, and April 26/27, 2000, respectively;
(v)
“Project Account” means the account referred to in Section 3.04 (a) of 
this Agreement;
(w)
“SPP” means Secrétariat Permanent du Projet, the Project implementation 
unit within the General Secretariat of the Presidency, established pursuant to Arrêté 
gouvernemental No. R-414, dated May 18, 1999;
(x)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement;
(y)
“Subproject” means an activity financed under Part D of the Project; and
(z)
“Subsidiary Financing Agreement” means an agreement concluded between the 
Borrower and a Beneficiary for the purpose of partially financing a Subproject.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to three million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 3,800,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed 
Page  4
out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2003 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each June 15 and December 15 commencing December 15, 2010 and ending June 15, 2040. 
Each installment to and including the installment payable on June 15, 2020 shall be 
one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be 
two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
Page  5
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, technical and financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the works, goods and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan for the future strategy of the strengthening of its cultural 
heritage; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.04. Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of  
Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall:
(a)
open and maintain an account (the Project Account) in a commercial bank 
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association;
(b)
promptly thereafter, deposit into the Project Account an amount 
equivalent to $100,000 to finance the Borrower's contribution to the Project;
Page  6
(c)
deposit into the Project Account, during Project implementation, such 
amounts as shall be required for timely Project implementation; and
(d)
ensure that the funds deposited into the Project Account in accordance 
with paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section shall be used exclusively to finance 
expenditures under the Project other than those financed from the proceeds of the 
Credit.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format 
acceptable to the Association, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph 
(a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to 
the Association, consistently applied, 
by independent auditors acceptable to 
the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph 
(a) of this Section for such 
year as so audited, and (B) an 
opinion on such statements, records and 
accounts and report of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such 
records and 
accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the 
Association may from time to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports, or statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the Project 
Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with 
the procedures and internal controls involved in their 
Page  7
preparation, can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Association for the strengthening of the financial management system referred to in 
paragraph (a) of said Section 4.01, in order to enable the Borrower, not later than 
eighteen months after the Effective Date, or such later date as the Association shall 
agree, to prepare quarterly Project management reports, acceptable to the Association, 
each of which:
(i)
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources 
and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following 
the period covered 
by said report, and (B) shows separately expenditures 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit during the period covered by 
said 
report and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the 
Credit during the six-month period following 
the period covered by said 
report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively 
and for the period covered by said report, and (B) explains 
variances between 
the actual and previously forecast implementation 
targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under 
contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, 
as at the end of the 
period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Association, and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days after the end 
of each calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified, namely a situation shall have arisen which 
shall make it improbable that the Program or a significant part thereof will be 
carried out.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
The Borrower has:
(a)
opened the Project Account and deposited therein the initial deposit 
referred to in Section 3.04 (b) of this Agreement;
(b)
appointed the auditor referred to in Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement, 
under terms and conditions acceptable to the Association, in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement;
(c)
appointed an accountant and financial management specialist in SPP in 
Page  8
accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, and 
established, or has caused to be established, a computerized accounting and financial 
management system in SPP, acceptable to the Association;
(d)
appointed a procurement specialist in accordance with the provisions of 
Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and
(e)
established CNP pursuant to terms of reference set forth in the Program.
Section 6.02. The date hundred and twenty (120) days after the date of this Agreement 
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time responsible for 
development  is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of 
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministre des Affaires Economiques et du Développement
Ministère des Affaires Economiques et du Développement
B.P. 238
NOUAKCHOTT
République Islamique de Mauritanie
Cable address: 
Telex:
Facsimile: 
MP Nouakchott
840 MTN
222 25 110
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
By /s/ Abdallahi Ould Kebd
Authorized Representative
Page  9
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Callisto Madavo
Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
A.
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil works
   850,000
80%
(2)
Goods
   500,000
85%
(3)
Consultants’ services 
 1,500,000
95%
and training
(4)
Subprojects under Part D
   200,000
100% of amounts 
of the Project
disbursed
(5)
Operating
   400,000
80%
costs
(6)
Refunding of
   350,000
Amount due pursuant
Project Preparation
to Section 2.02 (b) of
Advance
this Agreement
TOTAL
 3,800,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule the term:
(a)
“consultant’s services and training” means all training activities and 
study tours, organization of culturally relevant activities, communication activities 
and strengthening of entities active in the carrying out of the Program.
(b)
“operating costs” means the incremental expenses incurred on account of 
Project implementation, audits, management and monitoring, including office supplies, 
administrative support, communication and utility services, travel and supervision 
costs, per diem payments to the members of COP, but excluding salaries of officials of 
the Borrower’s civil service.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of  payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for works and goods under 
contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent each, and for expenditures for services 
Page  10
under contracts with firms costing less than $30,000 or with individuals costing less 
than $10,000 equivalent each; all under such terms and conditions as the Association 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
B.
Special Account
1.
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars in a commercial bank acceptable to the Association, on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure and attachment.
2.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been opened, withdrawals from the Credit Account of amounts to be 
deposited into said Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Association shall have received: (i) the first Project 
Management Report referred to in Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement; and (ii) a 
request from the Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, 
withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this 
Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Association of a Project Management Report pursuant 
to Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement, accompanied by a request from the Borrower for 
withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.  For each payment 
made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as 
the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents 
and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.
4.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5 set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule 1.
(b)
the term “Eligible Expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B 2 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if the Association determines at any time that any Project Management 
Report does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 
of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Association determines at any time that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account or (B) 
the records and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals 
were made on the basis of Project Management Reports.
Page  11
6.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B 2 of this Schedule if, at any 
time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in 
whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account 
pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General Conditions. Upon such notification, the 
Association shall determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the 
Special Account may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such 
deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of its determination.
7.
(a)
If the Association determines at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or 
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, provide such additional evidence as the 
Association may request, or deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association 
shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment.  Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the 
Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided 
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association determines at any time that any amount outstanding in 
the Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) 
of this paragraph shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Development Credit 
Agreement.
Annex A to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are 
Not Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex:
(a)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount up to $500,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, however, that, unless the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount up to 
$250,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account, plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association 
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal or exceed the 
equivalent of  SDR 500,000 (five hundred thousand SDR).
2.
Withdrawals of the Special Account’s Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish said Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of said Special Account’s Authorized Allocation, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for deposit into said 
Special Account of an amount or amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed said 
Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into said Special 
Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
For replenishment of said Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Association requests for deposit into said Special Account at such intervals as 
the Association shall specify. Prior to or at the time of each such request, the 
Page  12
Borrower shall furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to Part B 3 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in 
respect of which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into said Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of 
said Special Account for Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into said Special 
Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under one or 
more of said Special Account’s Eligible Categories.
3.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of said 
Special Account’s Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit 
Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit shall follow such procedures 
as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals 
shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been 
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in said Special Account as of the 
date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
Annex B to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are 
Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Association may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all 
withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into the 
Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from 
the Credit Account under one or more of said Special Account’s Eligible Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Credit Account for deposit into the 
Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Credit, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so 
requested; and (b) the amount which the Association has determined, based on the 
Project Management Report accompanying said application, is required to be deposited 
in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the 
date of such report; provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added to 
the amount indicated by said Project Management Report to be remaining in the Special 
Account, shall not exceed the equivalent of Dollars seven hundred thousand ($700,000). 
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in testing procedures to 
efficiently and adequately preserve and promote its cultural heritage, through, inter 
alia: (1) establishing a participatory process leading to the formulation of a 
coherent national cultural heritage preservation and promotion policy conducive to 
poverty alleviation and equitable economic development; (2) strengthening of central, 
regional and local administrative capacity to manage the preservation of existing, and 
the encouragement of new, cultural manifestations; and (3) development of preservation 
methods and encouragement to revive and create artistic expressions.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
Page  13
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Strengthening of National and Local Institutions
1.
Strengthening of administrative capacity
Strengthening of the planning and administrative capacity of the Cultural 
Institutions and COP to develop a coherent national strategy for the preservation and 
enhancement of expressions of cultural identity in physical form or in the form of 
artwork and handicraft, through the provision of technical advisory services to, and 
training of selected staff in, said Cultural Institutions and COP.
2.
Development of Cultural Heritage Policy
Formulation of a coherent cultural heritage preservation and development policy 
taking into account past, present  and future artistic expression, commonly shared 
values and national economic development objectives, through the provision of 
technical advisory services.
3.
Drafting of Regulations
Review, harmonization and drafting of new regulations pertaining to:
(a)
the preservation and development of manifestations of cultural heritage;
(b)
the protection of  international and national classified natural sites; 
and
(c)
the implementation of international conventions on the preservation of 
cultural manifestations or natural sites;
through the provision of technical advisory services to, and training of, selected 
staff in Cultural Institutions and COP and the carrying out of study tours.
4.
Strengthening the Coordination and Cohesion of Cultural Institutions
Carrying out studies to:
(a)
assess the scope of activities carried out by each Cultural Institution 
pursuant to its mandate;
(b)
indicate gaps and redundancies in the activities identified, pursuant to 
the policy developed under paragraph (2) of Part A of the Project; and
(c)
redesign the mandate of each Cultural Institution as required,
through the provision of technical advisory services.
5.
Strengthening  Local Institutions
(a)
Strengthening the administrative capacity of local government entities to 
assess, supervise, preserve and control access to manifestations of cultural heritage 
and classified natural sites, through the provision of technical advisory services and 
training and the acquisition of equipment; and
(b)
establishment of four selected CECA in the territory of the Borrower.
Page  14
6.
Evaluation of Cultural Value Systems
Carrying out studies in the health, education, agriculture and legal sectors 
evaluating culturally motivated behavioral norms and working habits liable to 
influence the sustainability of development projects.
7.
Establishment of a Cultural Heritage Fund
Carrying out a study to identify needs for the financing of cultural heritage 
activities, drafting by-laws and operating procedures for the establishment of a 
Cultural Heritage Fund and create said entity, through the provision of technical 
advisory services, training and the acquisition of equipment.
Part B:
Testing of Activities For Preserving and Enhancing Manifestations of   
Cultural Heritage
Carrying out pilot activities testing the feasibility and methodology of 
preservation, development and promotion of manifestations of cultural heritage and 
artistic and artisanal expressions comprising, inter alia:
1.
Protection and Accessibility of Ancient Manuscripts, including:
(a)
the establishment of associations of owners of ancient manuscripts;
(b)
the formation of archivists caring for archives;
(c)
the establishment of inventories for owners’ association, at communal and  
national level;
(d)
rehabilitation or construction, as the case may be, of centers for 
storage of archives and carrying out of research in selected communities in the 
territory of the Borrower; and
(e)
preservation, display, access to and dissemination of manuscripts;
through the provision of technical advisory services to, and training of, owners’ 
associations, selected staff at IMRS and LEHRI, acquisition of equipment and the 
construction or rehabilitation, as the case may be, of conservation centers.
2.
Preservation of Archeological Sites and Ancient Cities
(a)
Carrying out studies to design cost-effective archeological site 
conservation, management and supervision through, inter alia, (i) topographic studies; 
(ii) site inventories; (iii) preservation of artifacts in situ; and (iv) construction 
of visitor access; and
(b)
(i) carrying out studies to preserve Ancient Cities or selected 
communities, as the case may be, through, inter alia: (A) zoning plans; (B) protection 
against sand encroachment and floods; and (C) identification of specific buildings 
worthy of preservation; and (ii) the rehabilitation of selected buildings so 
identified, through the provision of technical advisory services and training and the 
carrying out of civil works.
2.
Promotion of Cultural Tourism
Promotion of tourism validating and appreciating cultural heritage 
manifestations comprising, inter alia:
(a)
development of a general scheme for an action plan to implement a 
Page  15
national tourism policy and establishment of a national tourism board;
(b)
drafting of incentive national and local tax  regulations coherent with 
the existing tax framework;
(c)
training of tourist guides, tourism regulators and operators;
(d)
attendance at international tourism promotion events; and
(e)
publication of promotion literature.
through the provision of technical advisory services to, and training of, selected 
private tourist guides and operators, and acquisition of equipment.
3.
Promotion of Handicraft and Souvenir Trade, comprising, inter alia:
(a)
assessment of current practices, former practices, regional variations 
and marketing potential of handicraft works;
(b)
development of standardized minimum quality criteria and product control 
systems;
(c)
establishment of producer associations for the production, promotion and 
marketing of  handicraft; and
(d)
strengthening of organizational, administrative and accounting skills of 
producer associations for handicrafts.
through the provision of technical advisory services to, and training of, selected 
producer associations for handicrafts, and acquisition of equipment.
4.
Strengthening of the Living Arts
Strengthening of the design, revival, performance and marketing of traditional 
theater, dance, music, oral traditions and local customs, through the provision of  
technical advisory services to, and training of, selected staff to carrying out 
workshops and study and presentation tours, and the acquisition of equipment.
5.
Information Campaigns
Carrying out information, education and communication campaigns in the territory 
of the Borrower addressing the reasons, necessity and advantages of the preservation 
and development of manifestations of cultural heritage and artistic expressions.
Part C:
Implementation of the Initial Program
Carrying out the Initial Program of selected pilot activities including: (a) 
first inventories of archives, (b) communication campaigns to alert Beneficiaries, (c) 
safeguarding of prehistoric sites, (d) publication of selected ancient manuscripts, 
(e) awareness campaigns for tourists, and (f) national fair for artisans, through the 
provision of technical advisory services to, and training of, selected communication 
experts and the carrying out of civil works.
Part D:
Artisanal Subprojects
Provision of Credits to selected artisans and artisanal associations for the 
carrying out of Subprojects pertaining to, inter alia, the design, quality 
enhancement, revival, manufacturing and marketing of artisanal artifacts.
Part E:
Project Management and Supervision
1.
Administration, coordination, supervision and evaluation of Project 
Page  16
implementation through the provision of technical advisory services and training 
programs for selected staff in SPP and COP and the acquisition of equipment.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2003.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the provisions of the following Parts of this 
Section I.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods  shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more each.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
(a)
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $300,000 equivalent, and (b) works estimated to cost 
less than $150,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$900,000 equivalent may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $5,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $150,000 equivalent may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $10,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $150,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, 
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) 
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation 
Page  17
shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, and 
relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience 
and resources to complete the contract successfully.
4.
Direct Contracting
Goods and works which should be procured rapidly or are required to respond to 
natural disasters, such as flooding, and costing $5,000 equivalent or less, not 
exceeding $ 130,000 in the aggregate, may, with the Association's prior agreement, be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
5.
Procurement from UN Agencies
Vehicles, computers and office furniture may be procured from IAPSO in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods  shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract under Part B and Part C 1., all contracts 
estimated to cost more than $50,000 per contract, and all contracts estimated to cost 
more than $25,000 equivalent and scheduled to be passed during the first twelve months 
following the Effectiveness Date,  the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Association in January 1997 and 
revised in September 1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set 
forth in paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Consultant Guidelines).
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
Page  18
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Least-cost Selection
Services for audits and accounting manuals may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
2.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for consultants under Part A 2, 3 and 4 of the Project estimated to 
cost less than $25,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
3.
Single Source Selection
(a)
Services under Part C of the Project, and (b) services which are 
estimated to cost less than $10,000 equivalent per contract, may, with the 
Association's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
4.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed plan 
for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms for  
estimated to cost the equivalent of $30,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $10,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
Page  19
apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
A:
General
1.
The Borrower shall implement the Project in accordance with the procedures, 
guidelines, timetables and criteria set forth in the Project Manual of Procedures and, 
except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend, or 
waive any provision thereof if, in the opinion of the Association, such amendment or 
waiver may materially and adversely affect the implementation of the Project.
B:
Coordination and Management
2.
The Borrower shall maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it, 
through SPP, to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the 
indicators set forth in the Project Manual of Procedures and summarized in Schedule 5 
to this Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof.
3.
The Borrower shall, until the completion of the Project:
(a)
maintain within SPP the following staff with qualifications and 
experience, satisfactory to the Association: (i) the Permanent Secretary as Project 
coordinator, (ii) a procurement specialist, and (iii) a specialist in charge of 
financial management and accounting.
(b)
maintain CNP pursuant to its terms of reference set forth in the Program; 
and
(c)
furnish through SPP, quarterly Project implementation progress reports to  
COP, CNP, DC and the Association, in form and substance acceptable to the Association.
4.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
cause  COP to take all measures necessary:
(i)
to promote and collect propositions for the carrying out of 
activities under 
Part B of the Project proposed by members of civil 
society or entities of the 
its administration, as the case may be;
(ii)
to review, evaluate and approve said propositions pursuant to 
standards said 
forth in the Project Manual of Procedures;
(iii)
to forward said propositions together with motivated comments to 
COP for 
review and confirmation; and
(iv)
to carry out, or have carried out the activities, approved by COP 
and 
confirmed by CNP pursuant to subparagraph (a) of this 
paragraph in accordance 
with the provisions set forth in the PMP; and
(b)
cause  SPP to take all measures necessary to achieve the objectives of 
said approved activities; and to publish the list of approved activities in selected 
arabic and francophone newspapers in the territory of the Borrower within the week of 
confirmation pursuant to  subparagraph (a) (iii) of this paragraph.
C:
Annual Reviews and Midterm Review
5.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, through SPP, under terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Page  20
Association, and furnish to COP, CNP and the Association, annually, for the first time 
on June 30, 2000, or such other date as the Association shall agree, until the time 
the Association shall receive the Project Management Reports referred to in Section 
4.02 (b) of this Agreement, for its review and comments, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to  paragraph 2 
of this Schedule 4, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during 
the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended 
to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof during the period following such date (Annual Review);
(b)
furnish to the Association, within four weeks  after the submission of 
the report referred to in the preceding subparagraph,  the said report including the 
comments of COP  thereon; and
(c)
review with the Association, within four weeks following the submission 
of the report referred to in subparagraph (b) of this paragraph, said report and the 
report referred to in subparagraph (a) of this paragraph, and thereafter, take all 
measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of 
the said report, COP’s and the Association’s views on the matter.
6.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
by December 31, 2001, or such other date as the Association shall agree 
upon, carry out jointly with the Association, a mid-term review (Midterm Review). The 
Borrower shall invite the members of COP to participate, and take all actions it 
considers necessary to ensure the participation of representatives of civil society 
active in the promotion of cultural values, in such Midterm Review.  Such Midterm 
Review shall cover the progress achieved in the implementation of the Project and, 
more specifically: (i) the potential replicability of Project activities throughout 
the territory of the Borrower; (ii) SPP’s observance of guidelines set forth by COP 
during the period preceding the Midterm Review; (iii) the potential of activities not 
accepted by COP; and (iv) the  representation of (A) manifestations of cultural 
heritage and art work, (B) regions, (C) social groups and (D) living arts among the 
pilot activities carried out under Part B of the Project;
(b)
no later than one month prior to the Midterm Review, furnish to the 
Association, for its review and comments, a report, in such detail as the Association 
shall reasonably request, including the comments of COP on said report, on the 
implementation of the Project; and 
(c)
following such Midterm Review, act promptly and diligently in order to 
take any corrective action deemed necessary by COP and / or the Association, as the 
case may be, to remedy any shortcoming noted in the implementation of the Project, or 
to implement such other measures as may have been agreed upon between the Borrower and 
the Association in furtherance of the objectives of the Project.
D:
Specific Actions
7.
The Borrower shall, within three months following the Effective Date:
(a)
appoint the members of COP in accordance with the regulations set forth 
in PMP, namely representatives of Cultural Institutions and members of civil society, 
assuring equality in numbers between administration officials and members of civil 
society;
(b)
carry out the procurement of goods, works and services pursuant to the 
guidelines set fort in Schedule 3 to this Agreement for Part C of the Project;
(c)
carry out an initial assessment of administrative and technical capacity 
of the Ancient Cities to carry out activities under Part B of the Project; and
(d)
carry out the studies set forth under Part A 4 (a) of the Project.
Page  21
8.
The Borrower shall, within twelve months following the Effective Date:
(a)
submit to the Association, for its review and comments:
(i) 
the revision of 
Loi 72-160 of December 31, 1972, relative à la 
sauvegarde et à 
la mise en valeur du patrimoine natinal, historique, 
préhistorique et 
archéologique, subsequently incorporate the 
views of the Association into a 
revised proposal and promptly thereafter 
submit said proposal to its Council 
of Ministers for approval;
(ii) 
(A) CHF’s draft articles of incorporation, terms of reference of 
internal 
operations; funding guidelines and eligibility 
criteria for activities to be 
funded,  (B) subsequently incorporate 
the views of the Association into a 
revised proposal and 
promptly thereafter submit said proposal to its Council 
of Ministers for approval;
(iii)
CNP’s draft cultural heritage policy framework;
(iv)
a performance report, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association, 
on the implementation of the Initial Program; and
(v)
a feasibility study on participatory financing of activities under 
Part B of 
the Project; and
(b)
establish four CECAs in selected cities in its territory pursuant to Part 
A 5 (b) of the Project.
9.
The Borrower shall, by the time of the Midterm Review, establish CHF pursuant to 
the provisions approved in accordance with the procedures set forth in paragraph 8 (a)  
(ii) of this Schedule.
E:
Eligibility Criteria for the Selection of Subprojects 
10.
Subprojects shall be carried out through Beneficiaries as set forth in the 
Project Manual of Implementation providing for, inter alia, that Subprojects shall not 
be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit unless:
(a)
the activity meets the economic, financial and cultural value criteria 
set forth in the PMP; and
(b)
total financing out of the proceeds of the Credit for a Subproject does 
not exceed the equivalent of US $15,000.
11.
Terms and Conditions for Subsidiary Financing Agreements
A Subproject financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be carried out 
pursuant to a Subsidiary Financing Agreement, to be concluded between BAPEM or a 
selected CECA, as the case may be, and the Beneficiary, in accordance with the 
provisions set forth in paragraph 10 of this Schedule 4 and in more detail in the PMP, 
providing for, inter alia, the following:
(a)
the respective financing percentage of the Subproject provided for out of 
the proceeds of the Credit and the Beneficiary’s contribution cover the total 
investment costs of the proposed Subproject;
(b)
the obligation to repay the amount financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit in regular intervals, including fees and interest;
(c)
the obligation to carry out and maintain the Subproject in accordance 
with the PMP, with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with appropriate 
technical, environmental, financial and commercial practices and to maintain adequate 
Page  22
records in such form and detail as the Borrower may reasonably request;
(d)
the obligation that: (i) goods and works to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit for a Subproject shall be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of Section I of Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and (ii) contracts for 
consultants’ services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit for a 
Subproject shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and that such goods, works and consultants’ services 
shall be used exclusively for the carrying out of the Subproject;
(e)
the right to inspect, by the Borrower or the Association, or jointly with 
qualified representatives of the Association, or the Borrower, if the Association, or 
the Borrower, shall so request, the works, plans, studies and construction sites 
relevant to the Subproject, and any relevant documents;
(f)
the right to appropriate remedies, acceptable to the Association, should 
the carrying out or the maintenance of the Subproject, as the case may be, not conform 
to the regulations set forth in the PMP and the Subsidiary Financing Agreement and 
thereby unfavorably influence the economic return of the Subproject; and
(g)
the right to obtain all such information as the Borrower or the 
Association shall reasonably request, relating to the administration and financial 
condition of the Subproject.
12.
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Financing Agreement 
in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and, except as the Association shall otherwise 
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary 
Financing Agreement or any provision thereof.
ANNEX 5
Implementation and Evaluation Indicators
1.
A national cultural heritage strategy is formulated, enabling the selection of 
cultural operations initiated with the participation of cultural heritage stakeholders 
and potential beneficiaries, as documented in quarterly reviews.
2.
The COP and CNP endorse a participatory decision process and mechanisms 
(inclusive of all groups and cultural heritage promoters) to sustain a cultural 
momentum in the country.
3.
Legislation for protecting and managing  cultural heritage sites and cultural 
assets is approved and enforced.
