Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Z-Aa                Ro
Report No. 9652-RO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ROMANIA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE/CRITICAL IMPORTS LOAN
JUNE 11, 1991
Country Department IV
Country Operations Division
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Leu (plural Lei)
US$1    60 Lei
Leu 1 = US$0.0167
Lei per US Dollar
Official Rate'    Interbank Rate2
1990        November          25                  n.a
1991        April             60                  200 approx.
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
Abbreviations and Acronyms
CMEA                 Council of Mutual Economic Assistance
CONTRANSIMEX         Trading Company for Road Transport
CONVEX               Company for Terminal at Port of Constanza
DC                   Direct Contracting
EC-PHARE             European Economic Commission/Economic Assistance
for the Restructuring of Poland and Hungary
EIB                  European Investment Bank
ERR                  Economic Rate of Reform
GATT                 General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade
GOR                  Government of Romania
ICB                  International Competitive Bidding
IMF                  International Monetary Fund
IS                   International Shopping
MEF                  Ministry of Economy and Finance
MOLSP                Ministry of Labour and Social Protection
MOT                  Ministry of Transport
NAP                  National Agency of Privatization
NBR                  National Bank of Romania
NCS                  National Commission of Statistics
PETROM               Regia Autonoma a Petrolului (Petroleum)
PIU                  Project Implementation Unit
RAL                  Regia Autonoma de Lignitului (Lignite)
RENEL                Regia Autonoma de Electricitate (Electricity)
ROMAGRIMEX           Trading Company for Agricultural Machinery
ROMGAZ               Regia Autonoma a Gazelor Naturale (Natural Gas)
ROMPOST TELECOM      Romanian Post and Telecommunications Administration
SAL                  Structural Adjustment Loan
SMA                  Agricultural Machinery Station
SOCEP                Company fcr Terminal at Port of Constanza
TA                   Technical Assistance
TOR                  Terms of Reference
y The official exchange rate applies to the puachase of foreign exchange that is not retained by exporters
(one-half of their foreign exchange receipts a.e subject to retention), the sale of foreign exchange for
the iwportation of a limited nimber of goods, and certain governrnt transactions.
v The Interbai* rate applies to other foreign exchange transactions. The Interba* arket for foreign
exchr=ge has been established in April 1991.



FOR OMCALM USE ONLY
ROMAN!A
TECHNICAL aSSISTANCE AND CRITICAL IMPORTS PROJECT
STAEF aPPRAISAL REPO9RT3
Table of Contents
Page No.~
LOAN AND QpMRECT SUMMARY        . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           i-vi
I.   JACKGROUBNP
A.  The Economy   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1
B.  Bank Strategy   . . . . . . .   . . . . . . . . . . . . .                5
I. THE- PROJECT
A.  Project Objectives        . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            6
B.  Project Des:ription and Justification   . . . . . . . . .                6
C.  Rationale For Bank Involvement  . . . . . . . . . . . . .                a
D.  Detailed Project Description         . . . . . . . . . . . . .           8
The Technical Assistance Component         . . . . . . . . . .           8
-   National Economic Management   . . . . . . . . . . .                9
-   Accounting and Atlditing    . . . . . . . . . . . . .             10
-   Privatization ak.d Industrial Restructuring    . . . .            11
-   Commercial Banks   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              12
-   Energy Sector Development    . . . . . . . . . . . .              12
-   Irrigation Sector Development         . . . . . . . . . .         13
-   Employment Services and Social Security          . . . . .        14
-   Mining Sector Development    . . . . . . . . . . . .              15
-   National Commission of Statistics          . . . . . . . .        16
-   Project Implementation Unit         . . . . . . . . . . .         16
The Imports Component   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               16
-   Imports for the Petroleum anid Gas Sector   . . . . .             18
-   Imports for the Power Sector   . . . . . . . . . . .              18
-   Imports for the Lignite Mining Sector    . . . . . .              20
-   Imports for the Transportation Sector    . . . . . .              21
-   Imports for the Telecommunications Sector           . . . .       23
-   Imports for the Irrigation Sector    . . . . . . . .              24
-   Imports for Agricultural Machinery   . . . . . . . .              25
-   Environmental Aspects        . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          26
III.  PROJECT COST. FINANCING AND IMPLEMENTATIN  . . . . . . . . .                 27
A.  Project Cost and Financing         . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          27
B.  Onlending Arrangements        . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           30
C.  Project Implementation        . . . . . I . . . . . . . . . .           31
D.  Procurement   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               34
E.  Disbursements   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               35
F.  Accounts and Audits   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               35
IV.  BENEFITS AND RISKS   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                35
V.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION          . . I . . . . . . . .          37
t This ort fs bmse on the findife of pre-aprisetl  w  appraiord  missaim whidc vsited Remnim in
Fxbri'r      Aprf1 1991. Th* oi"sarm eomssted of arff  artmm (task nfr), Anbem Tmntle
(ntifnol economic _Agement), Uwe Richter. Uyon Anerf Chris Chrlstof id  T.T. Shetty (enw).
Kidhwe 1adkamf, HRar Fuchs (irdustry). larbra Lee (privatization) David Cotin (C
coservatfon) Franco Lucca. Peter Vindiotd Nahmad Tirwezi (agriculture) Cv lye Sinclter, Dxlse
Saers (etalyment services), Heinz Iendri& (mining), likote Holcer mnd goslo Chavic
(ettlecsnications). The project Ms  red urder the   srvision of Philipwe NIlytl, Division
Chief, ENV.W, md Euenio Larf, Dlrectoe,E4.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Li
Table of Contents (continued)                                            Rg
MNUNZJ    ANNEX 1:   Institutional and Pricing Issuems  Energy Sector    39
ANNEX 2:   EconomLc BenefLts, Costs, and Risks of the Energy
Components   . . . . . . . . .                   47
ANNEX 3:   Petroleum and Gas Component                         52
ANNEX 4:   Power Component         .                           54
ANNEX 5:  LignLt Mining Component                              59
ANNEX 6:   Imports for Transport Component   . . . . .         66
ANNEX 7s   Imports for Telacommunications Component            68
ANNEX 8:   Irrigation Component    . . . . . . . . .           71
ANNEX 9:   Imports for Agricultural Machinery      .           e81
ANNEX 10:  Schedule of Disbursements . . . ..82
ANNEX 11:  Documents available in Project File    .  * .       83
IABLES     TABLE II s1:  PROJECT COST SUHMARY BY COMPONENT    . . .       28
TABLE III2:  PROJECT COST SUMMARY BY CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURES 29
TABLE III.3:  FINANCING PLAN   . . . . ..29
TABLE III.4: PROCUREMNT ARRANGEMENTS   . . . . . . . .         34
CHARTS     CHART 11.1:  IMPORTS COMPONENTS, OUTPUT EFFECTS AND ECONOMIC
JUSTIFICATION...                               17
CHART 111.1: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION RESPONSIBILITIES  .        32
MEZ        IBRD No. 22907



iii
TRCNIALASSXSTACIAN2 CRITICAL IMPORS PROJUCT
STAFF APPRAISAL RUPORT
Loan and PtroimS&AL uaVj
igliflZR s            Romania'
FUIA   MZUIs         For technical assistance components  Ministry of Economy
and Finance, Ministry of Industries, National Agency of
Privatisation, Ministry of Labor and social Protection,
Ministry of Agriculture, Cooperative Bank, Savings Bank,
Development Bank, Comercial Bank, Agricultural Bank,
Reg a Autonoma A Petrolului (PUTROM), Regia Autonoma de
Lignitulut (RAL).
For import components Regia Autonoma de Zlectricitate
(RENEL), Regia Autonoma a P-trolului (PETROM), Regia
Autonoma a Gazelor Naturale (RONGAZ), Regia Autonoma de
Lignituliu (RAL), Romanian Post and Telecommunications
Company (ROMPOST TeLECOM), Bucharest Metro, Port of
Constanza for terminals operated by CONVEX and SOCeP,
CONTRANSINEX (for buses arId trucking companies),
ROMAGRINEX (for agricultural machtnery), and Ministry of
Agriculture.
IQUEts          US$180 million equivalent
TOM$St                 Fifteen years, including five years of grace, at the
Bank's standard variable interest rate.
esumllJnfnt            Part of the proceeds of the loan would be onlent to
Bucharest Metro, CONTRANSINEX, CONVEX, PETROM, RAL,
RENEL, ROMGAZ, ROMAGRINEX, ROMPOST TELECOM, and SOCEP
for the import component. Funds for the tochnical
assistance components would be onlent to agencies not
fully financed by budgetary transfers, including PETROM,
RAL, Commoercil Bank, Savings Bank, Cooperative Bank,
Agricultural Bank, and the Development Bank. Maximum
maturity periods under the onlending arrangements are 10
years with 3 years of grace. Funds onlont are
denominated in US$ terms or in Deutsche Mark and carry
an interest rate of LZBOR or VISOR plus a minimum of 1.5
percent for the US dol).ar or DM loans, respectively.
ki TMe prwl i_ of 3t., the sociltst Rq"tlc of bInsf a no tqeW _intuntd. A nw m
wlt be dicd ed  the nw cnnstltutlmn, pre_tty .ulh prqamtfon.



iv
9ZjC M5gtZiyis   The project would provides  5i) technical a*olstance to
support the ongoing economic reform process in the
formulatLon and LmpleaentatLon of macroeconomlc and
sectoral policy programs; and (ii) forelgn exchange for
the import of ossential spare parts and equlpment to the
irrigation, t-lecommunioations, power, lignite,
petroleum, gas and transportatlon sectors and for
agricultural machinery to *ustaln output performanco,
which is threatened due to serlous foreign exchange
constraints and dLilocations caused by the transition
from a planned to a market economy.
PROJECT DESCRIPTION: The project includes a technlcal assistance and an
import component. The technLcal assistance (TAI
component would support: (i) national macro conomie
mAnacement to prepare fiscal, pricing, budgetlng,
investment plannlng, and legal reforms; (ii) strategy
formulation and pricing reforms in the enerav soctor,
the definition of sectoral restructuring programs in the
industrial sector and support for the Drivatization of
industrial enterprises, services and housing; (iii) the
establishment of an efficient service to administer
unemployment bonefits, improve labor market information,
provide emsloyment advioory serviceo and retraLiang
activities, and support reforms of the social security
system; (iv) support to the National Commiision of
StatLnieta to improve proessiLng and evaluation of
statistics; (v) strategic studies, training plans, and
assessments for computer requirements, for commerciaI
bankss and (vi) sector studies in the irrLaatLon and
eneroy sectors, and advisory services to establish an
internationally recognized accountlna and auditLnU
profession.
The imoorts comoonent would provide spare parts and
equipment financing for: (i) the transoortatLon sector,
including the Port of Constanza, the Bucharest NMero,
and for road transportation; (ii) spare parts and
equipment financing for: two major oowMr plants,
Turceni and Rovinari, and to the lignite mines supplying
lignite to these power plants; (iii) 2etroleum and cas
wells; (lv) the telecommunications system; (v)
LrL$atLon system; and (vi) aoricultural machinery.
yE FITS AND RISKgs   The project, through its technical assistance program,
is expected to support the ongoing economic reform
program in Romania, which is proceeding boldly, but
where policy decisions often are taken without full
knowledge of pollcy optlons, due to unfamlilarity with
market economLes and lack of knowledge of policies
pursued ln other countries. The imports component is
deslgned to maintain productlon in selected key sectors,



v
DUNEPITS AND RISKS:   targeted for import financlng under the proposod
(contLnued)         program. Aggregate output effects of the proposed
project are estimated to be subutantlal. Value wr annual
production of the energy components alone is estlmated
to amount to US$ 421 million.
Possible political instability leading to changes of key
personnel is a risk to successful implementatlon of this
program. Lignite production may not be sufficient to
feed the Turconi and Rovinari power plants equipped
under the import component. The mining component
included under this project is designed to minimize this
risk. Through careful specification of goods to be
imported and targeting of imports to selected economic
activities, output effects are expected to be assured in
the short - term. Maintaining production in the longer
term, would depend on continuing economic reforms,
particular in the areas of price liberalization and the
establishment of efficient foreign exchange markets to
assure access to imported spare parts and equipment in
the future. Longer - term project success thus depends
on continuing economic reforms. Future Bank adjustment
and investment lending is expected to play an important
role in helping to suctain this reform process.



vl
USS Million
NSTIUN=O PROJ3CT COSTS                  osi            LQghl         29ASl
Technical Asistance                   23.0           13.0          36.0
Imports Component                     174.4          526.4
197.4          65A.
UsS Million
PINANCING PLAN:                    FQr*in       Local       Total    erc-nta^a
IBRD                             :180.0          -       180.0         68
EIBS                              17.4           -       17.4           7
Government/BeneficLarLes             -         665.0                    2
lA197.4     IA 0                   Ill
USS MLllion
ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENNT           1922                      1994       1995
(IBRD Fiscal Year)
Annual                           120            35          20          5
Cumulative                       120           155         175        180
SCONOMIC RATE Or RETURNt      Not appllcable
a ElI WI1 prwvtde 1U017.4 silt1io for cofflnwicr of tX pumw cspornrnt.



TUCUNICAL ASSX STANCE AND CRITICAL IMtP RT PROJECT
A. Trhe Rcongm=
1.1         Romania is one of the largest of the former centrally-planned
economies in the Central and East European Region with a land area of 237,000
sruare kilometers, and a population of 23 million. The country has a wide
range of natural resources, including a fertile agricultural base, large
depouitu of coal and lignite, oil and natural gas, and scattered mineral
doposits. Long a major food producer, Romania was a large not exporter of
agricultural products until the early eighties.
1.2         The Communist Party came into power in 1948 and quickly installed
central planning and nationalized most privately-held property. In the early
fifties, it instituted a strategy of vigorous, self-sufficient
industrialization. Building on the large domestic hydrocarbon resources, the
country invested heavily in refining and upstream chemical plants, and
established a large machine-building industry. Despite a lack of attention to
consumer goods industries and the service sector and a highly energy intensive
development pattern, the strategy wai reasonably successful for a time, rates
of growth averaged between 6-8 percent per annum until the late seventies.
1.3         In the aftermath of the second oil shock (1979), Romania
experienced a sudden withdrawal if short-term foreign credits. The action had
wrenching political and economic effects resulting, by 1981, in a cessation of
foraign borrowing and ultimately culminating in a decision to repay all
foreign debt. These decisions had very negative economic and social
consequences for the nation. Import of modern machinery and equipment was
almost halted, leaving a legacy of obsolete and depreciated capital. Growth
slowed substartially and, at the end of the decade, production and per capita
Lncomes were probably no higher than at the beginning. While investment
remained high during the eighties, most of it was channelled towards existing,
inefficient industries. Moreover, in the latter half of the decade,
investment was progressively diverted to huge and unproductive "showcase"
projects at the behest of an increasingly autocratic ruler.
1.4         In December 1989, the Ceaucescu regime, which had ruled Romania
for more than two decades, came to a sudden and violent end. In May 1990, a
coalition of parties, the National Salvation Front, won large majorities in
the country's first post-revolution elections. After the revolution, the
Government restored civic freedom, shortened the workweek from six to five
days, released the restrlctions against imports of consumer goods and
reJLrectod some energy supplies from industry to households. The Government
took important steps to initiate economic reforms:  (i) framework legislation
for privatization was enacted, and the transformation of State enterprisesinto
joint stock companies was begun; (Li) land reform was initLated; (ill)



2
restrictions on private enterprise were largely removed; (iv) the monopoly cf
the State over foreign trade was eliminated, and the official exchange was
dovalued by a cumulative 60 percent; (v) prices in rural markets were freed,
followed by a first ,.age price reform (in November 1990) in which about half
of the previously regulated prices were also freed, and administered prices
for some important industrial inputs, including crude oil, were raised
approximately to international levels.
1.5         During the first quarter of 1991, Parliament legislated a new law
on unemployment benefits, a banking law establishing an independent central
bank and commercial banks, and a law on foreign investment. To replace the
previous ad hoc exchange controls, the Government introduced a dual exchange
rate system, involving partial foreign exchange retention rights and an
interbank market, as an explicitly temporary mechanism during the transition
towards establishment of full currency convertibility. A transitional tariff
structure was put in place, with a permanent scheme under preparation
consistent with GATT. A strict stabilization program for 1991 was adopted
with support from an IMF standby and a compensatory fund facility, both
approved in April. This program entails firm budgetary discipline (with a
maximum budgetary deficit of 1.5 percent of GDP) and tight monetary and credit
ceilings. A second phase price reform took place on April 1, 1991, coupled
with a 71 percent devaluation of the domestic currency, and full
liberalization of interest rates. An incomes policy was imposed in January
1991 to prevent a wage-price spiral in reaction to the administered price
increases. A system of monthly compensation to workers and pensioners for
these price increases was introduced to soften the impact on household
incomes.
1.6         Further legislation to implement privatization of commercial
enterprises is nearly finalized. The privatization of land is progressing
rapidly--almost 70 percent of agricultural land is now estimated to be
privately owned as a result of the new Land Law, compared to only 10 percent
in 1989. New la.es on competition and liquidation are expected to be enacted
during the present year. Work is proceeding to prepare a major reform of
taxation (a value added tax and an income tax are planned to be introduced in
1993) and of the tariff regime. A broad scale decentralization of Government
functions, including expenditure and revenue authority to new local
governments is also underway. The Government has indicated its intention to
undertake ambitious reforms of social policy, including the reforms of
pensions, and the health and education policy, which are essential to improve
productivity, while developing an adequate safety net and ensuring sound
public finances.
1.7         The rapid breakdown of previous structures of command and control
in the economy during this first year of the new era resulted, predictably, in
severe disruptions of domestic supply and trade patterns. Two major external
shocks--a 40 percent increase in oil prices and the accelerating breakdown of
the CMEA--contributed to sharp reductions in exporhs and in supplies of *nergy
and raw materials. During 1990, industrial output iaclined by 20 percent and
overall GDP by 10 percent. The current account shifted from the artificially
high surplus maintainid under the Ceaucescu regime to a deficit of 7 percent
of GDP, financed entirt-Y by a drawdown of reserves. Initial wage increases



3
following the revolution permitted a surge in private cornumptLon. With a
decllne in budgetary revenues accompanying theme developments, the previous
budgetary surplus war elimlnated during the year but the budget remained in
balance, mainly due to a sharp cut in investment expenditures.
1.8         Eccnomic growth deteriorated further in the first quarter of
1991, with industrial output declining 17 percent compared to the same period
of 1993. The decline in industrial p,roduction in the first quarter war mainly
concentrated in heavy and energy-intensive industries (coal mining and
metallurgy, machine-building, transport equipment, chemicals), while
electrical equipment, household appliance, food and beverages, showed declines
below 10 percent. While exports are more sluggish tthan expected, fiscal
developments have been encouraging so far and monetary indicators have been
kept within the limits of the Standby program. Continued output declines are
attributed to uncertainty in the enterprise sector concerning the actual
authority of managers, inefficiencies of State enterprises, bottlenecks in the
supply of inputs, both imported and domestic; workei. indiscipline ("the
psychology of revolution"); the incomplete status of price liberalization,
which has squeezed certain subsectors and inefficient State enterprises
generally; and, the collapse of markets in the former CMEA member countries,
particularly the Soviet Union, and in the Gulf region.
1.9          In the first quarter of 1991, trade in convertible currencies was
well below expected levels for both imports and exports. The convertible
currency trade deficit for the quarter was US$611 million, to be measured
against a total deficit of US$1590 million for the year as anticipated by the
IMP program.  External financing remains insufficient.  The IMF program had
estimated a financing gap of about US$1.0 billion in 1991, based on the
anticipated level of production and exports, and after taking into account the
likely resources available from the IMF and the Bank.
1.10        Romania is embarking on the reform path with two distinct
advantages not shared by the other formerly socialist countries in the regions
it meets a substantial share (70 percent) of its energy consumption
requirement through domestic production, and it entered the transition period
with virtually no external debt--an advantage won at bitter cost to the
economy and the population. Like its neighbors, Romania also has a relatively
well-educated work force and low labor costs, which should facilitate its
economic recovery and its ability to attract foreign investment once economic
reform and stabilization programs are firmly established. But, Romania also
has several strikes against it. Because the, previous regime was centralized
and autarkic to the extreme and practiced the most distorted allocation of
resources in the region, Romania will have a greater task than the other
countries of the area to develop its institutiond, upgrade its capital stock,
and adjust to the behavior and attitudes needed to create a modern market
economy. Considering its political and economic heritage, Romania has made
remarkable progress in introducing economic reform measures. The present
Government seems to have a clear vision of the required policy reforms and
appeArs prepared to implement them decisively. To achieve this objective,
Romania requiree coneiderable external assistance, both technical and
financial.



4
D.  hank S%rU t-av
1.11        Romani. initlated discussionm with the Bank and the IMF early in
1990 after Bank lending had been discontinued in 1982. The firat mission
visited Bucharest in March 1990. Romania clearly indicated its intention to
dav*lip a new relationship with the Bank and has requested economic advice on
a wlde range of matters, including among others the design of a social safety
not, the protection of the environment, and the assessment of public
investment pro,rams. It has further requested assistance for import
financing, adjustment lending, and technical assistance programsc
1.12        Due to repayment of all foroign debt under the Ceaucescu regime,
Romania has very favourable creditworthiness indicators. But creditworthiness
will depend on the restoratton of sustainable economic growth. Bank
interventions through adjustment and investment lending will need to help the
creation of a conducive economic environment, which fosters efficient economic
growth.
1.13        The Bank's lending program for Romania will reflect the country's
size and '-Is strength of its economic reform efforts. The Bank'si strategy in
Romania has several mutually reinforcing themes:
(a)  The proposed operation, the first in Romania since 1982, is
designed to encourage an almost instantaneous supply response by
putting back on line productive facilities crippled by lack of
imported spare parts. This would help halt the economic slide
that started in 1989.
(b)  An adequate social safety net is a prerequisite to the changes
needed for the transition from autocratic central planning to a
pluralistic market-based economy. The Bank's efforts in the
human resource area will be designed to build a social security
system and to strengthen human capital. A health services
project has been appraised, and future ope, -'ions in employment
and training and in education are being co.. 'Jered.
(c)  Romania has little external debt, but its physical iafrastructure
was so greatly neglected during Ceausescu's draconian import
compression that it now constrains economic growth. An important
part of future Bank strategy will be to improve the existing
infrastructure. A technica& assistance project for the
infrastructure sectors, recently appraised, will prepare lending
interventions in these sectors.
(d)  Assuming that Romania's present receptivity to Bank advice
continues, policy-based lending will be an important part of the
Bank lending program. A sustained, robust supply response will
depend on Romania's ability to create a climate beneficial to
rapid private sector development. The explicit goal of the
structural adjustment loan will be designed to help create such a
climate. Future policy-based loans will concentrate on
particular areas important to a sustained supply response,



5
especially enterprise privatization, financial modernization,
energy pricing, and the environment.
(s)  Investment operations in productive sectors will reinforce the
private sector development effort. The first operatic. in the
agricultural sector will be a Private Fanmers' Support Project,
the target beneficiaries of which will be the private farmers.
(f)  Efficient growth will depend to a large extent on efforts to
restructure and privatize large and inefficient industrial
enterprises, and policy reform and institutLoan building is
needed to lay the basis for efficient financial intermediation.
Interventions in the financial and industrial sector are likely
to figure prominently in our lending program.
II. -    R
A. Proleot Obiectlves
2.1         The project's objective is to provide urgent assistance to the
Government of Romania for two essential activitiess
-    To provide technical assistance to Government for the formulation
of strategies and policies to promote and accelerate the
transition to a market economy.
*    To help avoid further decreases in production while Government
designs and starts implementing its program of economic reforms.
Continued decline in production is likely to make the reform
process unsustainable due to social dislocations leading to
increasing pressures for a slowdown of reforms. It is thus
necessary to help maintain or restore output performance in key
sectors of the economy.
B. Plect Denacriotin and Jultification
2.2         The project comprises first, a technical assistance component
which would:
Help define restructuring policies for Lndustrial ent rriaes and
support Privatization and private sector development in industry,
services and housing.
Support national economic managemnnt through advisory services
for reform in the fiscal, pricing, budget, and investment
planning systems and for legal reforms which are underway.
Help establish an internationally recognized accounting and
auditing system.



6
*    Help define strategic plans, training plan. and computer hardware
requirements for commercial banks.
*    Provide assistance in  nenrao  pricing and energy strategy
formulation; undertake audits for gas and oil exploration and
assessments of the hydrocarbon potential, and provide management
support to the lignite mining sector.
*    Undertake a comprehensive irrigation sector study.
*    Help create efficient employment services through financing
computer equipment, training staff who administer unemployment
benefits, and assessing the social security system.
*    Provide the National Commission of Statistics with adequate
computer equipment.
2.3         Second, the project includes an imoorts component for the
financing of critical imports of spare parts and equipment for key production
units in essential productive sectors of the economy. Specifically, the
project would provide spare parts and equipment for the power, petroleum, gas,
mining, irrigation, telecommunications and transportation sectors, and provide
spare parts for the agricultural machinery. In addition, management support
would be provided to the lignite mining sector, to ensure that the spare parts
firanced under the project would lead to the restoration production of
previous years.
2.4         Justification for the Imports Comonent.  Output performance has
continuously declined in Romania over the last 18 months, due to inadequate
foreign exchange allocation for the purchase of spare parts. This has led to
a drastic decline in capacity utilization and rapid falls in production.
Declining domestic production of spare parts has exacerbated the situation,
particularly for the transportation network, and the power, petroleum, and
agricultural sectors.
2.5         The proposed imports component is justified by the fact that
Romania has undertaken very substantial economic reforms, which the Bank is
preparing to support through a SAL in the near future. Since the GOR faces an
acute shortage of foreign exchange, the proposed operation is an immediate
response to avoid further deterioration in the economic fabric of the country.
The investment program rests on the assumption that the Bank will became
involved in Romania with adjustment and sector investment lending operations.
These will need to address outstanding sectoral pricing reforms and support
the establishment of an efficient foreign exchange market, to ensure Later
sJl" that beneficiaries included in the operation will contin.e to have access
to foreign exchange beyond the life of the project. Without such a follow up,
the benefits of the project would be short-lived.
2.6         Care has been exercised to ensure that the imports component does
not interfere with the economic reform by artificially strengthening units
which should not survive after the reform. Thus, the program would provide
foreign exchange financing only to those productive units which are considered



7
a priori economically viable in the competitive environment of a market
economy, or which will retain for some time a character of public utility.
Sector and economic activities included in the imports component were selected
after an assessment of existing competitiveness or projected competitiveness
after only minor restructuring or management improvements. Sectors which
require major restructuring, and where comparative advantage remains
uncertain, such as the industrial sector and most of the agricultural sector,
have been excluded from the project, since they will need detailed sectoral
analyses before any investment in them can be economically justified.
C. Rationale for Bank Involvamnt
2.7         The Bank's economic mission which visited Romania in November
1990 has undertaken a detailed analysis of the economic reform program
launched by the Government. It has found the program courageous and
comprehensive, and it endorses its broad directions. A Stand-by agreement was
approved by the IMF in April 1991 which initiated the implementation of a
stabilization program and provided the framework for strict macro-economic
discipline. The Bank is preparing a Structural Adjustment operation
(scheduled for Board presentation in December 1991) which will support the
reform program for the major economic sectors, and investment operations are
also under preparation.
2.8         In spite of Romania's negligible external debt, commercial
lenders do not yet seem prepared to extend financing, and due to the continued
political uncertainties in the country, other donors, such as the group of 24
represented though the EEC, have only recently initiated negotiations with the
Government of Romania. Their financial assistance has so far been largely
limited to humanitarian aid. Because of the collapse of the CMEA and for
other reasons, foreign exchange reserves are very low.
2.9         Given the importance of the reform measures already undertaken,
and of the hesitancy of other donors to provide external resources, rapid
involvement of the Bank in the financing of the urgently needed foreign
exchange requirements for critical sectors is vital, to avoid further collapse
of the production system, and to assure the sustainability of the
stabilization program.
D. Detailed Proiect Description
The Technical Assistance Component IUSS23.0 million)
2.10        The technical assistance program would provide support for:
* National Economic Management
* Accounting and Auditing
* Privatization and Industrial Restructuring
* Commercial Banks
* Energy Sector Maintenance
* Irrigation Sector Maintenance
* Employment Services and Social Security
* Mining Sector Maintenance



8
* National Comission of Statistlcs
* The Project Impl.montatLon Unlt
The proposed program has been coordinated with EC-PHARE but no formal co-
financlng arrangements hava been made, as flnal financlng decisions under the
EC-PHAAE program are still pendlng. Some flexlbllity ln the implementation of
technical assiLtance components would be requlred to coordlnate wlth other
donors providlng financing for tochnical assLstance.
National Economic Manauement IUS92.6 millions
2.11        Lack of famillarlty with markot economLes and the lack of
analytlcal tools to analyze, monltor and forecast economic developments are
serious impediments to successful implementation of economlc reforms in
Romania. The objective of the component is to strengthen the Natlonal Reform
Council and the MinLstry of Economy and Finance (NEF) to imprGre policy
analyLsi, forecasting and policy formulation. The Reform Council was
establlihed to assume the leadlng role ln conceptualizing and implementing the
economic reform program, while the ME? is charged with implementing the more
routlne features of economlc management. As the tasks of the Reform Councll
and the MEF are dlrectly linked, careful coordlnation between the two
instltutions is required. As the Reform Councll has so far been primarily
involved in the preparatlon of laws, an upgrading of economlc sk'lls L needed
to conceptualLze economlc and legal reforms. In MEF, TA is needed to
strengthen macroeconomlc analysis, with particular amphasis glven to the
development of some technical skllls, such as model buildlng to improve
forecasting, balance of payments analysis, fiscal analysis, trade, and
monetary policies.
2.12        The Reform Councl would receive support to:  (i) enhance the
conceptualization and strategy formulation of the Council, its ability to
undertake key economlc analysi of issues and add an economlc perspective ln
its consLderatLon of all reform-related activlties; and (ii) strengthen the
legal capacity of the Council by givlng lt flexibillty and rosources to access
external legal assistance in the drafting and review of laws. The TA
component would finance one generalist development economist (15 months) and
one macroeconomist (12 months). The general economist would help integrate
the work of MEF lnto the work of the Council; the macroeconomi-t would help ln
the preparation of short-term pollcy analysis and provide macroeconomic policy
advice to the Deputy Prime Nlnister ln charge of the Council. In addltlon,
the component would finance 24 months of short-term consultancy assignments,
primarily for the draftlng of special laws, where legal expertise from other
European countries is required, travel funds for attendance at semLnars and
tralnlng abroad, and 20 personal computers along with related equipment.
2.13        Support to the Ministry of Economy and Flnance would consLst of
providing hlgh level Economic Advisor (18 months) to the Deputy Prime Minister
for Economic AffaLrs, who is also the responsLble mlnlster for MEF. The
economic advLsor would assLit the Deputy Prime MinLster in overall pollcy
formulation. At the same time, the advisor would supervise the work of other
long-term consultants provlded to the MEF and the Reform Council and Lntegrate
it into a coherent program. Other advlsors proposed to be financed under the



9
loan, are one quantitative methods specialist (12 months), one international
monetary/trade economist (12 months), and one advisor (12 months) to work with
the task force on the review of the unfinlhed and proposed public
investments. In addition, the TA would provide financing for 24 months of
short-term consultants for analysis and training in much areas as national
accounts, forecasting methods, statistical analysis, fiscal, monetary and
labor analysis. Short-term training abroad in such areas as national income
accounting, macroeconomic modelling and statistics, and 50 personal computers,
partly equipped with supplementary features, required for economic modeling
would also be provided. Short-term consultants would also be used to assist
the advisor on public investment programming in specialized sectors, where
major investment decisions need to be taken.
2.14        The objective of the advisor assisting with public investment
reviews would be to: (i) help institutionalize a system of investment
programming; and (ii) help prepare an investment program for investments which
are fully funded by the central government's budget, and for investments for
semi-autonomous agencies. Appropriate investment planning and priority
setting is of overriding concern in Romania where many of the major capital
intensive investments, begun under the previous regime, remain unfinished, and
major additional public investments are required to position the economy to
compete in a market economy.  Aareement has been reached during negotiations
that by August 31, 1992, the GOR would present for Bank review and comments,
an investment program for investments funded by the Government central budget
and by semi-autonomous agencies. Specifically, the GOR would submit for Bank
reviews (i) the proposed public investment program for fiscal year 1993; and
(ii) a program of financial allocations and a timetable for completion of
priority projects selected from the portfolio of unfinished projects. GOR
would uubsequently proceed with implementation of the investment program as
agreed upon during joint review.
2.15        The component would be implemented by the MEF and supervised by
the economic advisor to the Deputy Prime Minister. To assure that the two
long-term advisors provided to the Council of Reform and the four advisors
provided to the NEF operate as a team and provide for closer coordination
between the Reform Council and the MEF, efforts would be made to recruit the
group under one contract from a single consulting organization. This
organization would then also be responsible for all logistical arrangements.
TORs for long-term consultants have been agreed with the GOR; TORs for short-
term consultancies are being prepared and would be approved throughout project
implementation.
Accountino and Auditina IUSSO.4 millions
2.16        Romania does not have as yet the accounting and auditing capacity
required in market economies to provide reliable information on the financial
status and performance of enterprises and banks to existing and potential
investors and creditors, and to the managements of the enterprises and the
banks to take sound decisions in an increasingly competitive environment. A
law has recently been passed to establish the introduction of accounting and
auditing regulations and standards conforming with international norms. The
law will need to be complemented by an appropriate institutional and



10
regulatory framework, and the development of an accounting and auditing
profession operating according to international standards and practices. The
objective of the component is to provide initial assistance to the MEF in the
development of a modern accounting and auditing system, and to help establish
an accounting and auditing profession. The component would finance a resident
advisor to MEF as well as consultancy services for the Accounting and Auditing
Institute, soon to be established, which would be responsible for the
certification and development of accountante and auditors in Romania.
Provision is also made for short overseas study tours and training.
Privptization and Industrial Restructuring (USS2.4 million)
2.17        The Romanian industrial sector needs to undertake major
restructuring efforts. Prospecte for survival of many industries are
weakened by changes in relative prices and the breakdown of the CMEA system.
Major parts of the industrial sector will need to be privatized or liquidated
and enterprises will need to be restructured in order to establish a
competitive production system. The privatization component has been designed
to assist the National Agency for Privatization (NAP) in: (i) designing and
formulating a general privatization strategy and legislation; (ii)
conceptualizing the institutional structures for exercising ownership; (iii)
developing techniques for small-scale privatization; (iv) carrying out on a
pilot basis a limited number of operations for privatization of state
enterprises; and (v) providing support to the NAP through advisory services
and study tours.
2.18        Under the Industrial Restructuring Program, support would be
provided to: (i) define sectoral strategies for industrial restructuring and
the definition of the appropriate institutional framework to implement
restructuring programs; and (ii) develop model restructuring programs for
seven or eight enterprises, selected from different subsectors, including
ferrous and non-ferrous metals, petrochemicals, machine building, electronics
and electromechanics as well as construction materials. only enterprises
expected to become economically viable would be selected for restructuring.
The preparation of these restructuring programs by joint teams of external
consultants and Romanian experts would serve as demonstration cases. They
would be disseminated widely to show various analytical and forecasting
approaches. Selection of enterprises for the inclusion of model restructuring
would be based on the certainty in their ownership and governance and the
strong commitment of their managements to the restructuring process.
2.19        The EC-PHARE program is expected to have an important involvement
in industrial privatization and restructuring. Financing indications for
this component remain preliminary, and might become subject to reallocation.
Preliminary allocation provides for US$1.0 million of advisory services, study
tours and some selected equipment to the NAP. US$1.4 million has been
allocated to the Ministry of Industries for the provision of two senior
resident advisors (12 person-months each for one financial analyst and one
economist) directly associated with the Minister of Industry. The comnponent
would further provide for study tours, training, and some hardware with
related software and training. The component would finance 55 person-months



21
of consultancies for the enterprise restructuring teams establishing model
restructuring program.
Commercial Banks IUSS2.0 million)
2.20         Substantial reforms will be required to transform the banking
system in Romania to meet the requirements of a market economy. The National
Bank of Romania (NBR) has now been restructured am a central bank performing
typical central banking functions much as bank supervision and the
.mplementation of monetary policy. NBR is receiving substantial assistance
under bilateral programs from the IMF central banking department and from
consultants funded by the EC-PHARE Program.  The TA component would,
therefore, focus on support to the newly-establ!shed commercial banks.
Commercial banks are being transformed into profit-oriented companies which
are expected to opsrate independently from the budget and to provide full
banking services. However, the portfolio situation of the banks is bleak, as
a large proportion of loans outstanding are non-performing, because public
enterprises are unable to repay their obligations. Audits and portfolio
reviews will need to be undertaken urgently to assess accurately the financial
situation of the banks. Audits and portfolio reviews as of June 30, 1991 or
December 31, 1991 are expected to be financed under the EC-PHARE Program. The
TA component would provide financing for the preparation of strategic plans,
staff training plans and assessments of computer hardware requirements for the
Commercial Bank, the Development Bank, the Agricultural Bank, the Cooperative
Bank, and (possibly) the Savings Bank. Studies to be financed under the EC-
PHARE and this TA program are essential for the restructuring of the banking
system and would provide the basis for future lending interventions in the
financial system.
Enerav Sector Develo2ment (USS3.8 million)
2.21        The objective of this component is to:  (i) prepare an energy
cost and oricina studv; (ii) provide advisory services to GOR to prepare
recommendations on an appropriate system and level of energy prices and to
design a program of full price liberalization and/or economic regulation; and
(iii) finance an enerayv olicv advisor to the Ministry of Industry who would
assist in analyzing projected energy demand, institutional, policy, and
investment requirements to meet future energy demand and facilitate external
sources of additional capital and technical assistance. The component would
also provide for some computer equipment and related training for selected
staff involved in policy formulation at the Ministry of Industries, which is
responsible for the energy sector. The component would further finance two
important studies for the petroleum and gas sectors: an Oil and Gas Reserves
Audit and Assessment of Operations; and an Evaluation of Hydrocarbon Pros2ects
in Romania. Given the importance of appropriate energy pricing for supply and
demand of energy, agreement has been reached during negotiations that a
program for pricing reforms in the energy sector be presented to the Bank no
later than September 1, 1992. Based on the recommendations of the Energy Cost
and Pricing Study, the program would present proposals for pricing reforms in
electricity, hydrocarbon, coal/lignite and district heat to ensure that prices
cover economic cost. GOR would subsequently implement pricing reforms as
agreed upon between the Bank and GOR during joint review.



12
2.22        The objective of the oil and gas audit is to update oil and gas
reserve estimates for Romania. The study would identify the optimum depletion
plan for oil and gas reserves, and establish the economic priorities for
implementing this plan. The study would formulate an oil and gas production
policy and would also introduce advanced technology for reservoir evaluation.
The study would make recommendations regarding technological requirements,
appropriate computer systems, as well as the reluted institutional training
needs. The objective of the evaluation of hydrocarbon prospects in to provide
a synthesis of hydrocarbon potential of each major sedimentary basin of
Romania. The study is to develop depositional models which would allow better
understanding and prediction of the country's petroleum prospects. It would
interpret and integrate geological, geophysical, engineering and logging data
with the detailed study of rock properties. The study would also utilize
atellite imagery technology to prepare an updated and modern geological map
of Romania. The study is expected to be of major importance in attracting
private investors in the hydrocarbon sector.
Irrioation Sector Development (USS2.7 millionl
2.23        Technical assistance would be provided to carry out a major
irrigation sector review. Technical assistance in the agricultural sector is
limited to this one study, as grant financing is expected to be provided
through the EC-PHARE program for a sector study in agroindustries and advisory
services for agricultural policy formulation. Irrigation is a key subsector
for agriculture since almost one third of all arable land (more than 3 million
ha) is irrigated. The technical and economic viability of many of existing
schemes is uncertain. The irrigation sector study (155 person months) would
be an important effort in assessing the role of irrigation in the altered
economic conditions of a market economy. It would examine the viability of
various established schemes, make restructuring proposals taking into account
competitive conditions, provide recommendations regarding appropriate
irrigation and drainage technology, and investigate the impact of
privatization on on-farm irrigation. Consultants would further assess the
required level of operation and maintenance expenditures and recommend levels
of water charges. The study is essential for the preparation of a
comprehensive structuring and investment program in the irrigation sector.
2.24        The irrigation study would be carried out in three phases (see
also Annex 8 for detailed description). Phase one would undertake a review of
completed documents and data and make a selection of typical schemes for
detailed study under the second phase. In order to facilitate an overall
assessment of different types of the irrigation study area, some typical
schemes would be selected for more detailed examination. The results of this
first phase should be presented in the form of an inception report, with
special emphasis on the criteria for the selection of the typical schemes and
the issues which would be studied in greater detail in succeeding phases.
Consultant services in the second phase should cover: (i) the preparation of
a near-term investment program for immediate preparationu (ii) the detailed
examination of the issues concerning irrigation, drainage, soil erosion, and
the preparation of preliminary designs and cost estimates for the selected
schemos in the three zones. Consultants should also examine the present and



13
future cropping patterns, local and international marketing, and carry out
economlc evaluation of the selected schemes on the basis of the proposed
remodelling/renovation measures. In the third phase, the consultants should
prepare a ten-year program of development and rehabililtation, based on
technical and economic priorities. Furthermore, the consultants would prepare
the first five-year tranche of thli prlority program.
2.25        Agreement has been reached during negotiations, that the GOR
would ensure that no later than September 30, 1992, the first phase of the
project would be completed and an immediate priority investment program be
presented. By August 31, 1993, the second and third phases of the project
would be completed, including the ten-year prioritized indicative program and
a detailed five-year investment program. Promptly upon completion of each
phase of the study, the GOR would exchange views with the Bank on the findings
of the study and arrange joint meetings between the Bank, representatives of
the GOR and the consultants to review the findings, to formulate the
recomendationr on the proposed investments and to agree on the direction and
the contents of the remaining phases of the study.
Emolovment Services and Social Security ComDonent IUSS3.6 million)
2.26        Romania will experience significant levels of unemployment, as
the country makes the transition from a planned to a market economy.
Unemployment has already grown rapidly as uncompetitive factories close down
and redundant labor is released from overstaffed companies. Redundant workers
still employed are estimated at 500,000 (5 percent of the total labor force).
To avoid undue economic hardships and to assure social peace in a country
unfamiliar with open unemployment, administrative capacities need to be
created to register unemployed workers, to pay unemployment benefits, to
provide for labor market information, and to offer possibilities for
retraining. Sufficient financial resources have been earmarked under a
special fund to finance unemployment benefits, but the Ministry of Labor and
Social Protection (MOLSP) has insufficient administrative capacity to handle
such numbers of unemployed. Furthermore, the social security system will
requLre extensive modifications to adapt to the needs of a market-based
economy, including the creation of an independent social insurance fund and
the creation of a pension fund.
2.27        The employment and social security component would consist of
seven subcomponents, which would:
* improve the labor market information system and develop Living
Standard Measurement Surveys (22 person months consultancy, 20
person months of fellowships);
* improve employment counseling, job search and labor exchange
techniques (15 person months consultancies, 6 person months
fellowships);
*  improve productivity, promote inward investment and enhance labor
force mobility by retraining the unemployed and improving
qualification of low/semiskilled workers to improve their ability



14
to react to structural unemployment (5 person months
consultancies, 4 person months fellowships);
*  assist in generating employment by activating local institutions,
mechanisms and systems to *upport the creation and expansion of
employment and private micro-enterprises by the unemployed (10
person months consultancies, 4 person months fellowships);
*  for the social insurance program, assist in designing an
independent social insurance fund, in specifying staff training
needs to manage the fund, in identifying measures to insure the
emerging private sector, and identify measures to improve benefit
payments (14 person months consultancies, 3 person months of
fellowships);
*  automate 170 district offices and the national offices through
provision of equipment (personal computers) and advisory services
(20 person months of consultants and 8 person months of
fellowships) for establishment of a comprehensive automation plan
of employment services;
*  provide financing for a project implementation advisor (9 person
months), located in the coordination unit of MOLSP and 15 person
months of fellowships, to assure the appropriate and timely
implementation of this complex component.
Mining Sector Development (USSO.9 million)
2.28        Declines ir production in the mining sector have been
particularly serious during the last 18 months, mostly due to a shortening of
the work week, to unavailability of some essential spare parts and to bad
management. The component would therefore provide financing for a management
consulting contract (37 person months) to introduce a better use of the
existing capital stock and employment of labor. The mining component directly
complements the imported spare part component for the power sector. The
objective of the component is to assure adequate levels of production to
supply the two major power plants, Turceni and Rovinari, equipped under the
import component of the project (see paras. 2.34 to 2.41). The management
consultants wouldt (i) assist in organizing the mines more efficiently to
assure productivity increases at its major low cost surface mines; and (ii)
prepare a proposal for long-term productivity improvements. Agrement has
been reached during negotiations that the GOR would present to the Bank for
review and comment, no later -han January 31, 1993, an action program on: (i)
how to improve RAL's economic and financial viability; and (ii) how to ensure
in future adequate lignite supplies to the Rovinari and Turceni power plants
in line with additional capacities to be restored under the second phase
rehabilitation program. The action program should propose measures on how to
significantly increase production from low-cost surface mines while decreasing
production from inefficient underground mining. GOR would subsequently
implement restructuring measures as agreed upon during joint review.



15
MaKonal Commission of Statistic  iUSS3.0 million)
2.29        The objactive of the component is to support the National
Commission of Statistics (NCS) in the processing and analysiR of statistics
required for the monitoring of economic development in a market-based system.
Under the previous regime, production data had been falsified systematically
to hide shortfalls in production in respect to Plan targets. Unusual progress
has been made by the NCS to correct and adjust the statistics system of the
country. NCS is already issuing a number of regular publications which
monitor important indicators. Progress made is partly due to management
having shown unusual initiative in setting up twinning arrangements with other
statistics offices in Westarn European countries. There is, therefore, no
need for the financing of advisory services. Instead a mainframe computer is
required, which would allow NCS to more rapidly process and analyze data.
Installation of adequate computing capacity is nseded now, as a National
Census is scheduled to begin in January 1992. Processing of Census data would
considerably speed up the availability of Census results. The loan would
provide a mainframe computer, software, and related training of NCS staff in
the use of the computer. Supplementary equipment required for the full use of
the computer are expected to be provided under the EC-PHARE program.
Proiect Implementation Unit IUSSO.2 million)
2.30        To assure that procurement packages, bid evaluation procedures
and contract signing would proceed as scheduled, and that understanding of
procurement procedures would expand, the program woud provide for an
expatriate procurement advisor (12 person months). The advisor would be
located in the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) and would assist all
executing agencies of the investment and technical assistance components. The
advisor would also provide assistance in procurement matters for the proposed
Technical Assistance Project for the Infrastructure Sectors. To assure
adequate functioning of the PIU, financing for some essential office equipment
(copier, facsimile and two personal computers) would also be financed.
The Imports Component
2.31        The imports component would finance critical import requirements
in the following sectors:
* Petroleum and Gas Sector
* Power Sector
* Lignite Mining Sector
* Transportation Sector
* Telecommunications Sector
* Irrigation Sector
e Agricultural Machinery
Details regarding projected output effects and economic justification of the
imports component are provided in Chart II.1



Oo~~~~~~mm CDSSm
RcaflC JUBZIAR
c..t (as
_amommt             *1111in                   Do esriDtie                             Productiom effects1                     Economic JustificatWic
(a) Petroleum/        35                Spare parts and equipment for            By 1994 incremental production           ERR of 102 percent under base
Gas                                  1,290 shut-in wells                     of 4 million tons of oil and             case scenario (see ANME  2 for
1.5 BCM gas, valued at US$217           detailed assumptions).
million at 1991 cif prices.
(b) Power             &O 2.              First phase rehabilitation              4,000 GHW incremental annual             ERR of 203 percent under base
of two major power plants,              production valued at US$204              case scenario (see ARNME 2 for
Turceni and Rovinari                    million, annually                        detailed assuAptions)
tc) Lignite           26.6              Spare parts for lignite mines            10 million tons of lignite,             Net benefit/cost ratio of 2.2
supplying Turceni and                   annually                                 (see AN=  5 for detailed
Rovinari                                                                         assumptions)
Cd) Transportation    35                Spare parts/eJuipment for:               20 percent increase of                   Increase in income of port.
(a) Bucharest Metro                     onloading at Port Constanza,             metro and trucks/buses in
(b) two terminals at                    and 25 percent increase in               excess of US$35 million,
Constanza Port                      truck and bus fleet.                     annually, plus secondary
(c) trucks and buses                                                             effects resulting from                  _
functioning transport network
(e) Tel ec            6.8              Spare parts and pumping                  Improvement through number and           Primary and secondary income
runications                          equipment for existing                  quality of establisbment of              effects.
telecommuications network               line connection
(f) Irrigation        15.9              Spare parts/equipment for                35.000 ha agricultural land              Positivo net benefit stream for
15 identified irrigation system         terrain under irrigation with            selected representative schsmns
agricultural production valued          taking other investcmnts as
between US$5.6 to US$8.4                sunk cost (see Amnex 8).
million, annually
(g) Agricultural       7                Batteries and transmission               6 million tons of wheat,                 As output effect to be
Machinery                            belts for coabine barvesters            soybeans and maize valued at             unusually high, net
US$800 million for 1991 harvest         benefit/cost ratio would also
be very high. Ratio not
calculated as uncertainty about
allocation of harvest to spart
parts only.
y Estimatod for life of spare parts or equipment financed.



17
Im2orts for the Petroleum and Gas Sector iUfS35.O million)
2.32        The country's oil and gas reservoirs are found in four geologic
basins in Romania, the most important of which are around Pliesti. With the
exception of this area, most of the other fields are small and scattered,
producing from thin reservoir sands having very complex geological settings
and located at depths of about 2,000 meters. The most important gas
occurrence is in the Transylvanian Basin. The gas is of high qua%lity, almost
pure methane, produced from about 70 fields with multiple sand reservoirs at
depths of around 3,000 meters. Oil and gas production in Romania dates back
to the beginning of the 20th century when it was one of the important oil
producing centers of the world. However, the country's oil and gas reservoirs
have long since passed their peak primary production cycle. For this reason
and despite the widespread application of secondary recovery techniques, knoim
to Romanian experts, domestic production of crude oil and natural gas have
begun to fall sharply since 1976. Crude oil production has fallen from its
1976 level of 14.7 million tone to ubout 8 million tons in 1990. By end-
1995, domestic production is estimated to decrease by an additional 2 million
tons. Unless some action is taken to reduce the rate by which production
keeps declining, the only alternative for meeting demand would be tJ-ough
increased imports.
2.33        Gas production, both associated and non-associated, has fallen
from 37 billion cubic meters (BCM) in 1981 to 28.2 BCM in 1990. During the
next five years, domestic gas production is projected to fall by about 32
percent, from 28.2 BCM to 19.2 BCM. Therefore, unless Romania resorts to
higher standard practices and improved production efficiency, without
jeopardizing optimization of its natural resources, it will have to rely on
continuously increasing the import of oil and/or gas. The decline in
production is largely due to unsuccessful exploration efforts, but it is also
caused by the unavailability of spare parts, drilling material and e'uipment.
The proposed loan would provide US$35 million in spare parts financii  (see
AMNEX 31. This would permit the reactivation of 1,290 shut-in wells which are
inactive due to lack of material and equipment. ( For details on
institutional framework and pricing system on energy sector see ANN          ).
Imports for the Power Sector (USS40.2 millionl
2.34        Until the end of 1990, electricity was provided by a public
utility which was controlled by the Ministry of Energy. Beginning in 1991,
the Government decided to reorganize the energy sector by forming RENEL.
Electricity service is provided to all cities and large villages, and to about
95 percent of the small villages. Thus, although the level of electrification
in Romania is comparable to that of OECD counties, the quality of service
remains very poor despite the existence of a very extensive electrical network
and an excessive generating overcapacity.
2.35        Presently RENEL's installed generating capacity is about 21,500 MW
of which about 5,500 MW is hydroelectric, 8,600 MW is coal fired and the
remaining 7,400 MW is oil and/or gas fired. The main transmission system
operates at 400 kV. This voltage is also used to interconnect Romania with
Yugoslavia, Hungary, Bulgaria and the USSR while bulk power purchases from ths



18
USSR are accomplished though a 750 kV tie-line. The installed capacity of the
transformer stations is about 73,500 MVA while the installed capacity of the
distribution transformers is about 51,000 MVA.
2.36        The average utilization factor of RENEL'o generating plants io
only 34 percent of the installed capacity (7,395 MW compared to 21,540 MW) and
the average plant availability is at a low 46 percent with coal-fired power
plants having an availability of only 28 percent. In addition, the coal-
fired plants operate at about 62 percent of their design efficiency (average
consumption stands at 510 grams per kWH generated %=apared to the design 314
grams per kWH). The unacceptable operation of the coal-fired power plants is
mainly due to their supply with coal/lignite of below boiler specifications,
the absence of foreign exchange for the import of reliable spare parts, and
the managerial problems associated with the reform process, labor disputes and
other issues.
2.37        As a consequence of the poor state of the capital stock of the
power sub-sector and Romania's inability to import more electrical energy than
the 10,700 GWh which it imported in 1990 from its neighbors, RENEL has been
forced to resort to load shedding. In addition, the district heating
companies of Bucharest (most of them are operating combined heat and power
facilities) are not able to meet the heat demand of the city due to the
inadequate supply of natural gas and other liquid fuels. To counteract the
experienced supply shortage of electrical and heating energy, the Government
reverted to closing down, for a period of at least three months, numerous
industries. Nevertheless, even this measure was inadequate to restore the
temperature of the district heating system to the minimum level set by the
Government.
2.38        Faced with a desperate shortage of electrical energy, REVEL hired
foreign consultants to examine the state of its two largest lignite-fired
power plants (Rovinari and Turceni which are supplied with lignite from the
mines of Rovinari and Motru) and to recommend the most appropriate and least
cost solution for regaining as much as possible of the original operating
capability of these plants. The conclusion of the pre-feasibility study,
discussed with the Bank, was to rehabilitate the plants in question over two
phases. During the first phase, the emergency phase, two 330 MW blocks of the
Rovinari power station and two identical blocks of the Turceni power station
would be rehabilitated to a point that it would: (i) permit the blocks to be
loaded from the currently low level of about 175 NW to about 250 MW (about 76
percent of their name plate capacity); (ii) ensure availability of about 70
percent from the currently very low level of about 20 percent; and (iii)
assure the performance of the electrostatic precipitators. Such a
rehabilitation, even if it yields a 60 percent availability instead of the
targeted 70 percent, is estimated to allow RENEL to generate an additional
4,000 GWH per year which if valued at US$51,000 per GWh (the price currently
charged by the USSR for the import of electrical energy) represents an amount
of US$204 million per year, which is about 290 percent of the total cost
associated with the firet phase rehabilitation.
2.39        The objective of the electricity component is to assist RENEL in
increasing, as soon as possible, the production of electrical energy generated



19
from non-tradab-a (poor quality) lignites by assuring the functioning of four
of the largest generating units while reinstating the original performance of
the existing electrostatic precipitators. The proposed import program would
assist the Government to save valuable foreign exchange which would otherwise
be spent in importing more expensive oil, gas or electrical energy. The
project has been designed tot (i) rehabilitate four 330 KW generating blockes
(ii) safeguard the protection system of two 400 kV transformer stations and
750 kV transformer station which receives imported electricity from the USSR;
(iii) restore and maintain the operating safety of the central and regional
dispatching centers; (iv) regain the original performance of four
electrostatic precipitators; and (v) provide 50 personal computers. Details
on the spare parts and equipment financed under the component are contained in
ANNEX 4.
2.40         In addition, the project would also finance the purchase of five
mobile laboratories and the instrumentu of four on-site continuous emissions
measuring stations which would enable RENEL to collect valuable information
regarding emissions and pollution levels. This information would be used in
conducting the envionmental study financed under the EC-PHARE project (see
para. 2.62).
2.41        The estimated total cost of the proposed power project component
is about US$67.1 million, of which US$40.2 million equivalent would be in
foreign exchange. Cost estimates do not include customs duties and taxes
which are not applicable. The breakdown of the power component cost is
summarized in ANNEX 4, Table 1. The EIB has indicated a firm interest in the
financing of US$17.4 million for this component; an EIB mission has recently
completed its appraisal and it expects to present this project to their Board
on July 23, 1991.
Imlorts for the Lionite MininrrSector lUSS26.6 million)
2.42        Domestic coal accourts for about 25 percent of primary energy
production. The main use of Rot.. nian coal is for electricity generation; 85
percent is used in power plants, while the remaining 15 percent are used as a
low quality cocking coal in the st.oel industry, in households and for other,
mainly industrial purposes. In 19.%, Romania produced about 59 million tons
of coal, including 50 million tons of lignite and 9 million tons of hard coal.
In 1989, a record production of 61 million tons was achieved. In 1990,
production dropped sharply to 42 million tons, mainly due to the political
events and reduced working hours. During the first quarter of 1991,
production dropped further, partly due to weather, but partly also due to
increasing shortages of materials and spare parts. In April 1991, the
production rate regained 80-90 percent of the level of the previous year.
2.43        There are more than 80 mines, scattered over six areas throughout
the country, but with heavy concentration of lignite mines near Tirgu Jiu and
of hard coal mines near Petrosani. While 75 percent of the lignite is mined
on surface and 25 percent underground, all hard coal is mined underground.
The size of mines, utilization of equipment, and personnel productivity are
far below international standards. Despite poor geological conditions and
unfavorable operating coste, large investments havo been made to develop new



20
mines for both surface and underground mining. Production of coal from
underground mines is judged to be uncompetitive, while surface mines are
estimated to be competitive provided major capital investments made in the
past are regarded as sunk costs. Competitiveness of surface mines could be
substant'ally improved with bewter management leading to more efficient use of
facto.-s of production. Operation of the mines is presently managed by two
state-owned enterprises, the Regia Autonoma a Lignituliu, comprising all
lignite operations; and Regia Autonoma a Huilei, comprising all hard coal
operations. The need for restructuring to address the problems of low
manpower productivity, low utilization of existing facilities and excessive
production costs has been recognized by both enterprises. Studies have been
contracted with the local design institute to improve the performance of the
mines.
2.44        The objective of the lignite mining component is to meet the
incremental demand of 8 million tons for the Rovinari and Turceni power plants
required after their completed Phase I rehabilitation. The objective of the
component is to restore the production capacity of surface mines of RAL from
presently 42 million tons to 52 million tons, which corresponds to 85 percent
of the 1989 level. In the event that unexpected problems should delay or
reduce the productivity increases from the continuous surface mines, there is
a possibility of increasing deliveries from conventional mines through the use
of more trucks engaged through contractors.
2.45        Critical imports consist of wearing materials, such as belts for
conveyors, tires and batteries for trucks, of critical electrical parts for
control of the major mining equipment, and of materials needed for improving
maintenance carried out by workshops. The coat of the Lignite Mining
Component is estimated at US$27.5 million, of which US$26.6 million is for
critical imports and US$0.9 million for technical assistance (see para.2.28
for management assistance to RAL).
ImDorts for the Transportation Sector (USS35.0 million)
2.46        Romania is highly transport intensive due to past concentration
on heavy industries such as steel, cement, oil refining and petrochemicals,
the domestic manufacture of most inputs, the location of production and power
facilities in remote areas for social reasons, and the subsidization of
transportation. For example, Romania transports about 2.73 ton-kilometers of
freight per US$ of GDP, almost 50 percent more than Hungary or Poland, and
more than five times as much as Western Europe. The functioning of the
transportation network is thus essential for the performance of the economy.
2.47        While major changes are going to affect inland transport modes,
the role of sea-transport is also going to evolve in support of the
development of foreign trade. Railways have been the backbone of Romania's
internal freight transportation system in recent decades, carrying close to 90
percent of internal freight traffic. Road transport was heavily constrained
by regulation and fuel rationing by the previous administration. Trucks
carried less than 10 percent of freight prior to 1990, mostly over short
distances. Road traffic grew about 70 percent between 1989 and 1991 following
the elimination of fuel rationing and other regulations, despite a 15 percent



21
decline in GDP in 1990. Road traffic 1i expected to continue to grow rapidly
during the next several years. Urban transport in Bucharest benefits from an
*xtensive public transport network but suffers from the low quality of
services. sea-transport account&. for about 65 percent of Romania's exports
and 40 percent of its imports. The deep-sea port of Constanza on the Black
Sea handles about 62 million tons of mostly bulk traffic per annum. The port
of Constanza needo to become more responsive to market forces and to provide
competitive services commensurate with the changes being made in the economic
environment both within Romania and elsewhere. Maritime transport will
experience changes in cargo patterns as well as in ship and cargo handling
technology. This will result in greater pressure on the port to provide
reliable and efficient modern equipment.
2.48        Transport operations in Romania are constrained by the low
availability of rolling stock and handling equipment. The poor quality of
equipment combined with the scarcity of adequate spare parts are the main
causes of the current situation. Romania manufactured most of its own trucks,
as well as buses, railway rolling stock, and construction equipment prior to
the revolution. Much of this equipment is out of service due to lack of spare
parts, or should be replaced with imported equipment because of frequent
breakdowns, obsolete technology, or high fuel consumption. Representative
equipment availability rates arei MOT trucks 52 percent, NOT buses 68 percent,
diesel locomotives 67 percent, Romanian ships 70 percent, Danube barge fleet
30 percent, Bucharest tramway, trolley-buses and buses 69 percent. The port
of Constanza is paying more than $25,000 per day in penalties, primarily to
bulk iron ore and coal carriers, as the port is unable to unload incoming
ships at an efficient rate because the conveyor system and crane are out of
service more than 50 percent of the time due to lack of spare parts. The
operations of the river transport companies and national shipping lines are
also severely hampered by the lack of spare parts. Finally, the metro system
of Bucharest is important for the functioning of mass transportation; it
carries about 800,000 passengers per day. Only 50 percent of metro rolling
stock is currently in operation, due primarily to lack of spare parts.
2.49        The imports component would provide spare parts for trucks and
buses, the Constanza Port and the Bucharest Metro. Import financing for bus
transportation in Bucharest is expected to be provided by EC-PHARE. Spare
parts financing for the railways has been excluded, as the railway system
requires major restructuring before imported spare parts will lead to
significant improvements in performance. River and maritime transport are
also excluded because privatization or the establishment of joint ventures are
likely to affect the ownership and management of equipment. The supply of
tires and batteries and other spare parts to trucks and buses should allow a
25 percent increase of fleet availability. For the Bucharest metro system,
the program will provide batteries for auxiliary electrical devices,
components and materials needed to repair traction motors, and a small package
of tools and measurement devices needed which are critical for safe
operations. The project would provide the port of Constanza with spare parts
for bulk handling and container equipment as well as modern equipment to
facilitate a quick improvement of productivity and capacity at the container
yard. This is expected to reduce the penalties on bulk transport and to allow
the port of Constanza to increase its capacity to deal with container traffic.



22
2.50        Spare parts for the transportation sector would be distributed
directly to the Metro system in Bucharest and to the two terminals, SOCEB and
CONVEX, at the port of Constanza included under the loan. Details of the list
of spare parts provided are listed under ANNEX 6. As spare parts for vehicles
are widely traded on black markets and an appropriate scarcity price is
difficult to establish, tires, engine parts, and batteries would be
distributed under an auction system. The auction would be administered by the
import company, CONTRANSIMEX, and supervised by a Committee established under
the auspices of the MOT. Distribution of batteries, engine parts, and tires
through an auction system would also assure equal access of the public and
the newly emerging private trucking sector. Technical assistance to set up
the auction system will be provided through the EC-PHARE program, which
intends to send technical expertise to Bucharest to distribute imported tires
for taxis, financed under the EC-PHARE program. Aareemen& has been reached
during negotiations, that all tires, engine parts and batteries imported under
the transport component be distributed under an auction system. The minimum
lei price accepted under the auction would be the import value of import
products valued at the interbank market rate. The maximum amount allowed to
be purchased by one buyer would be restricted. Documents announcing the
auction and specifying conditions of participation would be presented to the
Bank for review and approval.
Imports for the Telecommunications Sector IUSS6.8 million)
2.51        As a result of past neglect and changing priorities, Romania's
telecommunications (TC) network is one of the worst in Europe. Penetration is
9.9 Direct Exchange Lines (DELs) per 100 population, which is about average
for East Central Europe, but the functioning of the network is unusually poor:
many DELs are party lines, call completion rates are extremely low, blockage
and congestion are severe, the number of faults and the time required to clear
them are very high, and flexibility to reconfigure tr.q network in response to
traffic load hardly exists. The long-distance and international networks are
particularly congested. As a result of this, and of the underlying weakness
of the network as a whole, TC facilities and services are not responsive to
needs and presents an obstacle to trade and export development.  A new
international exchange is being installed which will somewhat relieve
congestion in international service somewhat; but the effect will not be great
because this will merely shift the bottleneck to the rest of the obsolete,
worn-out and inadequate network.
2.52         In the medium and long term, Romania must undertake a major
investment program to rehabilitate, modernize and expand its TC network and
services. However, the immediate situation is so critical that certain
emergency actions are required.
* Spare numbering capacity in the numbering plan is less than
250,000--which is unevenly distributed. Thus, there is no
possibility of hooking up more than a few new subscribers, even
if/when equipment and money are available. To utilize the
available numbers and to free up more numbers requires altering
the catchment areas of exchanges and re-distributing



23
interconnecting transmission cables. This Le currently
impoesible because of the extreme shortage of cable.
*  Many faults cannot be properly cleared or quality improved
because cables have deteriorated or have been cut and cannot be
replaced because of cable shortage. For the same reason, re-
engineering to route traffic more efficiently is impossible.
*  Numerous elements of the network such as:  exchanges,
transmission systems, satellite earth stations, power generation
systems are idle, partly idle or are working poorly because of
lack of spare parts.
*  Lack of basic measuring and testing instrument prevents basic
network diagnostice and cripples routine maintenance and repair
efforts.
2.53        The network is nearing collapse.  Imports which would help to
maintain the functioning of the system are: (i) cables (metallic and optical
fibre) to permit replacement of damaged cables and connecting the new
international exchange to the rest of the network, re-engineering of
critically blocked routes and re-distribution of catchment areas to free up
new numbers; (ii) key spare parts for critical elements of the network
(especially for exchanges, transmission systems, earth stations, and power
systems); (iii) instruments to support network diagnostics, maintenance,
repair and re-engineering. The proposed sum (US$6.8 million) for import
financing is small, but if carefully targeted, the cables and equipment could
have an immediate impact by helping to keep the network functioning until more
thorough measures can be taken. The implementing agoncy, ROMPOST TELECOM, is
positioned to use the imported equipment efficiently. Technical assistance
requirements to the telecommunications system are expected to be addressoed
under the infrastructure technical assistance project, presently under
preparation.
Imoorts for the Irriaation Sector IUSS15.9 million)
2.54        As described in para. 2.23 irrigation in Romania is important, as
one of the principal bottlenecks to agricultural production is the erratic
rainfall. The most serious deficiencies occur between June and September when
supplementary irrigation can make a great difference in crop yields. The lack
of moLsture affects, in particular, the long season summer crops, such as
maize and sugarbeet and for some horticultural crops. Early dry periods in
April/May, can also be detrimental to winter cereals which urgently require
water for the formation of the grain. Irrigation in Romania consist of 97
large irrigation schemes covering an area of about 2.85 million ha. Another
0.45 million are irrigated by smaller schemes of local origin. Total
irrigated areas cover about 33 percent of all arable land. Most of the water
is lifted from the rivers with high capacity electric pumps, sometimes with
repumping, and is distributed through open canals. Irrigated areas contribute
about 50% of the value of all agricultural production in Romania.



24
2.55        Major constraints in the lrrlgation sector ares (L) the inability
to irrlgate the total potential area due to mechanlcal dlfficultles, in
particular due to worn out pumps and the lack of spare partsl (LL) obsolete
technology resulting ln high irrigation conveyance and application louses;
(LiL) absence of automatlc electronic controls for regulation of the canals
and pumping statlon., to match supply and demand; and (iv) high cost and
lnadequate supply of electrlcal energy to operate the pumps. These and other
issues would be examlned in a comprehenslve irrlgation and drainage study, to
be financed under the Technical Assiotance Component of the proposed loan (see
paras. 2.23-2.25). The import component would address urgent need of spare
parts and equipment as a large number of schemes need replacement and spares
to maintain ln operatlon, for which imported or domestic equipment is not
available. Theoe requlrements were ldentified by the February 1991 mission
and were consldered as priority items vital for the operation of these
schemes.
2.56        The component ($15.9 milllon) would provide flnancing for
imported equipment and spares for 15 irrigation schemes, which have serious
problems delivering water due to equipment failures (see Annex 8 for list of
equipment and spares). With equipment and spare parts provided to the
selected schemes, the functioning of irrigation would be assured for about
35,000 ha, which would otherwise revert to rainfed agriculture. in the
medium-term, these pumping stations for which the spare parts and equipment
are being provided, would continue to be technically viable and would not
become redundant as a result of sucial changes occurring on the land.
However, additional investments may be necessary downstream as a result of
privatization.
2.57        Only schemes estimated to be economically viable were included
for financing. As pumping of water is by far the most important cost
component for delivering water, an analysis based on economic prices for
power, shows that only schemes with up to a pumping height of about 110 meters
can be considered to be economically viable. Schemes selected for equipment
and spare parts financing under the proposed project have a maximum pumping
height of 16.2 meters and are therefore viable. ANNEX 8 presents assumptions
made for the analysis and liets the schemes selected. Calculations undertaken
for a few representative schemes also show that continued operation is
economically justified with positive net incremental benefits throughout the
project period taking past investments as sunk cost. The spare parts and
equipment would be procured by the Department of Land Reclamation in the
Ministry of Agriculture, and would be installed by the existing machinery
stations. The analysis also indicates that in the future, new schemes should
be carefully evaluated for economic viability before starting construction,
because only limited capital costs can be borne by most schemes.
Imports for Agricultural Machinery
2.58        The agricultural sector in Romania is undergoing fundamental
change. With the promulgation of the Land Law in February 1991 the major part
of land formerly managed by agricultural production cooperatives is now
cultivated by private farmers. Most of the agricultural production
cooperatives, which formerly cultivated 80 percent of land, are expected to be



25
dissolved. But the 1991 agriculture production is threatened, am a
significant part of the harvest is expected not to be harvested, since more
than half of the agricultural machinery is inoperative due to lack of spare
parts. This is particular true for combine harvesters, which are needed in the
period between June and September. Most harvesters are Romanian made or
imported from former CMEA countries, but important spare parts, such as
transmission belts and batteries can and need to be imported from Western
countries, as the domestic production capacity is estimated to only meet
between 25 and 50 percent of domestic demand and quality cf parts produced
domestically is very poor, requiring frequent replacements.
2.59        The project would provide for batteries and transmission belts
for about 20,000 harvesting combines presently out of operation (see ANNEX 8)
is expected to help harvest about 20 percent of the wheat, soybeans, and maize
harvest for 1991, over an aggregate area of about 1 million ha with an
estimated crop value of about US$800 million. Financing o.' fcreign exchange
for imported transmission belts and batteries is expected to have a beneficial
output effect during two to three years, which corresponds to the expected
life of the imported goods.
2.60        Spare parts are already being procured by ROMAGRIMEX, a trading
corporation experienced in the import of agricultural machinery, and will be
distributed to Machinery and Tractor Stations (SMA) throughout the country.
SMAs will pay in cash for imported spare parts obtained from ROMAGRINEX. The
financial situation of SHAs is adequate to make the necessary payments to
ROMAGRINEX, as private farmers and the remaining agricultural cooperatives
rent combine harvesters from SMA for harvesting and are required to pay in
cash. Spot checks made during the appraisal mission wJth selected SMAs have
confirmed the adequate financial and liquidity situation. In light of the
urgency for spare parts imports to assure timely availability of harvesters,
orders have already been placed and bridge financing obtained from GOR's own
resources. Payments will be reimbursed through retroactive financing.
Environmental Asipects
2.61        Pollution is a serious problem in Romania particularly in the
power sector which relies heavily on lignite and brown coal. However, until
recently, Romania, like many other Eastern European countries, was only
concerned with particulate emissions which were kept under reasonable control
with the installation of electrostatic precipitators. As a result of this
neglect, no reliable data exist regarding ambient levels, power plant
emissions of sulphur and nitric/nitrous oxides. However, without this data,
it is not possible to determine the need of equipment for the reduction of
such emissions. The two major lignite-based power plants (Turceni and
Rovinari) which are included for import financing under this loan, would
procure spares and replacement parts for overhauling and upgrading their
*loctrostatic precipitators whose efficiency has been substantially reduced
over the years. For the purpose of rehabilitating the boilers and the
pr-cipitators, an amount of US$5.5 million has been allocated under the loan.
In addition, RENEL, the holding company of the two power plants, would procure
five mobile laboratories with modern equipment for measurirg pollution levels
at various locations in the country, and would also purchase emission



26
measuring instrumentu which would be installed at Turceni and Rovinari, an
well as in two other major plantu. Following these measurements,
environmental impact studies would be undertaken and RENEL would take the
necessary measures to implement the recommendations of these studies.
2.62        The GOR intends to proceed toward the adoption of international
standards for pollution control in the power, petroleum, gas and other
subsectore. Technical assistance to help the Government examine the current
pollution problems as well as to develop and adopt international standards to
minimize the environmental damage is provided for under the loan and under
parallel funding provided through grants by the EC-PHARE. The environmental
impact of the irrigation system and the petroleum/gas sector would be examined
under studies included under the Technical Assistance (TA) component (see
paras. 2.23-2.25).
II. PROJECT COST, FINANCING AND I-NP L9NTATION
A. Prolect Cost and Financing
3.1         Total project cost is estimated at US$262.4 million equivalent
(see Table III.1;. Estimates for studies, consultancy assignments, and
training are based on typical current costs for such assignments. Local costs
cover incremental cost for counterpart arrangements and local costs of
subsistence and domestic travel expenditures for foreign consultants and
advisors. Local cost for the import component would cover fees paid to
trading companies for the importation and distribution of imported goods. All
local costs have been converted in US$ using the official exchange rate of
US$l = Lei 60 as an accounting unit. As contracts for imported equipment are
expected to be signed during the next six months, only a small allocation of
US$7.9 million has been made for contingencies under the import component.
Should substantial cost overruns occur, quantities to be procured would be
reduced correspondingly.



27
Tablo II-.1t PROJECT SUMMARY BY COMPONENT
USS Million
Fore_ian       L2cal          Total
A.    Technical assiltance
National Economic Management           2.6            1.2             3.8
Accounting and Auditing                0.4            0.2             0.6
Privatization                          1.0            1.2             2.2
Industrial Restructuring               1.4            1.0            2.4
-Advisors                            (0.2)
-Enterprise Restructuring Teams    (1.2)
Commercial Banks                       2.0            0.9             2.9
-Strategic Plans                     (1.6)
-Computer Hardware Assessments       (0.3)
-Training Plans                      (0.1)
Energy Sector                          3.8            2.9             6.7
-Energy Policy Advisor               (0.2)
-Energy Pricing Study                (0.5)
-Oil and Gas Reserve Audits          (1.0)
-Hydrocarbon Potential               (2.0)
-other                               (0.1)
Agricultural Sector Development        2.7            1.2             3.9
Employment Services/Social Security  3.6              1.3             4.9
Mining Sector                          0.9            0.8             1.7
National Commission for Statistics   3.0              0.2             3.2
PIU                                    0.2            0.4             0.6
Uncommitted                            1.4            1.7             3.1
SUBTOTAL                              23.0           13.0           36.0
B.    Imgorts Component
Petroleum/Gas                         35.0            7.5           42.5
Power6                                40.2           26.9            67.1
Lignite                               26.6            5.3            31.9
Transport                             35.0            7.0            42.0
Telecommunications                     6.8            0.5             7.3
Irrigations                           15.9            0.8           16.7
Agricultural Machinery                 7.0            1.0             8.0
Contingencies                          7.9            3.0            10.9
8UBTOTAL                             174.4           52.0          226.4
TOTAL                                197.4 sE5.Dl                   262.4
gtPoz cuonpnZ  a oaf fraed by EIB wi th lSI.4 ofL t fon.



28
TABLN   111.2i PROJECT COST BY CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURES
USS Million
EorigLn       L2cal        Total
A.   TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE COMPONENTS
Consultants/Advisors                   13.6         8.3         21.9
Equipment, Software, Material           6.2         0.9          7.1
Training and Travel                     1.8         2.1          3.9
Uncommitted                            1.4          1.7          3.1
SUBTOTAL                              23.0         13.0         36.0
B.   IMPORTS COMPONENT
Petroleum/Gas                         35.0          7.5         42.5
Power                                 40.2         26.9         67.1
Lignite                               26.6          5.3         31.9
Transport                             35.0          7.0         42.0
Telecommunications                     6.8          0.5          7.3
irrigation                            15.9          0.8         16.7
Agricultural Machinery                  7.0         1.0          8.0
Contingencies                          7.9          3.0         10.9
SUBTOTAL                             174.4         52.0       226.4
TOTAL PROJECT COST                    197.4        65.0        262.4
TABLE IJI.3 FINANCING PLAN
USS million
Foreign      Local       Total i
IBRD                             180.0                  180.0       68
EIB7                              17.4                   17.4       7
Government/Beneficiaries                      65.0       65.0       25
IOTAL                            197.4        65.       U.1    1MR
Z/ Eli wiLL provfd. tOSIT.4 otLliwn for coffuiwno of th pw cpCnt.



29
3.2         A summary of the financing plan for the proposed project is shown
in Table 111.3. Foreign exchange costs are estimated at US$197.4 million, of
which the European Investment Bank is expected to finance US$17.4 million in
co-financing for the power component under parallel-financing arrangements.
Local cost would be financed from the GOR budget for technical assistance
provided to agencies fully funded by the budget. Local costs for technical
assistance components to semi-autonomous agencies and commercial companies
would be financed from their respective budgets. All local costs for the
import component would be financed from the budgets of beneficiaries.
B. Onlendino Arrangements
3.3         The proposed Bank loan would be made to GOR for a term of 15 years
including five years of grace at the Bank's standard variable interest rate.
Technical assistance to agencies fully funded by the budget would be provided
as part of the budgetary process from the MEF. Technical assistance provided
to semi-autonomous agencies or to commercial companies would need to be
reimbursed to the MEF. Semi-autonomous agencies and commercial companies
included under the TA components are: RAL, PETROM, ROMGAZ, Cooperative Bank,
Commercial Bank, Agricultural Bank, Savings Bank, and the Development Bank.
3.4         Beneficiaries of imported goods would receive loan financing from
MEF under onlending agreement in the amount equivalent to the value of the
imported goods. Agreement has been reached during negotiations that the
following beneficiaries would sign onlending agreements: Bucharest Metro,
COMVEX, CONTRANSIMEX, PETROM, RAL, RENEL, ROMAGRIMEX, ROMGAZ, ROMPOST TELECOM,
SOCEP. All onlending agreements must be satisfactory to the Bank and
presented for approval before signature. Signature of two onlending
agreements would be a condition of effectiveness.  Imports of equipment and
spare parts for the irrigation sector would be provided to the Ministry of
Agriculture as part of the budgetary process and serviced by the MEF.
3.5         Loan amounts for technical assistance and import financing would
either be expressed in US$ terms or in Deutsche Mark. Repayment could either
be made in foreign exchange or in lei, with foreign exchange valued at the
market foreign exchange rate at the date of repayment. Beneficiaries thus
would carry the full foreign exchange risk for the maturity period of the
subloan. The interest rate charged for funds onlent would be LIBOR plus at
least 1.5 percent p.a for loans denominated in US$ and FIBOR plus at least 1.5
percent p.a. for loans denominated in Deutsche Mark. Maximum maturity periods
for onlending would be 10 years with 3 years of grace. Maturity and grace
periods may differ among various agencies, depending on the life of the
imported goods and/or type of technical assistance. Most onlending
agreements, particularly those for the transportation and agricultural
machinery imranrts components, are expected to have substantially shorter
maturitv periods. Beneficiaries would have the right to prepay borrowed
funds.
3.6         Aareement has been reached during negotiations that signing of
onlending agreements (if so required), would be a condition of disbursement
for disbursements against the imports component.



30
3.7         As the MEF does not have its own administrative capacity to pay
and collect loans extended under onlending agreements, and to maintain
adequate accounts, MEF would engage the Development Bank and the Agricultural
Bank, to administer onlending agreements. MEF would pay a percentage of
amounts collected as an administrative fee to the Development Bank and
Agricultural Bank. MEF would sign a management contract with each of the two
banks, which must be submitted to the Bank for approval before signature.
Signature of management contracts between MEF and the Agricultural Bank and
MEF and the Development Bank would be a condition of effectiyeness.
C. Project Imloementation
3.8         The Borrower would be the Government of Romania, with the Ministry
of Economy and Finance (MEF) being the Executing Agency. A Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) has been established in the MEF to coordinate the
activity under the project. The PIU is to be staffed with a Project Director,
two administrative assistants, a secretary, an accountant, and an expatriate
procurement advisor to be financed under the project (see para. 2.30). The
PIU has already been staffed with the Project Director and the administrative
assistants. Agreement has been obtained during negotiations that the PIU
would be adequately staffed until completion of the project. The project is
expected to be completed by June 30, 1994.
3.9         The principal responsibilities of the PIU would be to: (i) monitor
and coordinate project activities and liaise with the Bank on related matters;
(ii) advise beneficiary agencies on procurement and disbursement matters,
clear procurement documents before Bank review, and submit all disbursement
applications to the Bank; (iii) assist the selection of technical assistants;
and (iv) submit semi-annual progress reports, annual audit reports, and a
project completion report based on the submissions of the beneficiary
agencies. Each project beneficiary would designate a coordinator who would be
responsible for the implementation of the beneficiaries' project component(s),
and who would liaise with the PIU.
3.10        Each beneficiary agency under the imports and TA components would
establish its own subproject unit. These units would vary in terms of number
and staff composition, depending on the implementation requirement of each
project subcomponent. In the most simple case, only a coordinator of
activities would be designated. For complicated components, a larger
implementation unit would be established. For the implementation unit of the
MOLS, which is responsible for the coordination of a complex TA program,
expatriate assistance to the implementation unit would be financed under the
loan (see paras. 2.26-2.27). The functions and responsibilities of subproject
implementation coordinators or units would be to: (i) ensure the timely and
adequate implementation of the respective components; (ii) liaise with the
central project implementation unit and seek procurement and/or other advice;
(iii) prepare all detailed technical specifications and documents for the
procurement of goods and submit them to the procurement advisor in the PIU for
clearance; and (iv) prepare TORe and draft contracts for all consultants and
submit them to the PIU for approval and further processing; (v) submit to the
PIU quarterly reports; (vi) at completion of the respective component, submit



31
to the central project implementation unit information required for the
completion report.
CHART 111.1: PRQOC2T INPLSMENTATON RESPONSIBILITIES
Comw nent and 8ubcomopnent             Reunsible Aaency and DnaEent
A.    Technical Assiutance Com2onent
- National Economic Management            MEF/REFORM COUNCIL
- Accounting and Auditing                 MEF
- Privatization                           NAP
- Industrial Restructuring                Ministry of Industries
- Commercial Banks                        Cooperative Bank
Development Bank
Agricultural Bank
Savings Bank
Commercial Bank
- Energy Sector Development               Ministry of Industries
Energy Policy Advisor                Ministry of Industries
Energy Pricing Study                 Ministry of Industries/MEF
Oil/Gas Reserve Audits                PETROM
Hydrocarbon Potential                 PETROM
- Agriculture                             Ministry of Agriculture
Irrigation Study                      Depart. of Irrigation
- Employment Services/Social Security   MOLSP
- Mining Sector                           RAL
- National Commission of Statistics       NSC
- PIU                                    MEP
B.    Imports Component
- Petroleum                               PETROM
- Gas                                     ROMGAZ
- Power                                   RENEL
- Lignite                                 RAL
- Buses and Trucks                       CONTRANSIMEX
- Port                                    SOCEB/CONVEX
- Metro                                   Bucharest Metro
- Telecommunications                      ROMPOST TELECOM
- Irrigation                              Ministry of Agriculture/
Department of Irrigation
-Agricultural Machinery                   ROMAGRIMEX



32
D. Procurentgt
3.11        Procurement of imported goods and related incidental services
would be done in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement. The
contracting of consulting services for the various atudies and other services
to be financed under the Technical Assistance component would be done in
accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for the Use of Consultants. Table III.4
shows the procurement methods proposed for each of the components and sectors.
Additional details, including a list of importo, by eectors, are provided in
Annexes 3 to 8. Most of the contracts for procurement of goodc would be
awarded following International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures. The
value of such contracts is estimated to total USS equivalent 107.9 million,
covering some 60 percent of the loan amount allocated for the procurement of
goods. To the extent practicable, the procurement of imported goods would be
done by grouping the various materials/equipment items in as large as possible
bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of USS300,000 or more per
package. International Shopping would ki used for procuring readily available
goods, based on comparing price quotatioaAs obtained from at least three
eligible suppliers from at least two different countries. International
Shopping (IS) and Direct Contracting (DC) would be used for contracts
amounting to an aggregate US$34.4 and 21.4 million respectively. The reason
for the relatively large share of DC (12%) is because most of .he required
spare parts and equipment need to be compatible with equipment already
installed. The pre-appraisal and appraiaal missions have carefully examined
the availability of the required spares and equipment in international
markets, and the degree of competitiveness in those markets, and have
consequently reduced procurement through IS and DC as far as possible.
3.12        As an exception to the above-mentioned procurement procedures, in
order to meet some urgent needs of the agricultural mechanization sector (sea
para. 2.58-2.60), the procurement of transmission belts for harvesters and the
necessary batteries would be done by prudent shopping following International
Shopping procedures. This is now very urgent because of the proximity of the
July-August cropping season and in view of the fact that 20,000 harvesting
combines, out of a total national fleet of 45,000, are out of operation due to
lack of belts and batteries. Only contracts eigned until July 31, 1991, would
be subject to IS. Subsequent contracts, which would not allow for delivery in
time for the 1991 harvest, would need to follow ICB procurement methods.
Prior review by the Bank of invitations for bids, bidding documents and bid
evaluation reports, in accordance with paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 of the
Guidelines, would We required only in the case of ICB packages estimated to
cost the equivalan.  of US$200,000 or more.  With respect to all other
contracts, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of the Appendix of
the Guidelines would apply.
3.13        Preparation of documentation for ICB procurement is at an advanced
stage. Procurement documents for ICB have already been presented for approval
for the telecommunications, petroleum, gas, and irrigation sectors. ICB
documents for the transportation and power components are in an advanced stage
of preparation and are expected to be finalized shortly. The strict
application of Bank procurement procedures would be assured by the presence of
an expatriate procurement advisor in the PIU located in the MEF. Financing of



33
the expatriate procurement advisor would be provided under this loan (see
para. 2.30).
3.14        For the technical assistance component, final agreement has been
reached on most TORs, short lists for consultants have been established and
letter. of invitation for consultants are now being prepared for many
components.   The procurement advisor in the PIU would guide implementation
agencies for the TA components in the preparation of the respective documents.
3.15        The mainframe computer procured by NCS (see para. 2.29) and most
of the 450 Personal Computers provided to different implementing agencies of
the Technical Assistance Component, would be procured under ICB. Only very
specialized computer equipment, up to an aggregate amount of US$100,000,
required for economic forecasting, model building, and office equipment
required for the PIU and the coordinating units in the important
subcomponents, would be procured according to IS.
TABLE 11  4:   PROCUR-MENT ARRANMENT8
Proiect Comoonent                           Procurement Methods
( US$ million )
ICB       Is       DC      Other      TOTAL
A. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Consultants/Advisory Service      -           -        -     13.6       13.6
Equipment                       5.9        0.3         -        -        6.2
Training/Travel                   -           -       -       1.8        1.8
Contingencies                   0.4        0.1         -      0.9        1.4
SUBTOTAL                        6.3        0.4        -      16.3       23.0
B. IMPORT COMPONENTS
Power Sector                   11.2        5.9      5.7         -       22.8
Petroleum Sector               20.9        5.1        -         -       26.0
Gas Sector                      3.7         1.3     4.0         -        9.0
Mining Sector                  22.1         2.7      1.8        -       26.6
Telecommunications              3.0         1.8     2.0         -        6.8
Transportation Sector          22.5        8.4      4.1         -       35.0
Irrigation Sector              13.1          -      2.8         -       15.9
Agricultural Machinery            -         7.0        -        -        7.0
Contingencies                   5.1         1.8      1.0        -        7.9
SVBTOTAL                      101.6       34.0    21.4          -      157.0
TOTAL                         107 9J "Al                     16.3    1UEII
Percentage of Total           60         19       12         9        100



34
B. Disbursements
3.16        Disbursements would be made for 100 percent of the foreign cost of
imported goods and 100 percent of foreign expenditures for consultants'
services (including subsistence and travel expenses), studies, training, and
foreign study tours. No disbursements would be made against local
expenditures. Expenditures up to US$ 18 million are eligible for retroactive
financing, to accomodate in particular contracts already signed since May 1991
for the agricultural mechanization, irrigation and power import component.
Disbursements would be administered by the PIU which has been established in
the NEF. Withdrawal applications would be fully documented, except for
expenditures against contracts valued below US$150,000 equivalent which would
be made on the basis of statements of expenditures. Supporting documentation
in these cases would be retained by the PIU for at least one year after
receipt by the Bank of the audit report for the year in which the last
disbursement was made. This documentation would be made available for review
by the auditors and by Bank staff upon request.
3.17        In order to facilitate project implementation, the borrower would
establish two special accounts to cover the Bank's share of eligible
expenditures. one of the accounts would be established in Deutsche Mark and
one in US$. The authorized aggregate amount of both accounts would be US$15
million. The special accounts would be replenished monthly, or at the latest
every four months, or whenever one-third of the authorized amount has been
withdrawn, whichever occurs earlier. Documentation requirements for
replenishment applications would follow the same procedures as described in
para. 3.16. In addition, monthly bank statements of the special account which
have been reconciled by the borrower would accompany all replenishment
requests. Agreement has been reached during negotiations, that the
establishment of these accounts in banks and on terms acceptable to the Bank,
would be a condition of effectiveness. This includes the provision of
information by GOR on the respective allocations of all disbursement
categories under the loan to each accounts.
F. Accounts and Audits
3.18        All project accounts, the special account, and statement of
expenditures would be audited annually by independent auditors satisfactory to
the Bank, in accordance with the Bank's Auditing Guidelines. The annual audit
reports would be submitted to the Bank not later than six months after the
close of each fiscal year.
IV. BENEFITS AND_ RISKS
4.1         The technical assistance component would support ongoing economic
reforms through strengthening policy formulation and implementation. The
imports component is expected to maintain output in critical sectors of the
economy. Aggregate ouput effects are expected to be substantial. Maintaining
or restoring production in the petroleum, gas and power sector would have
important substitution effects, as much of Romania's energy is presently
imported. Annual output attributed to the provision of spare parts is
estimated at 4 million tons of oil, 1.5 BCM gas and 4,000 GHW of power,



35
corresponding to an annual output value of USS 421 million in 1991 cif prices.
Spare parts and equipment provided to irrigation and for agricultural
machinery would sustain agricultural production, otherwise lost to rainfed
agriculture or left in the field, as no possibilities for harvesting exist.
Through spare parts and equipment financing 35,000 ha of land is expected to
be maintained under irrigation. Combine harvesters for which spare parts
would be provided, would harvest 6 million tons of wheat, soybeans and maize.
Spare parts supplied to the transportation sector would ascertain continued
functioning of the port and the Bucharest Metro and would maintain 25 percent
of the fleet of trucks and buses in operation. Spare parts for the
telecommunications network should assure continued functioning of the existing
system, until improved technology can be introduced under a more comprehensive
program.
4.2         Possible political instabilities leading to changes of key
personnel are a risk to the successful implementation of this program.
Lignite production may not be sufficient to feed the Turceni and Rovinari
power plants rehabilitated under the import component. The mining component
included under this project is designed to minimize this risk. Ther are
further risks that domestically produced complementary spare parts would not
be available leading to failure of machinery in spite of the supply of
imported equipment provided for under the proposed project. Spare parts and
equipment for import financing have been carefully selected to minimize this
risk by identifying, as far as possible, packages of equipment relatively
little dependent on complementary domestic goods. Through careful
specification of goods to be imported and targeting of spare parts and
equipment to selected economic activities, output effects are expected to be
assured in the short - term. Maintaining production in the longer term would
depend, among others, on further price liberalization, which would assure the
financial viability of many of the beneficiaries. It would also depend on
efficient allocation of foreign exchange which would allow beneficiaries
access to imported spare parts and equipment in the future. Longer - term
project success thus depends on continuing economic reforms. Future Bank
adjustment and investment lending is expected to play an important role in
helping to sustain this reform process.
V * AGR_3MENTs REACHED AND REICOMMENDATON
5.1         During negotiations. the following agreements have been reachedt
Conditions of Effectiveness
(a) Signature of two onlending agreements between the MEF and
the beneficiaries (see para. 3.4).
(b) Signature of agreement between the MEF and the Development
Bank and the MEF and the Agricultural Bank to administer
onlending agreements on behalf of the MEF (see para. 3.7)



36
(c)   Establishment of two Special Accounts, one denominated in
USs and one denominated in Deutsche Mark, in banks and on
terms acceptable to the Bank and the provision of
information by GOR on the respective allocations of
disbursement categories to each accounts (see para. 3.17).
Other Agreements
(d)   By August 31, 1992, submission by the GOR for the Bank's
review of: (i) GOR's public investment program for 1993
for investments financed from the central government's
budget and by semiautonomous agencies; (ii) the program of
unfinished public investment with a proposal of financial
allocations and a timetable to be made for the priority
projects to be completed. GOR agrees to subsequently
implement investment program as to be agreed between Bank
and GOR after joint review of program (see para. 2.14).
(e)   By September 1, 1992, submission by the GOR for the Bank's
review and comment of an action plan, developed on the basis
of the recommendation of the energy cost and pricing study,
reforming the pricing structure of the energy sector. GOR
agrees, to subsequently implement pricing program or as
reviewed (see para. 2.21).
(f)   By September 30, 1992, the GOR would submit for the Bank's
review based on the findings and recommendations of the
first phase of the irrigation sector study, a proposed
short-term priority investment program for the irrigation
sector. By August 31, 1993, GOR would submit for Bank
review and comments a proposed five-year and ten-year
irrigation sector investment program, based on the second
and third phase of the irrigation study (see para. 2.25).
(g)   By January 31, 1993, GOR would submit for the Bank's review
and comment, an action plan for the improvement of RAL's
economic and financial viability and for insuring adequate
availability of all necessary lignite coal supplies for the
power, plants located in Rovinari and Turceni. GOR agrees
to subsequently implements restructuring progam as to be
agreed between Bank and GOR after joint review of proposal
(see para. 2.28).
(h)   Tires, batteries and engine parts for road transportation
would be distributed by auction using procedures and
documents satisfactory to the Bank. The minimum lei price
accepted under the auction would be the foreign exchange
price of imported goods valued at the interbank market rate.
(see para. 2.50).
(i)   Onlending agreements would be signed between the MEF and the
following beneficiaries: Bucharest Metro, COMVEX,



37
CONTRANSIMEX, PETROM, RAL, RENEL, ROMAGRIMEX, ROMOAZ,
ROMPOST TELECOM, SOCEP.  The loan amount would either be
specified in US$, at an interest rate of LIDOR plus at least
1.5 percent interest rate p.a. or in Deutsche Mark at an
interest rate of VISOR plus at least 1.5 percent interest
rate p.a. Maximum maturity period would amount to 10 years
and 3 years grace. Repayment of the loan could be made in
foreign exchange or l-i: lei values would be established
valuing import values at the interbank market rate on the
date of repayment. Prepayment of borrowed funds would be
permissible (see paras. 3.4 and 3.5).
(j)   The PIU would maintain adequate staffing with one project
director, two administrative assistant, one accountant and
one secretary until completion of the project (see para.
3.8). The PIU would submit semi-annual progress reports
(see paras. 3.9 and 3.10).
(k)   The GOR would undertake procurement in accordance with the
Bank's procurement guidelines (see para. 3.11-3.15).
(1)   The COR would submit annual audit reports, prepared by
independent auditors, satisfactory to the Bank, no later
than six months after the clove of each fiscal year (see
para. 3.18).
Conditions of Disbursements
(m)   Signing of onlending agreements (where required), would be a
condition of disbursement for imports component (see para.
3.6).
RECOMM81=12fiO
5.2         With the above assurances, agreements and conditions, the proposed
project would be suitable for a Bank loan of US$180 million equivalent. The
proposed loan would be repaid over a period of 15 years, including 5 years of
grace, at the standard variable interest rate.



- 39 -
ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 8
kOMANIA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND CRITICAL IMPORTS PROJECT
INSTITUTIONAL AND PRICING ISSUES
ENERGY SECTOR
Background
1.        Power, lignite mining, petroleum and natural gas industries are
among the strategic basic industries classified by the Government of Romania
(GOR). Under its industrial restructuring program, the Government has
established so-called autonomous holding companies to deal with these
industries. These companies include: (i) Regia Autonoma de Electricitate
(RENEL): (ii) Regia Autonoma de Lignite (RAL); (iii) Regia Autonoma a
Petrolului (PETROM); and (iv) Regia Autonoma a Gazelor Naturale (ROMGAZ).
RENEL was formed by bringing under its jurisdiction all the existing state
enterprises dealing with power production, coordination, and transmission and
distribution. Similarly, all state-owned lignite mining and distribution
entities were brought under RAL. PETROM was made responsible to deal with all
government enterprises in the field of oil exploration, drilling, production,
and transportation. ROMGAZ was entrusted with the responsibility for the
management and operation of all state enterprises dealing with natural gas
exploration, drilling, production and distribution and marketing of natural
gas. The operation and maintenance of the facilities of RENEL as well as of
RAL, PETROM AND ROMGAZ are adversely aff- ted by the lack of foreign exchange
which limits their possibility to import necessary spare parts and related
materials. Therefore, these four holding companies have been included on a
priority basis as beneficiaries under the loan.
Organization and Management
2.        The new holding companies, even though they are called autonomous,
enjoy only limited autonomy. They have to operate within the government
regulation of prices and get government approval of their investment programs.
According to statutes, these companies would not have direct relation with
the State budget. However, losses of these companies due to low statutory
prices would be covered by the State budget "in accordance with the laws of
the country." Further, the companies have to submit annually to the
Government costs, suggested price increases, and estimates of annual subsidies
required. They also have to submit quarterly and annual progress reports to
the Government on their activities. Within these constraints, the companies
have been entrusted with the responsibility for developing their strategy for
development, taking measures for modernization and expansion including design
and implementation of projects, developing new employment conditions including
the establishment of a new system of salary, bonus and social benefits,
reorganizing and retrenching personnel, and establishing criteria for the



- 40 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 8
for the recruitment of new staff. The companies also have been given the
right of organizing joint ventures 'in accordance with the law."
3.             Currently, the holding companies are overstaffed and are not
able to deal with the retrenchment of surplus labor because of opposition by
labor unions. The companies lack experienced professional staff to deal with
accounting and financial management, maintenance management, inventory
control, quality control, etc. Further, they are yet to develop sound
marketing systems. One of the common financial problems, is that their
receivables are increasing sharply as they are unable to collect them due so
the tight credit squeeze in the economy. Faced with this situation of
increasing receivables, these companies are delaying payment of their bills to
their suppliers. These trends, if allowed to continue, would result in a
serious national financial crisis.
Pricing
4.             The Government continues to set the prices for strategic basic
products such as petroleum, natural gas, power and lignite. Since the
beginning of the economic reform process started in November 1990, the
Government has been increasing those prices. As a result, the crude oil price
has increased from Lei 2,800/ton in October 1990 to Lei 7,000/ton; the natural
gas price has risen from Lei 2,000 per 1,000 cubic meters (m3) to L.i 2,940;
the average electricity price (excluding the tariff for district heating which
is still heavily subsidized) has increased from Lei 0.49/KWh to Lei 2.2 KWh;
and the lignite price has risen from Lei 218/ton to Lei 426/ton. Even though
significant increases have been made in energy prices, they remain
substantially below the import parity price levels as shown below:
PRICE COMPARISON
Domestic Price       Import Parity
Lei        US$'     US$b   Price (US$)
Electricity (per MWh)                2,200       36.7      11.0        51.0
District Heating (per Gcal.)           548        9.1       2.7        59.3
Natural Gas (per '000m3)             2,940       49.0      14.7        95.0
Crude Oil (per ton)                  7,000      116.7      35.0       125.0
Lignite (per ton)                      426        7.1       2.1        17.0
a/ At the official *xohange rate of 1 USS-Lei 60
b/ At the inter-bank commercial exchange rate of 1 US$-L*i 200
The above table shows that the economic subsidy is the highest for power
supplied to households for district heating. At the official exchange rate,
the subsidy for district heating amounts to about 85X, while power (for uses
other than district heating) has a subsidy level of about 281, the crude oil,
61, natural gas, 551, and lignite, 601. At the inter-bank commercial



- 41 -
ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 8
exchange rate, the subsidy level for the above-mentioned items would, however,
be significantly higher than the above figures.
Production Performance and Financial Situation
5.        PETROM:  Romania was producing about 11.5 million tons of crude oil
in 1980. Since then, the annual production has declined, reaching about 8
million tons in 1990. The decline in production has been mainly due to lack
of new discoveries and the inability to exploit the existing wells in a
satisfactory manner due to lack of spare parts and equipment. The annual
production is expected to decline further, reaching 6 million tons in 1994.
6.        In early 1991, the eight oil producing state companies in Romania
have been brought under PETROM. In ordei. to enable the company to become
financially profitable, the Government has increased the crude oil price
significantly as noted. As a result of the price increase, the Company is
expected to show a net profit of about Lei 1,537 million in 1991. The
profitability of PETROM is expected to be satisfactory under the Government's
policy of increasing prices periodically taking into account the international
oil prices. Projections show that PETROM should be able to meet more than 90%
of its investment needs from internal cash generation. The projections have
been based on the assumption that the reyalties and related taxes charged by
the Government would be reduced from 64X to 32X as proposed by PETROM.
7.        ROMGAZ:   As in the case of oil, the annual production of gas has
declined from about 28.2 million m3 in 1980 to about 19.4 million m3 in 1990.
The production is expected to decline further, reaching 17.3 billion in 1991.
As ROMGAZ has no program for large-scale exploration and drilling, the
production is projected to fall to about 12.5 billion m3 by 1994.   With the
substantial increase of gas prices since last year, the operation of ROMGAS
has become profitable. The profitability of the Company is expected to remain
satisfactory as shown in Attachment 2. During the next four years, ROMGAS is
expected to meet about 85X of its investment requirements from internal cash
generation.
8.        RENt.Li RENEL's total power generating installed capacity is about
21.5 GW.  However, the Company is hardly able to produce 8 GW because of the
technical and other constraints facing the power plants. With the upgrading
of the operational and maintenance systems, RENEL should be able to increase
power production significantly, thus helping Romania to overcome its
dependence on imported power. However, this is contingent on the power plants
based on lignite and brown coal getting adequate supply of these raw
materials. Currently, Romania imports about 10.3 billion Kwh annually. This
is expected to go down as RENEL's production increases from about 62.6 billion
KWh in 1991 to 76.5 billion KWh in 1994.
9.        RENEL is expected to show a small profit of about Lei 220 million in
1991 with the increase in electricity prices during 1990-91 by 350% from Lei
0.49/KWh to Lei 2.2/KWh and of the district heating tariff by 243X from Lei
160/GCal to Lei 548/GCal. Projections show that RENEL's operation would



- 42 -
ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 8
continue to be profitable(see Attachment 3). However, the internal cash
generation during the next four years would be adequate to cover only 18.5% of
the investment requirements. In this context, the Government should consider
enabling RENEL to cover at least 35% of the investment needs at efficient
operation from internal cash generation by increasing prices in a timely
manner, taking into account the import price of power.
10.       RAL:  Because of the technical and other constraints facing lignite
mining, the local production is not expected to exceed 36 million compared to
53 million tons in 1989, when the lignite mines were operated under close
supervision of the previous regime, with the mines working seven days a week
(compared to five days a week at present). With the preoccupation of the
military to achieve the annual production target, inadequate attention was
p4id to maintenance. This is also one of the major reasons for the sharp
decline in production. Further, mines were operated irrespective of their
economic viability. Currently, RAL is not exploiting intensively the
underground mines which are not economic. The operation of RAL is also
affected by a low lignite price fixed by the Government. The current price
of Lei 426/ton is very low (in spite of the 95% increase in 1991) compared to
the import parity price as noted earlier.   At the current price, RAL would
require a subsidy of about Lei 13 billion to break even.   On the other hand,
if the prices are increased to the level of the import parity price, RAL would
be able to show profit and generate internal funds to finance its investment
needs (see Attachment 4). Otherwise, it would have to rely on government
subsidy for survival.



- 43 -
ANNEX 1
Page 5 of 8
ATTACHMENT 1
EQIA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND CRITICAL IMPORTS PROJECT
PETROM: FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS (1991-94)
UNITS        1991     1992    1993    1994
........   ........... .......  ........... ....... ...... ...............
1. Well Capacity       '000 tons     7760    7590    7210    6940
2. Oil production      "000 tons      6700    6600    6300    6000
3. Gas productfon        '000 m3      7600    7000    6500    6100
4. Unit price:
-Oil          Lei/ton          6785    7124    7512    7750
-Gas           Lei/'000 m3    2570    3180    4011        4492
5. Gross Sales Rev.
-Oil          Million Lei    45460   47020    47326   46500
-Gas          Million Lei    19532   22260   26072   27401
.......  -------. .. -------  .......... ...............
Sub-Total      Million Lei    64992   69280   73397   73901
6.   Turnover Tax    Million Lei      14547    15046    15144    14880
7. Net Sales Revenue  Million Lei    50444    54234   58253   59021
8. Production Costs
............
-Materials       Million Lei      7725    7985    8242    8600
-Energy         Million Lei      6777    7450    8120    8810
-Depreciation 1/    MIllion Le     18800    18967   18835    18722
-Payroll & Overhead   million Lei     11091    12156   12632   12715
-Interest Charges    Mfillon Lef        48      312      504      636
-Other         Million Lei       881      901      921      944
.....-...... ............  .......  -------. ... -------
Sub-Total     Million Lei    45322   47771    49254    50427
9. Corporate Tax    Million Lei      3586    4524    6299    6016
........... ....    .......  -------... -------
10.  Net Profit     Million Lei      1537    1939    2700    2578
.==u.=.. .=U.ZM=z  .=m==m  ======a=
10. Cash Flow      Mliton Let      20337   20906   21535   21300
11. Investment Needs   Million Lei    20200   21900   21200   20100
12. Investment Financing:
-Own Sources    Million Lei     19800   19700   19600    19000
-Loans         MIllIon Let       400    2200      1600    1100
.......  .......... .......  .......... ...............
Sub-Total       NIllion Let   20200   21900    21200   20100
.umo.n     ..u.       ....um..o   *-u-.---.



- 44 -
ANNEX 1
Page 6 of 8
ATTACHMENT 2
ROMANIA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND CRITICAL IMPORTS PROJEC
ROMGAS: FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS (1991-94)
.......... ...............  ....
UNITS         1991     1992     1993     1994
........     ........... .......  ........... ....... ...... ...............
1. Number of Wells          No.          3680     3740      3790     3830
2.  Gas production      Million m3       17300    15600    14000    12500
3. Purchased Gas:
-From PETROM             U U          6475     6475      5975     5575
- Imported                           5060     4634      4270     3800
4. Total gas sales          " mu
5. Gas sales price      Lei /000m3       2940      4000     4800     4800
6. Gross sates revenue:
-From gas          Lei million     83278   104936   114197   103061
-Other                             2380     2499     2624      2788
Sub-total             H t         85658   107435   116821   105849
7. Royalties & Taxes         U "          10262    13170    22975    15586
8. Net sales revenue         "            75396    94265    93846    90263
9.    Total costs
-lmported gas            u n         39290    52828    48678    43320
-PETROM gas                         17476    21368    23900    24530
-RONGAS costs            u N          88D3     9684    10651    11717
-Depletion Allowance         N U          2178     2166      1943     1733
-Other expenses           U U          2335     2454      2579     2743
Sub-total t              *         70082    88500    87751    84043
10. Corporate Tax                       2444     2652      2804     2861
......   ...... ... ......  ......... ......
11. Net Profit            " "          2870     3113      3291     3359
=3=32   c=2=3    =333=    ===c=
12.  Cash flow                         5048     5279      5234     5092
13. Investment Needs         " *          3600      3750     3300     2550
14. Investment financing:
- Own sources            H U          2750     3070      2950     2550
-Loans                "N            850      680       350        0
.....    ..... . . .....   .............
*U U         3600     3750     3300     2550
com33    c33as3   .3333   Casa=



- 45 -
ANNEX 1
Page 7 of 8
ATTACHMENT 3
ROMANI
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND CRITICAL IMPORTS PROJECT
REUEL: FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS (1991-94)
.............................
(in Let bIllinn)
1991     1992     1993      1994
.........  ......  ...... .... ....-----... ...
200.08   221.88   224.19   227.75
7.66     8.20     8.60     9.00
59.17    47.12    36.72    31.22
81.24    89.93    95.00   100.00
1.25     1.35     1.50     1.70
18.33    38.00    42.00    43.20
14.49    15.97    16.63    17.48
8.82     9.49     9.83    10.38
8.71    10.56    11.50    12.02
......   ------.  . ......  ......... ............
199.67   220.62   221.78   225.00
0.19     0.58     1.11      1.27
.... ..... ... ...... ......  ------. .. ......
0.22     0.68     1.30      1.49
=nu===       .       3. mz    . . U =.=mu=
9.04    10.17    11.13    11.87
36.50    48.09    58.33    85.95
9.04    10.17    11.13    11.87
27.46    37.92    47.20    74.08
......   ...... .. ......   ......... ............
36.50    48.09    58.33    85.95
=can==   ===3=c    c *    *w;=n



- 46 -
ANNEX 1
Page 8 of 8
ATTACHMENT 4
RQKANIA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND CRITICAL IMPORTS PROJECT
LIGNITE REGIA: FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS (1991-94)
(in Lef billion unless otherwise noted)
1991     1992      1993     1994
1. Lignite production (million tons)                 36.0     43.5      48.0     55.0
2. Sales price (Lei/ton)                     426.0   2040.0   2285.0   2285.0
3. Sates reverue                          15.3      83.7    109.7    125.7
4. Total costs                           28.4      52.7     72.2      83.3
5. Subsidies                            13.1       0.0      0.0       0.0
6. Corporate tax                           0.0      16.6      17.2     19.5
6. Net profit                            0.0      19.5     20.2      22.9
X=2U   3nGU=    =3cD          2=D- 3 



- 47 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 5
ROMANIA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND CRITICAL IMPORTS LOAN
ECONOMIC BENEFITS, COSTS. AND RISKS OF THE ENERGY COMPONENTS
Benefits
1.       The proposed financing of imported spare and repldcement parts would
address the most serious short-term obstacles to maintaining and increasing
output in the electricity and oil and gas subsectors. It would thus
contribute significantly to alleviating energy supply shortages, which at
present curtail industrial output and depress the quality of life of the
population. Initial rehabilitation of the electricity generation units at
Turceni and Rovinari through increasing capacity utilization (from the
currently low level of 175 MW to 250 MW per unit, or about 75 X of nominal
capacity) and availability (from less than 20 X to 60 %) would increase
generation by about 1,000 GWh per unit p.a., equivalent to some US$ 51 mn if
valued at the import price of Soviet electricity as its opportunity cost. The
rehabilitation of all four units would cut electricity imports by nearly 45 X.
For hydrocarbons, the foreign exchange savings as result of the rehabilitation
would be even larger:  incremental output from 1,290 reactivated oil and gas
wells is estimated at 4 mm B of crude oil and 1.5 bn m3 of natural gas (i.e. 7
X and 5 Z, respectively, over 1990 output levels) whose value totals US$ 217
mn at 1991 cif import prices. This incremental output can likely be
maintained for at least seven years. All told, the rehabilitation measures
under the Project would result in reducing the import bill for electricity,
petroleum, and natural gas projected for 1991 by more than 9 X and a total
amount of 1991 US$ 2.3 bn over the 1992-97 period. In the case of electricity
and natural gas--where imports are severely affected by supply constraints in
the USSR--increased domestic output would result in expanding r,et supplies
(rather than substituting imports) which would alleviate energy bottlenecks in
important economic activities and reduce the costs and inconvenience to users
associated with inadequate energy supplies.
2.       Through its involvement at early stages of rehabilitating the
electricity and oil and gas subsectors, the Bank will be of critical
importance in formulating a technically feasible and economically viabie
rehabilitation program over the medium term that is suitable to attracting
donor support. It will prepare the basis for its own further lending to
Romania's energy sector.
Costs
3.       For the economic analysis of the Project's energy component, only
those cnsts (capital and operating) and benefits directly attributable to the
rehabilitation are considered. Costs and output prices are in mid-1991. terms,
calculated in terms of border values based on the official exchange rate of L
60/US$ and alternatively, a shadow exchange -ate of L 100/US$. They are net
of taxes, duties, or subsidies.



- 48 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 5
4.       The economic analysis covers only the first seven years of the
rehabilitation project even though the rehabilitated units (for both the
electricity and hydrocarbon components) are likely to be operative for a much
longer period. Project implementation is assumed to start during the third
quarter of 1991 and be completed by end-1992. Output during 1992 is assumed
to be one-half of full capacity for oil and gas and about one-third for
electricity but at full capacity during 1993-97 (i.e. 4 mn B of crude oil; 1.5
bn e3 of natural gas; and 4,000 GWh p.a.) Unit operating expenditures in 1991
are assumed at US$ 13.50/B, US$ 50/m3 '000, and US$.034/kWh. Operating
expenditures and the value of electricity are rojected to increase during
1992-97 at 2 X p.a. in real terms whereas the values of crude oil and natural
gas are escalated according to the Bank's March 1991 forecast of international
petroleum price increases.'
Economic Rate of Return and Sensitivity Analysis
5.       The cost and benefit stream for the Base Case reflecting above
assumptions, as well as for two sensitivity cases are presented in Annex 1.
The Base Case economic rate of return for the oil and gas component is 141 X
and for the electricity component, 102 X, which is very high but this is to be
expected since (a) capital costs are relatively low compared to substantial,
and sustaiaed, output increases, and (b) operating costs while significant are
considerably below economic values of the energy production.
6.       Sensitivity tests were performed to evaluate the effects of possible
cost overruns, production shortfalls, as well as the uncertainty of
international energy prices. As indicated below, the Project is sensitive to
any of these occurrences, especially production shortfalls and/or lower-than-
expected increases in production values, but the economic returns would remain
high in most cases with the exception of the electricity component. Economic
returns would be very high at a shadow exchange rate under all scenarios, as a
significant proportion of capital costs and the bulk of operating costs are in
local currency.
I/These aeo (in constant 1985 USS):
1990             -11.1 S
1991             -16.4 1
1S92              +6.5 1
1993              +4.4 1
1994              +3.4 S
i995              +4.3 S



- 49 -
ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 5
Economic Rates of Return - Sensitivity Analysis
(Percent)
Oil & Gas Coumonent    Electricity Coamonent
Official   Shadow    Official    Shadow
Scnario                            Elxch Rate Exceb Rate  Exch, Rate  Exch. Rate
1. Base Case                               130      102      256      203
2. Operating Expenditure 20 X Higher        62       25      200      140
3. Operating Revenue 20 X Lower             35        6      151      110
4. Operating Expenditure 20 Z Higher
& Operating Revenue 20 X Lower          n.a      n.a       99       67
7.       The risk of delays in project execution is relatively minor given
that the components are well-defined, concise, and ready to be implemented,
even though shortcomings in the delivery of local complementary items are a
real possibility. Technical risks in oil and gas and electricity operations
could result in higher operating costs or lower output than expected but the
relevant sensitivity cases have taken account of this possibility, indicating
that the economics of the project's energy components are still acceptable
even under relatively depressed scenarios. Nevertheless, the sensitivity of
the returns point the need for competent project management to control capital
costs and minimize delays in implementation, and for good operating practices
to avoid excess costs and shortfalls in output.



- 50 -                                               ANNEX 2
Page 4 of 5
ROMIA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND CRITICAL IMPORTS LOAN
ENERGY COMPONENTS
Economic Analysis - Shadow Rate'
(1991 USS thousands)
1991         2992        12993        1994         1995         1996        1997
Base Case
1.     Crude Oil & Natural Gas
Capital Expenditure         18,360      25.390           -            -           -         -           -
Operating Expenditure           -       70,213      143,300      146,140      149,090      152,100     155,142
Crude Oil                            (29,240)    (59,720)     (60,880)    (62,220)      (63,385)    (64,653)
Natural Gas                         (40,973)    (83,580)      (85,260)    (86.970)      (88,715)    (90,489)
Operting Revenue                        92,975      199,525      207,545      213,530      221,695    231,205
Crude Oil                            (33,800)    (72,520)     (75.200)    (77,600       (81,280)    (84,760)
Natural Gas                         (59,175)    (127,005)    (132.345)   (135,930)    (140.415)    146,445
Net Revenue                -18,360       -2,628      56,225       61,405       64,440       69,595      76,063   lR-130.3%
12.    Electricity
Capital Expenditure          7,560       62,340          -            -            -            -           -
Operating Expenditure           -        63,196      150,600      153,640     156,720      159,854     163.051
Operating Revenue               -        60,863     212,240      216,480      220,800      225,216    229,720
NetRevenue                  -7,560      -44,673      61,673       62,840       64,080       65,362      66,669   IRR- 101.5%
poerating Exrenditure 20% Hieher
1.     Crude Oil & Natural Gas
Capital Expenditure          18360       25,390          -            -            -                        -
Operating Expenditure           -        84,256      171.960      175,368     278,908      182,520     186,170
Operating Revenue               -        92,275      199,525     207.545      213,530      221.695    231,205
Net Revenue                -18,360      -17,371      27,565       32,177       34,622       39,175      45,035   IRR-=62.0%
It.    Electricity
Capital Expenditure          7,560       62,340           -            -           -            -           -
OperatingExpenditure           -         75,835      180,720      184,368     188,064      191,825     193,661
Operating Revenue               -        60,863     212,240      216,480      220.800      225,216    229,720
Net Revenue                 -7,560      -77,312      31,520       32.112       32,736       33,391      34,054  IRR-25.3%
Onerating Revenue 20% Lower
1.     Crude Oil & Natural Gas
Capital Expenditure         28,360       25,390          -            -            -            -
Operting Expenditurm            -        70,213      143,300      146,140     149,090      152.100     255,142
Operating Revenue               -        74,380      159,620      166,036     170,824      177,356     184,964
NetRevenue                 -18,360      -21,223       16,320       19,896      21,734       25,256      29,822  IRR-35.1%
H.     Electricity
Capital Expenditure          7,560       62,340          -            -            -            -           -
Operating Expenditure           -        63,196      150,600      153,640     156,720      159,884    163,081
Operating Revenue               -        48,690      169,792      173,184     176,640      180,165     183,768
Net Revenue                 -7,560      -76,846       19.192      19,544       19,920       20,281      20,687  IRR- 5.5%
,J/ L 100/USS



- 51 -
ANNEX  2
Page 5 of 5
ROMANIA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND CRITICAL IMPORTS LOAN
ENERGY COMPONENTS (continued)
Economic Analvsis - Official Rate'
(1991 USS thousands)
1991        1992         1993        1994                      1996       12M
1.     Crude Oil & Naturrl Gas
Capital Expenditure         16,891      25,359           -           -            -        -           -
Operating Expenditurm          -        49,152     100,310      102,298      104,344      106,431    108.560
Operating Revenue                       92,975     199,S25       207,545     213.530      221,695    231,205
Ctude Oil                           (33,800)    (72,520)      (75.200)    (77,600)     (81,280)   (84,760)
Natural Gas                         (59,175)   (127,005)    (132,345)   (335,930)    (140,415)    146,445
Net Revenue                -16,891      20,464      99,215      105,247      109,186      115,264    122,645  IRR-255.6%
U.     Electricitv
Capital Expenditure          6,405      52,814           -           -            -            -          -
Operating Expenditure          -        42,973      102,408      104,456     106,545      108,676     110,850
Operating Revenue              -        60,863      212.240     216,480      220,800      225,216    229,720
NetRevenue                  *6,405      -34,924     109,832      112,024     114,255      116,540    118,870  IRR.203.2%
Operating Expenditure 20% Hi2her
1.     Crude Oil & Natural Gas
Capital Expenditure         16,891      23,359                 -                  -            -          -
Operating Expenditure          -        58,982      120,372      122,758     125.213      127,717    130,272
Operating Revenue              -        92,275      199,525     207,545      213,530      221.695    231,205
Net Revenue                -16,891       9,934       79,153       84,787      88.317       93,978     100,933  IRR-99.8%
n.     Electricitv
Capital Expenditure         6,405       52,814           -            -           -            -          -
Operating Expenditure          -        51,566      122,890      125,347     127,854      130,411    133,020
Operating Revenue              -        60,863      212,240     216,480      220,800      225,216    229,720
Net Revenue                 6,405       -43,517      89,350       87,133      92,946       94,805      96,700  IRR-148.9%
Operating Revenue 20% Lower
1.     Crude Oil & Natural Gas
Capital Expenditure         16,891      23,359           -           -            -            -
Operating Expenditure          -        49,152      100,310      102,298     104,344      106,431     108,560
Operating Revenue              -        74,380      159,620      166,036     170,824      177,356    184,964
NetRevenue                 -16,891        1,869      59,310      63,738       66,480       70,925      76,404    RR-151.0%
U.     Electricitv
Capital Expenditure          6,405      52,814           -           -            -            -          -
Operating Expenditure           -       42,973      102,408      104,456     106,545      108,676    110,850
Operating Revenue               -       48,690      169,792      173,1S4     176,640      180,165     183,768
Net Revenue                 -6,405      -47,097      67,384       68,728      70,095       71,489      72,918   DR-1 10.3%
Operatin2 Expenditure 20% Higher. Operatine Revenue 20% Lower
1.     Crude Oil & Natural Gas
Capital Expenditure          6,405      52,814           -           -                         -          -
Operating Expenditure          -        58,982      120,372      122,758     125,213      127,717    130,272
Operating Revenue              -        74,380      159,620      166,036     170,824      177,356     184,964
Net Revenue                .16,891       -7,961      39,248       43,278      45,611       49,639      54,692   IRR-98.6%
II.    Electricitv
Capital Expenditum           6,405      52,814           -           -            -            -          -
Opezting Expenditurm           -         53,566     122,890      125,347     127,854      130,411     133,020  *
Operating Revenue              -        48,690      169,792      173,184     176,640      180,165    183,768
Net Revenue                 46,405      -55,690      46,902       47,837      48,786       49,754      50,748   IRR-66.5%
I,/ L 60/US$



- 52 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 2
ROMA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND CRITICAL IMPORTS LOAN
pETROLEUM AND GAS COMPONENT
TABLE 1: LIST OF IMPORTS
(US$ Milljon)
PROCUREMENT
PROCUREMENT PACKAGES                PETROM      ROMGAS   TOTAL        METHOD
I.   Special Casing, tubing
drill pipes Jack,
Roller Chain and Sucker Rods  18.4          2.7        21.1        ICB
II. Barite, Batteries and
Spacial Tires                   2.5         1.0         3.5        ICB
III. Spare Parts, Material
Drilling and Production
Equipment and Lab.
Supplies                        5.1         1.3         6.4        IS
IV. Overhaul of Gas
Turbines                                    4.0         4.0        DP
TOTAL                          26.0         9.0        35.0



ROMANIA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND CRITICAL IMPORTS LOAN
PETROLEUM/GAS COMPONENT
TABLE 2: MATERIALS REQUIRED TO REACTIVATE OLD SHUTDOWN WELLS
Increo ntat                                                   Deep well Pump
Trape-
Productio   Gas                                Pumping  zoidmi        Cpcs)
Lot tion      Witsl   Crude    (0D0/             Tubfng (to)          Rods     Belts    Long     Hell-  Packers  Weight-  Dinin-
Ot Fields      No.     tolD      uND)    2-3/8    2-7/8    3-1/2    (pec)    (pCs) Cflinder  coidut    (pcs)  Indfcator mtwro
1           2        3        4         5        6        7        8         9       10       11        12       13       14
....................................................................................................................................
SPP V1dIel        100       130        -               8 620     630     3400     1200         -        .        .        2         1
Pomni         137      218         -        -     1840      14    1210W      1644                 10        -        2         1
Clofinf        59       89         -               650               3400      708        -         -        -        2         1
Srafit         99       145        -              1280         -      7200    200-                 10        -        2         1
Tf tu          36       44         -        -      458         -      600      432        -         -        -        1        1
SPP Ticleni        as       86         -        -      572       220     4000     1056         -        -       12        2         1
Stoan          21       64       90         -      780         -               252        -         -       22        2         -
Crafova        13       39       40         -                  -        -      156        -         -        8        3         1
SPP Nbrghit         3        4                  -         -        -        -       36        -         -        -        1         1
Tim zoarn       9        0         -        -        -         -        -      108        -         -        -        2        1
Suptlc         54       46         -        -        -         -        -      648        -         -
Arad            7        4         -        -                                   84        -         -                 2         1
SPP Gasti         141       136        -        -      762         -    8400      1692        -         -        -        2         1
Nosoe         57       55         -        -      545        39     4400      664                  -        -        2         1
Clurasti      244      137         -        -     1500      570    21470      2968        -         -                 3        1
Dragasan1      34       26        28        -      396         -     2000      406        -         -                 2         1
SPP Vfforfto        -             -         -        -        -        -         -             -        -        -        2         1
Noreni          1        5                  -       33                  -      -12        -                           1        1
BSacol          4       17         -        -       98       68      1100      -48        -         -        -        2        1              b
Boldesti       36       66                  -      580      280      3744      432        -         -        -        2        1
8erca           8       24                  -      221       50      2237       96                  -        -        2        1
SPP Zemes          40       23         -        -      440         -        -      480             -             -        2         1              o
Nodirzu        50       31         -        -      364      3800        -      600        -         -        -        2        1                 >
Coanesti       50       45         -        -      380     4649         -      600        -         -        -        2        1
TOTAL        1290     1442       158        -    11763     2014    82500    15500        70       20        42       43       22
~~~~~~~~~~~~, ,,,  ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,............................................................................................................... ......................
Source: Ninistry of Resources and Industry
HJA February 1991



- 54 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 5
ROMANIA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND CRITICAL IMPORTS PROJECT
POWER COMPONENT
1.       Project Objective and ScoRe:  The objective of the electricity
project component is to assist RENEL in increasing the soonest possible and
preferably within two years, the production of electrical energy generated
from non-tradable indigenous coal (poor quality lignites) by rehabilitating
four of the largest generating units while regaining the original performance
of the existing electrostatic precipitators. The proposed rehabilitation
would assist the Government to save valuable foreign exchange which would
otherwise be spent in importing more expensive oil, gas or electrical energy.
To achieve this objective the project has been designed to assist RENEL to:
(1) rehabilitate four 330 MW genecating blocks; (ii) safeguard in a limited
way the protection system of two 400 kV transformer stations and one 750 kV
transformer station which receives the imported energy from USSR; (iii)
maintain the operating safety of the central and regional dispatching centers;
and (iv) assure the performance of four electrostatic precipitators. Every
effort would be made to complete the rehabilitation the soonest possible.
2.       Description of Power ComRonent:  The power component of the proposed
project would include the following: (i) spare parts and equipment for the
rehabilitation of blocks No. 3 and 6 installed bt the power station of
Rovinari and blocks No. 4 and 5 installed at the power station of Turceni;
(ii) spare parts for the rehabilitation of four elestrostatic precipitators;
(iii) equipment for improving the protection system of the transformer
stations of Tintareni and Urechesti; (iv) the installation of lightning
arrestors at the 750 kV transformer station of Filesti; (v) tthe installation
of six diesel generating sets at the dispatching center for auxiliary power
(one set of 250 kVA at the central dispatching center and five sets of 100 kVA
at the regional dispatching centers) and of six sets of alkaline accumulators
for emergency power (one set of 220 V / 200 AH and five sets of 220 V / 100
AH); (vi) the purchase of urgently needed testing instruments, including
instruments for on-site pollution measuring stations; (vii) the purchase of
five mobile laboratories with measuring equipment for levels of pollution to
be used by RENEL at different plants; and (viii) the provision of PC
computers, related srftware and associate staff training.
3.       Project Component Cost Estimate:  The estimated cost of the proposed
power project component is about US $ 67.1 million equivalent of which US
$40.2 million equivalent would be in foreign exchange. The cost estimates do
not include interest during construction, customs duties and taxes. The
breakdown of the proposed power project component cost is summarized in TAble
1 below.



- 55 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 5
ROMANIC
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND CRITICAL IMPORTS PROJECT
TABLE 1
Proiect Cost Table
Project Component                Local      Foreign    Total   Foreign as X
(US $ Million)                of Total
Generation                         21.1       26.1       47.2          0.55
Civil Works etc.                    0.8        0.0        0.8          0.00
Transmission & Dist.                1.5        6.5        8.0          0.81
Dispatching                         0.4        0.9        1.3          0.69
PCs/Computers & Training            0.0        0.3        0.3          0.94
Pollution Control                   0.0        2.0        2.0          1.00
Base Cost (02/15/91)               23.8       35         59.6           .60
Physical Contingencies              1.2        1.7        2.9          0.60
Price Contingencies                 1.9        2.7        4.6          0.60
TOTAL PROJECT COST                 26.9       40.2        6.1          0.60



- 56 -
ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 5
4.       Project Financing and Loan Disbursement:        The proposed power
project component would partly finance the foreign exchange requirements
estimated at US $40.2 million equivalent (about 60X of the total project
cost), and RENEL would provide the interest during construction on the
proposed loan (estimated at Lei 3,000 million. The European Investment Bank
(EIB) has shown interest in co-financing with the Bank the foreign cost
component. For this purpose, an EIB mission visited Romania in May 1991 to
appraise the power component of the proposed project. Appraisal was completed
on May 31, and it is expected that the project would be presented to EIB's
board of directors for consideration on July 23, 1991. The proposed financing
plan given in Table 2 below assumes that EIB would be co-financing the
proposed power component.
TABLE 2
Proiect Financing Plan
US S million eguivalent       X of total
Local       Foreign         Total
Proposed IBRD Loan               --           22.8          22.8       34
Proposed EIB Loan                 --          17.4          17.4       26
RENEL's Internal Sources                                    26.9       40
Total                            040.          67.10
TAIBLE 
Summary of ProRosed Procurement Plans
Project component         ICB            IS           DC        Total
Generation Plants         7.0           1.0          4.9        12.9
(7.0)        (1.0)        (4.9)       (12.9)
Transmission and
Distribution            4.5           2.0         0.8          7.3
(4.5)        (2.0)        (0.8)        (7.3)
Dispatching               0.7           0.3           -          1.0
(0.7)        (0.3)          -          (1.0)
Computer Equipment                      0.3           -          0.3
-          (0.3)          -          (0.3)
Pollution Contro'L         -            2.3           -          2.3
-   (1.3)     -          (1.3)
Total                    12.2                                   23.8
IBRD Financing          (12.2)         (4.9)        (5.7)      (22.8)



- 57 -
ANNEX 4
Page 4 of 5
ROMANIA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND CRITICAL IMPORTS PROJECT
TABLE 4
Estimated Costs for the Rehabilitation
Prograq of the 2x330 MW Units 414 and #5 of Turceni Power Plant
and 2x330 MW Units 43 and #6 of Rovinari Power Plant
(X lUOU DM)       (X  100W US S)
1.  Coal Handling Equipment                      6,178               3,551
2.  Mills and Crushers                           8,590               4,937
3.  Water treatment plant                        2,700               1,552
4.  Boilers & Electrostatic Precipitators        8,915               5,124
5.  Turbines and  Pumps                          4,805               2,761
6.  Electromechanical                            6,645               3,819
7.  Measuring & control                          7,583               4,358
TOTAL for the 4 units                           45.416               26.102
Average cost per unit                            11,354               6,526



- 58 -
ANNEX 4
Page 5 of 5
ROMAIA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND CRITICAL IMPORTS PROJECT
Table 5
Identified SRare Parts & Equipment for the Transmission
& Distribution System and DisRatching Centers
Total
Base Cost            Procurement
Identified Items             (US $ m)               Method
Transmission & Distribution
Parts for Tintareni antd
Urechesti sub-stations                1.5                ICB
Instruments                           0.5                Intern. Shop
Lightning Arrestors (750 kV)          0.2                Intern. Shop
Other Spare Parts                     0.5                Direct Contr.
Insulators                            0.5                ICB
Cables (between 1-20 kV)              1.6                ICB
Measuring Current Trafos.             0.4                ICB
Inductance coils, Relays etc.         1.1                Intern. Shop
Flanges, Rubber Plugs etc.                               Direct Contr.
Subtotal           6.5
Dispatching Centers
Diesel Generator lx250 KVA            0.6                ICB
Alkaline Bat. (200 AH, 220V)          i=3                Intern. Shop
Subtotal           0.9
Pollution Control Eguigment
Mobile laboratories with              2.0                Intern. Shop
measuring equipment
Total             10.3



- 59 -
ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 7
KOMANIA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND CRITICAL IMPORTS PROJECT
LIGNITE MINING COMPONENT
The Coal Sector
1.       Domestic coal accounts for about 25 percent of primary energy
production and consumption. The main use of Romanian coal is for electricity
generation: about 85 percent is used in power plants, while the remaining 15
percent are used as a low quality coking coal in the steel industry, in
households and for other, mainly industrial, purposes. In 1988, Romania
produced about 59 million tons of coal, of which 50 million tons of lignite,
and 9 million tons of hard coal. In 1989, a record production of 61 million
tons was achieved through an extraordinary effort, including support by the
army. In 1990, production dropped sharply to 42 million tons, mainly due to
the political events and reduced working time. During the first quarter of
1991, production dropped further, partly due to weather, but partly also due
to increasing shortages of materials and spare parts. In April 1991, the
production rate regained 80-90 percent of the 1990 level.
2.       In total, there are more than 80 mines, scattered over six areas
through the country, but with heavy concentration of lignite mines near Tirgu
Jiu, and of hard coal mines near Petrosani. While 75 percent of the lignite
is mined on surface and 25 percent underground, all hard coal is mined
underground. Size of mines, utilization of equipment and personnel
productivity are far below international standards. Despite poor geological
conditions and unfavorable operating costs, large investments have been made
to develop new mines for both surface and underground mining. On a sunk-cost
basis, surface mines are capable to produce a heat unit at a cost which is
competitive with that of imported coal.
3.       After a recent reorganization, there are now two state-owned
enterprises: Regia Autonoma a Lignitului, comprising all lignite operations;
and Regia Autonoma a Huilei, comprising all hard coal operations. The lignite
enterprise employs about 80,000 people, the hard coal enterprise about 50,000.
The need for restructuring to address the problems of low manpower
productivity, low utilization of existing facilities and excessive production
costs has been recognized by both enterprises. As a first step, two studies,
one for lignite and one for hard coal, have been contracted with local design
institutes.
The Project Entity
4.       Regia Autonoma a Lignitului (RAL) is the country's major supplier of
fuel for electric power generation. RAL operates the country's lowest cost
mines and supplies from them the country's most important power stations of
Rovinari and Turceni which are located at a distance of about 20 and 60 km,
respectively, from RAL's major mines. The average production cost of RAL's
lignite is about 20 percent below the cost imported coal.



- 60 -
ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 7
The Project
5.       Objectie,.  To meet the demand of the Rovinari and Turceni power
plants after their completed Phasc I rehabilitation of four blocks, RAL will
have to supply an additional 8 million tons per year before the end of 1993.
The objective of the Lignite Mining Component is to enable RAL to provide this
additional fuel quantity on time and at least cost.
6.       DescriRgion  Half of the required extra production is to be achieved
from the conventional surface mines, and the other half from the continuous
open-pit mines. The output increase from the conventional mines is planned to
be achieved by remobilizing available trucks which now are immobilized because
of lack of tires and batteries, but otherwise are in good working condition.
The output increase from the continuous mines is planned to be mainly achieved
by organizational and managerial improvements, with technical assistance from
an experienced consultant, and partly by importing critical materials needed
for previously neglected maintenance.
7.       The technical assistance is to:  (a) assist RAL in achieving the
necessary short-term productivity increases at its major low cost surface
mines; and (b) prepare a proposal for long-term improvements, with a view to
sustain the short-term improvements and prepare for further increases. Terms-
of-reference have been prepared and agreed between RAL and the Bank. To
achieve the short-term productivity increases, the consultants will propose
organizational and managerial improvements, in particular in the area of
equipment maintenance, train Romanian staff, and assist in procuring critical
materials. To prepare the plan for long-term improvements, the consultants
will review mining plans and propose a program for major rehabilitation of
existing installations.
8.       The critical imports are to enable previously neglected and overdue
maintenance of mining equipment in RAL's least cost and most important surface
mines. They consist of critical wearing materials, such as belts for
conveyors, tires and batteries for trucks, of critical electrical parts for
control of the major mining equipment, and of materials needed for improving
maintenance carried out by workshops. The cost of the Lignite Mining
Component is estimated at US $27.5 million (all foreign), of which US$ 26.6
million are for critical imports and US$ 0.9 million for technical assistance.
Benefits and Risks
9.       The benefits of the Lignite Mining Component are the increased
lignite supplies necessary for the Phase 1 rehabilitation of the Rovinari and
Turceni power plants at a lower marginal cost than any other alternative. The
Lignite Mining Component is expected to fully meet the requirements of the
Rovinari and Turceni power plants. The net economic benefits exceed in every
year the disbursement cost. Over the total implementation period, the net
economic benefits are 2.2 times higher than the cost of the Component (see
pages 5 to 7 of this Annex).



- 61 -
ANNEX 5
Page 3 of 7
10.      The Component is to restore the productLon capacity of the surface
mines to about 85 percent of the 1989 level. Given the historic production
performance of RAL and the potential for reducing downtime through
organizational/managerial improvements, it is likely that the objective can be
met. In the event that the unexpected problems should delay or reduce the
productivity increases from the continuous surface mines, there is a
possibility to compensate by further increasing the output from the
conventional mines through the use of more trucks which could be provided by
contractors.



- 62 -
ANNEX 5
Page 4 of 7
ROMANIA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND CRITICAL IMPORTS LOAN
LIGNITE MINING COMPONENT
Cost Estimate
(US$ million)
Estimated
Cost
A. CRITICAL IMPORTS
Conventional Surface Mines
Tires for mine trucks                                           2.0
Batteries for mine truck                                        O.1
SUBTOTAL                                                 2.1
Continuous Surface Mines
Steel cord belts (incl. vulcanization material)
for conveyors                                               17.0
Electric Cables for continuous mining equipment                 3.0
Parts for vulcanization equipment                               1.4
Instrumentation & communication parts for
mining equipment                                             1.0
Electrical parts                                                1.0
Hydraulic hoses and seals                                       0.7
Safety switches for bucket wheel excavators                     0.3
Seals for gear boxes                                            0.1
SUBTOTAL                                                24.5
TOTAL CRITICAL IMPORtiS                                        26.6
B.  TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                                              0.9
TOTAL LIGNITE MINING COMPONENT                                       27I.5



ANNEX 5
- 63 -                                     Page 5 of 7
&QZMiIA
TECHNICAL ASSISLANCE AND CRITICAL IMPORTS PROJECT
LIGNITE MINING COMPONENT - IMPACT ON PRODUCTION
Obiective
To produoe by 1993 on r4ditdonal 8 Mtla, 50% from conventional & 50% from continuous mines
Conventional Surface Mines
- actal -                   - projected
1989    1990                1991     1992    1993
production                             Mt       9.7      5.2                5.5      7.4      9.2
as % of 1989                            %    100%       54%               57%       76%      95%
a/ incremental production                Mt                                   0.3      2.2       4.0
b/trucks owned                         units             2000               2000    2000    2000
ct trucks operated                     units               700               740       989    1238
d/ new tires to be fitted              units                                 400    2490    2490
aS over 1990 level
b/ units of IS t capacdty bottleneck of production
c/ most of the inoperative units are parked due to lack of tire
d/ yearly amount of tires (10 per tuck) to be fitted onto parked uwcb, proposed Bank loan provides for double amount of tim
in order to also rnew tir on ahout 213 of the operating units
Continuous Surface Mines
-   actual -                       projected
1989    1990                1991     1992    1993
producion of all continuous mine       Mt    29.6       19.6               19.9     21.8     23.6
as%of1989                               %  100%   66%                      67%   73%   80%
a) Incremental production                Mt                                   0.3      2.2       4.0
b/ production of 3 seSletd mines         Mt                5.0                5.3      7.2       9.0
ci eqipment availability                  %               20%                21%      29%      36%
dJ operating time                        hrs              1750              1860    2510    3150
a/ Incremental operat   ftime            hrs                                  110      760    1400
el thereot   malnoe schedule             hrs                                   70      400      600
U           belts                       hrs                                            260      390
g/           oler                        hrs                                   40      100      410
a/ over 1990 Ievel
bl Rols de Jiu, Jiit Sud & Pinlaa mines main suppilem for Rovinau & TuWeni power pants, all Inaemental production to be
achieved from theme mines
c/ avage avilabilityof a production line (bucket *bcel mator, oanveyos,  er) required to achieve prcicted
production, bond on actual 1990 avaiability
41 asage annual operating boun ofa production line (good intenational sandard i 4500 Wa)
/ redction of annual overhauls and planned stoppages per shift (I hr) by 1/ until 1993
U reductin of downtime due to bell repain 25 % of the belts repled with imporu financed under the proposed Bank loan,
downtime mend by these belts (25% of calender time) reduced by 23 until 1993
S impvennents In rod couction, belt claning, control h telecommunications, maintenawce prooedures, through tecnical
amisac and mtelris fnanced under the popoed Bank loan



- 64 -                                            ANNEX  5
Page 6 of 7
ROMANIA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND CRITICAL IMPORTS PROJECT
LIGNITE MINING COMPONENT - ECONOMIC BENEFITS
Economic Cost of Local UgnIte
Cost of Import Cool                                 Econ. Cost of Local Ugnit.
cit Romanian border          s/t       50.0         cost per hoet unit (at powor plant)         SIGJ       2.8
Inland transport             S/t       20.0         heating value                               GJ/t        6.7
doliverod power plant       SUt        70.0         cost p. t doliverd powor plant              Stn       18.7
hoating valuo                GJ/t      25.0        transport mino-powor plant                   Sit        5.0
cost per heat unit           $/GJ       2.8         opportunity cost ex mine                    sit       13.7
Oaprating Cost of Conventional (ruck) Surface Mines
Trucking Cost                                                      Mine Operating Cost b/
a*
Hourly Cost of Opetating One Truck
fuel                         S/hr               8.6
materals & services          $/hr               4.3
labor                        S/li               2.5
depreciation                 S/hr               4.4
total                        S/hr           1  19.9               trucking               MS/a              17.0
excavating            M$/a               8.5
Annual Truck Hours Required                                        overheads             MS/a               6.4
coal production              Mt/a               4.0               total                  MS/a             31.8
overburden/coal ratio         bcm/t             5.5
total material handling      Mt/a              48.0                production            Mt                4.0
avg. trucking distance       km                 2.0
avg. truck speed             km/h              15.0                                                     as % of
truck loads / hr             no.                3.8                                                     opport.coet
truck capacity               t                 15.0                unit cost             Sit        8.0   58%
total truck hours            mlo.h/a            0.9                variable cost  c/     $/t        64   46%
a/ baed on international costs (personnel cose adjusted to Romenian conditions), depreciation bas been included beceuse of large number of units end high rw
bl ratioa between trucking and other costs based on international esperience
c/ incremental operating cost. 80% of unit cost
Operalinp Cost of Continuous (BWE  Surface Mines
Unit Cost for Ugnite & Overburden a                               Mine Operating Cost
materials             $/t       0.45                              coal production               Mt/a       4.0
electricilty          St        0.07                              overburden/coal ratio         bomt/       6.5
personnel             S/1       0.15                              total material handling       MVa       56.0
overhocds             Sit       0.20
total                 Sit       0.87                               total operating cost         M$/a      48.5
as % of
opport.oost
unit cost             $A        12.1   88%
variable cost  c/     S/t        6.1   44%
a/ tikt operating cot (ewl. depreciation) band on International experience (personnel adjusted to Romanian conditions)
b/ nretmental oprtin cot. 50% of unit coat



ROMANIA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND CRITICAL IMPORTS PROJECT
LIGNITE MINING COMPONENT - ECONOMIC BENEFITS  (continued)
tW9l                      1992                      1993                      Total
Truck  BWE   total        Truck  BWE   total        Truck  BWE   total        Truck  SWE   total
Incremental production           Mt       0.3   0.3   0.6            1.9   1.9   3.8           1.8   1.8   3.6           4.0   4.0   8.0
Incremental operating cost       MS        1.9   1.8   3.7          12.1  11.5  23.6          11.5  10.9  22.4          25.5  24.3  49.7
Incremental bnefit               MS       4.1   4.1   8.2           26.1  26.1  52.2          24.7  24.7  49.4          54.s1  54.9  109.8
net Incremental benefit          MS       2.2   2.3   4.5           14.0  14.6  28.5          13.2  13.8  27.0          29.4  30.6  60.1
loan disbursement                MS       0.4   0.5   0.9            0.9  12.5  13.3           0.9  12.5  13.3           2.1  25.4  27.5
notincr.b.n.f/oandisburs.       ratio     5.5   4.6   5.0           16.4   1.2   2.1          15.6   1.1   2.0          14.0   1.2   2.2
s/ prodocion iucme from precedig yr
00
%JYJ



- 66 -
ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 2
ROMANIA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND CRITICAL IMPORTS LOAN
IMPORTS FOR TRANSPORT COMPONENT
(US $)
PROCUREMENT METHODS
AGENCY / ITEMS                          COST ($)         ICB            IS            DC
I.    CONTRANSIMEX (Trucks and buses)
Tires (Q-50,000)'                     12,000,000    12,000,000
Batteries (Q-30,000)'                  5,500,000     5,500,000
Engine parts'                          5,700,000     1,200,000      2,700,000    1,800,000
Suspension parts                         550,000                      550,000
Transmission parts                       250,000                                    250,000
Brake/Compressors                        800,000                      300,000       500,000
Electrical parts                       2,000,000                    1,450,000       550,000
Total CONTRANSIMEX             26.800,0Q0    18.700.000       5.000.000    3.100.000
TT. Bucharest Metro
Batteries                                300,00        300,000
Traction motor parts (electrical)        900,000                      900,000
Traction motor parts (mechanical)        350,000                      350,000
Insulation material                      350,000       350,000
Electrical apparatus                     250,000                      250,000
Tools and measurement devices            300,000                      150,000       150,000
Welding equipment TIG                    150,000                      150,000
Total Bucharast Metro           2.600.000        650.000      1.800.000       150.000
Total Road and Urban Subsectors       29.400.000    12.350.000      6.800.000    3.250.000
I/ To be distributed by CONTRANSIMEX through auction system.



- 67 -
ANNEX 6
RDMANIA                                Page 2 of 2
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND CRITJ.CAL IMPORTS PROJECT
IMPORTS FOR TRANSPORT COMPONENT (continued)
PROCUREMENT METHODS
AGENCY / ITEMS                         COST ($)          ICB           IS             DC
B. PORT SUBSECTOR
I. SOCEP (Container Terminal)
Spare parts for 2 x 40t gantry
cranes TAKRAF                        200,000                                    200,000
Spare parts for 4 x 35t lift trucks    300 000                        180,000      120,000
Two new 40-ton lift trucks              800,000        800,000
Five 3.5-5.5 con lift trucks            400,000        400,000
Total SOCEP                     1.700.000      1_200.000       180.000       20.000
II. CONVEX (Bulk Terminal)
Spare parts for 2 x 40t gantry
cranes                             1,750,000                    1,200,000       550,000
Spare parts for 12 loaders 3m3          200,000                                    200,000
Spare parts for rehabilitation        1,800,000      1,800,000
of conveyor systems
Provision for two new grabs             150,000        150,000
Total CONVEX                    3.900.000     L,950.000      1.20Q.000       750.000
Total Port Subsector                  5.600.000      3.150.000     1.380.000    1.070.000
TOTAL TRANSPORT SECTOR               35.000.000    22.500.000      8.180.000    4.320.000



- 68 -
ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 3
ROMANIA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND CRITICAL IMPORTS LOAN
IMPORTS FOR TELECOMMUNICATIONS COMPONENT
ITEM        MODE OF            TYPE               QUANTITY           PRICE
PROCUREMENT                                             (US $)
A. Cables     ICB        1. Local cables          300 km            2,300,000
Transmission
Equipment
2. Long distance cables  50 km               200,000
3. Optical cable         11,5 km              55,000
4. Multiplexes EQ          6 pcs             445,000
(34 MBPS)
Line equipment
subtotal:        3,000,000
B. Spare    Direct       1. T.W.T. (Earth         15 pcs              120,000
Parts    Contracting    Station + Radiolink)
2. Transistors           1500 pcs            150,000
(Radiolink)
3. Diodes (Radiolink)   1000 pcs.             60,000
4. Special Passive       1000 pcs.            70,000
Components for
Microwaves
5. Miscellaneous         160 pcs.            300,000
assemblies for fixed
and mobile microwave eq.
6. Assemblies and        280 pcs.            200,000
components for
Earth Station



- 69 -
ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 3
LIST OF IMPORTS FOR TELECOMMUNICATIONS COMPONENT - Continued
ITEM        MODE OF            TYPE               QUANTITY           PRICE
PROCUREMENT                                             (US $)
7. Miscellaneous Spare  1300 pcs.            100,000
Parts for Engine
Generators
8. Miscellaneous Spare  According to       1,000,000
Parts for Transmission   to the
Systems                   lists.
Subtotal:        2,000,000
C. Instruments    IS    1. Power meter            2 pcs.                6,000
2. Spectrum Analyser    2 pcs.                65,000
18 GHz
3. Digital Radio Test   2 set                140,000
System
4. Sweep Oscilator       8 pcs.               35,000
22 GHz
5. Ateonuators           20 pcs.              10,000
6. Crystal Detector      10 pcs.               4,000
7. Digital transmission
Analyser           2 pcs.               34,000
8. Constellation         2 pcs.               31,000
Analyser
9. PCM Analyser          4 pcs.               14,000
10. Radio-link           2 pcs.               95,000
measurilng
11. Digital Channel      1 pc.                i0,000
Occupancy analyser
12. Coaxial Termination 5 pcs.                 1,000



ANNEX 7
- 70 -                          Page 3 of 3
LIST OF IMPORTS FOR TELECOMMUNICATIONS COMPONENT - Continued
ITEM        MODE OF            TYPE               QUANTITY            PRICE
PROCUREMENT                                              (US $)
13. Directional coupler 2 pcs.                 6,000
14. Optical Multimeter  2 pcs.                25,000
15. PCM-Jitter Modulator  3 pcs.              60,000
16. Bitterror Measuring 8 pcs.               280,000
Set
17. VF PCM Tester        5 pcs.               50,000
18. PCM Performance      4 pcs.               50,000
Analyser Set
19. Osciloscope 400 MHz 2 pcs.                18,000
20. Tester Trunk         1 pc.               100,000
Equipment EWSD
21. DTOR - LWL           2 pes.               86,000
Reflectometer
22. Frequency Counter   1 pc.                 10,000
1 GHz
23. Computer and         2 pcs.               80,000
Software
(MICRO VAX 3100)
24. Traffic Measuring   7 pcs.                70,000
Instrument
Subtotal:         1,280,000
D. Miscellaneous   IS   1. Event Recorder          7 pcs.              100,000
(ZTTK-102002)
2. Teleprinters          30 pcs.              63,000
3. System Fax            4 pcs.               17,000
Pitney Bowes 8050
4. Coppiers              4 pcs.               20,000
5. Consumables for                            30,000
for above items
6. Envelope-making'      1 pc.               290,000
machine for tel. bills
Subtotal:           520,000
TOTAL                         6.800.000



- 71 -
ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 10
ROMNIA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND CRITICAL IMPORTS LOAN
IRRIGATION COMPONENT
LIST OF IMPORTED SPARE PARTS AND EOUIPMENT
Item              Mode of            Type         Quantity    Total Estimated
Procurement                                 Price ($ million)
Key ComRonents
Pressure Pumps       I.C.B.      VDF 200             165             3.30
VDF 300             215            5.38
VDF 400               2            0.07
D 450             14             0.28
D 750             23             0.45
DV                 72             3.60
Subtotal         13.08
SRare Parts        Direct      Mostistea I           L.S.            0.15
Purchasing   Sadova Corabia        L.S.            1.40
Olt Calmatui          L.S.           0.80
Gostinu Greaca        L.S.           0.30
Arges
Miscellaneous         L.S.           0.17
Subtotal          2.82
Total            15.90
Note: Retroactive financina of 82.82 milLion would be necessary for purchase of spare parts.



- 72 -
ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 10
RQMANIA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND CRITICAL IMPORTS PROJECT
REPLACEMENT OF IRRIGATION PUMPS
MAIN ASSUMPTIONS FOR ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
General
1.     The economic viability of replacing irrigation pumps and sustaining
economic pumping cost in a four irrigation schemes has been evaluated. The
schemes are Viisoara (128,000 ha), Russova (75,000 ha), Mostistea (155,900
ha), and Giurgiu (115,900 ha). This annex lists the main assumptions and the
results of the analysis. Due to price distortions, instability of the
exchange rate, and high rate of inflation, all calculations have been
expressed in US$ using international prices. Also, the analysis utilizes
experience and data from a number of Bank financed irrigation projects in
Romania. The cost and benefit streams for the four schemes are in Tables 1-
5.
Agricultural Benefits
2.     Prices of Agricultural Commodities and Inputs.  The economic prices of
major traded agricultural outputs (at farm gate) were derived from IBRD
Commodity Price Forecasts (issued on March 12, 1991) of world market prices
expressed in 1991 currency value with appiopriate adjustments for freight,
handling, and processing. Romania is a net food importer and prices of main
commodities (maize, wheat, soybeans) have been calculated on an import parity
basis. Non-traded goods and services were adjusted and converted to US$ based
on conservative assumptions and conversion factors based on historical data.
3.     Present Situation.   The present level of agricultural production will
be preserved with the replacement of irrigation pumps and by supplying the
required energy for water pumping. The main irrigated crops include wheat
(14Z), maize (34X), soybeans (4X), sugar beet (5), alfa-alfa (12X),
vegetables (101) and orchards (3Z). Present irrigated yields are about 7.0
t/ha for maize, 5.0 t/ha for wheat, and 2.4 t/ha for soybeans. Assessment of
yields, input levels and relative profitability of crops is based on (i) farm
survey data in the five irrigation schemes, (ii) yield statistics, (iii)
direct information from the field. Although marginal yield improvements are
possible without irrigations, irrigation is a major constraint to higher
yields. The rainfall pattern during the cropping season is erratic with
rainfall of about 300mm and dry spells of up to 60 days.  T-i mp!imum annual
precipitation ranges from 800-350mm.



73 -
ANNEX 8
Page 3 of 10
4.      Future Without Replacement of PumRs.  The level of agricultural
production would gradually decline to rainfed conditions as more irrigation
pumps are put out of commission due to mechanical breakdown. Yields in
adjacent rainfed areas are about 4.0 t/ha for maize, 2.5 t/ha for wheat, and
1.1 t/ha for soybeans and agricultural production would revert to about these
levels. The reversal to rainfed agriculture would imply foregone net benefits
of about US$161 to US$240 per hectare on average.
Costs
5.     Replacement Costs.  The critical cost items are the replacement of
irrigation equipment and the cost of energy. The useful life of the pressure
pumps and the ancillary electrical equipment is about 15 years. The
replacement of the pumps has been spread uniformly over 15 year period (6.6%
annually) so that removal of the old and installation of the new equipment can
be carried out off season avoiding total replacement during one year which
would disrupt irrigation. The actual replacement program may vary slightly
but would have no impact on the total replacement cost. As appropriate, the
sunk cost of civil works have not been taken into account in the analysis.
6.     Operation and Maintenance (O&M) Cost.  The O&M costs used in the
analysis are the actual costs (excluding the cost of energy) incurred for
operating the five schemes during 1989-90. They include the cost of
personnel, O&M of transport and equipment, oil and lubricants required for the
movable and installed equipment, and annual O&M of civil works installations.
7.     Cost of Energy.  The cost of electrical energy used for pumping
reflects the price of importing it from Turkey at US$51 per megawatt hours.
The calculations are based on the actual energy used by each of the five
schemes in an average rainfall year.
Results
8.     Based on the above assumptions, the economic analysis of replacing the
irrigation pumps and ancillary equipment indicates that water could be pumped
profitably up to about 100 meters of vertical lift. Pumping water for
irrigation beyond 100 meters becomes increasingly unprofitable. Therefore,
schemes eligible for replacement of pressure pumps and electrical motors would
be limited to a maximum of 100 meters of vertical lift.  However, the maximum
vertical lift in the 16 schemes already selected for participation under the
project is 16.2 meters and the cost of irrigation equipment for these schemes
will equal to the cost of this project component (Table 2).
9.     With sunk cost excluded, the continued operation of all four schemes
is economically viable with positive net incremental benefits throughout the
project period. However, all four schemes analyzed would be nonviable with
the sunk cost included. This confirms that while continued operation of most
existing schemes is economically justified, no new irrigation schemes should
be undertaken and schemes under construction should be suspended.



-74 -              M
ANNEX 8
Page 4 of 10
ROMANIA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND CRITICAL IMPORTS PROJECT
IRRIGATION PUMPS REPLACEMENT
BREAK-EVEN POINT
NET PRESENT VALUE (S '000)
120
100 _
80 _
60 -
40 -
*      ~20-
0
I   X     
-20,             ,,,                 , _                       '.
32    41    50    68    70    80    90   100   110  120
VERTICAL LIFT (METERS)



ROMANIA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND CRITICAL IMPORTS PROJECT
TABLE 1: IRRIGATION PUMPS REPLACEMENT
NAME OF SCHEME                               TYPE OF PUMPS OR EQUIVALENT
PUMPING HEAD
METERS          VDF200  VDF300  VDF400  D 450    D 750             DV
1. B-OIANU-STICLEANU CALARASI                    4.0             22        -        -        -        -          -
2. SPE VITCOVIA                                  4.0              -        -        1        -        -          4
3. SIST. CONESTI                                 4.7             106      44        -        -        -          -
4. SIST. GREOCA                                  7.5              -        -                                     4 _  -
5. SIST GURA IALOMITEI                           7.5              -        -        -        -        4          -
6. IEGAUA (SPA BORECA)                           7.5              -        -        -        -        -          9
7. DICHISENI ITT. CALARASI)                      7.5              -        5        -        -        --
8. GALATI-CALARASI                               9.0              -        -        -        -        -          30
M. MOVILA MIRESEI (T. BRAILA)                   10.0             -         9        -        -        -          5
10. SIST. GALATI (SPA GHIMIA)                   12.0             -        -         -        -        6          -
11. IMB                                         12.0             12       101       -       11       11          7
12. GROJORI-CHISCONI                            12.0             -         -        -        2        2          4
13. BORCEA deSUS (CALARASI)                     12.0             3         -        2        -        -          -
14. BIUESTI-CIORVANOSTI                         15.0             22       56        -        -        -          4
15. GAUCEA (DOll)                               16.2             -         -        -        -        -          6
TOTAL                                         165      215       2        14       23         72      op
oM



ROKANIA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND CRITICAL IMPORTS PROJECT
TABLE 2: IRRIGATION PUMPS REPLACEMENT
Cost Benefit Analysis (100 ha Model)
VIISOARA SCHEME
(1991 usS)
1991     1992     1993      1994     1995      1996     1997      1998     1999   2000-2020
COSTS
PUMP REPLACEMENT COST            0         0    2.970    2.970    2,970    2.970    2.970    2,970    2.970            2,970
0 & M COSTS                    590       590      590       590      590       590      590      590       590          590
ENERGY COST                   5.860    5.860    5,860    5.860    5,860    5.860    5.860    5.860    5,860            5.860
INCREMENTAL COSTS             6,450    6.450    9,420    9.420    9,420    9,420    9.420    9.420    9.420            9,420
BENEFTI
INCREMENTAL I3ENEFITS        16.100   1J.1      16.1    00 1j.1   16.100   16.100   16.100    16.1      16100         16.10
NET INCREMENTAL
BENEFIT                       9.650    9,650    6,680    6.680    6.680    6.680    6,680    6,680    6,680            6.680
*TOTAL IRRIGATED AREA 128.000 ha
o X



ROMANIA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND CRITICAL IMPORTS PROJECT
TABLE 3: IRRIGATION PUMPS REPLACEMENT
Cost Benefit Analysis (100 ha Model)
GIURGIU SCHEME
(1991 US$)
1991     1992     1993     1994     1995      1998     1997     1998     1999   2000 -2020
COSTS
PUMP REPLACEMENT COST        4,260    4.260    4,260    4,260    4,260    4.260    4,260    4.260    4,260          4.260  -
O& M COSTS                   580       580      580      580      580       580      580      580      580           580
ENERGY COST                  8,970    8.970    8.970    8.970    8.970    8,970    8.970    8,970    8,970          8,970
INCREMENTALCOSTS            13,810   13.010   13.810   13,810   13,810   13,810   13.810   13,810   13,810         13,810
INCREMENTAL BENEFITS        21.000   21.000   21.000   21.000   21,000   21,000   21,000   21.000   21,000         21.000
NET INCREMENTAL
BENEFIT                      Zg       7190   79 Z.M               7.190    ZJ       7.190    ZJ7                    719 
TOTAL IRRIGATED AREA 115,900 ha
_ O



ROMANIA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND CRITICAL IMPORTS PROJECT
TABLE 4: IRRIGATION PUMPS REPIACEMENT
Cost Benefit Analysis (100 ha Model)
__SOVA SCHEME
(1991 US$)
1991     1992     1993     1994     1995      1996     1997     1998     1999   2000-2020
PUMP REPLACEMENT COST        5,200    5.200    5.200    5.200    5.200    5,200    5.200    5,200    5.200          5,200
58 & M COSTS                 1,080    1,080    1,080    1,080    1,080    1.080    1,080    1,080    1,080          1.080
ENERGY COST                 16.340   16.340   16,340   16.340   16.340   16,340   16.340   16,340   16.340         16.340
INCREMENTAL COSTS           22.620   22,620   22,620   22.620   22.620   22.6&    22,620   22.620   22,620         22,620
DENEI:T
INCREMENTAL BENEFITS        29.000   2        29.    000        29_000   929       29.000   290   29.0             29.0
NET INCREMENTAL
BENEFIT                      6,380    6.380    6.380    6,380    6.380    6,380    6,380    6.380    6.380          6,380
TOTAL IRRIGATED AREA 75,000 ha
o 



ROMANIA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND CRITICAL IMPORTS PROJECT
TABLE 5: IRRIGATION PUMPS REPLACEMENT
Cost Benefit Analysis (100 ha Model)
MOSTIEA SCHEME
(1991 US$)
1991     1992     1993     1994     1995      1996     1997     1998     1999   2000- 2020
COSTS
PUMP REPLACEMENT COST           0         0        0    1.640    1,640    1.640    1,640    1.640    1,640          1.640
O & M COST                     770      770      770      770      770       770      770      770      770          770
ENERGY COST                  4,880    4.880    *.,880    4,880    4,880    4,880    4,880    4,880    4,880         4.880
INCREMENTAL COSTS            5.650    5,650    5.650    7,290    7.290    7,290    7.290    7,290    7.290          7,290
BENEFITS
INCREMENTAL BENEFITS        25.000   2        25.000   25.0     25.000   25.000   25,      25       25.000        25.0
NET INCREMENTAL
BENEFIT                     19,350   19,350   19.350   17,710   17.710   17,710   17.710   17,710   17,710         17.710
NPV       1-4,:-
0
TOTAL IRRIGATED AREA 155.900 ha                                                                                        
o W.



- 80 -
ANNEX 8
Page 10 of 10
ROMANI
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND CRITICAL IMPORTS LOAN
Irrigation and Drainage Study
(Summary of Phases)
Phase A: Review of completed project reports documents and data and selection
of typical schemes for detailed study in Phase B, representing each
of the three regions described in para 1.11. In order to facilitate
an overall assessment of different types of irrigation in the study
area, some typical schemes will be selected for more detailed
examination. These schemes are to be representative of the different
types of irrigation in the three regions. No less than three schemes
shall be selected in each region with an area not less than 100,000
ha in each region. The results of this phase of work, which is
expected to take about three and a half months from the date of
signing the contract, shall be presented in the form of an Inception
Report, vith special emphasis on the criteria for the selection of
the typical schemes, and the issues which would be studies in greater
detail in the succeeding phases.
Phase B: The Consultants services in this Phase shall cover the following:
a) On the basis of data collected and analyzed during Phase A,
preparation of a near term priority investment program for
immediate implementation. The schemes included in this early
investment program shall preferably include the typical schemes
selected for more detailed examination.
b) Detailed examination of the issues concerning irrigation,
drainage, soil erosion control and preparation of preliminary
designs and cost estimates for the selected schemes in the three
zones incorporating the most suitable system/systems of on-farm
irrigation in the respective zones. The consultant shall also
examine the present and future cropping patterns, local and
international marketing and carry out economic evaluation of the
selected schemes on the basis of the proposed remodelling/reno-
vation measures. The results of this phase of the Consultant's
work shall be presented in the form of a Technical and Economic
Feasibility Study, and are expected to be finalized in about
twelve months.
Phase C: Extrapolating the results of the Technical and Economic Study,
completed during Phase B, the Consultant shall prepare a 10-year
program of development and rehabilitation, based on technical and
economic priorities. Furthermore the Consultant prepare the first
five year trance of this priority program. The results of this phase
of work, which is expected to take about six months, shall be
presented in the form of a final report, namely, 'Irrigation and
Drainage in Romania - A 10-Year Investment Program'. This report
shall be comprehensive and self contained and shall contain the
findings of Phases A and B, in addition to prioritized programs of
rehabilitation and development.



-81-
ANNEX 9
Page 1 of 1
ROMANIA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND CRITICAL IMPORTS PROJECT
IMPORTS FOR AGRICULTURAL MACHINERY
(FOR HARVESTING COMBINES)
Total
Quantity  Estimated Price
Item           Mode of Procurement        Type      (Pieces)    ($ millions)
Battery              Internat'l Shopping   153 x 12 V   50000             4.1
Transmission Belt   Internat'l Shopping   20x45x2750    4000               1.4
Transmission Belt   Internat'l Shopping   20x45x1800    2000               0.7
Transmission Belt   Internat'l Shopping  4HBHx3300         5000           0.25
Transmission Belt   Internat'l Shopping   17x13x1443   25000               0.55
TOTAL    7.0



- 82 -
ANNEX 10
Page 1 of 1
ROMANIA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND CRITICAL IMPORTS LOAN
SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
IBRD                                  Disbursements
Fiscal                                                                                 t
Year &                      Quarter                 Cumulative
Quarter                 ----------------US$ Millions---------------
FY 92
First                     20                          20
Second                   20                          40
Third                     30                          70
Fourth                   50                          120
FY 93
First                    20                          140
Second                    10                         150
Third                      5                         155
Fourth                     5                         160
FY 94
First                      5                         165
Second                     5                         170
Third                      2.5                       172.5
Fourth                     2.5                       175.0
FY 95
First                      2.5                       177.5
Second                     2.5                      180



- 83 -
ANNEX 11
Page 1 of 2
ROMANIA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND CRITICAL IMPORTS PROJECT
DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN P'JECT FILE
I.    TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE COMPONENT
National Economic Management
Description of Component
Accounting and Auditing
Description of Component and
TORSs for Senior Advisor
Industry:
Description of Component and TORs for:
Senior Economic Policy Advisor
Senior Financial Policy Advisor
Commercial Banks
TORs for: Audits and Portfolio Review
Strategic Plan
Training Plan
Assessment of Computer Hardware Requirements
Privatization Program (Foreign Trade Bank)
Energy Sector
TORs for: Energy Advisor
Energy Pricing Study
Oil and Gas Reserve Audit
Evaluation of Hydrocarbon Potential
Energy Conservation Demonstration Project
Agriculttucal Sector
TORs for: Agricultural Advisory Services
Irrigation Study
Agroindustries Study
Employment Services/Social Security
TORs for: Project Coordinator
Refinement cf Labor Market Information System
Improvement of Employment Services
Development of Proactive Training Programs
Development of Employment Generation Programs
Development of Social Insurance Programs
Automation of Employment Services
Mining Sector
TORs for: Management consultancies for RAL (Lignite Mines)



- 84 -
ANNEX 11
Page 2 of 2
II.   IMPORT' COMPONENT
Description Imports for the Petroleum and Gas Sector
DescrLption Imports Power Sector
Description Imports Mining Sector
Description Imports Mining Sector
Description Imports Transport Sector
Description Imports Telecommunications Sector
Description Imports Irrigation Sector
III. IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE



_R0                                                                                                        2 _                             _ \ | 749     - I ,8  IRD 2290i 7
X            IJ.    S.    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~S.    R.              -
ROMAN IA
WS :00.  I   ,-S'                ,                                                                                                          '1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~io an
Eai sO g 0 kas and Ry- C..Iii l W.,ks
ii050 'iO'~~~iOi  osi  M*,n Higharoy,
* Nari-nl Capital
-                      U nov00~~~~~~~~~~~R.A Distric Capials1
( AUStRIAA -    ,  q  u '   |   <   >_    2   X   \  \    T L- t>' bt' | GlU=                  tc 3O 4 LW      -              jN, ,N"$ [iienA   non  DisrictOnonoris
nie\nns                   /                BU GIh                                -S, - JA . Eaatians in A  A    IeCs 0,
AJSAD 'RA            5,                                                                                                                        0 .G
0~~~~~~~~~~~~0
-  -,                                                         TL~E            oivncio                                                   e,Oi~*...-c,flk,55IRA,,
VOOOSlavic  -  ')                                         -'ii, t~~~~~RiAr
ULCFA~FARH H



