Page  1
May 7, 1992
His Excellency The Minister of Economy
  and Finance
Ministry of Economy and Finance
17 Apolodor Street
Bucharest, Romania
Excellency:
     Re:  ROMANIA: Loan No. 3363 RO (Technical Assistance and Critical
          Imports Project)
          Amendment to the Loan Agreement
     Please refer to the Loan Agreement dated July 3, 1991, as
amended (the Loan Agreement) between Romania (the Borrower) and the
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) for
the above referenced Project, and to the previous discussions
between the Borrower and the Bank on the subject of amending the
Loan Agreement to simplify the procedures for approving the
financing of eligible expenditures thereunder.
     I am pleased to inform you that the Bank hereby agrees to
amend the Loan Agreement as set forth in the Attachment to this
letter.
     Kindly confirm your agreement, on behalf of the borrower, to
the foregoing amendment by signing and dating the form of
confirmation set forth on the enclosed duplicate original of this
letter and returning it to us.
                              Sincerely,
                INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                            AND DEVELOPMENT
                              By   /s/
                     Authorized Representative
Agreed and Confirmed by ROMANIA
                      Attachment
            Amendment to the Loan Agreement
                  Loan Number 3363 RO
  (Technical Assistance and Critical Imports Project)
1.        The words "seventeen million four hundred thousand
dollars ($17,400,000)" in WHEREAS (B) of the preamble are amended to
read "thirty million dollars ($30,000,000)".
2.        Section 1.02 is deleted and the following is substituted
therefor:
          "Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires,
the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:
          (a)  "Special Accounts" means the accounts, referred
               to in Section 2.02 (b) of this agreement;
          (b)  "Implementing Agencies" means the Borrower,
               departments, agencies, enterprises, and other
               entities responsible for the carrying out of the
               project, or any part thereof;
Page  2
          (c)  "PIU" means the Project Implementation Unit
               established within the Borrower's Ministry of
               Economy and Finance pursuant to said Ministry's
               Ministerial Decision No. 233, dated April 15,
               1991.
          (d)  "Lei" means the currency of the Borrower; and
          (a)  "Interbank Market Rate" means the foreign
               currency exchange rate for the convertibility of
               the Lei as established from time to time in
               accordance with the provisions of the Borrower's
               Law No. 15, dated 1990;
3.        Section 3.02 is deleted and Sections 3.03 through 3.07
are renumbered as Sections 3.02 through 3.06.
4.        In Section 3.02 (as renumbered pursuant to paragraph (3)
hereof).
          (a)  the words "the energy cost and pricing study
               referred to in Part B (4) (b) (i) of the Project"
               in paragraph (a) thereof are deleted and the
               words "an energy cost and pricing study, based on
               terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank' are
               substituted therefor;
          (b)  the word "RAL's" in paragraph (b) thereof is
               deleted and the words "the Borrower's Autonomous
               Lignite Authority's" are substituted therefor;
               and
          (c)  the words "the irrigation sector study referred
               to in Part B (6) of the Project" in paragraph (c)
               thereof are deleted and the words "an irrigation
               sector study, based on terms of reference
               satisfactory to the Bank" are substituted therefor.
5.   The words "any goods provided under part 4 (c) of the Project
in section 3.04 (as renumbered pursuant to paragraph (3) hereof) are
deleted and the words "equipment spare parts and related materials
for the deep-sea port of Constanza" are substituted therefor.
6.   Sections 6.01 and 6.02 are deleted and Section 6.03 is
renumbered as Section 6.01.
7.   In Schedule 1 (a): the table set forth in paragraph 1 thereof
is amended to read as follows:
                              Amount of the
                              Loan Allocated          % of
                              (Expressed in           Expenditures
          Category            Dollar   Equivalent     to be financed
1.   Goods                        151,100,000         100% of foreign
                                                      expenditures
2.   Consultants'                  21,630,000         100% of foreign
     services and training                            expenditures
3.   Unallocated                    7,270,000
     Total                        180,000,000
         (b)  paragraph 3 thereof is amended to read as follows:
         "3. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above,
no withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this agreement, except that
Page  3
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of
$18,000,000, may be made on account of payments made for
expenditures, before that date but after May 1, 1991."
8.       Parts A, B and C of Schedule 2 are deleted and the
following Parts are substituted therefor:
         "Part A:
         Provision of critical imports of equipment, spare parts
         and materials needed to maintain or restore output
         performance in the essential productive sectors of the
         economy.
         Part B:
         Provision of advisory and expert services, studies,
         computer hardware and software and personnel training
         needed for the formulation and implementation of
         strategies and policies to promote and accelerate the
         transition to a market economy."
9.       Part B of schedule 5 is deleted and the following is
substituted therefor:
         "B. Project Implementation
         1.   The Borrower shall, through its Ministry of
         Economy and Finance, make available the proceeds of the
         Loan to the Implementing Agencies for the carrying out
         of their activities under the Project.
         2.   The principle amount to be made available under
         paragraph 1 hereof to each Implementing Agency, which is
         a non-revenue earning department, agency or entity,
         shall be: (a) equal to the amount of the currency or
         currencies withdrawn from the Loan Account or paid out
         of the Special Accounts on account of the cost of goods
         and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
         for such Implementing Agency; and (b) made available on
         a grant basis through the normal budgetary allocations
         to said department, agency or entity.
         3.   The principal amount to be made available under
         paragraph 1 hereof to each Implementing Agency, which is
         a revenue earning enterprise or entity, shall be: (a)
         denominated in dollars or deutsche mark; (b) the
         equivalent in (i) dollars or deutsche mark (determined
         as of the date or respective dates of withdrawal from
         the Loan Account or payment out of the Special Account)
         of the value of the currency or currencies withdrawn
         from the Loan Account or paid out from the special
         accounts on account of the cost of goods and services
         financed out of the proceeds of the Loan for such
         Implementing Agency; (c) made for a period not exceeding
         10 years, inclusive of a grace period not exceeding
         three years; and (d) charged, on the amounts thereof
         withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, interest at
         a rate per annum equal at least to: (i) the dollar six-
         month London Interbank Offered Rate plus one and one-
         half percentage points, or (ii) the deutsche mark six-
         month Frankfurt Interbank Market Rate plus one and one-
         half percentage points.
         4.   Before making available any part of the proceeds
         of the Loan to any Implementing Agency pursuant to the
         provisions of this Part, the Borrower shall furnish to
         the Bank, for its approval, an application, in form
         satisfactory to the Bank, together with: (a) a
         description of the Implementing Agency and of the
         expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds
         of the Loan; (b) the terms and conditions under which
         the proceeds of the Loan will be made available to such
Page  4
         Implementing Agency; and (c) such other information as
         the Bank shall reasonably request.
         5.   No expenditures shall be eligible for financing
         out of the proceeds of the Loan unless the Bank shall
         have received and approved the application and
         information required under paragraph 4 hereof."
10.      Schedule 7 is deleted.\1a
