Page  1
August 19, 1991
His Excellency Eugen Dijmarescu
Minister of Economy and Finance
8 Doamnei Str.
Bucharest, Romania
     Re:  Loan Number 3363 RO
          (Technical Assistance and Critical Imports Project)
          Amendment to the Loan Agreement
Excellency:
     Please refer to the Loan Agreement (the "Loan Agreement")
entered into by and between Romania (the "Borrower") and the
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the "Bank")
on July 3, 1991, in respect of the above-referenced Project.
     I am pleased to inform you that the Bank agrees with the
Borrower's request to amend the Loan Agreement so as to remove all
provisions pertaining to "Participating Banks" and "Participation
Agreements".  We understand that these provisions are no longer
required, given the recent establishment of the Treasury Department
within the Ministry of Economy and Finance, which Department shall
be responsible, inter alia, for administering the implementation and
supervision of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements all in accordance with
the terms and conditions of the Loan Agreement.  The Loan Agreement
is therefore hereby amended as follows hereinbelow.
1.   Section 1.02 is amended by deleting paragraphs (r) and (s) in
their entirety therefrom, and by re-lettering paragraphs (t) through
(gg) as paragraphs (r) through (ee) accordingly.
2.   Section 3.02 is amended by deleting paragraphs (b) and (c) in
their entirety therefrom, and by adding instead a new paragraph (b)
thereto to read as follows:
     "(b) Without any limitation or restriction to the provisions
     of Schedule 7 to this Agreement, the Borrower shall exercise
     its rights and comply with its obligations under each of the
     Subsidiary Loan Agreements in such a manner as to protect the
     interests of the Borrower and the Bank, and to accomplish the
     purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise
     agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive
     any of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements, or any provision
     thereof."
3.   Section 6.01 is amended by deleting paragraph (b) in its
entirety therefrom, and by re-lettering paragraph (c) as paragraph
(b) accordingly.
4.   Section 6.02 is amended to read as follows:
     "Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional
     matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
     Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
     furnished to the Bank by counsel acceptable to the Bank,
     namely, that each of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements, referred
     to in paragraph (a) of Section 6.01 above, has been duly
     authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on
     behalf of, the parties thereto, and is legally binding upon
     such parties in accordance with its terms."
5.   Schedule 7 is amended by deleting Part B in its entirety
therefrom.
     Kindly confirm your agreement, on behalf of the Borrower, to
the foregoing amendment by signing and duly dating the form of
confirmation set forth below, and returning this amendment letter to
us at your earliest convenience.  A signed duplicate original of
Page  2
this amendment letter is enclosed herewith for your records.  This
amendment letter shall become effective, as of the date first above-
written, once it has been fully executed by all parties thereto.
                                   Very truly yours,
                                INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                           RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                              /s/    Philippe Nouvel
                                     Acting Director
                                   Country Department V
                           Europe, Middle East and North Africa
AGREED AND CONFIRMED: by ROMANIA on 8/26/91\1a
