Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 10821-ME
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MEXICO
INITIAL EDUCATION PROJECT
August 10, 1992
.IrER0FUI X 'HE ("Of Y
R:pc rs  No   (2, t -HFMIF           (c -AF
Z5i it l e :INIT7AL ED-iC(iATICAN I-'PRJ,JTECT
Author: tEW.Y'RA, &.
Ext. 5903'j  9 .-ooD!:I " 155'5 De-t. : LA2HR
Country Department II
Human Resources Operation Division
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                          Peso (Mex$)
US$1.C'=                               3,108 Pesos (August 1992)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ACADEMIC YEAR
September 1 - June 30
UNITS OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric                                 US/British Equivalent
1 kilogram (kg)                        2.20 pounds (lb)
1 metric ton (m ton)        =          2,250 pounds
1 liter (1)                            0.26 gallons (gal)
1 kilometer (km)                       0.625 miles
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS
CENDI        Child Development Center (Centro de Desarrollo Infantil)
CONALEP         National Council for Vocational and Technical Education (Colegio
Nacional de Educaci6n Profesional Tecnica)
CONAPO         National Population Council
DIF       National System for Family Development
EMIS       Educational Management Information System
EMP        Education Modernization Program (Programa de Modernizaci6n
Educativa)
GDPPB        General Directorate of Planning, Programming and Budgeting in SEP's
Undersecretariat for Education Coordination
ICB       International Competitive Bidding
IE      Initial Education
IEU       Initial Education Unit (at both central and state levels)
IMSS       Mexican Social Security Institute (Instituto Mexicano de Seguridad Social)
ISSSTE       Institute of Security and Social Services for State Workers (Instituto de
Seguridad y Servicios Sociales de los Trabajadores del Estado)
LAW        LAW - Law on the Institute of Social Security and Services for State
Workers
LCB       Local Competitive Bidding
NA        National Agreement for Basic Education Modernization
NAFIN        National Financing Company (Nacional Financiera, S.N.C.)
PCC       Pro-Childhood Committee (Comite Pro-Nitlez)
PCU        Project Coordination Unit
SCEP       State-level Coordinated Services of Public Education-recently replaced by
SPES (see below)
SEP       Public Education Secretariat (Secretar(a de Educaci6n Pdiblica)
SNTE        National Union of Education Workers
SOE       Statement of Expenditure
SPES       State-level Public Education Secretariats or equivalent institutions
UN        United Nations
UNDP        United Nations Development Programme
UNESCO         United Nations Educational, Scientific & Cultural Organization
UNICEF        United Nations Children's Fund



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INITA EDUCAlION PIROIECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY ......................................   v
BASIC DATA SHEET ...............................................   ix
1. INTRODUCTION   ...............................................    I
II. SECTORAL CONTEXT   .......................................... .                              3
A. SECTORAL ORGANIZATION ...................                                               3
B. PRIMARY EDUCATION .....................                                                 4
C. PRESCHOOL EDUCATION .....................                                               5
D. INMTAL EDUCATION  .......                ..................... .5 
(a)   Formal Initial Education  .................................   5
(b)   Non-formal Initial Education ...............................   6
(c)   Issues in Non-Formal Initial Education  ........................   6
E. GOVERNMENT STRATEGY  ...............                  ..        ..................    8
F. BANK EXPERIENCE AND LESSONS LEARNED  ........                   ..      ............  10
(a)   Education Sector Experience in Mexico ........................  10
(b)   Bank-wide Education Sector Experience ........................  10
(c)   Review of Research Literature  .............................  11
(d)   International Context  .................................... 13
G. RATIONALE FOR BANK INVOLVEMENT ..........                    ..       ..............  14
Im. THE PROJECT                   ................................................   14
A. OBJECTIVES AND CONCEPT  ..............                 ..       .................  14
B. SCOPE AND TARGET POPULATION .............................  15
C. COMPONENTS    ...............                             ..............  16
D. DESCRIPTION           ................                  ................   16
(a)   Human Resources Development Component ......              ...............  16
Training of Parents  ..........        ......................  17
Training of Community Educators ......           .................  18
Training of Module Supervisors and Zone Coordinators ....      ......  19
Training of Training Leaders and Technical Staff ....     ..........  20
Training of High-level Professionals ......       ................  20
(b)   Educational Materials Development Component ..           .................  21
Parents"Guidebook ...                                                  21
Handbooks ..............                                               21
Other Printed Materials ............                                  22
This report is based on inputs from the findings of the appraisal mission that visited Mexico in May
1992. The mission was composed of Messrs/Mmes. Antonio Pereira (rask Manager), Louise Cord
(LA2HR); Fduardo Velez (LATHR); Manuel Vera, Robert Myers, Gian Calvi, Silvia Elena Ar6valo,
Martha Llanos, and Roberto Iunes (Consultants). Mme. Maria Anderson and Messrs. Viah Nguyen
and Darren Dorkin contributed to the report at headquarters. Peer reviewers for the project were
Mmes. Eleanor Schreiber (LA3HR) and CeeDIia Valdivieso (LAIHR). The managing SOD Chief is
Mr. Kye Woo Lee (LA2HR). The managing CD Director is Mr. Rainer B. Stsckhan (LA2DR).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ii
Non-print Educational Materials ........................ 22
Radio Educational Programs .....    22
(c)  Institutional Strengthening Component .....   23
Central Initial Education Unit .....   23
State Initial Education Units .....    24
Educational Management Information System (EMIS) ... ..  24
Improvement of Supervision Practices .....   26
Pro-Childhood Committees (PCCs) .....   26
Inter-Institutional Linkages .....    27
IV. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING    ..27
A. PROJECT COSTS .27
B. RECURRENT COSTS .28
C. FINANCING PLAN .30
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY .31
E. PROCUREMENT .31
F. DISBURSEMENTS .33
G. ACCOUNTS AND AUDITS .33
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND SUPERVISION      ..34
A. PROJECT READINESS FOR IMPLEMENTATION .34
B. PROJECT MANAGEMENT STRUCTURE .34
C. PROJECT COORDINATION UNIT .35
D. IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE .36
E. PROJECT LAUNCH SEMINAR .37
F. PROJECT SUPERVISION .37.
VI. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS    ..38
A. EXPECTED BENEFITS .38
B. RISKS   ..40
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOUMMENDATIONS .40



...
ANNEXES
1.   National Agreement for Basic Education Modernization
2.   Government Policy on Initial Education
3.   Enrollmenit Trends
4.   Formal Initial Education kCENDI) Indicators
5.   Non-formal Initial Education Indicators
6.   Local Structure of Non-formal Initial Education
7.   Evolution of SEP Spending
8.   SEP 1991 Initial Education Budget
9.   Rationale for Initial Education
10.  Non-formal Initial Education in Latin America
11.  Project Scope and Population Targeting
12.  Terms of Reference: External Trainers
13.  Terms of Reference: Educational Materials Analysis
14.  Terms of Reference: Visual Program and Communication
15.  Terms of Reference: Radio Programs
16.  Terms of Reference: Educational Management Information System (EMIS)
17.  Terms of Reference: Educational Impact Evaluation
18.  Terms of Reference: Process Evaluation
19.  Terms of Reference: Special Studies
20.  Project Costs and Financing
21.  Estimated Disbursements
22.  Organizational Charts: SEP, Central Initial Education Unit at SEP, Project Coordination Unit,
and State-Level Initial Education Units
23.  Project Indicators and Targets
24.  Project Monitoring Matrix
25.  Documents in Project File
MAP
IBRD No. 23995



AR3co
IMNlAL EDUCATION POERCT
STAFF APPRNAISL )REIT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Nacional Financiera, S.N.C. (NAFIN)
urniH tor:            United Mexican States
Beneficiaries:        Public Education Secretariat (SEP) and state-level Public Education
Secretariats (SPES) in ten selected states
Amount                US$80 million equivalent
Trsms:                Repayment in 15 years including 3 years of grace at the standard variable
interest rate
Project Objectives:  In support of Government policies for human capital accumulation and
poverty alleviation, the project would aim to improve quality and efficiency
of the non-formal initi; wducation (JE) program and expand access of poor
parents to EE programs in the ten poorest Mexican states by: (i) preparing
young children of low-income families for timely school entry and their
improved primary school attendance and performance; (ii) educating
parents, especially mothers, in home-based child-rearing practices; and (iii)
strengthening the Government's institutional capacity to formulate sectoral
policies and plan, expand, monitor, and evaluate EE programs.
Project              'Msetiption   The project would have three main components: (i) Human-Resources
Develogment (79.2% of total project costs including contingencies) would
upgrade the knowledge and skills of all personnel involved in the IE
program, SEP's and SPES' technical staff, coordinators, supervisors, and
community educators), and specifically the child development skills of
parents; (ii) Educational Materials Development (12.9%) would upgrade
instructional materials to cover new areas (health, nutrition, environment,
etc.), present materials more effectively, and develop new supporting
audiovisual components; and (iii) Institutional Strengthening (7.8%) would
strengthen management capacity at both SEP and SPES levels-including
their planning, management, supervision, and evaluation capacity-while
fostering and supporting community participation.
The project would center on the training of parents through periodic group
meetings and home visits, with the help of comprehensive illustrated
guidebooks and other educational materials, to teach them skills for caring
and stimulating chi:dren for cognitive, psychological, and social
development. Basic health and nutrition education and guidance would also
be provided including cooperation with the health system. Parents would
be trained by community educators, each of whom would work with 20
families to form a project nucleus. Ten nuclei would make up a module,
technically assisted by a module supervisor; and up to ten modules would
be monitored by a zone coordinator. Zone coordinators and module



V
supervisors would be public education sector personnel, while community
educators would be locally selected volunteers who receive a modest
stipend. Over 90% of community educators are women. Local Pro-
Childhood Committees (PCCs) would be reorganized under the project and
would operate as community umbrella organizations for project support,
inter-agency coordination, and general child-related advocacy.
project Benefita:     Project benefits would be reflected primarily in an enhanced quality of life
for participating children and parents, who would acquire better child
development skills. About 1.2 million children would be better prepared to
benefit from primary and further education and for a more productive labor
force participation. Consequently, their earnings potential would be
increased and economic growth would be promoted. In addition, since
most parents and children are from poor families, economic and social
benefits (health, education, family planning, and earnings potential) would
be more equally distributed, and a more conesive society would be
developed. The project would provide training opportunities to about 760
zone coordinators, 4,500 module supervisors, 45,000 community educators
(mostly women) and 900,000 parents (especially mothers) in poor rural and
urban marginal areas. Since the project model would eventually be adopted
by other states, the project iw-p_t wouid be nationwide. Furthermore, the
project would contribute to the improvement of the quality and efficiency
of public inv 3tments in education, especially in basic education, by
reducing repetition and dropout rates and increasing primary education
completion rates.
Pr.1ectRilk>:         The main risks associated with the project are: (f) the institutional
weaknesses of SEP and SPES, and in particular their weak planning and
managerial capacity to operate an expanded and upgraded program; (ii) the
auaterity program of the Government, which may make it difficult to
provide suffic;ent funds for program operation; and (iii) difficulties in
reaching and motivating parents in remote rural communities. The project
would attempt to reduce these risks by: (i) strengthening the institutional
capacity of the IE units of SEP and SPES, particularly in their planning,
monitoring, and evaluation functions; (ii) improving incentives and working
conditions for community educators, and implementing improved in-service
training and closer supervision progranis; (iii) providing loan resources to
cover incremental operating costs on a declining basis and monitoring
program budgets through annual and mid-term review meetings; and (iv)
mobilizing local community support through PCCs, improved working
conditions of community educators, supervisors, and coordinators, and
multi-media promotional support.



MCO
INrTAL EDCTINPROJECT
TA-FF APPRAISAL REPORT
Estimated Project Costs1'
Local        Foreign       Total
---US$ million-----
PROJECT COMPONENT
Human Resources Development                     81.5            0.5         82.0
Educational Materials                            7.0            5.8         12.8
Institutional Strengthening                      7.3            0.7          8.0
BASE COST                                          95.8            20          102.8
Physical Cont!ngencies                           0.6            0.2          0.8
Price Contingencies                             10.8            G.6          11.4
TOTAL PROJECT COST                                 107.2           78          115.0
Financing Plan
Local        Foreign       Total
---US$ million
United Mexican States                               34.0           -            34.0
IBRD                                                72.2           7.8          80.0
UNDP/UNICEF                                          1.0           0.0           1.0
TOTAL FINANCING                                    107.2            7.8        115.0
Estimated Disbursements
F  I               IBRD Fiscal Year
_  1993    1994    1995    1996  1 1997        1998
Annual               1I.0O-    9.0    16.0    16.0    18.0        10.0
[ Cumulative          11.0    20.0    36.0    52.0    70.0         80.0
' Includes Special Account deposit of US$8.0 million. Retroactive financing of US$5.0 million
equivalent would be available for eligible expenditures incurred starting from May 1, 1992.
Economic Rate of Return: Not Applicable
1' Excluding taxes, esfimaWt at US$5.0 million.



BASIC DANA SHEET
Unit      Year
General Country Data
GNP per capita                                         2,490   US$            1990
GDP                                                    235.5   US$ Millions   1990
Area                                                   1,958   Thousand Km2  1989
Population                                                85   Millions       1989
Urban Population (% of Total)                           72.0   Percent        1989
Projected Population Year 2000                         103.0   Millions
Social Indicators
Crude Death Rate                                         5.0   Deaths         1990
Population Growth Rate                                   2.1   Percent        1989
Total Fertility Rate                                     3.3   Births         1990
Infant Mortality Rate (per 1,000 live births)             39   Deaths         1990
Life Expectancy at Birth                                70.0   Years          1990
Children under-5 malnourished                           14.0  Percent         1988
Adult Illiteracy Rate                                   11.0   Percent        1990
Basic Education Indicators
Enroilment Numbers
Initial                                                347   Thousands       1991
Preschool                                             2,734   Thousands      1991
Primary                                              14,402   Thousands      1991
Enrollment Rates
Initial (ages: 0-3)
Formal                                              < 5.0   Percent        1991
Non-formal                                            2.3   Percent        1991
Preschool (ages: 4-5)                                  65.8   Percent        1991
Primary, Gross (including overage students)           114.0   Percent        1989
Primary, Net (excluding overage students)              98.0   Percent        1991
Basic Education Efficiency
Primary Education
Repetition Rate                                        10.3   Percent        1991
Dropout Rate                                            5.3   Percent        1991
Completion Rate                                        57.1   Percent        1991
Lower Secondary Education (Grades 7-9)
Repetition Rate                                        27.7   Percent        1991
Dropout Rate                                            9.5   Percent        1991
Completion Rate                                        73.0   Percent        1991
Education Expenditures Data
Total Education Expenditures as % of GDP                 4.2   Percent        1990
Federal Educ. Expenditures as % of Total Public Expend.  10.0   Percent       1990
Initial Education as % of Federal Educ. Expend.         0.4   Percent        1991
Preschool Education as % of Federal Educ. Expend.       4.9   Percent        1990
Primary Education as % of Federal Educ. Expend.        23.0   Percent        1990
Unit Costa (Public Education)
Initial Education
SEP Formal                                            1,406   US$            1991
Non-Formal                                              31   US$             1991
Preschool Education                                      164   US$            1988
Primary Education                                        127   US$            1991



viii
DEFINLTIONS
Total Fertility Rate              Average number of children who would be born alive to a
woman during her lifetime if she were to pass through her
child-bearing years conforming to the prevailing age-specific
rates.
Life Expectancy at Birth          Average number of years an infant would live if prevailing
age/sex-specific mortality trends at the time of birth were to
continue.
Infant Mortality Rate             Number of deaths of infants under one year of age in a given
year per 1,000 live births.
Crude Death Rate                  Number of deaths per 1,000 population in a given year
Enrollment Rate                   Percentage of children of a given age group enrolled in
schools at a particular level of education.
Coverage                    :    The enrollment rate multiplied by the ratio of the number of
years of the age cohort over the number of years of the
educational cycle (Annex 11).
Completion Rate                   Ratio between the number of students exiting last grade of an
education cycle in a given year T and the number of students
entering the firs. grade of the same education cycle in year T-
[standard duration of education cycle] (close approximation of
the percentage of students of a given cohort who completed
the education cycle).
Adult illiteracy Rate             Percentage of population aged 15 and over who cannot read
or write.



I. INTRODVCTION
1.1.       This report presents an Initial Education (IE) Project, for which a Bank loan of US$80 million
equivalent to Nacional Financiera, S.N.C. (NAFIN), with the guarantee of the United Mexican States, is
proposed. This project represents an integral part czf the Mexican Government's human capital formation
and poverty reduction program, and aims to strengthen a non-formal Initial Education (1E) program for
young children (ages 0-3), to be managed by the Public Education Secretariat (SEP) and the state-level
Public Education Secretariats (SPES) (para. 2.4).
1.2.       After nearly a decade of deep recession in the 1980s, Mexico's successful economic reform
and adjustment programs have set the stage for renewed growth. The country's potential for growth is,
however, still constrained by relatively low levels of human capital formation. In spite of significant
resources spent on education, even today as many as 47% of newcomers to she labor force did not
complete primary school. The net primary school enrollment rate is very high at 98%, but some 300,000
children in poor areas do not attend or still have no access to school.
1.3.       Low human capital formation is closely intertwined with poverty, and many features of
poverty have roots in tie insufficiency or inadequacy of investments in human capital. Resolution of these
issues can only be achieved through sustaine"! human capital investmert carried out to a much larger
extent and with more efficiencv thar, in the past. Dropout and repetition rates remain high: the nationwide
first grade repetition rate is 32% and may reach as high as 50% in the poorer states. Likewise, while the
primary school completion rate nationwide is 57%, it averages only 40% in the four poorest (mostly rural)
states. Undernourished people are more vulnerable to disease and early death, at risk of developing
anthropomorphic deficiencies and of becoming less able to acquire knowledge and skills; the risks are
especially higher when deficiency occurs at an early stage in life. The incidence of undernutrition is
particularly high among the poor living in rural southern Mexico, where undernutrition is nearly four times
higher than in the north. In the states of Chiapas and Oaxaca, about 70% of preschool-age children suifr
from some degree of malnutrition, compared to a national average of 14%. Life expectancy is 55 years in
rural areas as against 71 years in urban areas; and it is 53 years among the poor compared to 73 years
among the wealthy. The infant mortality rate varies widely between states, ranging from less than 20 per
1,000 in Zacatecas and Veracruz to over 50 per 1,000 in Chiapas, Oaxaca, as well as in Mexico City.
1.4.       Despite the comparatively high per capita income (US$2,490 in 1990), poverty has remained
widespread and large regional and income disparities have persisted. A 1980 study of changes in standard
of living showed that, across states, the differences were considerable, with leading states enjoying a living
standard more than twice that of poorer states. With the economic crisis, social problems have become
more acute as the poor have particularly suffered from the deterioration in real income and the fiscal
retrenchment, which affected social services more acutely. Mexican poverty in 1991 is marked by the
following characteristics: (i) approximately 20% of the population is below the line of extreme poverty!';
(ii) 77% of the extremely poor are located in rural areas; (iii) the extremely poor have the largest share of
children, the highest dependency ratio, and the lowest educational levels; and (iv) the urban extremely poor
are better off than the rural, but have similar demographic and educational characteristics.
1.5.       To properly address the need for human resources development and poverty alleviation, the
Mexican Government has torrmulated a strategy mainly embodied in the Education Modernization Program
(EMP), 1989-1994, whh.. expands on the National Development Plan (1989-1994) and is complemented by
the recent (May 1992) National Agreement for Basic Education Modernization (NA; See Annex 2).
Unanimously, these documents aim at: (i) improving the quality of the educational system, especially of
1/ The extremely-poor are defined as 'those people who are unable to purchase enough nutrients which, given
age zd ¢-x, allow maintenance of health and performance". The World Bank. Mexico in Transition: Toward
a New Role in the Public Sector. Washington, D.C., 1991, p. 43. (Report No. 8770-ME).



2
basic education; (ii) raising the national level of schooling; (iii) strengthening community participation in all
aspects of education; and (iv) promoting decentralization of the educational system through the creation of
the SPES (para. 2.4). The non-formal IE program is a critical part of the EMP, since it underpins the
quality and efficiency of basic education and promotes communitv participation in the educational system as
part of its decentralization. Moreover, since the non-formal IE program focuses on children in rural and
urban marginal areas, it self-targets poor families to address their educational needs.
1.6.       SEP has operated two separate modalities of the IE program, formal and non-formal. The
formal program is designed for children of working mothers in the organized, urban sectors and operates
much like kindergarten, with an enrollment of about 158,000 children. The non-formal IE program is
oriented toward low-income families (70% of participants are from rural communities with less than 2,500
inhabitants) and trains parents of young children (ages 0-3) through the help of community educators. The
non-formal program has suffered from continuous deterioration in quality and coverage: enrollments
reached a high of 290.300 participants in 1985, but have since eroded to only 183,400 children in 1991,
mainly due to lack of adequate funding. The Government wishes to revitalize this program and has
requested Bank assistance to do so. Already, between 1990 and 1991, SEP's budget allocation for the non-
formal IE program was increased by 87%.
1.7.       The proposed non-formal IE project would support the Bank's social sector assistance and
poverty alleviation strategy in Mexico, complementing several other Bank-financed projects in the same
geographical areas and with expanded coverage in the next six poorest states. Since 1990, the Bank has
supported the Mexican Government's efforts to alleviate poverty and improve the efficiency of public
resource allocation and use in the social sector through:
(a)   The 1990 Basic Health Care Project (Loan 3272-ME), to strengthen and extend basic
health care services and targetu nutrition assistance to about 13 million uninsured poor in the
four poorest states (Chiapas, Guerrero, Hidalgo, and Oaxaca) and the Federal District,
particularly among the 3.0 million women of childbearing age and 1.7 million children under
age five;
(b)  The 1990 Low-Income Housing Project II (Loan 3140-ME), to provide funds for
construction and upgrading of houses for low-income populations;
(c)   The 1990 Technical Training Project (Loan 3358-ME), to improve operational and
financial sustainability of public vocational and technical training program that provides
employment training to adolescents from poor families and the unemployed;
(d)  The 1991 Decentralization and Regional Development Project (Loan 3310-ME), to
improve the infrastructure and productive capacity of rural communities in the four poorest
states;
(e)   The 1991 Water Supply and Sanitation Sector Project (Loan 3271-ME), to provide
water supply and sanitation services tJ about 24 million additional people, most of whom
belong to the poorest population segments; and
(f)   The 1991 Primary Education Project (Loan 3407-ME), to improve the quality and
efficiency of primary education in the four poorest states.



3
H. SECTORAL CONTEXT
2.1.       Mexico made great strides in increasing both the access to and the quality of public education
between 1950 and 1980. During that period, illiteracy rates dropped from 40% to 18%, the number of
schools tripled, the number of teachers quintupled, and school enrollments increased sevenfold. Progress
was evident on all education fronts. By 1980, 25% of children aged 4-5 attended preschool, 91 % of
children aged 6-11 attended primary school, and the enrollment rate in lower secondary school reached
48%. Net enrollment rates at the primary level now reach 98%, and at the lower secondary level, 57%.
Since 1982, further progress was achieved but at a slower pace. Efforts over the last decade have been
concertrated mainly on expanding preschool coverage; by 1991, 65.8% of childzen aged 4-5 had access to
preschool education. In spite of these impressive quantitative achievements, the level of educational
attainment is still fairly low as the adult illiteracy rate is 11.0% (1990) and the average schooling of the
labor force is 6.2 years overall, ranging from three years in the poorest states to around eight years in the
richest ones. Furthermore, several aspects of educational services have worsened due to low levels of
efficiency and to sharp decreases in the amount of resources invested in the sector.
2.2.       Federal spending for education in real terms decreased between 1982 and 1988 at an average
annual rate of 5.7%, affecting mainly primary education. During 1989 and 1990, educational expenditures
recovered slightly and increased by approximately 10%. As a percentage of GDP, however, total
education spending declined from 5.5% in 1982 to 4.2% in 1990, still well below the 8% which the United
Nations (UN) recommends for developing countries with a high population of young people. In 1991,
preschool received 4.4% and primary school 20.9% of total SEP expenditures. While the share of
preschool expenditures in total SEP allocations grew by 20% between 1984 and 1989, the share of IE and
primary school declined by 33% and 16%, respectively. Even though the 1991 IE budget indicates a
reversal of trend (87% increase over 1990 IE budget), it still accounts for only 0.4% of total SEP budget
(para. 2.21(i)).
A. SECTORAL ORGANIZATION
2.3.       The formal education system in Mexico includes basic education (initial, preschool, primary,
and lower secondary), upper secondary, and university education. Of a total enrollment of 21.3 million
students in basic education in 1991-92, 67.4% were at the primary level (grades 1-6). The supply of basic
educational services is almost entirely (97%) under the control of the public sector.
2.4.       The main institution in the education sector is the Public Education Secretariat (SEP).
Through the recent NA (Annex 1), however, the state governments have assumed the management and
operation of all initial, preschool, primary, special, lower secondary, and teacher education institutions
through the creation of state-level Public Education Secretariats (SPES), which absorbed the former
Coordinated Services of Public Education (SCEPs), SEP's delegations at the state level. While maintaining
its responsibility over these education levels and modalities in the Federal District, the federal government:
(i) is transferring to the states all goods and facilities, along with all technical and administrative elements,
rights, and obligations previously used by SEP to manage basic education in the states; (ii) will keep a
nationwide normative and compensatory role in designing study plans and programs, producing and
updating national textbooks, and promoting an equitable development of educational services among the
states; and (iii) will develop "special programs" for disadvantaged states, establish evaluation systems, and
support educational research. The proposed IE project and the Primary Education Project (Loan 3401-ME)
fall into the "special programs" category. The General Directorate of Planning, Programming, and
Budgeting (GDPPB) is at the core of SEP's nationwide role, formulating annual budgets, tracking
educational indicators and statistics, and overseeing the aeivities of state-level entities.



4
2.5.       Since the IE program underpins the quality and efficiency of basic education, a short review
of the issues and problems of basic education, especially primary and preschool education, will be made in
the ensuing sections before issues and problems of IE are discussed.
B. PRIMARY EDUCATION
2.6.       Primary education (ages 6-11, grades 1-6) is the only compulsory level, making up the bulk
of Mexico's educational system. Through a network of nearly 84,000 schools and nearly half a million
teachers, it reaches 14.4 million students (1991-92), about 98% of potential demand (Annex 3). This
compares favorably to the 86% (1990) net enrollment average for Latin America and the Caribbean as a
whole. There is no significant difference in enirollment rates between male and female children.
2.7.       Issues in Primary Education. Four crucial issues confront primary education. The first has to
do with internal efficiency. Inefficient student flows are caused by high repetition and dropout rates,
associated with late entrance, lack of initial (school readiness) and preschool education, poor teaching,
insufficient didactic materials, and various non-school, poverty-related conditions. In 1990-91, primary
education repetition rates were officially estimated at 10.3% nationwide, and as high as 25% at the first
grade level, the same figure observed ten years earlier. Independent estimates, however, place nationwide
repetition rates close to 20% for primary education and near 32% for the first grade.y In addition, every
year approximately half a million children leave school before finishing third grade.
2.8.       The second issue is quality achievement. In a SEP/Sistema de Informaci6n de la Calidad de
la Educaci6n Mexicana study on 1987-89 data, 69% of primary education students scored a grade of 6 or
lower on a 0-to-10 performance scale. Low educational quality can be traced to both school-related factors
and broader socio-economic conditions. The most frequently cited school-related factors were: (i) lack of
initial and preschool education; (ii) deficiencies in teacher training or allocation; (iii) inappropriate
curriculum; (iv) lack of teaching materials; (v) inadequate supervision; and (vi) a short school year.
2.9.       Access to schooling is a third issue. In primary education, the net enrollment rate has
remained at 98% for the last four years, but this nationwide figure disguises regional pockets of low
matriculation. About 300,000 children still lack access to primary school. This is particularly due to: (i)
extreme poverty and isolation; (ii) early entry into the work force; and (iii) unavailability of teachers to
work in the rural areas. Moreover, the high dropout rate throughout primary school suggests another large
population no longer being reached by the educational system.
2.10.      The fourth issue is quality of teaching. Less than 30% of the half million teachers possess a
licenciatura, the qualification required for new teachers, and many lack appropriate training and experience
to effectively teach children in the crucial beginning grades. This poor training is compounded by the lack
of adequate supervision, resulting in a deterioration of educational quality. Between 1983 and 1988,
teacher salaries declined in real terms by more than one third, forcing many teachers to obtain second jobs
and negatively affecting their dedication and commitment to classroom tasks.
2.11.      The Government is addressing these issues through the EMP and other programs, with
assistance from the Bank through the Primary Education Project (Loan 3407-ME). The proposed E
project addresses the issue of school readiness, providing young children with a better opportunity to
benefit from primary and further education, reducing repetition and dropout rates in primary education and
making more efficient public investment in the sector.
21 Emesto Schiefelbein. Output of the SMMG Model with data from the GDPPB. Santiago, Chile: UNESCO-
OREALC, Sin System, June 1991.



5
C. PRESCHOOL EDUCATION
2.12.      Preschool is a non-compulsory schooling level, which lasts two years and is targeted at
children 4-5 years old. Federal authorities deserve the credit for the rapid expansion of preschool coverage
nationwide, over the past twenty years. Ninety-one percent of the enrollment attend public kindergarten.
2.13.      Preschool education is available in three modalities: (i) Kindergarten (Jardines de ANflos),
found mainly in urban areas, and fully equipped centers with specialized teachers; (ii) Community
Kindergarten, mainly in small and scattered rural towns, using community facilities, and untrained
teachers; and (iii) Preschool for Ethnic Communities, delivered in indigenous languages. Overall,
preschool services were offered to 2.7 million children in 1991-92, 10% of whom lived in indigenous or
rural areas. Preschool enrollment increased between 1984-85 and 1988-89 at an average annual rate of
6%, and in 1990-91 was offered to 59.1 % of four-year-olds and 72.6% of five-year-olds, relatively high
figures when compared to average 25% and 66% enrollments, respectively, for Latin America and the
Caribbean
2.14.      Issues in Preschool Education. Four issues could affect the further development of preschool
education: (i) preschool may be experiencing increasing difficulty to expand enrollment in marginal rural
areas, with enrollment rates varying from 49.5% (State of Mexico) to 98.6% (Tabasco), with the national
average at 65.8%; (ii) insufficient coverage by IE programs have limited the expected effects of preschool,
particularly in rural and indigenous areas. The focus of the proposed project on non-formal EE will
contribute to overcome this limitation; (iii) more comprehensive norms and increased supervision are
needed; and (iv) professionally trained teachers are lacking, as well as updated and sufficient supplies of
educational materials. To address these issues, SEP's General Directorate for Preschool Education has
diversified its school models (para. 2.13), improved its nationwide norm-setting and supervision capacity,
and, has provided short-term training programs to both current and incoming preschool teachers.
D. INITIAL EDUCATION
2.15.      To address long-felt problems of low human capital formation, poor preschool and primary
school performance, and inadequate early childhood stimulation, Mexico introduced pre-primary education
services during the 1880s. By the early 1980s, IE (ages 0-3) gained a position distinctive from preschool
education (ages 4-5) in the Mexican education system, becoming part of the enlarged concept of basic
education. In 1991, the total number of children benefitting from EE in Mexico represented 12% and 2%
of preschool and primary education enrollments, respectively. General agreement was reached with the
Government on the conclusions of the Bank's Green Cover Initial Education Strategy Paner (Report No.
10129-ME), and the major issues c ncerning non-formal IE raised in this report were carefully considered
during the design of the proposed IE project. Following is a review of the key issues in IE.
(a)        Formal Initial Education
2.16.      The first modality is a formal program - not to be confused with regular kindergarten-
embedded in the Child Development Centers (Centros de Desarrollo *nfantil, or CENDIs, see Annex 2,
paras. 6-7), a child care and preschool program mandated by Social Security Law for 0-5 year-old children
of working mothers employed in the formal public and private secors (Ley del Instituto de Seguridad y
Servicios Sociales de los Trabajadores del Estado, Diario Oficial, 27 de Diciembre de 1983). Even though
the 1983 ISSSTE Law mentions the word "guarderfas" (or child-care place), this old-fashioned concept was
then replaced in Mexico with the more inclusive concept of Child Development Center, a fringe benefit
jealously cherished by the Mexican labor unions. Between 1983 and 1991, CENDI enrollments increased
by approximately 83% to a total of 153,700 children nationwide (Annex 3).



6
2.17.      The CENDI model responds to new advancements in the child-related sciences and includes
day care, medical, dental and psychological care, initial and preschool education, food and nutrition. The
bulk of CENDI teachers (23,245) are "education assistants" (asistentes educativas) who make up 61.7% of
all CENDI employees, as the professional educators account for only 8.4%, and kitchen staff for 9.9% of
that total, among 14 other CENDI employee categories, including doctors (1.8%), nurses (2.5%), and
social workers (1.4%) (Annex 4, page 3). The "education assistants" receive a one-year post-secondary
training based on a child psychology curriculum at a SEP-managed institute, whose graduates find easy
access into either public or private CENDIs.
2.18.      There are 1,362 CENDIs currently in operation throughout the country, under public, private
or parastatal agencies, with a total enrollment of 153,730 children (Annex 4, page 1). The most important
single provider of CENDI services is IMSS, which runs 258 (18.9%) centers and cares for 41,409 children
(26.9% of the total) whose mothers are employed by private firms that do not have their own centers.
Only 263 CENDIs (19.3%) are privately owned, with a total enrollment of 14,567 (9.5%) children. The
second largest provider of CENDI services is the DIF, with 256 (18.8 %) centers and 25,170 children
(16.4%). Most CENDIs (516 or 37.9%) and children (60,315 or 39.2%) are concentrated in the Federal
District (Annex 4, page 2). SEP currently operates 102 (7.5%) CENDIs for the children of women
employed in the education sector (a total of 17,253 children or 11.2% of total national enrollment) (Annex
4, page 1). SEP CENDIs, however, are in the process of being transferred to ISSSTE, which is now in
charge of most public institutions' CENDIs. This leaves SEP with more capability to provide the
regulatory functions and technical supervision for all public and private CENDIs.
(b)        Non-formal Initial Education
2.19.      The second modality is a non-formal IE program oriented toward low-income parents, with
children ages 0-3, not employed in the formal public or private sectors, and who reside in poor rural and
urban marginal communities (Annex 2, paras. 6, 14). The program, started in 1981 and operating in all 31
states and the Federal District, has suffered from shortage of budget resources and growth has been
stagnant for several years. The 1992 enrollment of 183,400 children covering 2.3% of all children ages 0-
3 in the country represents a decline from 1985, when enrollment peaked at 290,300 children (Annex 3).
Approximately 70% of current enrollments are from small rural communities. The program was
implemented as a measure of social strategy to: (i) educate and empower parents (mainly mothers) to
improve their child development skills; (ii) provide better opportunities for children of poor families to
succeed in school; and (iii) enrich the family as a child's first learning environment.
2.20.      In 1987, the Netherlands-based Bernard Van Leer Foundation financed an evaluation of
Mexico's non-formal IE program (Annex 9, pages 5-7). The study found that the non-formal program was
equally effective as - and in some cases more effective than - the kindergarten programs in improving
the child's school readiness and eventual primary school performance. The positive impact of the non-
formal program was especially marked for indigenous children. Compared to a control group, students
benefitting from non-formal IE scored 8% and 13% higher in school readiness and academic skills,
respectively, and were less likely to repeat the first grade (9% vs. 27%).
(c)        Issues in Non-Formal Initial Education
2.21.      Despite its valuable experience, the non-formal IE program has been hindered by several
issues, and suffers from a limited priority profile, insufficient institutional capacity, inadequate targeting
mechanisms, poor educational inputs, loosely defined supervision, inadequate incentives for community
educators, inconsistent community support, and sporadic linkages with complementary programs.



7
(i)  IE's small share within the overall SEP budget reflects the limited prioritv given to IE
programs until recently (Annexes 7 and 8). Even with an 87% increase from the previous year, the IE
budget for 1991 still accounts for only approximately 0.4% of SEP's total budget, and 80% of this small
amount went to cover SEP's legal obligation to provide CENDI services to children of its own employees.
The non-formal IE program, while focusing on poor rural and urban marginal families, still lacks a strong
institutional identity and adequate budgetary resources. Most of the program expenditures (85%) are linked
to salaries and per diem (Annex 8), and the US$31 cost per child is the lowest of any similar program in
Latin America (Annex 10). The CENDI program (paras. 2.16-2.18) has a cost of US$1,406 per child. By
contrast, primary education costs per pupil are approximately US$130. The SEP Initial IE Unit (IEU),
with 336 employees, serves both the CENDI and the non-formal IE program. The proposed project would
help the Government allocate more budget resources to improve quality and extend coverage of the non-
formal IE program, and to restructure and enhance institutional capacity to this end (paras. 3.40-3.42).
(ii)  Institutional capacity has received little attention in the past. At SEP, the central IEU
has been downgraded from General Directorate to Area Direction. Central and State IEUs need to develop
the capacity to effectively plan, manage, supervise and evaluate the program, through: (i) an adequate
number of key qualified financial management and planning personnel; (ii) an efficient information and
management system; and (iii) a monitoring and evaluation unit to provide feedback to the program. The
proposed project includes provisions for institutional strengthening in these areas (para. 3.39-3.48).
(iii) Targeting mechanisms are inadequate to distribute program resources among and within
the states. As a result, resource allocations and enrollment levels are determined haphazardly. Since the
project aims at children from low-income families, the allocation of program resources among states and at
the local level will be more strictly based on poverty criteria (paras. 3.3-3.5). Under the project, planning
functions will be strengthened and information and evaluation systems designed and implemented at the
central and state level IEUs (paras. 3.39, 3.50-3.53).
(iv) Proeram quality has been adversely affected by the weakening of key inputs. Even
though a large number of community educators exhibit very positive approaches and seem to be in
command of the main tools of activity, their skills level needs to be upgraded. Furthermore, the parent-
community educator meetings need to recover their original role as the focal poini of educational
interaction within the nucleus. Currently, the domestic visits, originally designed to reinforce the meetings,
have instead become the main activity. Finally, training guidebooks and manuals, prepared in 1981, need
to be expanded to include other required contents and updated to adopt more communicative language and
visual presentation. Under the project, parents' meetings would regain their original role, the training of
community educators' would be improved, and guidebooks and handbooks would be expanded in content
and improved in communication strategies (paras. 3.9, 3.14-3.18, 3.29-3.34).
(v)   A loosely defined supervision system causes overlapping and additional administrative
costs. Under the project, supervisory functions would be better specified, especially between module
supervisors' and zone coordinators' occupational profiles. A more rational allocation for travel expenses
would increase supervision frequency and quality (para. 4.3).
(vi) Inadequate incentives for community educators and a poor record of payment have
affected the program's ability to attract and retain qualified personnel, and have in consequence undermined
the program's potential impact. An increased institutional capacity should be able to deliver in a timely
fashion better compensation to the dispersed community educators. Their monthly compensation of
Mex$80,000 (about US$26) is low when compared to other volunteer community workers with similar
backgrounds and responsibilities. Already, community educators' compensation level has been increased to
US$40 equivalent per imonth and would be increased to at least US$50 equivalent per month in real terms
within one year of the proposed loan effectiveness date (paras. 3.57, 4.3).



8
(vii) Inconsistent Community Support. Reflecting weak social communication and diffusion
efforts, the program has been unable to generate sufficient community support. The existing "Community
Committees," with only parents' participation, designed mainly to help recruit community educators, has
not been systematically implemented. Under the project, community participation would be fostered
through newly-designed Pro-Childhood Committees (PCCs) (Comit&s Pro-Niflez) and a reli-nble social
marketing strategy (paras. 3.36-3.38). PCC organization and composition are likely to yield positive
results.
(viii) Adequate linkages with health and nutrition programs. Given the complementary
relationship between psychio-social development and heaith and nutrition inputs, research has consistently
indicated that IE programs quality and efficiency benefit from health and nutrition support. Under the
project, an agreement would be signed between SEP and the Federal and State Health Secretariats leading
to close cooperation with health and nutrition programs (paras. 3.60-3.61).
E. GOVERNMENT STRATEGY
2.22.      The Mexican Government's policy on IE stems from the Constitution and is spelled out in
several official documents. The Constitution (Art. 4th) establishes priority to meet children's "physical and
mental needs" and provides them with support through parents and public institutions. The EMP Chapter 2
"on basic education deals with initial education, preschool, primary, secondary and special education."
The main objective of IE is "to provide children under four, especially in the rural, indigenous and
marginal urban areas, with equal opportunities of educational services" (EMP, 2.5.1). IE aims "to foster
the development of young children's physical, cognitive, affective and social capacities, stimulating their
active participation in the educational process. " During negotiations. the Government confirmed that the
contents of Annex 2 reflect Government poliay and strategv on IE.
2.23.      "As a fringe benefit for working mothers, IE is delivered in the Child Development Centers
(CENDIs), at federal, state-level and private institutions. It is also offered as a social support through a
non-formal modality which trains parents on how to care for their children in urban, rural and indigenous
communities" (EMP, Chapter 2). "CENDIs were created by a constitutional mandate" and "the non-school
modality (was) implemented as a measure of social justice" (EMP, 2.1.1). "Attention services aiming at
children's well-being and development" are included among the mandatory services provided by ISSSTE to
all public administration employees, federal, state or municipal (LAW, Art. 2nd, XI). These services
include health, food, education and recreation to support children's integral and balanced development from
two-months-plus-one-day up to six years of age (LAW, Art. 5th).
2.24.      "Starting in 1990, to expand initial education attention capacity" (EMP, 2.5.3). IE prograns
will be developed "primarily in rural, indigenous and urban marginal settings,;' so that "it will be possible
to give priority attention to children in communities where considerable social and educational deficiencies
are identified" (EMIP, 2.5.2.). "To promote the interest and the participation of society and the
communication media, and the cooperation of the international agencies in the expansion of initial
education, especially in the areas with the worst educational deficiencies" (EMP, 2.5.2). The Government
intends to train "professional and paraprofessional personnel," so that the "Human resources training in its
several modalities constitutes the basic structure," which must "develop instances of continuing training and
horizontal cooperation among parents, community educators, module supervisors and zone coordinators, on
the basis of the needs identified in each community" (SEP, page 9). EMP aims to "support.. .the tasks of
the non-formal modality carried out at children's home" (EMP, 2.5.2), "increasing the models of attention
which involve parents who, after duly trained, will promote their children's education" (EMP, 2.2. 1).
2.25.      Government's policy includes "instructional materials and educational aids for young children,
parents, (and) educators" (EMP, 2.1.1). "A handbook of initial education will be produced and distributed



9
to provide information on how to develop educational activities, preserve family health and good nutrition,
especially of the young children" (EMP, 2.5.3), and to deal with "contents related to environment
preservation" (EMP, 2.1.1). "To broadcast through the social communication media orientation programs
seeking parents' acceptance for initial education benefits and program's expansion" (EMP, 2.5.3). The
global IE target for year 2000 is 3,700,000 children under four of poor families in all the states. This
number represents only 46% of the national demand of this age bracket. Along a ten-year program and
maintaining a yearly coverage of 370,000, the evolution would be the following: 1991-1994: 1,480,000
or 35% of the target population; 1995-1997: 2,590,000 or 69.7% of the target population; and 1998-2000:
3,700,000 or 100% of the target population (SEP, page 19)).
2.26.      In February 1991, as a consequence of its early childhood development program (para. 2.23),
the Government, after receiving UNICEF, UNDP and UNESCO assistance for project design, submitted to
the Bank for possible financing a ten-year nationwide non-formal IE program, which would have ultimately
covered 3.7 million children at a total cost of US$392 million. This program aimed to: (i) improve the
quality of the IE program by better educational materials and better selection and training of community
educators and supervisors; (ii) strengthen the institutional capacity of SEP and state IEUs by redefining
organizat'onal structures, introducing information and evaluation systems, and training staff; and (iii)
promote community participation through a more intensive radio program and the activities of restructured
PCCs. The Government and the Bank decided to consider, not the whole proposal but a modified 1993-97
first-phase version of the program, targeting Mexico's ten poorest states and seeking to improve the basic
components of the existing national IE program while incorporating new elements, particularly the lessons
learned from: (i) the evolution of the Government's strategy on early childhood development; and (ii) ten
years of IE program management experience and its 1987 assessment by the Van Leer Foundation (para.
2.20). By the end of the project, 1.2 million children would have been reached in the project states.
Assuming that the IE in the other 21 states would continue at the present rate of 106,000 children per year,
the accumulated national total of the non-formal IE program would be 1.7 million children in five years.
Since many institutional strengthening activities under the project would also benefit non-project states, it is
likely that the increase in program quality would spill over and raise enrollments nationwide substantially
beyond this figure.
2.27.      The Mexican Government's IE policy framework is consistent with recent National
Development Plans, the 1989-94 EMP and is a labor-related legal mandate. This policy deals with IE
concept, objectives, modalities, coverage, human resources needed, educational materials to be developed
and institutional basis, to be strengthened. Mexico has successfully pioneered IE experiences on a national
basis, and IE achie-ements have clearly outpaced the official documents and policy statements.
Nevertheless, a basic issue remains to be more effectively addressed, and that is the importance attached to
non-formal IE vis-a-vis the mandatory features and resources tied to CENDIs, as highlighted in the Bank
(Green Cover) Report, The Initial Education Strategy (Report No. 10129-ME, February 5, 1992), and
summarized in para. 2.21(i). The point is that formal IE has counted on a substantial share of IE resources
provided by a multiplicity of public agencies applying different operational standards. Somne coordination
is viewed as necessary among formal CENDI services at public institutions and, for equity reasons, some
balance ought to be found between resources of both IE modalities, especially in these times of poverty
alleviation. This is not just a question of diverting resources from CENDI to non-formal IE, but of
channelling more substantive amounts into non-formal IE. The Government's strategy omits this issue and
the Bank, on a sector approach, views a twofold procedure as indispensable: first, to continue the quest
with the authorities - followed-up during IE project annual and mid-term reviews - for more resources to
support, expand and improve non-formal IE; and second, make CENDI coordination and efficiency a topic
for Bank discussion with the Government within a broader perspective for educational and social
development in Mexico.



10
F. BANK EXPERIENCE AND LESSONS LFFARNED
2.28.      Even though scattered elements of early childhood development can be found in a few Bank
projects in the past (para. 2.47), this is the first time a comprehensive and free-standing IE project has been
proposed for Bank assistance. The Bank experience and learning, from which the present project could
benefit, stems from four different sources: (i) education sector experience in Mexico; (ii) Bank-wide
education sector experience; (iii) review of research literature; and (iv) international context.
(a)        Education Sector Experience in Mexico
2.29.      The primary focus of Bank assistance to the Mexican education sector in the past had been to
help the Government increase middle level workers' productivity. Three training projects with loans worth
a total of US$251 million (CONALEP I, Loan 2042-ME, 1981; CONALEP II, Loan 2559-ME, 1984; and
the Manpower Training Project, Loan 2876-ME, 1987) were financed by the Bank. A Third Technical
Training Project (CONALEP III, Loan 3358-ME), for US$153 million, was approved in 1991 to improve
vocational training and its responsiveness to the labor market. A few lessons can be learned from their
implementation and are discussed below.
2.30.      CONALEP I (1981), CONALEP II (1984), and the Manpower Training Project (1987) have
met their targets, and there have been no serious implementation problems. Two main lessons can be
learned: (i) in view of delays in project implementation due to lack of familiarity with Bank procedures, a
short launch seminar on project implementation should be conducted by the Bank (para. 5.20); (ii) in view
of the surplus training capacity in some remote areas, qualified personnel should participate in the analysis
of demand and program targeting. The proposed project hired a qualified consultant for population
targeting (paras. 3.3-3.5) and will conduct a launch seminar (para. 5.20).
2.31.      In addition to these manpower training projects, the Bank provided, under the Earthquake
Rehabilitation and Reconstruction Project (following the 1985 earthquake) US$55 million for rehabilitation
of public schools in five states and the Federal District (Loan 2665-ME). Under the 1991 Decentralization
and Regional Development Project (Loan 33 10-ME), the Bank is also supporting the Government's efforts
to increase the access of poor populations to basic social services, by financing the rehabilitation of primary
and secondary schools in four of the poorest states. In August 1991, the Bank approved a loan of US$250
million equivalent for the Primary Education Project (Loan 3407-ME), to improve the quality and
efficiency of primary education in the four states (Chiapas, Guerrero, Hidalgo, and Oaxaca) with the
highest incidence of poverty and lowest education indicators. This Primary Education Project was the first
time that Mexico opened up its basic education sector for assistance from external aid agencies. These
projects have just entered implementation, and lessons from experience are not available yet.
(b)        Bank-wide Education Sector Experience
2.32.      Poverty Alleviation. Experience shows that the extremely poor cannot be reached effectively
by formal educational programs. Programs that can exploit the complementarities between education,
health, nutrition, and information provision need more attention. Emphasis must be centered on issues like
children's development, food preparation and conservation, disposal of wastes and hyg'ine, immunization,
safe water usage, family planning and health, and the like.2' There is evidence that educational and health
activities directed toward women reduce child mortality, have a positive effect on child nutrition, health,
and socialization, and have an overall multiplier effect on the formation of human capital. The proposed
IE project is of a non-formal nature, focuses on the education of parents (mostly mothers), includes health
2' Ihe World Bank. Workd Development Report 1990. Poverty. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1990.



11
and nutrition sector cooperation (paras. 3.60-3.61), and can bring about improved family conditions that
enhance the ability of parents and chi!dren alike to enjoy better living conditions.
2.33.      Project Design. Feedback from several education projects in Latin America indicates that a
proper policy framework and an adequate institutional capacity are major factors determining project
implementation success. In addition, the existence of multiple objectives and diverse components are a
hindrance for project implementation, and that projects should exclude components weakly related to the
main focus of the project. The proposed project focuses on non-formal IE quality and efficiency, in the
context of a policy framework (Annex 2), to be managed by strengthened IEUs.
2.34.      Project Management. When a project implementation unit is created separately from the
organizational units, these existing units often miss the opportunity to acquire technical expertise developed
in the process of project implementation. Moreover, the externally financed projects and the overall
program can develop simultaneously without proper synchronization, and lessons learned from the
experience with the externally-financed project do not form as part of the institutional capability. The
proposed project would be managed by strengthened IEUs at the central and state levels assisted by a
Project Coordination Unit (PCU) and an Advisory Committee (paras. 5.7-5.16)
2.35.      Decentralization. A growing Latin American experience has demonstrated that
decentralization can play a pivotal role in managing schools and deliver the necessary educational services
efficiently. A gradual decentralization process was initiated in Mexico in 1978, and cuiminated recently
with the creation of SPES at each state, which assumed control and management of the basic education
system in each state (para. 2.4 and Annex 1). Duly strengthened state EEUs within SPES would operate
the proposed project in each state (paras. 3.390, 3.44-3.45, 5.9-5. 10).
2.36.      Project Evaluation. Bank experience shows that the efficacy and the sustainability of
educational reform programs depend to a great extent on monitoring and evaluation systems. Relatively
few developing countries have established a sustainable capacity for educational monitoring and evaluation,
and as a result the efforts of governments and assistance agencies have been hampered by a lack of
meaningful information. Latin American experience suggests that improvements should be incremental,
first putting systems in place at low levels of sophistication, then raising the technical level as institutional
capacity is developed. The proposed project would create an TE Educational Management Information
System (EMIS) (paras. 3.46-3.48, 3.53) and the Project Evaluation System (paras. 3.49-3.54).
(c)        Review of Research Literature
2.37.      Given the Bank's limited experience with non-formal IE projects, research literature on the
impact of IE programs on a worldwide basis was reviewed as part of the project preparation and
summarized in Bank (Green Cover) Report 10129-ME, Mexico - The Initial Education Strategy (February
1992). Lessons from this report have been incorporated into the project design with the exception pointed
out in para. 2.27. The main lessons learned from additional literature review are summarized below and
have been incorporated in the proposed IE project design (Annexes 9 and 10 for further background).
2.38.      Scientific Support. The supporting analysis in favor of IE is compelling. Its increasingly
accepted value derives from its capacity to help improve the basic conditions for the psychological,
sensory-motor and social development of children and, in particular, to prepare them for better
performance in preschool, primary school, and later stages of education, and thereby for labor productivity.
There is strong scientific support indicating a link between IE and the child's subsequent intellectual
development and academic performance. Scientific evidence highlights the link between early sensory
stimulation and the development of intelligence, 50% of which is established by age four. Furthermore,
inadequate intellectual stimulation and affective care, as well as early malnutrition, are likely to result in



12
severe, possibly irreversible damages to physical and emotional capabilities, which are crucial for further
learning. In this sense, elementary education and even kindergarten can be too late an opportunity to
develop these capacities in children.
2.39.      Social Equity. Poverty is by far the most discriminatory of all social factors. A large part of
cognitive achievement differentials between lower socio-economic and higher income groups can be
attributed to low levels of psychological stimulation among poor children, malnutrition and lack of
sanitation, all of which is directly associated with, or can be positively affected by education. IE can help
reduce societal inequalities rooted in poverty, by giving children from disadvantaged backgrounds a fair
start, especially those living in rural ana urban-marginal areas, girls, and other at-risk children. IE's low
unit costs and community orientation allow it to reach effectively children from low income families.
2.40.      Efficiency. Early childhood education increases the return on primary and secondary school
investments, contributes to human capital formation, raises participants' productivity and incr me levels,
and reduces public expenditures (i.e., lower welfare, health and education costs). In the US Perry Pre-
School Program4', in operation since 1962, a US$1 investment yielded US$6 in eventual savings due to
lower educational and welfare expenditures and higher productivity among participants (Annex 9, pages 4-
5). In the ongoing US Head Start program, US$1 spent is worth US$4.75 in costs saved later..'
2.41.      Thirteen studies (only three of which include food and nutrition components) carried out in
Asia, the Middle East, and particularly Latin America (Bank Green Cover Report 10129-ME, Mexico:
The Initial Education Strate2y, dated February 5, 1992) suggest that IE increases school readiness skills,
promotes timely school enrollment, lowers primary repetition and dropout rates, and improves overall
academic skills. The beneficial impact of IE is particularly pronounced among the traditionally
disadvantaged groups (e.g., girls and children with rural, indigenous, and lower-level socio-economic
backgrounds). For each study where a particular objective criteria for measuring program effectiveness
was utilized, positive results were seen: five studies showed there were significant improvements in the
child's skills; six studies found a positive relationship between IE and lower dropout and repetition rates;
and in seven of the studies, children participating in early childhood programs had a better academic
performance than the control students.
2.42.      IE programs often involve nutritional supplement and health care services. Evidence suggests
that health- and nutrition-related programs are positively associated with physical growth, basic cognitive
abilities, school readiness and positive classroom behavior. A ten-year study in the state .of Puebla
(Mexico) shows that children with food supplements walked at an earlier age and demonstrated language
superiority from the 20th week onward. In the early years of schooling, children with food supplements
performed significantly better than unsupplemented children, as they: looked more often at the teacher
(10% vs. 3%); participated more in classroom discussion (6% vs. 3%); and were less likely to sleep in
class (1% vs. 5%). None of the supplemented children failed the first year while more than one-third of
the others did so.fi Agreements to be signed with the Health Secretariat and other social service programs
would facilitate the delivery of health and nutrition services to project families (paras. 2.21(viii), 3.61).
4 John R. Berrueta-Clement et al. Chaneed Lives: The Effects of the Pem Preschool Program on Youths
Tmrough Age 19. Ypsilanti, Michigan: High Scope Press, 1984.
I/ Harrell, A. The Effects of the Head Start Program on Children's Cognitive Development: Preliminary
Reprt. Washington, D.C.: U.S. Dept. of Health and Human Services, 1983.
91 Chavez, A. & Martinez, C. School Performance of Supplemented and Unsupplemented Children from a
Poor Rural Area, in A.E. Harper & G.K. Davis (Eds.) Nutrition in Health and Disease and International
Development: Symposia from the XII International Coneress on Nutrition: Vol. 77. Progress in Clinical and
Biolozical Research. New York: Alan R. Liss, 1981.



13
2.43.      Two Modalities. IE is carried out through two basic modalities - formal and non-formal.
Formal IE is offered in Mexico through CENDIs which, like traditional kindergarten and nursery schools,
have a structured curriculum established by the educational systeni and require specific facilities and a wide
range of equipment. CENDI teachers are usually trained at a level of qualification often beyond that
normally provided by teacher training institutions (para. 2.16). In contrast, non-formal IE has no fixed
curriculum and adopts a multiplicity of approaches (para. 2.47).
2.44.      T he past two decades have witnessed an increasing consideration of the contributions that non-
formal IE can make to the early educational process, especially in light of evidence that formal educational
programs: (i) have failed to reach the populations most in need; (ii) are very costly; and (iii) do not
address specific community needs. Conversely, non-formal strategies: (i) are designed to reach the
poorest segments of society; (ii) are more economical because they are not tied to heavy investments in
physical infrastructure, professional staffing or support systems; (iii) have the advantage of being closer to
the intended beneficiaries; and (iv) involve parents and communities, directly drawing on their own
cultures, strengths, and customs. That is why non-formal 'IE has unique appeals to funders, planners,
economists, anthropologists, and finance ministries in societies looking for practical ways of achieving
rapid human resource development. Two basic modalities of non-formal IE can be found: a center-based
modality, led mainly by non-professionals in a community setting; and a home-based modality, carried out
by parents at home. The proposed IE project for Mexico emphasizes the home-based modality.
2z.1?5.    From the evidence regarding the multiple benefits of early childhood development
intervention, two main lessons can be learned in particular: (i) a more ambitious and integrated Bank
commitment to IE programs than in the past seems to be an innovative yet safe way to increase the
probability of a more efficient basic education, and a more productive life for its beneficiaries (paras. 2.38-
2.41); and (ii) the non-formal IE approaches appear to focus more effectively on their target groups, show
a wider spectrum of long-lasting benefits, and are cost-effective (para. 2.44).
(d)        International Context
2.46.      In recent years, three international events have made evident the new interest for early
childhood education, addressing some of the institutional and organizational challenges facing early
childhood programs at the national levels: (i) the Convention on the Rights of the Child was adopted by
the United Nations General Assembly in November 1989; (ii) the World Conference on Education for All,
held in March, 1990 in Thailand under the sponsorship of the World Bank, UNDP, UNESCO, and
UNICEF, placed special emphasis on the expansion of early childhood care and development through
family involvement and community interventions, especially for poor and disadvantaged children; and (iii)
the World Summit for Children, held at the UN in September, 1990, brought together 158 Presidents and
Prime Ministers. These meetings have at once expressed a new awareness of the importance of IE on the
part of international donors and generated more concrete commitments on the part of governments in favor
of early childhood development. The Mexican Government played a leading role in the promotion of the
World Summit for Children and has followed through its commitments made at the meeting with, inter a
the preparation of the proposed project (para. 2.25).
2.47.      Non-formal early childhood education has been a major area of innovation worldwide,
especially in Latin America (Annex 10) as well as in countries as diverse as India ("Integrated Child
Development Services," with Bank support, Loan 3253-IN); Colombia (Hogares Comunitarios, or
"Community Homes," partly financed by the Bank, Loan 3201-CO); Kenya ("Harambees" - "Let's pull
together" - movement); Brazil (Creches Comunitdrias, or "Community Nurseries"); the United Kingdom
("Playground Movement"); and Venezuela (Hogares de Cuidado Diario, or "Day Care Homes"). These
projects tend to encourage community commitment, autonomy and decreasing dependence on outsiders.
The proposed IE project shares some features of these projects.



14
G. RATIONALE FOR BANK INVOLVEMENT
2.48.      Bank involvement in the non-formal IE program would fit in well with the Bank's: (i) general
strategy of adjustment and poverty alleviation; and (ii) education sector strategy in Mexico. First, it would
render more efficient investments in basic education. Through its effects on children's school readiness,
the IE program would contribute to increased returns on investments in primary education, thereby
contributing to human. capital formation. Second, by helping target social investments to poor areas, the
project would also increase the opportunity for poor children to subsequently benefit from education and
would contribute to a more equitable distribution of opportunities for welfare gains.
2.49.      The proposed project would complement several Bank-financed projects that have supported
the Government's efforts to improve the efficiency of public resource allocation in the social sectors and to
alleviate poverty, such as the 1990 Basic Health Care Project (Loan 3272-ME), the 1990 Low Income
Housing Project (Loan 3140-ME), the 1991 Decentralization and Regional Development Project (Loan
3310-ME), and the 1991 Primary Education Project (Loan 3407-ME), all for the same poorest states. The
proposed IE project would complement these projects with an expanded geographical coverage, and could
prompt nationiwide policy changes in IE in terms of planning, human resource training and program
evaluation (Annex 2). Additionally, the Bank is the only aid agency in Mexico involved in large-scale
basic education programs, and would be able to transfer to Mexico lessons learned from Bank experience
with basic education through childhood-related projects in other countries. The Government of Mexico has
fairly extensively covered the child development needs of the organized urban labor force with a good
quality formal IE program, as mandated by the Constitution. However, the early childhood development
needs of the poor rural population has been barely covered. The Bank's involvement in this proposed
project would redress the imbalance in the coverage and quality of non-formal IE programs in Mexico
through an innovative and cost-effective project.
m. THE PROJECT
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND CONCEPT
3.1.       The project would aim to alleviate poverty and increase human capital investment by
improving efficiercy and quality of the non-formal IE program in the ten poorest Mexican states through:
(i) preparing young children of low-income families for timely school entry, and improvement of their
primary schcol attendance and performance (Annex 2, paras. 4-5); (ii) educating parents, especially
mothers, in home-based child-development practices (Annex 2, para. 6); and (iii) strengthening the
Government's policy-oriented capacity to plan, expand, monitor and evaluate the IE programs.
3.2.       To achieve these objectives, the project would improve the design and operation of the
existing non-formal IE program, strengthen the institutional capacity of central and state IEUs, expand its
coverage in the ten poorest states, refine its targeting criteria, promote community participation, and
develop linkages with complementary social sector programs. The project would help provide more
satisfactory remuneration levels to attract and retain better qualified community educators, provide better
educational materials and more intensive and systematic supervision, monitoring and evaluation of program
activities and effects, and redesign institutional structures to increase overall management efficiency and a
more balanced di.stribution of Government resources between SEP sponsored formal and non-formal IE.
The project is with;n the scope of Government policy for IE as summarized in Annex 2, and would help
develop a non-formal education model that can be expanded and replicated in the rest of the country.



15
B. PROJECT SCOPE AND TARGET POPULATION
3.3.       The proposed project reflects the Government's intention to target the most disadvantaged
segments of the population in rural and urban areas. Because of institutional weaknesses at both national
and state levels, the Government decided that the project should allow for sufficient institutional
strengthening before further expansion. A ten state project would be sufficiently large to have a significant
impact on national enrollment rates and keep unit costs at an acceptable level. Using weighted proxies of
marginality, age group (0-3) and indigenous populations, and school performance indicators, ten states have
been identified (by order of marginality) for project implementation: Oaxaca, Veracruz, Chiapas, Puebla,
Guerrero, Michoacan, Mexico, Hidalgo, San Luis Potosi, and Guanajuato (Annex 11 for further
information). Fifty-two percent of the country's children ages 0-3 live in these ten poorest states.
3.4.       As participation in the non-formal IE program is ostional, the scope of the project would be
determined by the effective demand, i.e., the parental participation rate, expected to be about 60% and
40% in rural and urban areas, respectively. (A survey of current program coordinators, supervisors and
community educators showed average participation to be 68% and 40% of parents in rural and urban areas,
respectively, see Annex 11.) But since children are the ultimate target of project activities, the target
population is measured in terms of children ages 0-3 enrolled in the project. Enrollment refers to the
approximate number of children ages 0-3 reached through participating parents which, based on 1990
census data, average 1.3 children per family. Children ages 0-3 are eligible to participate once in the one-
year program cycle during the project period, and therefore a true measurement of the enrollment rate
(coverage) should be made over a four-year period, which is equal to four times the annual enrollment.
Former participants will: (i) keep Parents' Guidebook with them as a permanent reference; (ii) continue to
attend occasional PCC-sponsored meetings; (iii) receive support from the module supervisor; and (iv)
attend new child-related educational materials. Current coverage of the non-formal IE program in the ten
selected states as a whole is 7.4% of their total population 0-3. Projected coverage in the fifth year of the
project would be 33.5% of their total 0-3 population, with 50.1% in rural areas and 33 % in urban marginal
areas, which is still below observed average participation rates. Table 3.1 shows present and projected
enrollment rates and coverages.
Table 3.1
ENROLLMENT AND COVERAGE RATES IN THE 10 PROJECT STATES
RURAL  JURBAN                  TEN
AREAS   MARGINAL  STATWS
_       _       _ ..,.AREAS
1991 Enrollment Rate             2.3 %          3.1 %         1.8 %
1991 Coverage                    9.4 %         12.5 %         7.4 %
E 1997 Enrollment Rate           12.5 %          8.3 %         8.4%
1997 Coverage                   50.1 %         33.0 %        33.5
1 Relative to total 0-3 population, including inhabitants in non-marginal areas
3.5.       Within the ten project states, current coverage rates vary significantly, from a high of
23.6% in Guerrero to a low of 2.8% in Veracruz (Annex 5, page 1). The project is expected to raise
the urban marginal and rural coverage rates to meet the projected levels of demand and to reduce the
disparity among coverage rates in the ten states. Annual enrollment would rise from 77,000 to
349,000 children, an average increase of about 54,000 per year. This figure was determined by
assuming a 60% coverage in communities of 1,000 to 15,000 inhabitants and to keep project costs
within acceptable limits. Enrollment growth is projected at a rate of 46% annua;ly for the first three



16
years, 25% for the fourth year and 13% for the fifth year. Annual increments begin at 35,000 in the
first year, peak at 81,000 in the third year, and taper to 39,000 in the last year of the project, because
expansion is expected to become more difficult over time as more resources would be required to
reach isolated communities. Poverty indicators would be used to select rural and urban marginal
conmmunities and establish target priorities for project preparation (Annex 9, para. 9 and Annex 11).
At completion, the project would have reached a total of 1.2 million children over a five-year period,
which would account for 71 % of the total national coverage of 1.7 million children during the same
five-year period (assuming that annual enrollments in the remaining 21 states remain the sarne, see
para. 2.26).
C. PROJECT COMPONENTS
3.6.       The project consists of three major components:
(a)   The Human Resources Development Component (79.2% of total project cost
including contingencies) would upgrade the performance level of all personnel involved in the
management and training process, and improve parents' developmental performance with their
children. It would in particular: (i) develop parents' skills in fostering their children's cognitive,
psychomotor and social development; (ii) train community educators to lead their local activities with
parents, children and the community; (iii) improve the supervisory and coordinating skills of module
supervisors and zone coordinators; (iv) improve the performance of training leaders and technical
staff; and (v) upgrade the managerial capacity of SEP's and SPES's high-level professionals.
(b) The Educational Materials Develogment Component (12.9% of total project cost
including contingencies) would improve the quality of printed instructional materials and create
additional audiovisual supporting instruments. It would in particular: (i) revise the existing Parents'
Guidebook to include new areas like health and nutrition, family planning, and environmental
protection, as well as more adequate illustration; (ii) revise the operating handbooks to accommodate
the use of new educational strategies and methods; (iii) produce better illustrated printed materials
with greater content for trair g and communication purposes; (iv) develop a series of educational
games and videos; and (v) 1.oduce a series of promotional and educational radio programs.
(c) The Strengthening of Policy-oriented Capacity (7.8% of total project cost
including contingencies) would strengthen the managerial capacity of SEP and SPES, and support
community participation. It would in particular: (i) strengthen the central IEU at SEP; (ii) organize
IEUs at the State level; (iii) design and support the implementation of an EMIS; (iv) design and
implement an evaluation system (including process and impact analysis, quality audit, and special and
tracer studies); (v) improve the supervision system; (vi) promote the organization of PCCs at local
and state levels; and (vii) support the cooperation with other community-oriented services like health
and nutrition.
3.7.       Administrative costs, which are distributed among all three components, amount to
US$2.0 million equivalent, representing 1.7% of total project costs including contingencies.
D. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
(a)        The Human Resources Development Component (Costs: US$91.1 million)
3.8.       The project would prepare, at all levels, the human resources needed to manage,
mediate, and carry out the project services (Annex 2, paras. 12-13). The non-formal IE program
rests upon a system of successive training. SEP professionals at the central level work with state



17
personnel to train the zone coordinators, who in turn train up to ten module supervisors, who then
train and supervise up to 10 local community educators. A community educator, together with 20
parents and their children (an average of 26, approximately 1.3 children ages 0-3 per family), form a
nucieus (Annex 6). Sc me external trahiers (from universities, teacher training, and other institutions)
would be invited to add new ideas to the process and encourage inter-institutional relationship.
Quality intervention by trained human resources is at the heart of the project and provides the
operational framework for all other inputs. During negotiations. agreement was reached with the
Government: (i) on the overall training plan for communitv educators. module supervisors. and zone
coordinators, and on reviews durinp annual and mid-tern reviews and planning meetings: and (ii)
that evidence will be provided at the annual review meetings that: (a) communities have been
identified in each of the ten DroLect states to meet the vrojct expansion targets set for year: and (b)
the appropriate number of module supervisors and zone coordinators to meet the year's project
expansion targets have been recruited (para. 7. 1(a)).
3.9.       Training of Parents (Annex 2, para. 14). A group of about 20 parents (mostly mothers)
would make up the basic operating unit of the project or nucleus, which would receive from the
community educator two forms of training: periodic group meetings and home visits. A total of
approximately 900,000 parents would be trained over the project implementation period of five years
(Annex 11, page 5) assuming 50% rural and 33% urban marginal participation. Assumed
participation rates were based on program records and three surveys conducted with program agents
in the field (paras. 3.4-3.5, Annex 11, page 5). The meetings would consist of a series of forty
group sessions of two hours each (a total of 80 hours) devoted to reading and discussing the topics
contained in the Parents' Guidebook (paras. 3.29-3.30), a special workbook organized around the
characteristics and needs of the child through the early stages of development up to age four. The
training meetings would include practical activities for the parents to acquire skills related to
providing adequate stimulus to the child's development in the cognitive, psychological, and social
areas. The meetings would be conducted once or twice a week over a period of five to eight months.
The group sessions would be normally held in a school, church, community hall, or any other
suitable place available. During negotiations. agreement was reached that evidence will be provided
at the annual review meetings that parent training groups have been organized and that training
courses are being conducted (para. 7.1(b)).
3.10.      Parallel to the group meetings, the community educator would visit the homes of
participating parents to reinforce the concepts learned during the group sessions, to observe how
parents have understood and are applying these concepts in their daily interaction with their children,
and to assist them in adopting or reinforcing acceptable child development practices and home
educational activities "hat stimulate the desired development of the child's basic capabilities. All
parents would be visi'td at least once every two weeks. This home visit would be particularly helpful
for illiterate parents who constitute about 20% of total participants.
3.11.      In his or her work with the group of parents, the community educator would be guided
by the Community Educator's Handbook (Annex 2, para. 16), a manual of practical orientation on
how to conduct group sessions matching each of the learning units in the Parents' Guidebook and how
to motivate interaction and exchange of experiences within the group. The project would provide for
an improvement in the handbooks (paras. 3.29-3.34). In addition, the project would provide a
package of audiovisual materials for use by the community educator, including flip charts, leaflets,
and tape recordings (paras. 3.35-3.36). Radio programs (paras. 3.37-3.38), with both promotional
and educational content, would be broadcast regularly by local stations to disseminate the project,
motivate families to participate, and to crystallize support for the program. In communities with large
numbers of illiterate parents, more emphasis would be placed under the project on the use of



18
audiovisual materials and radio, although well-illustrated printed materials have also been used
successfully and would be considerably improved in visual context and message presentation.
3.12.      Even though the intended beneficiaries of the project are children 0-3, the children
themselves would not participate directly in the proposed educational activities, except during the
home visits when they would be observed and practical feedback on their attitudes and behavior
provided by the community educator. In general, parents (mostly mothers) would be the direct
participants in the educ Ltional process. Children would benefit from the better care that their parents
would be able to provide in the areas of health and nutrition and from improved parental skills in the
development of their mental, affective, and social capacities. Indirect benefit would also flow to
children not enrolled in the program due to increased parenting skills. Parents' and especially
mothers' education and training are likely to yield a two-generation effect.
3.13.      IP addition to training parents, the community educator also works in close cooperation
with the local PCC (para. 3.59), the module supervisor (para. 3.21) and other social sector programs
(para. 3.60) to assist in the development of community-oriented activities aimed at promoting public
awareness of the long-lasting benefits of early childhood education, sustaining community interest in,
and support for, the project, and encouraging broader parent participation.
3.14.      Training of Community Educators. Since community educators would not be
professional educators, they would require extensive training, conducted mainly by the module
supervisors. The format for the training of community educators calls for one initial session and a
series of continuing training sessions. The initial training would take place within a training unit
framework comprised of approximately 30 community educators drawn from three adjacent modules
(each module would include 10 community educators under one module supervisor). The three
corresponding module supervisors would act as trainers for this unit, assisted by a State Training
Leader, the zone coordinator and an external trainer (para 3.8). The initial training sessions would
last two weeks for a total of 80 hours, using local facilities such as an existing community or parish
hall, a kindergarten or school easily accessible by public transportation (to facilitate easy attendance
by community educators from all three modules). A tentative course outline has been developed for
this activity, including training objectives and content material as well as the teaching skills required
for work with parents. General terms of reference for external trainers have been discussed and
approved (Annex 12). During negotiations. agreement was reached with the Government that
evidence will be provided at the annual review meetings that PCCs have been organized and
community educators have been trained for the years (para. 7.1(b)).
3.15.      As part of the continuing training, the entire training unit would be called back for
periodic sessions, including all community educators, module supervisors, and the zone coordinator
involved with the three project modules, and would take place at three month intervals to provide
further learning opportunities on the basis of the hands-on experience gathered. There would be two
training sessions during the yearly cycle of five to eight months, and one immediately thereafter.
3.16.      Continuing training of community educators would be conducted by each module
supervisor. Five-hour seminars would be held once a month within each module and would be
devoted to an exchange of experiences among the community educators, discussion and search for
solutions to problems that may have arisen in the course of their work, and general reinforcement of
their initial training. In addition to these monthly seminars, the module supervisors would be directly
responsible for monitoring community educators' work and providing frequent and immediate
guidance and technical support to field operations. A total of approximately 45,000 community
educators are expected to participate in both the initial and continuing training programs during the
project implementation period (Annex 11, page 5). The present annual attrition rate of 50% of



19
community educators is expected to drop to about 30% due to increased financial incentives, better
selection, improved training, and more community support. This rate has been built into the training
cost estimates. No significant dropout is expected during initial training, which is short and intensive,
but some turnover can be expected of community educators from smaller communities once their one-
year project duty has been completed. During negotiations. agreement was reached with the
Government that eiidence uill be provided at the annual review meetings that continuing in-service
trainin activties for com,nqftv educators., module suv2ervisors and zone coordinators are proceding
regularlv (para. 7. 1(b)).
3.17.      Training materials to be used by the community educators would include a Parents'
Guidebook (paras. 3.29-3.30) and a Community Educator's Handbook (paras. 3.31-3.32) - both to
be revised and updated under the project- and an Operations Manual (para. 3.31). Supporting
audiovisual materials would include a package of charts, a wall calendar, a periodic bulletin, and
video and audio cassettes (paras. 3.35-3.36), to be developed under the project.
3.18.      Community educators would be recruited as a rule among community members over 18
years of age who have at least completed primary education (or secondary education in urban and
larger rural communities). The local PCC, in accordance with a standard community educator
profile, would identify a list of candidates from the community, making recommendations on the basis
of their standing, leadership qualities, and willingness to devote the time and effort necessary to
receive training and to perform their duties under the project. Community educators would be paid a
remuneration of at least US$50 equivalent per month in real terms throughout project implementation,
and would be required to work at least ten hours per week with the parents, but would not be SEP or
state employees. Whenever possible, the local health promoter should be encouraged to double as a
project community educator, receiving stipends from both sources, a mix which has produced
excellent results in the existing program (para. 3.61). The module supervisor (in consultation with
the zone coordinator) would select the community educator through personal interviews with the
candidates.
3.19.      Training of Module Supervisors and Zone Coordinators. A third training group would
consist of 30 module supervisors and five zone coordinators at a time (an average of six module
supervisors report to a zone coordinator). The training program for these two types of professionals
would include an initial two-week course, for a total of 80 hours, and a series of two-day continuing
education seminars every three months. During the initial course, the group (approximately 35
persons) would be trained by a team of two Training Leaders, one from the state and another from
the central IEU, supported by external trainers. The continuing seminars would be conducted by the
state Training Leader and a national Training Leader with support from the state IE Coordinator.
Training of module supervisors and zone coordinators would use the facilities of educational
institutions such as Normal Schools and universities. Approximately 4,500 module supervisors and
760 zone coordinators would be trained during the project implementation period (Annex 11, page 5).
Durng negotiations. agreement was reached with the Government that evidence will be provided at
the annual revew meetings that initial traininp courses have been organized and completed for all
module supervisors and zone coordinators in each of the proLect states (para. 7. 1(b)).
3.20.      In addition to the training meetings, the module supervisors and zone coordinators would
receive technical support through a Module Supervisor's Handbook and a Zone Coordinator's
Handbook (paras. 3.33-3.34). The Parents' Guidebook and the Community Educator's Handbook
would also be reviewed to help the module supervisors and zone coordinators gain a better
understanding of the project objectives and their own supervisory and coordinating roles.



20
3.21.      Module supervisors and zone coordinators would be state education sector employees
trained at the college level, usually in social sciences, community development, or education. It
would be the responsibility of the module supervisor to monitor ten nuclei distributed in a micro-
region setting. One of his/her main tasks would be to initiate and encourage appropriate actions
within a community (previously selected by the state coordination office for the project) in order to
mobilize support from local authorities and to rally interest among community families and leaders for
the organization of PCCs. A zone coordinator would usually be assigned from four to ten modules,
depending on their relative geographic accessibility.
3.22.      Training of Training Leaders and Technical Staff. This fourth group of trainees would
comprise two subgroups: one of Training Leaders (at both central and state levels) and another of
technical staff at the state level. For the first subgroup, an existing Department of Training at the
central IEU (Annex 22, page 2) and two Training Leaders in each of the ten participating states would
jointly have the basic responsibility for planning, organizing, and supervising the timely
implementation of all staff training activities in the states. At the outset, they would receive
specialized training on the objectives and methods of the proiect, on group management, and on of
non-formal IE strategies techniques and processes. State Training Leaders are SPES personnel
selected in consultation with the PCU.
3.23.      State technical staff, a minimum of four per state in charge of specialized areas, would
make up the second subgroup. They play a complementary and intermediary role in the planning,
communication, and training aspects of the project, seeking to maximize the resources available at
state and local levels to meet the specific needs of the project, and serve as trainers for lower levels.
3.24.      Training for central and state Training Leaders and for technical staff would take place
through a series of two-week workshops for a total of 80 hours each, to be conducted annually during
the first four years of project implementation. Approximately 40 Training Leaders (two from each
state and 20 from the central IEU) and 40 technical staff members (from central and state EEUs)
would participate in the workshops. Both types of workshops would be conducted by a team of
external trainers recruited from universities and other institutions in the country (Annex 12).
3.25.      Training of High-level Professionals. Advanced training would be provided for
approximately 60 selected members of the project executive and technical staff. Graduate training
programs would be conducted with cooperation from local universities or other institutions of
comparable quality.
3.26.      IE is becoming a complex area of educational expertise. A small number of qualified
professionals would be needed to assure the quality and development of an expanded IE national
program. Approximately 20 selected members of the executive and high level technical staff at both
central and state levels are expected to enroll in formal graduate programs leading to an advanced
academic degree in areas related to their work in IE while performing their professional duties. The
formal graduate training program would take place at Mexican universities over the course of two
years and only tuition costs would be financed under the project.
3.27.      About 40 staff members would engage in non-degree workshops which would be focused
on special areas associated with planning, management, human resources training, and interaction
with other community-oriented programs. The workshops would take place annually during the first
four years of the project. They would have an average duration of .wo weeks.



21
(b)        Educational Materials Development Component (Costs: US$14.9 million)
3.28.      Since its inception, the non-formal IE program has utilized a set of printed educational
materials: the Parents' Guidebook, Community Educator's Handbook, Module Supervisor's
Handbook, and Zone Coordinator's Handbook, which have been found generally satisfactory in
format and design. New editions of these guides and manuals would be used under the project, after
necessary revision for addition of new topics and updating of language and visual presentation.
Additional reference materials would include an Operations Manual, and a PCC Handbook (para.
3.31). To improve the communication strategy, new types of educational materials would be
developed under the project, such as a bi-monthly bulletin, fliers, posters, flip charts, as well as
educational games, audio and video cassettes, and a set of radio programs to be broadcast through
local radio stations. Printed materials would be produced to meet the requirements of the five-year
project implementation period, plus an additional two years to assure program continuity.
Approximately 1.5 million copies each of the Parents' Guidebook, 80,000 copies of the Community
Educator's Handbook, 9,000 copies of the Module Supervisor's Handbook, 1,300 copies of the Zone
Coordinator's Handbook, 80,000 copies of the Operations Manual, 80,000 copies of the PCC
Handbook, and 14,000 copies for each of the bi-monthly editions of the bulletin would be produced
and distributed under the project. During negotiations. agreement was reached with the Government
on detailed terms of reference and calendar for: C1) initial technical revision. design and production
of all educational materials: and Cii) design and operation of radio programs (para. 7. 1(c)). Durinp
n-egotiations. agreement was reached with the Government on all printed materials that: (i) by
February 28. 1993. revision. updatinig or design of all drinted materials will have been completed:
(ii) bw August 31. 1993. first printing and distribution of these materials will have been conWmpleted:
(iii) by Februara 28. 1995. revision of these materials will have been completed: and rvy) bv August
31. 1995. pnrling and distribution of the balance of these materials will have been completed (para.
7.1(d)).
3.29.      Parents' Guidebook. The Parents' Guidebook would be the main workbook of the
program, and would be used by participating parents to follow the group meetings and as a home
reference manual to guide their educational practices. The Parents' Guidebook would undergo some
revision to incorporate new topics related to health, nutrition, family planning, and environmental
protection, as well as to adapt and maximize the communication strategy and the visual presentation
of the various topics related to the cultural and educational characteristics of the target population.
The project has accounted for illiterate parents, who would require additional support and guidance,
by community educators.
3.30.      Revision of the Parents' Guidebook would be made by a multi-disciplinary team of
consultants at the beginning of project implementation, and an initial printing would be made to cover
the first three years of projected requirements. A reevaluation would then take place, using input
from a special study to analyze both content and effectiveness of educational materials, and revisions
would be incorporated into a second printing of copies required for the remaining years of the project
plus two years to assure program continuity (paras. 3.10, 3.28, 3.52, and Annex 13).
3.31.      Handbooks (Annex 2, para. 16). The Community Educator's Handbook, the Module
Supervisor's Handbook, and the Zone Coordinator's Handbook would undergo extensive revisions in
content and organization to accommodate the use of new educational, communicative, managerial and
supervisory contents and procedures (Annex 13). All general program information would be brought
together into a separate Operations Manual, which would contain administrative guidelines for use by
module supervisors and community educators. Conversely, each handbook would be trimmed to
include only the technical information and directions required by the intended user. In addition, PCC
Handbooks would be designed and produced to give guidance on their organization, operation,



22
promotion, and development. Topics include, among others, the recruitment of members,
identification and support of community educators, linkage among related social sector programs,
promotion of parental participation, and sustaining community involvement.
3.32.      The Community Educator's Handbook is a manual of educational processes focusing on
the practical aspects of the community educator's work with parents. New contents and guidelines to
be introduced at the beginning of project implementation would include other community-related
topics and the use of updated communication techniques (para. 3.28).
3.33.      The Module Supervisor's Handbook is designed as a practical reference book to assist in
the process of identifying and mobilizing community resources, contacting local authorities and
leaders, organizing and guiding the operation of PCCs, interviewing and selecting new community
educators and assisting them with continuing technical support. The handbook would be revised at
the beginning of project implementation to include topics on the relationship with the PCC, the use of
radio programs and other visual and audio materials for promotion of community participation, and
on how to build and maintain community support beyond the project scope and duration.
3.34.      The Zone Coordinator's Handbook contains directives for program coordination at the
regional level and for administrative control of field activities. It would provide guidance for the
frequency and format of visits to modules and nuclei, model forms for reporting statistical and
personnel information, and instructions on the creation and location of new modules and nuclei.
Revisions to the handbook would include topics on: (i) inter-agency coordination and interaction with
other social programs; (ii) managerial and communication techniques for the promotion of community
interest in the project; and (iii) operational evaluation of, and feedback for, the modules.
3.35.      Other Printed Materials. A bi-monthly bulletin would be added to the list of basic
printed materials under the project. The bulletin, to be published by the central IEU at SEP, would
carry news of the program and information on topics of interest to parents and the community.
Additional printed materials to be used with parent groups and the community would include: (i) a
set of educational and promotional fliers covering subjects such as Immunization, Family Planning,
Child Feeding, and Common Child Diseases; (ii) a set of posters displaying topics such as Starting
Life, The Rights of the Child, Pregnancy, and The Environment; and (iii) a set of flip charts bearing
similar contents.
3.36.      Non-print Educational Materials would include a series of educational games designed to
promote among parents and the community informed decisions regarding nutrition, health, education,
quality of life, and social values. A series of audio and video cassettes on a variety of program-
related topics would be produced for use in promotional campaigns with state and regional av,.horities,
the press, and the community, and as an additional means to support and reenforce the training of
parents and of community educators (Annex 14). During negotiations, agreement was reached with
the Govemnment that: ri) bv Februara 28, 1993. the Government will submit, for Bank a=proval.
terms of reference and content specifications for the preparation of nonprint educational materials:
and rii) bv March 31. 1993. the Government will submit. for Bank approval, a draft contract for: (a)
the desiRn and production of educational pames: (bJ the production of a six- to eipht-minute
educational video cassette: and (c) the production of four 60-minute audio cassettes (para. 7.1(e)).
3.37.      Radio Educational Programs (Annex 2, para. 17). Selective use of radio is p'.nned in
connection with expansion of the IE program for promotion and community motivation purposes, and
to support the work of community educators. Radio broadcasts would utilize mostly local and
regional radio stations, which would have wide community reception and low diffusion costs.



23
3.38.      Radio programs would include: (i) one-minute promotional spots; and (ii) 20-minute
shell programs to broadcast project news, interviews with community leaders and project participants,
useful hints for parents, PCC activities, and other related items of interest to the local community.
Promotional spots would run four times daily for four weeks, and the shell programs vould be
broadcast for 18 weeks each year. Preliminary terms of reference can be found in Annex 15 for
radio program design and production. During negotiations, agreement was reached with the
Government that: (i) by February 28 of each year. beginning 1993 through 1997. the Government
wil submit. for Bank approval. the draft contract for the development and production of three
different one-minute radio spots: (ii) by March 31 of each vear. beginning 1993 through 1997. the
Government will submit. satlisfactory to the Bank. evidence that appropriate arrangements have been
made with local and regional radio stations for the diffusion of radio spots and radio programs: and
(iii) by March 31. 1993, the Government will submit. satisfactol to the Bank. the draft contract for
the development and production of eighteen 20-minute educational radio properams (para. 7. 1(f)).
(c)        The Institutional Strengthening or Policy-oriented Capacity Component (Costs: US$9.0
mili;. 'n)
3.39.      The project would support the Government's efforts to strengthen the institutional and
policy-oriented capacity for central and state level IEUs, emphasizing the development of planning,
management, information, evaluation, and supervision mechanisms and upgrading staff competence to
operate an expanded non-formal, predominantly rural, IE program (Annex 2, para. 18).
3.40.      Central Initial Education Unit. A new organizational chart (Annex 22, page 2) has been
designed for the central IEU which calls, first and foremost, for a more rational structure and
functioning of the unit under a director's leadership. The new chart was designed along the main
functions required to plan, manage, and evaluate the program under the project. Three deputy
directors would be in charge of the central IEU operation: (i) the Planning Deputy Director with the
Departments of Programming and Budget, of Information Systems, and of Evaluation; (ii) the
Technical Deputy Director with the Departments of Curriculum, Training, Educational
Communication, and Supervision; and (iii) the Deputy Director for Operations with the Federal
District.
3.41.      Under the ongoing decentralization process (Annex 1), the central IEU, like all other
federal agencies, would retain only normative and quality control responsibilities over operational
responsibilities taking place in the states. This would not significantly affect the operation of the non-
formal IE program, since most operational activities have been decentralized from the start. The new
structure would be strengthened at the central level to establish nationwide goals for the program,
provide technical support and participate in overall training activities, develop and maintain an
integrated information system, and conduct monitoring and evaluation of program processes and
results. It would perform all supervisory and planning functions for both the formal and the non-
formal IE programs in a more balanced way.
3.42.      Most of the projected responsibilities of the central IEU can be performed by the
existing technical staff, which would be reassigned to the newly created departments with updated job
descriptions to include new functions required by the project. Approximately 40 additional technical
and clerical positions are expected to be needed, as operations would: (i) shift from almost exclusive
concentration on the formal CENDI system to greater emphasis upon the expansion and qualitative
improvement of the non-formal IE program; and (ii) call for new skills and expertise, particularly in
the areas of planning, information, communication and evaluation.



24
3.43.      In-service staff training would be provided by the project to upgrade the technical
qualifications of selected members of the central IEU and to develop new skills in connection with the
expanded functions introduced by the project. Members of the executive and technical staff would be
selected to participate in project sponsored graduate programs associated with local universities (paras.
3.25-3.27). Regular two-week in-house training seminars would be conducted once a year involving
personnel of the central IEU and the department heads of state IEUs.
3.44.      State Initial Education Units. State IEUs would be strengthened in each of the
participating states and organized into a Department under the Deputy Director of Basic Education
(Annex 22, page 4). The Department of Initial Education would consist of two sub-departments: one
for the Child Development Centers (CENDIs) and another for the Non-formal Program. An Office of
Administrative Services would provide support to both IE programs in matters of personnel, official
document processing, payment processing, and official records keeping. As a condition of loan
effectiveness, the Government will submit evidence. satisfactor= to the Bank. that satisfactory
agreements have been signed with at least three of the ten project states for project implementatlon
and use of loan funds (para. 7.3(a)). As a condition for disbursement of project funds for each of the
project states the Government will submit: Ci) evidence that an agreement has been signed with the
respective state for project implementation and use of loan funds: and rii) legal opinions. satisfactory
to the Bank. that the agreements have been dulv authorized or ratified by. and executed and delivered
on behalf of the parties thereto and are legally binding (para. 7.4).
3.45.      The sub-department of the Non-formal Program would be staffed in accordance with the
human resources requirements suggested by the state size and the work volume. As a minimum, this
sub-department would have a professional core of one Coordinator and four specialists qualified to
perform the basic tasks of training, communication, information, and evaluation. Other planning and
managerial functions would be properly covered by the SPES regular sectors. During negotiations,
aereement was reached with the Government on the organizational structure. functions. and staffing
plans for the central and state IE units. As a condition of loan egfectiveness. the Government will
submit. satisfactorv to the Bank. evidence that at least the DeputV Directors at the central IE unit and
two of the technical positions in the state IE units have been filled with qualified professionals.
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 7.3(b)).
3.46.      Educational Management Information System (ENMS). The project would provide
technical assistance to design an EMIS, including the purchase of a computer system and appropriate
software, for project planning and implementation. The system would include, as a minimum: (i)
follow-up information for project monitoring purposes; (ii) basic program statistics to feed into the
larger SEP statistical and cost system, which is being supported by the Bank through the Primary
Education Project (Loan 3407-ME); and (iii) cost accounting project information. The EMIS would
be in operation within one year of loan effectiveness for early tracking and statistical analysis of
project indicators.
3.47.      The system of project management-related information would be based on the
Management Control System of Priority Projects for Educational Modernization, which has been used
by the General Directorate of Planning, Programming and Budgeting (GDPPB) in SEP's
Undersecretary for Education Coordination, adapting the basic system concepts to project
requirements, including a calendar of project goals and deadlines and the actions planned to meet
them. During negotiations. the Government submitted a short list of consultants proposed to design
the Educational Management Information System. During negotiations. agreement was reached with
the Government that the Educational Management Information Svstem will be in operation by
December 31. 1993 (para. 7.1(g)).



25
3.48.      A set of relevant indicators would be identified and defined, and simple, functional
forms would be designed to guide the information gathering process. Currently used indicators would
be evaluated for relevance, and others added as necessary. The selection of indicators would be
based on a study of information needs, and would cover an array of information categories related to
participating parents and children, educational and supervisory agents, educational materials, program
costs, educational methods and activities, staff training, and updating of potential demand by
communities. A subset of these indicators will be selected to become part of the SEP statistical
system (estadfsticas continuas). Cost accounting information, based on GDPPB methodology, would
be compiled and organized to make possible a cost-efficiency analysis (Annex 16 for the EMIS terms
of reference). The EMIS will provide: (i) feedback information for management purposes during
project implementation; (ii) basic information for the Project Evaluation System (specifically for
sample selection and project costs); and (iii) project monitoring capacity (Annex 23).
3.49.      Project Evaluation System (Annex 2. para. 18). The project would also finance an
evaluation system that would be designed (by the end of December 1993) and implemented according
to terms of references approved at the appraisal mission, consisting of an impact evaluation, a process
evaluation and four special studies. The results will be analyzed at the annual reviews according to
the schedule in Annex 24. The results would be reviewed by the Government and the Bank, and any
necessary policy actions affecting the IE program would be agreed upon and implemented within the
project framework.
3.50.      An impact evaluation study would be designed to measure the program effect in relation
to long-term objectives, such as changes of parental attitudes and behavior, achievements in
psychosocial development of children, timely entry to, and performance in, school, especially in the
first grade of primary education, and lowering of dropout and repetition rates (Annex 17). The
design of the impact study will serve as a baseline for longer term tracer studies for which appropriate
financing mechanisms will be sought outside of the project, and executing mechanisms will be
discussed during the mid-term and following annual reviews.
3.51.      A process evaluation study would be designed to assess quality and short-term effects of
selected components relevant for project functioning and success. It would be conducted as a regular
annual activity by a qualified research institution in cooperation with both central and state IEUs.
The methodology and procedures for process evaluation would be designed with the support of
external consultants in accordance with terms of reference agreed to with the Bank (Annex 18), with
results of the evaluations to be disseminated and utilized for program improvement according to the
action plan presented by the PCU at each years' annual review meeting.
3.52.      Four special studies would be financed by the project in the context of the evaluation
system, using qualified research organizations or firms, to obtain critical information necessary to
guide qualitative improvements of the IE program. They would include: (i) a cost-effectiveness
study; (ii) an analysis of both content and effectiveness of educational materials; (iii) a study of
changes in parents' attitudes, values, motivation, and interest; and (iv) a construction of a scale to
measure psychosocial development of children validated in the Mexican context (Annex 19). The
psychosocial scale and educational materials studies would be completed by and presented at mid-term
review. The evaluation of educational materials would be completed by December 31, 1995. The
other two studies would be completed in the last project year. Their recommendations would be
discussed during the mid-term and annual project implementation reviews.
3.53.      Data generated by both the EMIS and the Project Evaluation System would be analyzed
by the central IEU for the purpose of transforming them into information for the decision-making
process, detecting any problems thtt may arise in the implementation of the program, its methods or



26
educational materials, and of introducing appropriate changes or providing guidance and suggestions
that can be fed into the project. See a description of time frame for each activity in Annex 24.
3.54.      Terms of reference (Annexes 16-19), cost estimates, and additional orientation for
consultants to design the Project Evaluation System and special studies have been prepared and
discussed with SEP representatives. During negotiations. the Government submitted a short list of
consultants proposed to design the Project Evaluation Svstem. During negotiations. agreement was
reached with the Government that contracts wiI be signed for the: (1) educational impact evaluation
bv Februara 28. 1993: rii) psychosocial development scale study bv Februarv 28. 1993. with the
report due no later than December 31. 1993: Cii) process efficiency evaluation bv December 31.
1993: riv) parents' attitudes and behavior stud& by December 31. 1993. with the report due no later
than December 31. 1994: (v) educational materials evaluation by December 31. 1994. with the final
report due no later than December .J1. 1995: (vi) and cost-effectiveness studv by December 31. 1995,
with the final report due no later than JU/Y 31. 1997 (para. 7.1(h)). During negotiations. the
Government provided assurances that if. as a result of am of the annual reviews. progress in the
execution of the project or the achievement of its objectves is not satisfactory to the Bank. the
Government shall. after an exchange of views with the Bank. promptlv take remedial action as shall
be necessary to correct such situation (para. 7.2).
3.55.      Improvement of Supervision Practices (para. 2.21(v). The project would improve
supervision practices in order to optimize program performance by allocating more clearly defined
responsibilities, mainly to module supervisors and zone coordinators. The key role of technical
supervision in the field would fall to the module supervisor, whose primary responsibility would be to
support community educators' activities to promote community and PCC involvement and to follow
up on program activities.
3.56.      The role of zone coordinators would be revised and linked more closely with planning of
program expansion, process monitoring and evaluation, information updating, and initial training of
module supervisors and community educators. The zone coordinator would be the bridge-builder
between field action and state coordination, and would provide coordinate and support the work of the
module supervisors within an area of influence containing from four to ten modules, according to
population density, relative community distance, and ease of access. Dud_ng negotiations. the
Government submitted the revised fob descriptions for module supervisors and zone coordinators.
satisfactorv to the Bank.
3.57.      The existing Department of Supervision would be strengthened at the central IEU
(Annex 22), with specialized technical personnel charged with overall responsibility for quality
control of the program nationwide and with overseeing proper operation of the supervision system at
state and local levels, including the implementation of inter-institutional linkages. Independent audits
will be contracted to conduct, on a random basis, a review of program quality, using the five key
indicators described in Annex 23. During negotiations. agreement was reached with the Government
that each year a quality control review wil be conducted bv an independent research center or
consulting firm: and that the results and recommendations of this review will be used in the annual
and mid-term reviews of the proect (para. 7.1(i)).
3.58.      Pro-Childhood Committees (PCCs) (Annex 2, para. 20). The project would promote the
formation of permanent committees at the local and state levels to channel community interest in
activities and programs benefitting children, and to provide community support and continuity to
educational activities. At the local level, a PCC, composed of sommunity leaders, representatives of
other agencies and services operating in the community, and representatives of participating parents,
would interact with community educators and act as the link between the community and the project.



27
The committee would promote parental participation and retention, identify, recommend, and support
community educators, secuie appropriate community facilities for program operation, and build
continuity through child-related activities beyond the program. A similar idea, though more limited
in participation and functions, has been tried before by the IE program in some rural communities
(para. 2.21(vii)). A PCC Handbook would be designed and produced by the project, with orientation
and guidelines on how to create, support, and operate the PCC (paras. 3.31, 3.33).
3.59.      PCCs would also be created at the state level to serve as a consultative group to the state
IEU and to provide community feedback and linkages with other child development activities and
programs in the state. Each state PCC would be composed of representatives of public and private
agencies involved in childhood-related activities and selected state-wide community leaders. Each
state PCC would meet at least twice a year with the state IE leadership, receive reports of annual
plans and progress, and keep in frequent contact with the state IEU to assist in promoting and
facilitating program operations. Durine negotiations. the Govern_nt submitted the proposed
structure and functions of the PCC at the local and state levels. satisfactorv to the Bank.
3.60.      Inter-Institutional Linkages (Annex 2, para. 16). To maximize the educational impact of
the program and to benefit from resources and services offered by other social agencies, the project
would seek cooperation with agencies operating other social sector programs targeting the same
beneficiaries, including public, private, and non-governmental organizations, to reinforce the benefits
of IE. Special attention would be devoted to the areas of health, nutrition, population, and parental
education, especially when targeted to the same community. Orientation on how to iderafy potential
cooperative institutions and effectively establish and maintain linkages therewith would De included in
the Operations Manual (para. 3.31).
3.61.      The Health Secretariat and SEP have agreed to sign an agreement to cooperate in the
fields of health and nutrition in communities where both agencies would have potentially
complementary programs. The agreement is expected to be signed before the start of the project, and
would be an important contributing factor in facilitating cooperation among related activities at the
local level. During neRotiations. aReement was reached with the Government that a copy of the
sgned agreement between SEP and the Health Secretariat for cooperation in IE wil be submitted to
the Bank within three months gfter effectiveness. Already, many health promoters (who are also part-
time community volunteers) have been recruited as community educators (para. 3.18), and this
successful practice would be encouraged under the project. A common strategy has been discussed
between SEP and the Mother-Childhood Department at the Health Secretariat to foster cooperation at
the local level. The agreement would establish conditions for sharing personnel and activities to
deliver education, health, and nutrition services. State health and nutrition programs have stated their
willingness to engage in similar cooperative efforts. A pilot program to implement these strategies is
already underway in the state of Hidalgo as a consequence of a mission visit late in 1991.
IV. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A. PROJECT COSTS
4.1.       Overview. The total project cost including physical and price contingencies, without
taxes, is estimated at about US$115 million equivalent. Approximately US$7.8 million (6.8%) of
total project costs are foreign exchange. Investment costs, which include equipment, didactic
materials, audiovisual programs, studies and training costs, are equal to 36.4% of total project costs
including contingencies (Table 4.1 and Annex 20). Local taxes would be paid by the Government
and are not figured in cost summaries.



28
4.2.       Price and Physical Contingencies. Project costs were estimated using May 1992 price
levels (US$1.00 = Mex$3,050) and include physical contingencies of 5% for equipment, furniture,
vehicles and educational materials. Price contingencies are estimated at an average of 3.7% per year
for 1992-97. These rates are applied to local and foreign costs as well, assuming that periodic
exchange rate adjustments compensate for the difference between projected industrialized country
inflation and local inflation rates. Estimated costs of equipment, furniture and vehicles are based on
Mexico City estimates adjusted to include local transportation costs to the states. Estimates for
technical assistance and studies are based on current rates for local and foreign experts. Cost
estimates for salaries and training are based on budgeted 1992 SEP costs. Maintenance and operating
costs are estimated at 10% of investment costs for furniture and equipment and at 20% of investment
costs for vehicles.
4.3.       Community Educator Compensation and Field Staff Travel Allowance. The Government
has authorized the increase in community educator compensation from the current level of
US$26/month to US$40/month equivalent. To meet community educators' repeatedly expressed
needs (para. 2.21(vi)), it was agreed during appraisal that: (i) a monthly payment schedule of their
compensation would be established and respected; and (ii) US$50/month equivalent as a compensation
would be reached within one year after loan effectiveness. Similarly, the Government agreed during
appraisal to increase the monthly supervision travel allowances for module supervisors and zone
coordinators to US$60 and US$50 equivalent from their current US$13 and US$17 levels,
respectively. These increases were proposed to permit the field staff to increase supervision and
coordination efforts to ensure project quality. During negodations. agreement was reached with the
Government that the Government will: hi) present a strategy proposal for ensuring the timel payment
of community educators by March 31. 1993: (ii) increase community educators' compensation to at
least US$50 eauivalent in real terms by June 30. 1993: riii) submit evidence by June 30. 1993.
satisfacti to the Bank. that the monthly sup2ervision travel allowance for module sup-ervisorsaa
zone coordinators are at least US$60 and US$50 equivalent in real termns. r_esDctiv_elv: riv) maintain
the compensation for communit educators and allowance for module supemsors and zone
coors nators as a minimum at their resecive levels-in real terms for the duration of the DrLect: and
(v) resent evidence of timely pa_ment of this comvensation at each annual review (para. 7.1 0)).
4.4.       Unit Costs. Under the project, the average annual unit cost (cost per project child per
year) would be US$97. It would drop to US$78 by year 5 (1997), including recurrent costs plus
expenditures for didactic materials, training costs, and overhead. While this unit cost represents
about a 140% increase over the 1991 level (US$31/child), it is reasonable compared to other unit cost
estimates for other levels of education in Mexico and similar programs in Latin America (Apnex 10),
especially given the higher labor costs in Mexico. Increased unit costs result from intensified
supervision of the program (currently practically nonexistent), increased availability and better design
of printed materials, introduction of audiovisual and radio educational materials, and new systems of
information, monitoring and evaluation of the IE program, as well as a more intensive and systematic
training program for all levels of project personnel. The non-formal IE program would also utilize a
larger share of the central and state EEU budgets.
B. RECURRENT COSTS
4.5.       Proiect Incremental Recurrent Costs. Project incremental recurrent costs are generated
by expenditures for materials, salaries, supervision activities and community educators' compensation.
During the implementation period, the project would add an average of US$9.2 million per year to
SEP's recurrent expenditure budget for IE. Incremental recurrent costs generated by the project in
year 5, would amount to US$14.8 million and represent 0.2% of the 1991 SEP budget (Annex 20,
page 4). The impact on the total SEP budget would thus remain very small and manageable.



29
4.6.        All project recurrent costs would be paid out of SEP's federal budget, and allocated to
the states. The recent National Agreement (Annex 1) has transferred operation of the basic education
system to the states, but stipulates that the federal government will continue to finance special
programs to compensate for deficiencies in educational investment in the poorer states. SEP
authorities have indicated that the IE project falls in this category and that all resources required for
project implementation at the state level would be transferred by SEP to the state governments. The
transfer of funds, and the states' obligation to implement the project, would be incorporated in a
project implementation agreement governing use of loan funds, to be signed prior to effectiveness
between the federal government and three of the ten project states and with each of the remaining
states prior to disbursement (para. 3.44). Municipalities have no financial responsibilities with the IE
project.
Table 4.1
PROJECT COST SUMMARY BY COMPONENT
,WAL ,,,GN    TtAL  E                      N         cEauS
A. H_ma Rinsmc Devso_                                                                           l
Equipment and Vehicles                  0.1          O S          0.6         78.0         0.6
Staff taining                          23S           0.0         23.5          0.0        22.9
Salaries and Operating Costs           57.8         0.0          57.8          0.0        56.2
Sub-Total                              81.5          05          82.0          0.6        79.7
3D. Ehcati mMmiab
Books and Audio-visual Materials        6A           5.7         12.1         47.2        11.7
Development costs                       0.7          0.1         0.8          13/h         0.7
Sub-Total                               7.0          5.8         12.8         45.1        125
C. ImIjImfimunI tI
Equipment and Vehicles                  0.6          0S           1.1         44.8         1.1
Organizaton and Management              5.9          0.0         5.9           0.0         5.7
Evaluation Systm                        0.8          0.2          1.0         19.5         1.0
Sub-Total                               7.3          0.7          8.0          8.7         7.8
TOTAL BASUNE COSIS                      95.8          7.0         102.8          6.8       100.0
Physical Contingencies                  0.6          0.2          0.8         26.4         0.7
Price Contingencies                    10.8          0.6         11.4          5.2        11.1
lTOAL FPROJ31COM 1CEI7.21                               7.1         WS.           6.8        111.9
4.7.        Additional Recurrent Costs in Non-Project States. The Govermment has indicated its
intention to implement nationwide the increase in community educator compensation and monthly
travel allowances for module supervisors and zone coordinators initiated under the project. When
community educators in the 21 non-project states receive at least US$50 equivalent in real terms, the
SEP's annual recurrent costs would rise by US$1.44 million, which is 24% of the 1991 non-formal
IE program budget. Similarly, with higher travel allowances for all module supervisors and zone
coordinators, annual recurrent costs would rise by US$0.2 million, which is 3% of the 1991 SEP
non-formal IE budget. Altogether, they are the equivalent of .02% of SEP's 1991 budget.
4.8.        The substantial increase in spending for the IE program would be necessary to sustain
the proposed quality improvements (paras. 3.6, 3.8, 3.28, 3.39) and expanded coverage (paras. 3.3-
3.5 and Annex 11) in the sector. While it is a rapid increase, it is not unreasonable for a sector to
which the Government has recently been given high priority (paras. 2.22-2.23). Already between



30
1990 and 1991, the non-formal subsector budget increased by 87%. The increased expenditures
associated with the project would not strain the Government budget, given their relatively small share
of total SEP spending (para. 2.21(i) and Annexes 7 and 8). The total amount of recurrent costs
generated directly (US$14.8 million) and indirectly (US$1.44 million) by the project in year 5 would
be a 164% increase over the 1991 non-formal IE budget (Annexes 8 and 20). This would increase
the overall share of non-formal IE expenditures in the total SEP budget from 0.08% (1991) to 0.28%
(assuming all other SEP expenditures remain constant).
4.9.       Assuming that SEP budget expenditures with formal IE remain at the 1991 level, and
that the project proposed increases in travel allowances and community educator compensation are
implemented nationwide in non-formal IE, the increased expenditures associated with the project
would also result in a more balanced allocation of SEP resources between formal and non-formal IE.
The share of non-formal expenditures in the SEP IE budget would rise from the present 20% to
48.6% in year 5 of the project.
C. FINANCING PLAN
4.10.      The proposed project would be financed by a Bank loan of US$80 million equivalent,
representing 69.6% of total project cost. The loan would be made to NAFIN, which would make the
funds available to SEP and SPES for the execution of the project. The loan would cover 100% of
foreign exchange expenditures and 67.4% of estimated local costs. The Government would finance
US$34.0 million, and UNDP/UNICEF/UNESCO would contribute US$1.0 million on a non-
reimbursable basis. Approximately US$260,000 of the UNICEF/UNDP/UNESCO contribution
would be used to supplement salaries of existing project staff in the ten project states to the levels
proposed in the project; and US$740,000 would cover part of the cost of consultants for the design
and development of educational materials. The proposed Bank loan would finance incremental
recurrent costs (US$30.8 million) on a declining basis (para. 4.5, Annex 20). Durinp negotiations.
the Government submitted a preliminaav agreement with UNDP. UNICEF and UNESCO for their
contribution of US$1.0 million for the projects.
4.11.      The high share of Bank (69.6%) and local cost financing (67.4%) is justified by the fact
that the project would target the ten poorest states, and that within these states it would focus on the
poorest segments of the population. Moreover, it is justified by the need to ensure a significant
impact on the IE sector and to facilitate and support increased Government commitmnent to the sector.
The high percentage of local cost financing reflects the project's small foreign exchange component.
Table 4.2: PROJECT FINANCING
(US$ MILLION)
LOCAL    FOREIGN    TOTAL
United Mexican States                34.0                         34.0         29.6
IBRD                                 72.2            7.8          80.0         69.6
UNDP/UNICEF/UNESCO                     1.0             -           1.0          0.9
TOTAL FINANCING                      107.2           7.8         115.0         100.0



31                   X
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
4.12.      The sustainability of the project would be enhanced by several institutional measures.
Under the National Agreement for Basic Education Modernization (para. 2.4 and Annex 1), the
experienced central IEU would retain its normative and quality control responsibilities over the
administrative and operational duties carried out by the state IEUs. This would strengthen the way
the non-formal IE program operates, since most operational activities have been handled at the state
and local level for the past ten years. The project's heavy pre- and in-service training and
institutional building, especially in IEUs at both central and state levels, aim at continuity and
stability. The updating and/or creation of key guidebooks and handbooks, along with their cultural
adjustments and message improvement, would mark a long-lasting project contribution. Creation of
an EMIS under the project would increase the capacity of public education institutions to gather and
analyze data and to (re)formulate effective educational strategies. Additionally, project sustainability
would be enhanced through active community participation in the IE program through the
restructuring and reinforcement of the local and state-level PCCs (paras. 3.58-3.59), technical and
financial incentives in the working conditions of community educators and the annual and mid-term
reviews (paras. 5.20-5.23) and planning process under the project.
E. PROCUREMENT
4.13.      Procurement for goods, office rehabilitation, and services would be done in accordance
with Bank guidelines. Standard bidding documents agreed upon between the Bank and the
Government would be used during project implementation. Procurement of goods and services would
be done centrally by the PCU with assistance from SEP's central Procurement Unit, which has the
required expertise and experience with other Bank-financed projects.
4.14.      Equipment. Equipment to be procured under the project amounts to approximately
US$1.2 million. Audiovisual equipment, furniture and computers (including software and
maintenance), for a total amount of US$700,000, would be procured through ICB. Equipment and
office furniture valued at more than US$50,000 but less than US$250,000 would be procured through
LCB procedures acceptable to the Bank, up to an aggregate amount of US$500,000.
4.15.      Educational Materials and Supplies. Manuals and Publications. These materials
(guidebooks, handbooks, manuals, audiovisual materials, library books, and other instructional
supplies) and publications are expected to cost US$13.6 million. To the extent possible, contracts for
educational materials would be combined in packages of US$250,000 or more, and contracts would
be awarded on the basis of ICB. LCB would apply for contracts between US$50,000 and 250,000,
up to an aggregate amount of US$5.4 million. Local shopping procedures or direct contracting for
contracts of less than US$50,000, up to an aggregate amount of US$2.5 million, would be permitted
in cases where small quantities are required due to the local or regional production of materials.
4.16.      Technical Assistance and Studies. This category includes the hiring of consultants,
revision and design f all educational materials and of all studies under the project. The selection and
appointment of all consultants for studies, surveys, and technical assistance would be consistent with
the August 1981 Bank Guidelines for the Use of Consulta'nfts by World Bank Borrowers and by the
World Bank as Executine Aeency.
4.17.      Prior Review. All procedures, documents, bid evaluation and contract awards for
International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procurement of equipment, goods, and services would be
subject to prior review by the Bank. Because Local Competitive Bidding (LCB) bid packages would
be too small and numerous for effective ex-ante review by the Bank, only the first LCB procurement



32
for equipment, and the first LCB procurement for printing of educational materials each calendar year
would be reviewed ex-ante, regardless of their value. An ex-post review of contracts disbursed
against statements of expenditure (SOEs) wouild be conducted during field supervision on the basis of
random sampling of a minimum 20% of the number of approved contracts. The proposed prior
review levels cover about 60% of goods, contracts financed by the Bank, subject to procurement
arrangements in accordance with the Table 4.2. During negotiations. aBreement was reached with the
Government that all procurement of goods and services for the vroject will follow ICB. LCB or other
procedures, as agplicable. and that bid packapes will be submitted to the Bank for prior review (para.
7. 1(k)).
Table 4.2
PROCUREMENT METHODS BY CATEGORY
(in US$ million)
CATkGORY                1 PioCU rENT ?fIf    NIW  j TOTAL]
I CD         LCB      OT           lR
GOODS
Equipment and furniture               0.7        0.5         -.-         -.-         1.2
l                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~(0.6)  (0.5)  (-.)(--I1. 1)l
Vehicles                               .          .          -           0.7        0.7
Educational materials and library     5.7        5.4         2.5 a/      -.-       13.6
books                                 (5.7)      (5.4)      (2.5)       (--)       (13.6)
CONSULTANTS
Studies and technical assistance       -.-        -.-        1.4 bL      0.7        2.1
(1.4)       (-.-)      (1.4)
MISCELLANEOUS
Staff training and annual              -.-        -.-      29.2 c        -. -      29.2
conferences                           (-.-)      (-.-)    (29.2)        (-.-)     (29.2)
Salaries and other operating costs    -.-         -.-      67.9 c/       0.3       68.2
(-.-)     (-.-)     (34.7)        (-.)      (34.7)
TOTALS       6.4        5.9       101.0         1.7       115.0
(6.3)      (5.9)     (67.8)       (0.0)     (80.0)
Notes:      Figures in parentheses arm the amounts estimaed to be financed by the Bank
NBP - Not Bank Financed
a/          Local shopping obtiing quotes from at least three suppliers
Consultants and other service conucts procured according to Bank Guidelines for consulting services
c/          Does not involve procurment (paa 4.19)
4.18.       Recording of Procurement Information. The Borrower and the Bank would record
procurement information in a format to be agreed upon during negotiations, consistent with that of
existing projects in the sector. The timing of goods and services contracts for the first year of project
implementation was agreed to during appraisal. The timing of procurement for subsequent years
would be agreed during the annual project implementation reviews (para. 5.22).



33
4.19.      Incremental Salaries and other Recurrent Operating Costs. The project includes
US$60.1 million of incremental salaries and other recurrent operating costs, which v!ould not be
subject to Bank procurement regulations.
F. DISBURSEMENTS
4.20.      Disbursement Schedule. The proceeds of the proposed loan are expected to be disbursed
in accordance with the schedule shown in Annex 21, over a period of 5.5 years (the standard
disbursement profile for Mexico). The loan would be disbursed as follows: (i) equipment and
furniture, 100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of local expenditures (ex-factory cost) and 90% of
local expenditures for other items procured locally; (ii) educational materials and library books, 90%;
(iv) staff training and annual conferences, 100% of total costs; (v) studies and technical assistance,
100% of total costs; and (vi) salaries and other operational costs, a rate of 100% until an aggregate
amount of US$8.6 million has been reached; thereafter at a rate of 90% until an aggregate amount of
US$17.4 million has been reached; thereafter at a rate of 75% until an aggregate amount of US$27.0
million has been reached; and at a rate of 25% for the remainder.
4.21.      Disbursement ' 1ocess. Proceeds of the proposed loan would be disbursed over a period
of five years (closing date June 30, 1998) against fully documented withdrawal applications for all
contracts for goods and equipment valued at more than US$250,000 equivalent, and all contracts for
consultant services valued at more than US$100,000 equivalent. Claims for expenditures of lesser
amounts would be disbursed against submission of SOEs, for which the supporting documentation
would be retained by SEP for periodic inspection by the Bank and by external auditors. All
expenditure documentation and SOEs would be transmitted to the Bank through NAFIN. To reduce
the interval between payments made by the beneficiaries and receipt of reimbursements from the
Bank, during negotiations. agreement was reached with the Government that it will set uyp a Special
Account in Banco de Mexico with an initial deposit of US$8.0 million (para. 7.1()). Withdrawals
from the Special Account would be supported by the required documentation. Re,roactive financing
of up to US$5.0 million equivalent would be allowed for project related expenses incurred starting
from May 1, 1992 to initiate revision and design of educational materials, staffing of the PCU and
state EEUs, and recruit and train initial groups of zone coordinators and module supervisors. DLIrLg
otiations. agreement was reached with the Government that retroactive financing of US$5.0
million eivalent would be allowed for the eligible expenditures incurred starting from May 1. 1992
(para. 7.1(m)).
G. ACCOUNTS AND AUDITS
4.22.      SEP and SPES would maintain records and separate accounts adequate to reflect, in
accordance with sound accounting practices, the operations, resources, and expenditures in connection
with project execution. This would include expenditures for which withdrawals were made from the
loan account on the basis of SOEs. Records maintained by the PCU would reflect the resources used
and expenditures incurred in connection with the execution of the entire project by individual states.
In addition, NAFIN would keep records in separate accounts with respect to the Special Account.
During negotiations. agreement was reached with the Government that NAFIN and the Guarantor
will: ri) have the records and accounts of the Droiect for each fiscal year audited by independent and
qualified auditors: rii) fuinish to the Bank as soon as available, but in agm case not later than six
months after the end of each vear. a certified copv of the audit reports: and (ii) furnish to the Bank
such other necessarv information concerning the records and accounts as well as the audit as the
Bank would from time to time reasonably request (para. 7.1(n)).



34
V. PROJECT IMLEMENTATION AND SUPERVISION
A. PROJECT READiNESS FOR IMPLEMENTATION
5.1.       Primary technical responsibility for project preparation was assigned by SEP to its
Undersecretary for Coordination. SEP's IEU provided technical support in the preparation of basic
documents and background information, and worked in close cooperation with Bank missions to
define the project and reach major agreements on project dimension, components, strategies and costs.
5.2.       UNICEF, UNDP, and UNESCO along with the central IEU and a team of consultants
designed a preliminary project proposal. All along the preparation process, and in coordination with
Bank missions, UNICEF, UNDP, and UNESCO provided consultant services to assist the SEP in
targeting potential demand, designing key project components, targeting potential demand, and
developing criteria for project location and size.
5.3.       Project preparation has proceeded to an advanced state of readiness for implementation.
General agreement has been reached on the project concept, objectives, and dimension, as well as on
the identification of the three main project components, all in accordance with the overall strategy
defined mainly in the Government EMP (paras. 1.5, 2.22-2.27, Annex 2). Demand was estimated
using data from the 1990 census. Special attention was devoted to population targeting so that the
project could reach the poorest states and populations (paras. 3.3-3.5 and Annex I 1). Technical
capacity to implement the training component is available at SEP. Detailed orientation was provided
by consultants for the revision of guidebooks and the design of other instructional materials (Annex
13).
5.4.       Detailed information has been assembled on target population and socio-economic
characteristics by communities for the ten project states, and a methodology has been agreed upon for
the selection of communities where the project would operate. The list of materials, equipment,
vehicles, packaging for procurement, and draft contracts were discussed during the appraisal mission.
The terms of reference for consultants both for technical assistance and for studies have been
discussed and defined (Annexes 12-19).
5.5.       Actions toward institutional strengthening for project implementation have already been
started by the central IEU through a Workshop on Educational Planning for Initial Education, held in
Cuernavaca June 8-13, 1992. Participants in the %orkshop were 30 members of the executive and
professional staff of the IEU with responsibilities in key areas of project preparation and
implementation. Workshop activities were conducted by an external trainer from a local university.
5.6.       A survey of graduate programs and diploma courses in education in Mexican institutions
of higher learning has been conducted by the IEU for the purpose of determining the capacities
available in the country for high level training in professional areas related to IE. This information
will be analyzed by the IEU and a selection will be made of one or more universities that would be
willing to enter into a cooperative agreement with SEP to offer graduate training to IE staff members
(para. 3.26).
B. PROJECT MANAGEMENT STRUCTURE
5.7.       Overall authority for project management would be vested in the SEP Undersecretary for
Elementary Education and carried out by the central IEU and state-level IEUs (paras. 3.40-3.45).
The Undersecretary and the central IEU Director would be assisted in the general coordination and



35
monitoring of the project by the PCU, whose structure and institutional location has been agreed upon
with SEP authorities (Annex 22, pages 2-3).
5.8.       Most project activities (such as human resources training, program location planning,
hiring and training of operational staff, production and distribution of educational and promotional
materials, and information and evaluation analysis) would be managed by SEP's central IEU (Annex
22, page 2), with PCU assistance, coordination and support. The direct involvement of the central
IEU would provide for: (i) better utilization of knowledgeable professionals with years of program
experience; (ii) the opportunity to further the central IEU's institutional capacity; (iii) adequate
framework for technology transfer to the system through external inputs and assistance; and (iv) easy
channel for spillover effect of the project into the existing nationwide program.
5.9.       An institutional base already exists in each of the ten states to operate the existing non-
formal IE program and to carry out project activities. State-level educational entities are already
responsible for implementation of the IE programs, and are equipped to provide substantial
institutional infrastructure and support services in the areas of finance and statistics. In each state, an
EE sub-department is in charge of all program activities. It consists mostly of one office manager and
from two to five zone coordinators, each responsible for about four to six modules. The project
would build upon the institutional experience of these organizations in every state to develop a more
effective management and planning capacity (paras. 3.44-3.45). As part of the policy aimed at
strengthening the institutional capacity at the state level, the share of responsibilities held by state
entities has been signifcantly increased by the recent National Agreement for Basic Education
Modernization (Annex 1).
5.10.      Recruitment of project operational staff, such as zone coordinators and module
supervisors, would be the responsibility of the state IEUs, supported by the regular administrative
structure of the SPES. Planning for project expansion, selection of project communities, and initial
promotion would also be conducted at the state level. Training activities for zone coordinators,
module supervisors, and community educators would be organized and conducted under the direct
supervision of the technical staff of the state IEUs. Technical supervision and global planning would
be done at the central level through the technical departments of the central IEU.
C. PROJECT COORDINATION UNIT
5.11.      The Project Coordination Unit (PCU) would report to the Undersecretary for Elementary
Education through the IEU Director (Annex 22, page 2). It would be responsible for: (i) overall
coordinating of project activities; (ii) consolidating the yearly work review and plan of project
execution; (iii) preparing the information for the annual and mid-term implementation reviews; (iv)
liaison with state-level project offices; and (v) continuous monitoring of project objectives, goals,
processes, and deadlines in coordination with the central and state IEUs (Annex 22, page 3).
5.12.      Planning for procurement of equipment, materials, and vehicles, including preparation of
itemized lists with specifications and tender documents, tender procedures, and supervision of quality
control and distribution would be handled primarily by the PCU through its administrative and
technical departments, with the support and supervision of SEP's regular administrative and cv;r'tol
units (para. 4.13). The PCU would include staff with adequate expertise and qualifications to
perform these technical duties at the level required by the project.
5.13.      The PCU would also be responsible for monitoring all project activities and coordinating
with all other departments of the central and state IEUs to meet project implementation schedules and
to ensure the timely flow of information and resources through all levels of project operation. The



36
PCU would contract and supervise the work of all consultants and suppliers of goods and services to
the project, and would have monitoring responsibility for supervising the impact evaluation and
special studies, with primary responsibility resting with the Directorate of Evaluation of SEP.
5.14.      The PCU would be established and staffed on a full-time b2sis with experienced
professionals. It would be headed by a Director, who would be assisted by three area Coordinators.
The structure of the PCU was discussed with SEP and agreed upon during appraisal. Duing
negotiations. agreement was reached with the Government that staffing of the PCU will be satisfactory
to the Bank (para. 7. 1(o)).
5.15.      At each SPES, a reinforced IEU would manage the project, report to the State
Coordinator of Initial Education, and serve as liaison with the central IEU and the PCU for all project
related activities (Annex 22, page 4).
5.16.      A Technical Advisory Council would be established early in the implementation process
to assist the central IEU and the PCU in securing necessary support and cooperation from all SEP
sectors and other institutions involved in project activities. Central IEU leaders and representatives of
state IEUs, other institutions, and cooperative agencies would be among the Committee members.
Durng negotiations. the Government submitted the structure of the Technical Advisorv Council.
indicating participating agences and sectors. terms of reference. the calendar of two meetings per
year, and the initia meeting would take alace bv June 30. 1993. During negotiations. agreement was
reached with the Government that a Technical Advisorv Council wiU be established and maintained
throuehout the duration of the Dropect. the terms of reference and composition of which shall be
aceotabLe to the    (para. 7.1(p)).
5.17.      No major change in implementation arrangements is expected to occur following the
redent decentralization measures. Actually, the project has anticipated the decentralization process in
two ways: first, all the program operational activities are already taking place in the states and
communities; second, the project implementation, monitoring, and supervision capacity at the state
level would be significantly strengthened (paras. 3.41-3.45, 5.9-5.10).
D. IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
5.18       The project would be implemented over a period of five years from January 1, 1993 to
December 31, 1997, approximately. The project implementation schedule and monitoring indicators
are shown in Annex 23. Expected completion dates for all the main project activities are included in
Annex 24. During negotiations. agreement was reached with the Government on a detailed project
implementation schedule for the human resources training. educational materials, and institutional
strenBthemin components (para. 7.1(q) and Annex 23). The cost estimates prepared for the various
components and the implementation schedule would serve as a basis for project implementation
planning and would be updated annually by SEP in preparation for the annual progress and work
plan reviews (para. 5.22). Durng negotiations. agreement was reached with the Government on
project progress review criteria for the annual project implementation and mid-term reviews, and the
folow-u action! to be taken. satisfaWorv to the Bank (para. 7.1(r)).
5.19.      Monitoring and Evaluation. The PCU, assisted by the operational departments, would
be responsible for overall project monitoring and evaluation on the basis of key monitoring indicators
(Annex 23). During negotiaMions. agreement was reached with the Government on final moWitoring
and evaluation indicators and the Project Monitoring Matrix (para. 7.1(s)). The PCU would
consolidate and forward to the Bank, no later than September 30 of each year: (i) annual project



37
implementation reports assessing progress toward meeting the targets in the implementation schedule;
and (ii) a work plan for the implementation of project components during the following fiscal year.
E. PROJECT LAUNCH SEMINAR
5.20.      To familiarize SEP project-related personnel, PCU and central and state IEU staff
involved in project implementation with Bank procedures and bidding documents, and to ensure a
more effective project start-up and overall timely execution, a project launch seminar would be
conducted within three months of loan effectiveness.
F. PROJECT SUPERVISION
5.21.      The present structure of the non-formal IE program, at both central and state levels, is
inadequate in terms of staff, organization, and operational practices to administer the execution of the
project. Operations would grow in size, and substantial changes are planned to be introduced in
modes of training for program staff, in the contents and diversity of educational materials, in the
quality and effectiveness of professional leadership, in the extent of community involvement, and in
the monitoring and evaluation of program processes and results. The Bank has made provision for a
team of at least five professionals (educational specialist, economist, experts cn evaluation and
educational materials) and a yearly average of 34 staff weeks to carry out periodic supervision
meetings during the project implementation period. The annual audit, supervision and mid-term
review meetings would include more detailed visits and spot checks.
5.22.      The PCU would conduct, jointly with the Bank, annual project implementation reviews
no later than October 31 of each year to: (i) analyze the previous year's performance and budget
allocation; (ii) analyze the proposed work plan and budget for the following year; (iii) review
progress in the decentralization process; and (iv) discuss and agree on adjustments in project
implementation resulting from findings and recommendations of the impact evaluation and special
studies. The review would assess the previous year's progress towards achieving expenditure,
resource management and project performance targets, and establish targets and schedules for the
following year. Particular attention would be paid to ensuring that communities have been selected
according to agreed poverty criteria, that coverage goals by state have been reached, that training
activities are proceeding according to plan, and that educational materials have been produced and
utilized as expected. A more comprehensive mid-term review would focus on progress in institutional
development, training of community educators, module supervisors, and zone coordinators, number
and targeting of communities reached by the project, and actions suggested by the evaluation studies
regarding project design, educational materials, and institutional strengthening. During negotiations.
agreement was reached with the Government to conduct. jointl with the Bank. annual proLect
progress reviews using criteria agreed to during negotiations (para. 7.1(t)).
5.23.      During negotiations. agreement was reached with the Government that: Q) the
Government will submit. satisfactory to the Bank. terms of reference for the mid-term review referred
to below bv April 30. 1995: Ai) an in-depth mid-term review will be conducted by SEP. iointL  with
the Bank. using progress indicators agreed to during neotdations. and the results of special studies
and impact and process evaluations. by October 31. 1995. Cii) the results of the mid-term review wil
be submitted to the Bank for its review and comments: and riv) action plans satisfactora to the Bank
wiU be prepared bv November 30. 1995 ta& n# into account the results of the mid-term review, and
caLrred out subsequent (para. 7. 1 (u)).



38
VI. PlROECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. EXPECTED BENEFITS
6.1.       The non-formal IE project would create significant economic and equity gains for
Mexico, reflecting the more efficient use of SEP resources and higher rates of human capital
formation among low income families. The project would promote a more equitable distribution of
income and alleviate poverty, as it would expand the economic opportunities of poor children, given
its targeted focus on Mexico's ten poorest states, and within those states on poor families residing in
rural and urban marginal areas. Moreover, the project would be particularly effective in assisting
traditionally disadvantaged groups such as indigenous children and girls, as IE programs have been
shown to have a stronger impact on these groups. Project benefits would also extend beyond the
participating children to family and community members, as the informal nature of the project relies
upon parental and community training and participation. The institutional strengthening component
would contribute to a more rational utilization of the sector's resources, which would benefit all 31
states. It would enhance the productivity of human resources in the sector and develop the
Government's capacity to evaluate, monitor and plan IE policies and programs.
6.2.       Impact on Children. The principal quantifiable benefit is an increase in the primary
school completion rate among participants, which will lead to higher lifetime earnings. The project
would stimulate the cognitive, psycho-motor and social skills of 1.2 million children aged 0-3 from
low-income families. This would improve the school readiness skills and acade-mic school
performance, as evidenced by lower repetition and dropout rates and subsequent higher primary
school completion rates. The Bernard Van Leer Foundation evaluation study found that IE
participants scored 8% and 13% higher on school readiness and academic skills, respectively. These
changes are consistent with study results from other formal and non-formal early childhood programs
(Annex 9, Table 1). The quality of the IE program and its ability to reduce primary dropout and
repetition rates is crucial to the return on investment. Labor market data from Mexico indicates that
workers with a primary school diploma earn about 20% more or an additional $554 (1992 US dollars)
per year compared to workers with 5 years or less of primary school. Another quantifiable benefit is
cost savings in public expenditures for primary education of those students who repeat or dropout
before attaining functional literacy. The Bernard Van Leer Foundation evaluation of the existing
Mexican program indicated that program children experienced first grade repetition and dropout rates
that were 66% and 86%, respectively, lower than non programn students (Annex 9). Assuming the
lower repetition and dropout rates continue throughout primary school, the total number of years
repeated or lost by project students dropping out during the six-year primary education period would
decrease by 534,399 years, which would permit the more efficient utilization of about US$68 million
in 1992 value (assuming annual unit costs of primary school of US$127).2'
6.3.       The principal costs are project related expenditures and higher primary school
expenditures reflecting increased enrollments. While the lower repetition rates cause enrollments to
drop, the decrease in dropout rates is expected to lead to a net increase in primary school
enrollments. The opportunity cost of the mother's and children's time are not included as costs.
6.4.       Returns to investment in IE are likely to be higher among girls and disadvantaged
groups. The Bernard Van Leer Foundation and other studies indicate that EE has a stronger impact on
the school readiness and academic skills of these groups (Annex 9, Table 1). Furthermore, labor
7/ This assumes that the dropout and repetition rates of project children in grades 2-6 are 2.0% and 3.9%,
respectively.



39
market data indicates that the incremental increase in earnings due to the completion of primary
school are higher for women than for men. Average hourly earnings for workers with a completed
primary school education compared to an incomplete primary school training were 30% higher for
female workers and only 14% higher for male workers.
6.5.       The above calculations do not include several non-quantifiable benefits, so actual returns
will be higher. First, the above calculations do not incorporate the long-term benefits of IE on
children. A long-term study in the U.S. (Annex 8) suggests that children with early childhood
education are more likely to complete secondary school and are less likely to receive welfare
payments, encounter problems with the law or have teen pregnancies. Second, the above calculations
do not take into account the project's impact on siblings, mothers, the community educators and the
community (several of these effects are listed in Table 2). Third, the increased efficiency of the
existing IE program in Mexico, as a consequence of the project, is not measured in the above
calculations. On the basis of only readily quantifiable benefits and costs, an attempt was made to
make a partial rate-of-return analysis, which has been in the project file (Annex 25).
6.6.       Impact on Women. The project would provide training directly or indirectly to
approximately 570,000 girls, 880,000 mothers, and 12,000 community promoters who are mainly
women from poor rural and urban marginal areas. This would increase access to higher levels of
education for girls. Furthermore, the training would enharnce the employment opportunities of all
women involved, and especially the promoters. The special training in nutrition, basic health and
hygiene and family planning would have a positive impact on family health and nutrition and would
contribute to lower fertility rates. In addition, the project would provide the community promoters
with an income transfer of at least US$50/month equivalent in real terms.
6.7.       Impact on Community Development. The weekly parent's meetings and the pro- -
childhood committees would promote community development as they encourage parents and
community officials to organize themselves and to mobilize their resources in support of the non-
formal IE program. The skills acquired from the project would assist the community and involved
parents (mainly women) to mobilize themselves more effectively in the future around community
programs and issues.
Table 6.2
INDIRECT BENEFICLARIES AND BENEFITS OF THE IE PROJECT
I W4Eflc iARiES TOTA   I              SUMMARY OF EVPC TO) IRE NF--
_ _ _ _  _   NUMBER      _   _     _      __              ____
Siblings          2 million  * Improved school readiness and performance
* Greater likelihood of completing primary
school
* Reduced likelihood of teen pregnancies
Parents - Mothers  880,000    * Improvement in family health and nutrition
status
* Lower fertility rate
Communities          N/A    * Improved community development skills
Government           N/A    * More rational utilization of SEP resources
* Greater capacity to evaluate and plan initial
education programs



40
B. RISKS
6.8.       The main risks associated with the project are: (i) SEP's and SPES's institutional
weaknesses and lack of planning and managerial capacity to operate an expanded and upgraded
program; (ii) the project's inherent reliance on an extensive network of community-recruited
volunteers, who are not professional educators; (iii) financial limitations of the Government, which
may make it difficult to provide sufficient funds for program operation; and (iv) difficulties in
reaching and motivating parents in remote rural communities, since participation is voluntary. The
project will attempt to reduce or eliminate these risks by: (i) strengthening the policy-oriented
capacity of SEP's and SPES's EEUs, particularly in their planning, monitoring, and evaluation
functions; (ii) implementing a system of continuing training for community educators and other field
staff, supported by quality educational materials and technical supervision; (iii) providing loan
resources to cover incremental operating costs on a declining basis throughout the implementation
period. The budget patterns in recent years and the Government's policy position on IE in recent
years (Annex 2) are reasonable assurances that its financial commitment will be honored; and (iv)
mobilizing local community support through strengthened PCCs with adequate guidance and multi-
media educational support.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.1.       During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government:
(a)  (i) On the overall training plan for project personnel; and (ii) that evidence will be
provided on the communities identified and the personnel recruited (para. 3.8);
(b)   Evidence will be provided that: (i) parent training courses are being conducted;
(ii) PCCs have been organized and community educators have been trained; (iii)
continuing in-service training activities are proceeding regularly; and (iv) initial
training courses have been completed (paras. 3.9, 3.14, 3.16, 3.19);
(c)   On terms of reference for: (i) initial revision and production of all educational
materials; and (ii) design and operation of radio programs (para. 3.28);
(d)   On all printed materials that completion dates will be as follows: (i) by February
28, 1993, revision; (ii) by August 31, 1993, first printing and distribution; (iii) by
February 28, 1995, revision; and (iv) by August 31, 1995, printing and
distribution (para. 3.28);
(e)   That: (i) by February 28, 1993, the Government will submit terms of reference
for the preparation of non-print educational materials; and (ii) by March 31,
1993, the Government will submit a draft contract for production of educational
games, an educational video cassette, and audio cassettes (para. 3.36);
(t) That the Government will submit: (i) by February 28 of each year, the draft
contract for the production of radio spots; (ii) by March 31 of each year, evidence
that arrangements have been made with radio stations; and (iii) by March 31,
1993, the draft contract for production of educational radio programs (para.
3.38);



41
(g)  That thf. Educational Management Information System will be in operation by
DeceL  -r 31, 1993 (para. 3.47);
(h)  That contracts will be signed for the: (i) impact evaluation and psychosocial
development scale study by February 28, 1993; (ii) process efficiency evaluation
and parents' behavior study by December 31, 1993; (iii) educational materials
evaluation by December 31, 1994; and (iv) cost-effectiveness study by December
31, 1995 (para. 3.54);
(i)   That each year a quality control review will be conducted by an independent
research center or consulting firm (para. 3.57);
(j)   That the Government will: (i) present a strategy for the timely payment of
community educators by March 31, 1993; (ii) increase community educators'
compensation by June 30, 1993; (iii) submit evidence by June 30, 1993 that the
monthly supervision travel allowances are at least US$60 and US$50; (iv)
maintain the compensation for community educators and supervision allowance for
the duration of the project; and (v) present evidence of timely payment of this
compensation (para. 4.3);
(k)  That procurement of goods and services will follow ICB, LCB or other
procedures, as applicable, and that bid packages will be submitted for Bank
review (para. 4.17);
(1) That it will set up a Special Account in Banco de Mexico (para. 4.21);
(m)  That retroactive financing of US$5.0 million equivalent would be allowed for the
eligible expenditures incurred starting from May 1, 1992 (para. 4.21);
(n)  That NAFIN and the Guarantor will: (i) have the records and accounts of the
project for each fiscal year audited; (ii) furnish a certified copy of the audit
reports; and (iii) furnish to the Bank other necessary information (para. 4.22);
(o)  That staffing of the PCU will be satisfactory to the Bank (para. 5.14);
(p)   A Technical Advisory Council will be established and maintained (para. 5.16);
(q)  On a detailed project implementation schedule for the human resources training,
educational materials, and institutional strengthening components (para. 5.18);
(r)   On project progress review criteria for the annua! project implementation and
mid-term reviews, satisfactory to the Bank (para. 5.18);
(s)   On implementation targets and the Project Monitoring Matrix (para. 5.19);
(t)   To conduct annual project progress reviews (para. 5.22); and
(u)   That: (i) the Government will submit terms of reference for the mid-term review
by April 30, 1995; (ii) an in-depth mid-term review will be conducted by October
31, 1995; (iii) the results of the mid-term review will be submitted to the Bank;
and (iv) action plans will be prepared by November 30, 1995 (para. 5.23).



42
7.2.       During negotiations, the Government provided assurances that, if execution of the
project is not satisfactory, the Government shall promptly take remedial action (para. 3.54).
7.3.       As conditions of loan effectiveness, the Government will submit, satisfactory to the
Bank:
(a)   Evidence that agreements have been signed with three states (para. 3.44);
(b)   Evidence that the Deputy Director posi.ons in the central IE unit and two of the
technical positions in the state IE units have been filled (para. 3.45); and
(c)   An executed funds transfer agreement between the Borrower and Guarantor.
7.4.       As a condition for disbursement for each of the project states the Government will
submit: (i) evidence that an agreement has been signed with the state; and (ii) legal opinions that the
agreements are legally binding (para. 3.44).
7.5.       Recommendation. Subject to the above conditions, the proposed project would
constitute a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$80 million equivalent to the United Mexican States,
to be repaid over a period of 15 years, including a three-y-ar grace period.



NATIONAL AGREEMENT FOR
BASIC EDUCATION MODERNIZATION
Page 1 of 2
A.   Summa
1.   The National Agreement for Basic Education Modernization (NA) was signed by the Federal
Government, all the states and the National Union of the Education Workers (SNTE) on May 18,
1992.
2.   The NA draws three strategic lines: (i) the reorganization of the education system; (ii) the
redefinition of educational contents and materials; and (iii) the reevaluation of teachers' functions.
3.   Through the NA, the state governments will assume the management and operation of the
initial, preschool, primary, special, secondary (3-year lower secondary education) and teacher training
institutions ("Normal Schools"). The NA does not include the Federal District, where SEP will
continue to maintain its responsibility over all these education levels and modalities.
4.   The Federal Government has transferred all goods and facilities, along with all sufficient
budget resources and technical and administrative elements, rights, and obligations, previously
belonging to SEP, to manage and develop education in the states.
5.   Additional federal resources will be transferred in relatively larger amounts to the neediest
states as a way to compensate for regional disparities. An initial six-month period has been scheduled
to implement the transfer of administrative responsibilities to the states.
6.   The Federal Government will keep a normative and compensatory role in maintaining the
national character of education, designing study plans and programs, producing and updating national
textbooks, promoting equitable development of education among the states (especially in the poorest
states), establishing evaluation instruments, and supporting educational research. SEP will maintain
the authority to develop and manage special programs for the benefit of the poorest states, including
those contributing to improve primary school completion rates and to reduce illiteracy.
7.   Each state government replaces SEP in the legal relationship with teachers and administrators,
but at the same time recognizes the SNTE as the organization responsible for the collective labor
relations with education workers, so that SNTE keeps its nationwide role and integrity.
8.   The new curriculum will stress a back-to-basics approach, emphasizing reading, writing, and
practical math. History and geography as subject matters will replace the integrated "social sciences".
9.   The NA will guarantee continuity of major teachers' benefits: professional training, skills
upgrading, adequate salary compensation, housing incentives, career development, and public
recognition and awards.
B.   Comments
10. The NA is defined by its signatories as an effort to assure a joint commitment of the federal
and state governments to maintain the highest priority in allocation of public resources to education,
and to promote greater participation by the municipal governments and the community in the



NATIONAL AGREEMENT FOR
BASIC EDUCATION MODERNIZA'ION
Page 2 of 2
operation of the educational system. The non-formal IE project belongs in the category of special
programs to improve primary education completion rates in educationally less developed regions and
states, which the federal government will continue to fund as part of its compensatory function
(formal IE is, for the most part, not operated by SEP and is not included in the transfer). However,
the states will have a greater role in administering the program and will be encouraged by the
Agreement to gradually increase their financial participation. Mexican contributions during project
implementation are expected to come entirely from the federal government.
11.  The new emphasis on community and local involvement in education will contribute to
strengthen the home and community-based quality of the non-formal IE project. New State Education
Secretariats (SPES) or equivalent state institutions will have a more direct responsibility for all
educational activities, including IE, and are therefore more likely to support project goals and quality
improvements.



GOVERNMENT POLICY ON
INMTIAL EDUCATION
Page 1 of 4
1.   The Mexican Government's policy on initial education (IE) stems from the Constitution and is
stated and spelled out in several official documents.1' An integrated summary of these statements
shows how concerned with and consistent on early childhood development the Government has been,
especially over the recent decades. In four parts - conceptual and political framework, action plan,
targets, and action taken - such policy statements can be summarized, as follows:
A.   Conceotual and Political Framework
2.   The Constitution (Art. 4th) establishes priority to meet children's "physical and mental needs"
and provide them support through parents and public institutions. A proposed law is now under
Congressional consideration to specify and regulate the constitutional mandate on children
development and protection.
3.   Obiectives. The Education Modernization Program (EMP) chapter "on basic education deals
with initial education, preschool, primary, secondary and special education" (EMP, Chapter 2).
4.   The main objective of IE is "to provide children under four, especially in the rural, indigenous
and marginal urban areas, with equal opportunities of educational services through a model that can
upgrade their potentialities for development and stimulate attitudes of solidarity, identity values and
social belonging" (EMP, 2.5.1).
5.   "Initial education cares about children from 45 days to three years of age," (...) aiming "to
foster the development of young children's physical, cognitive, affective and social capacities,
stimulating their active participation in the educational process" (EMP, Chapter 2).
6.   Modalities. "As a fringe benefit for working mothers, initial education is delivered in the
Child Development Centers (CENDIs), at federal, state-level and private institutions. It is also
offered as a social support through a non-formal modality which trains parents on how to care for
their children in urban, rural and indigenous communities" (EMP, Chapter 2). "There are in Mexico
approximately 8 million children under four. CENDI were created by a constitutional mandate" and
"the non-school modality (was) implemented as a measure of social justice" (EMP, 2.1.1.).
7.   "Attention services aiming at children's well-being and development" are included among the
mandatory services provided by ISSSTE to all public administration employees, federal, state or
1/ EMP - Poder Ejecutivo Federal. Proprama para la Modemnizaadn Educadva 1989-1994.
(Educational Modernization Program 1989-1994). M6xico, Secretarfa de Educadon Pdblica,
1989. 
LAW - Law on the Institute of Social Security and Services for State Workers.  Meico, D.F.,
Diario Ofcial, December 27, 1983 (Vol. 171, n. 41).
SEP - Secretar(a de Educacion Piblica. Programa de Aovo a la Educacidn Inidal no Formal
para Pobladones en Siuacid6n de Pobreza. Bases Programdcas. Mexico- SEP/UNICEFIUNDP/
UNESCO, 1990.



Annex 2
GOVERNMENT POLICY ON
INITIAL EDUCATION
Page 2 of 4
municipal (LAW, Art. 2nd, XI). These services include health, food, education and recreation to
support children's integral and balanced development from two-months-plus-one-day up to six years
of age (LAW, Art. Sth).
B.   Action Plan for Non-formal Initial Education
8.   The Government plans to increase non-formal IE coverage and, to provide better services, it
intends to train people involved, improve educational materials, and strengthen SEP capacity to plan,
implement and evaluate the non-formal IE program.
9.   National Coverage. "Starting in 1990, to expand initial education attention capacity" (EMP,
2.5.3). "To set up initial education services so that they can be expanded nationwide" (EMP, 2.5.2).
10. IE programs will be developed "primarily in rural, indigenous and urban marginal settings," so
that "it will be possible to give priority attention to children in communities where considerable social
and educational deficiencies are identified" (EMP, 2.5.2.).
11. "To promote the interest and the participation of society and the communication media, and the
cooperation of the international agencies in the expansion of initial education, especially in the areas
with the worst educational deficiencies" (EMP, 2.5.2).
12. Human Resources Training. The Government intends to train "professional and
paraprofessional personnel," so that they can "meet the advancements of an educational methodology
more attuned to the demands of the teaching-learning process" (EMP, 2.1.1). "By 1994 a pedagogic
model should be established to promote nationwide a more effective and adequate children's
development" (EMP, 2.5.3).
13. "Human resources training in its several modalities constitutes the basic structure," which must
"develop instances of continuing training and horizontal cooperation among parents, community
educators, module supervisors and zone coordinators, on the basis of the needs identified in each
community" (SEP, page 9).
14.  EMP aims to "support.. .the tasks of the non-formal modality carried out at children's home"
(EMP, 2.5.2), "increasing the models of attention which involve parents who, after duly trained, will
promote their children's education" (EMP, 2.2.1).
15. Educational Material Development. Government's policy includes "instructional materials and
educational aids for young children, parents, (and) educators" (EMP, 2.1.1).
16. "A handbook of initial education will be produced and distributed to provide information on
how to develop educational activities, preserve family health and good nutrition, especially of the
young children" (EMP, 2.5.3), and to deal with "contents related to environment preservation"
(EMP, 2.1.1).



Annex 2
GOVERNMENT POLICY ON
INITIAL EDUCATION
Page 3 of 4
17.  "To broadcast through the social communication media orientation programs seeking parents'
acceptance for initial education benefits and program's expansion" (EMP, 2.5.3).
18. Institutional Strengthening. "In order to strengthen the coordination between the central
administration and the operational areas in the areas of orientation, follow-up and evaluation of
educational activities, mechanisms for periodic revision will be set up for norms and strategies" (SEP,
page 15). The proposed project has established a clear distribution of functions for the central and
state-level areas, in addition to the creation of an evaluation system and the Educational Management
Information System to follow-up and evaluate IE activities.
19.  "To strengthen the orientation services needed for the child development center creation and
operation; to motivate public and private institutions to offer these initial education services, and
provide the necessary supervision and technical assistance" (EMP, 2.5.2.).
20.  "To adopt mechanisms aimed at maximizing society's interest for and motivation to increase
the benefits of these services" (EMP, 2.2.1).
21.  "Starting in 1990, provide assistance to public and private agencies in the delivery service of
initial education to meet the education sector norms" (EMP, 2.5.3.).
C.   Targets
22.  The global IE target for year 2000 is 3,700,000 children under four of poor families in all the
states. This number represents only 46% of the national demand of this age bracket. Along a ten-
year program and maintaining a yearly coverage of 370,000, the evolution would be the following:
1991-1994: 1,480,000 or 35% of the target population; 1995-1997: 2,590,000 or 69.7% of the
target population; and 1998-2000: 3,700,000 or 100% of the target population (SEP, page 19).
23.  The proposed project will expand the ongoing program enrollment to 1.2 million, over a period
of five years in the ten states that currently have the lowest coverages. The current non-formal IE
2.3% national enrollment rate will increase to 5.7% by the end of the project, whereas in the ten
project states the current non-formal IE enrollment rate of 1.8% will reach 8.4% with the project.
D.   Actions Taken
24.  In 1981, in an integrated and innovative move, the Government started its first nationwide IE
program, the "Zero-to-four years old Child Development Program through Parents and Community
members", the current non-formal IE program. The program was initially designed by SEP's IE
General Directorate at dhe end of the seventies and launched in early 1981 to serve rural and
indigenous communities in 15 states. By July 1981, it was extended to the remaining 16 states, and
in 1983 it started including groups of marginal urban populations in Mexico City and other major
cities. The program's growing popularity led it to double its coverage by the next year, and in 1985
it managed to reach over 290,000 children nationwide. By the late 1980s, national education
programs began to emphasize the role of IE even as the lack of funding started to erode its
enrollments.



Annex 2
GOVERNMENT POLICY ON
INITIAL EDUCATION
Page 4 of 4
25.  In 1990, Mexico was one of the first twenty nations to ratify the Children's Rights Convention,
which was approved and thus made valid worldwide by the United Nations General Assembly in
1989. As a result of the 1990 World Summit for Children, called by the Mexican President Carlos
Salinas de Gortari and five other heads of state, the World Declaration on the Survival, Protection,
and Development of Children and a corresponding Plan for Action were signed by 158 countries.
Using the Summit as a point of reference, the Government established a multi-agency child
development program that emphasized four goals: (i) to provide 3.7 million children ages 0-3 with
non-formal IE over the decade- (ii) to support early childhood development, especially through low-
cost strategies with family and community participation; (iii) to improve children's learning conditions
(school readiness) so that at least 80% of them can complete primary education; and (iv) to seek
international assistance to carry out a national non-formal IE program. An inter-agency Commission
was established to coordinate and follow-up on the Government's early childhood development plan
commitments in this area. The Commission supported the preparation of the proposed project and
provided valuable information.
26. In February 1991, as a consequence of its early childhood development program, the
Government, after receiving UNICEF, UNDP and UNESCO assistance for project design, submitted
to the Bank for possible financing a ten-year nationwide non-formal IE program, whicn would have
ultimately covered 3.7 million children at a total cost of US$392 million. The Government and the
Bank decided to consider, not the whole proposal but a modified 1993-97 first-phase version of the
program, targeting Mexico's ten poorest states and seeking to improve the basic components of the
existing national IE program while incorporating new elements.



ENROLLMENT TRENDS IN INITIAL, PRESCHOOL, AND PRIMARY EDUCATION
(in thousands)
1982  l 1983 1 1984    1985  l 1986  1 1987  1 1988  l 1989  1 1990  l 1991  1992
Initial Education      .      ..      ..   402.9   361.2   384.4   376.6   328.3   334.7  342.0A
Formal (CENDIs)#   83.7   95.0   100.8   112.6   114.6   124.3   133.6   141.6   145.0  153.7
Non-formal           ..     ..       ..   290.3   246.7   260.1   243.0   186.7   189.6  188.2  183.4
Preschool         1,376.2 1,893.7  2,147.5  2,381.4  2,547.3  2,625.7  2,668.6  2,851.2  2,662.6 2,734.1
Primary          15,222.9 15,376.2 15,219.2 15,124.2 14,994.6 14,678.0 14,656.4 14,675.3 14,493.8 14,401.6
Source: SEP
of    Including the "Alalil" special non-formal programs for approximately 1,600 indigenous children, and 200 children in Federal
District community centers
Ml    Includes all CENDIS (SEP, federal and state governments, Social Security, Health Secretariat, etc.)
0



PARTICIPANTS BY AGE GROUP
AND NUMBER OF CENDIS BY PROVIDER
Total         Number
Provider                      Infants    Toddlers     Pre-                             of
Schoolers    (M                 CENDIS
Secretariat of Education (SEP)                       3,331       8,244      5,678     17,253     11.2         102
Secretariat of States (SE)                           1,060       2,701      1,962      5,723      3.7          41
Parastatals (SP)                                     1,161       2,904      2,673      6,738      4.4          31
Federal District Government (DDF)                    2,007       8,192      6,160     16,359     10.6         233
State and Municipal Governments                        758       1,655      1,161      3,574      2.3          35
Institute of Security & Social Services for State Workers  3,470  8,531     5,755     17,756     11.6         106
Mexican Social Security Institute L                 11,487      28,609      1,313    41,409      26.9         258
National System for Family Development               4,173      11,163      9,834    25,170      16.4         256
Institutional Revolutionary Party                        2        391         627      1,020      0.7         12
Private Centers                                      1,465       6,294      6,808     14,567      9.5        263
Other                                                  715       1,693      1,464      3,872      2.5         21
TOTAL      29,629      80,432     43,669    153,730    100.0       1,362
Source: SEP
IMSS provides day care facilities for children whose mothers are employed by private firms that do not have their own centers.
'-4 -.
*5I w



Annex 4
FORMAL IE (CENDI' INDICATORS
Page 2 of 3
CENDI CENTERS & EXNROLLMENT
BY STATE (1991)
States in Order of   No. of      No. of   Children per  Percentage
Marginality '     CENDIS    Children       CENDI       by State
Distrito Federal N          516       60,315      117           39.2
Oaxaca                       31        3,398      110            2.2
Veracruz                     47        4,739      101            3.1
Chiapas                      18        1,477       82            1.0
Puebla                       25        2,644      106            1.7
Guerrero                     17        2,907      171            1.9
Michoacan                    10        1,491      149            1.0
Mexico                       76        7,155       94            4.7
Hidalgo                      26        2,328       90            1.5
San Luis Potosi              19        3,048      160            2.0
Guanajato                     9        1,704      189            1.1
Jalisco                      64        8,010      125            5.2
Yucatan                      37        2,049       55            1.3
Zacatecas                    10        1,784      178            1.2
Sinaloa                      15        2,207      147            1.4
Tabasco                      22        3,047      139            2.0
Durango                       9        1,609      179            1.0
Campeche                     16        1,654      103            1.1
Queretaro                    14        2,559      183            1.7
Chihuahua                    31        4,505      145            2.9
Quintana Roo                 14        1,447      103            0.9
Tamaulipas                   35        5,494      157            3.6
Tlaxcala                     14        1,168       83            0.8
Morelos                      59        2,690       46            1.8
Nayarit                      12        1,519      127            1.0
Sonora                       36        4,528      126            2.9
Coahuila                     38        3,949      104            2.6
Nuevo Leon                   32        4,649      145            3.0
Colima                       16        1,547       97            1.0
Baja California Sur          12        i,123       94            0.7
Aguascalientes               26        2,821      109            1.8
Baja California Norte        36        4,165      116            2.7
TOTALS        1,342      153,730      115         100.0
Source: SEP
For definition of "marginality", see Annex 7.
The Federal District is not ranked.



Atnex4
FORMAL EE (CENDI) INDICATORS
Page 3 of 3
CENDI EMPLOYEESS'
Classifications               Total         Average/Center
I  ('0    I    (#/center)
Educators                                      3,176              2.3
Assistant Educators                            14,361            10.5
Nutritionists                                     84              0.1
Dieticians                                       267              0.2
Kitchen Staff                                  3,741              2.7
Miscellaneous (Uaunderers, Watchmen,           5,015              3.7
Maintenance, etc.)
Administrative Support                         2,276              1.7
Administrators                                  2,506             1.8
Doctors                                          688              0.5
Dentists                                         192              0.1
Psychologists                                    469              0.3
Nurses                                           936              0.7
Social Workers                                   523              0.4
Childcare Assistants                           2,884              2.1
Music Teachers                                   327              0.2
Gym Teachers                                     208              0.2
TOTALS              37,658            27.6
Source: SEP
Excluding IE Units at central & state levels.
Total Enrollment (1991)          158,600
Total Staff (1991)         :    37,658
Children:Staff Ratio (1991)    :    4.21
Children:Teacher Ratio (1991)  :    8.8



Annex 5
NON-FORMAL IE INDICATORS
Page I of 2
NON-FORMAL IE PROGRAM ENROLLMENT & COVERAGE RATES (1991)
Enrollment Rate      Enrollment        Coverage Rate
States in Order  Rual    Urba       Toa      (No. ofrRua-Tol
of Marginality ' '           agnl              Children)   Rrl UrbanIToa
|Marginal-'                  o             Marginal||
Distrito Federal   9.0%       0.2%     0.2%         n.a.   36.0%     0.7%    0.9%
1 Oaxaca              1.1%      4.6%      1.2%       3,889    4.3%    18.6%    4.9%
2 Veracruz            0.8%       1.2%     0.7%       4,322    3.3%     4.7%    2.8%
3 Chiapas             1.3%      4.9%      1.5%       5,568    5.4%    19.7%    5.9%
4 Puebla              3.1%       4.8%     2.6%      11,123   12.2%    19.4%   10.4%
5 Guerrero            6.4%      13.2%     5.9%      16,553   25.6%    52.6%   23.6%
6 Michoacan           1.5%       2.1%     1.3%       4,558    5.9%     8.5%    5.0%
7 Mexico              2.2%       1.1%     0.9%       8,723    8.8%     4.3%    3.6%
8 Hidalgo             3.1%      10.4%     3.3%       6,385   12.6%    41.6%   13.3%
9 San Luis Potosi     5.0%      6.4%      4.0%       8,197   19.9%    25.7%   16.1%
10 Guanajuato          2.8%      2.5%      1.8%       7,762   11.0%     9.9%    7.3%
11 Jalisco             1.8%       1.0%    0.9%        4,539    7.4%     3.9%    3.4%
12 Yucatan             9.1%      7.8%     5.7%        7,682   36.3%    31.4%   23.0%
13 Zacatecas         _ _4.4%     13.7%    4.7%        6,300   17.6%    54.9%   18.6%
14 Sinaloa             4.7%      5.5%      3.5%       7,330   18.7%    22.2%   13.9%
15 Tabasco             3.5%      8.2%     3.4%        5,512   14.0%    32.7%   13.6%
16 Durango             4.0%      5.6%     3.2%        4,519   16.1%    22.5%   12.9%
17 Campeche           15.6%      16.3%    10.9%       6,078   62.5%    65.1%   43.7%
18 Queretaro           8.2%1   10.2%      6.3%        7,203   32.8%    41.0%   25.1%
19 Chihuahua           1.4%      0.7%     0.6%        1,423    5.6%     2.7%    2.5%
20 Quintana Roo        7.1%       5.2%     4.1%       2,301   28.5%    20.7%   16.3%
21 Tamaulipas          7.1%       2.8%     2.7%       5,533   28.6%    11.3%   10.9%
22 Tlaxcala            8.9%      17.9%     8.3%       6,369   35.7%    71.4%   33.0%
23 Morelos             5.2%       4.5%     3.3%       3,721   20.8%    18.2%   13.3%
2  Nayarit             5.8%      10.1 %    5.1%       4,161   23.3%    40.5%   20.5%
25 Sonora              7.7%       4.1%     3.6%       6,100   31.0%    16.4%   14.5%
26 Coahuila           17.9%       5.0%     5.2%       9,485   71.7%    19.9%   20.8%
27 Nuevo Leon         16.8%       2.7%     3.1%       8,136   67.4%    10.8%   12.4%
28 Colima             16.2%       8.7%     7.7%       3,138   64.8%    34.8%   30.6%
29 B. C. Sur           4.2%       3.2%     2.5%         749   16.9%    12.6%    9.9%
30 Aguascalientes      9.0%      4.5%      4.1%       3,138   36.0%    18.1%   16.3%
31 B. C. Norte         3.4%       0.8%     0.9%       1,394   13.7%     3.2%    3.4%
Nationwide Average      3.6%      3.1%     2.3%     183,376   14.5%    12.5%    9.2%
Total 10 Project States    2.3%   3.1%     1.8%      77,080    9.4%    12.5%    7.4%
,Total 21 States & D.F.   6.0%     3.1%     2.8%     106,296   24.1%    12.5%   11.1%
it   Population data from 1990 Census; for definition of "marginality", see Annex 10.
2/   The Federal District is not ranked.
3'    Urban marginal population as percentage of urban population: 39.4%.



Anex S
NON-FORMAL IE INDICATORS
Page 2 of 2
REGIONAL STAFF FOR NON-FORMAL IE PROGRAM
1985  1986  1987  1988  1989  1990   1991
Zone Coordinator           106   101   106   105    99   100    113
Module Supervisor          439   450   456   449   418   419    552
Community Educators      7,024  6,385  6,911  6,829  6,140  6,198  6,996
Totals                   7,569  6,936  7,473  7,383  6,657  6,717  7,661
Source: SEP
Total Enrollment (1991)           188,200
Total Staff (1991)                7,661
Children:Staff Ratio (1991)  :    24.57



LOCAL STRUCTURE OF NON-FORMAL
INITIAL EDUCATION PROGRAMS
MfODULE
SUPERVISOR
tO COMMIONITY
EDUCATO>RS
NUICLEUJS   NUCLEUS   NUCLEUS   NUCLEUS  NUCLEUS  MUCLEUIS          NUCLEUS  NUCLU   MJlES   NUCLEUJS
20         20        20         20        20        20         20        20        20          20
FAMIUES   FAMILIES  FAMIUES   FAMILIES  FAWILIES  FAMlIUES   FAMIUES   FAMIUES  FAMIUES   FAMIUES
I
1.3        1.3        1.3       1.3       1.3        1-3       1.3        1.3       1.3        1.3
Children    Children    Children   Children   Children   Children   Children    Children  Children    Children
0-4        0-4        Q-4       0-4       0-4        0-4       04         0-4       0-4        0-4
years      years      years     years     years      years     yeans      years    years       years
per        per        per       per       per        per       per        pof       per        per
\family     family      family    family    family    family    famiy      family    famiiy     family
200 FAMliES
2_0 CHILDREN 0-4 YEARS
0r
I-C~



EVOLUTION OF SEP SPENDING (in billions constant 1990 Pesos)
1983     1984     1985      1986     1987      1988     1989      1990    1991
Fed. Education Expd.         18288    19289    19629    18128    17551    17457    18382    21656   19117
Initial Education /1 12         54       59       n/a       56        53       47        38       41       74
% of Fed. Educ. Expd.        0.3W     0.3S               0.3W      0.3W     0.3S      0.2%     0.2%    0.4S
Preschool                      626       639      725      629       743      711       734      757       844
% of Fed. Educ. Expd.        3.4%     3.3%      3.7%     3.5%      4.2%     4.1%     4.0%      3.5%     4.4%
Primary                       4594     4221      4234     3711      4052     3635      3547     3533     3994
% of Fed. Educ. Expd.       25.1%    21.9%    21.6%    20.5%    23.1*    20.8%    19.3%    16.3%    20.9%
/i   1983-1990 data underestimates the budget by approximately 8%, as it excludes salaries for module
leaders and supervisors in the non-formal program as well as the salaries of some field staff for the
SEP CINDIs and all costs of the state initial education units.
12   Direct costs of non-SEP CENDIs are not included as they are not in SEP budget.
0
z
ti'
_DZ
o 0



AnnexI8
SEP 1991 IE BUDGET
Page 1 of 1
SEP FEDERAL BUDGET FOR INITIAL EDUCATION (1991)j
1991       1991      Share     UNIT        UNIT
Total      Total       of      COSTS       COSTS
(US$000)   (Mex$ mn)  Budget    (Mex$)       (US$)
CENDIS                                23261.7    70948.2   80.0*   4288453/2   1406
Central Initial Ed. Unit               351.4     1071.6
Technical Support                     184.2      561.7
Research                               14.9       45.3
Normative                              73.5      224.0
Supervision                            32.3       98.6
Administration                         46.5      141.9
State Initial Ed. Units 13             677.6     2066.5
SEP CENDIs                           22181.5    67810.0
Federal Vistrict                     7992.5    24377.1
States                              14189.0    43276.4
Supervision                            51.3      156.5
NON-FORMAL                             5780.6    17630.8   19.9*      93681        31
Central Initial Ed. Unit               431.4     1315.9
Non-Formal Sub-Unit                   339.1     1034.4
Technical Support                      13.9       42.3
Research                                9.9       30.2
Normative                              49.0      149.4
Supervision                            14.4       43.8
Administration                          5.2       15.8
State Initial Ed. UnitsL4              671.8     2049.0
State modules                         4677.3    14265.9
Travel                                115.9      353.4
Community educators                  2288.7     6980.6
Module supervisors & zone coord.   2210.3       6741.4
Supervision                            51.3      156.5
Promotion                              11.1       34.0
ALALIL /5                                 7.0        21.4     ...      13718         4
GUATEMALAN REFUGEES                       6.1       18.6      ...     20507          7
FEDERAL DISTRICT CONMUNITY CENTER        14.9       45.4      ...    210185         69
TOTAL INITIAL EDUCATION               29070.3    88664.3
TOTAL ACTUAL SEP                    7543372.6 23007286.5
* INITIAL                              0.39%      0.39*
/I  Exchange rate:  US$1 = Mex$3050
12  Only for 17743 SEP CENDI children.  Assumes all overhead costs to SEP cendis.
/3  Represents 60% of joint state adm. staff, all state adm. staff and
clearly assigned for formal program.
/4  Represents all state staff clearly assigned to NF & 40% of joint state staff.
/5 ALALIL budget excludes a 3-year grant (starting in 1990) of US$620600 from
Bernard Van Leer Foundation



Annex2
RATIONALE FOR IE
Page 1 of 7
RATIONALE FOR INITIAL EDUCATION"'
Initial Education Concept
1.   Initial education (IE) promotes the physical, emotional, intellectual and social development and
care of infants and toddlers, between birth and age four. It revolves around four inter-related and
simultaneously occurring processes: child survival, growth, development, and care. There are two
principal approaches to IE: a formal modality (used by traditional kindergartens and nursery schocls)
and a non-formal approach. In the past two decades, the non-formal method has receiv4d lin-reasing
attention, as countries have sought to provide early education on a larger scale and to draw on the
local culture by incorporating parents and communities into the process.
The Case for Initial Education
2.   The scientific, economic, and equity arguments in favor of IE are compelling. Scientific
evidence highlights the link between early sensory stimulation and the development of intelligence,
50% of which is established by age four. IE also reduces societal inequities as its low unit costs and
community orientation permit the program to effectively reach children from low income families.
Empirical evidence indicates that IE raises the return on education investments, contributes to human
capital formation, and reduces public expenditures.
3.   Scientifi. Thk - is strong scientific support indicating a link between IE, the child's
intellectual development, and s-.sequent academic performance. Research reveals that sensory
stimulation affects the structure and organization of neural pathways, which are formed during the
first two years of life and which, in turn, are linked to the child's cognitive and social development.
Furthermore, deficits caused by inadequate intellectual stimulation and affective care, as well as early
malnutrition, likely result in severe, possibly irreversible damages to physical aJd emotional
capabilities, crucial elements for further learning. In this sense, elementary education - and even
kindergarten - can be too late to develop these capacities in children.
4.   Social Eguity. IE can help modify inequalities rooted in poverty and discrimination by giving
children from disadvantaged backgrounds a fair start, especially those living in rural and urban
marginal areas, girls, and other children at risk. Poverty is by far the most discriminatory of all
social factors. A large part of cognitive achievement differentials between higher income and lower
socio-economic groups can be attributed to malnutrition, lack of sanitation, and low levels of
psychological stimulation among the latter's children.
5.   Efficiency. Early childhood education increases the return on primary and even secondary
school investments, raises participants' productivity and income levels, and has been shown to lower
public expenditures (i.e., lower welfare, health, and education costs). In the Perry Pre-School project
in the U.S., a US$X investment yielded US$6 in eventual savings due to lower welfare and
1/   World Bank Report No. 10129-ME, dated February 5, 1992.



Annex-9
RATIONALE FOR IE
Page 2 of 7
educational expenditures and higher productivity among participants. Similarly, in the U.S. Head
Start program, US$1 spent is worth US$4.75 in costs saved.
-5.   A large number of empirical studies reveal that IE improves the school readiness skills of
children. Thirteen studies can be mentioned (ten of which without food or nutrition components) that
have traced the effects of TE on the child's primary school performance (See table). These studies,
carried out in Asia, the Middle East, but mainly Latin America, suggest that IE also promotes timely
school enrollment, lowers primary repetition and dropout rates, and improves overall academic skills.
The beneficial impact of EE is particularly pronounced among the traditional disadvantaged groups
(e.g., girls and children with rural, indigenous, and lower socio-economic backgrounds). In five out
of seven studies evaluating school readiness, there were significant improvements in the child's skills
(the remaining two revealed no significant changes). Six of the nine studies found a positive
relationship between IE and lower dropout and repetition rates (the remaining three indicated no
statistically significant changes). In seven of the eleven studies with available information, children
participating in early childhood programs had a better primary academic performance than the control
students (the remaining four revealed no statistically significant changes).
7.   IE programs often involve nutritional supplements and related health care services. Evidence
suggests that health- and nutrition-related programs are also positively associated with physical
growth, basic cognitive abilities, school readiness, and positive classroom behavior. A ten-year study
in the state of Puebla (Mexico) shows that supplemented children walked at an earlier age and
demonstrated language superiority from the 20th week onward. In the early years of schooling, the
supplemented children were more active and performed significantly better than unsupplemented
children. Slightly more than one-third of the unsupplemented children failed the first year while there
were no failures among the supplemented children. The proposed IE project in Mexico: i) emphasizes
home-based education and behavior chiange; and ii) seeks linkages with health and nutrition services at
local level. The table on the following page records the impact of early education programs as
observed through various studies:



TABLE 1: THE INPACT OF EARLY ENCATIU PROGMAS (IN SCIOOL  EIEDIIESS, EBIOLEIT, SCUH0L PERFEMRICE -  PARIENTIG SKILLS
(Shaded areas indicate positive impact)
CHARACTERISTICS                  _
COUITRY            NON-  URBAN/ AGE  PARENT.  NUT.          LOWlER AGE OF       REPETITION  RATES              DROP-OUT RATES            ACADENIC PERF.
FORMAL RURAL (yrs) INVOLV. SUPPLE.        ENROLLUENT
(1)               (2)    (3)   (4)    (5)       (6)            (8)                   (9)                          (11)                      (12)
Argentina (Fltp, 1983)         no    U&R   4-7    no         no                                                               n/a                              8
BoLivia SFilp, 1983)           no    UJ&R   4-7    no        no             I)                   n/a                          n/a
Chile (Fi,-, 1983)             no  |U&R   4-7    no          no                                  a]                           n/a O
Chile (Richards, 1985)         no      R    4-6    yes       no            n/a                   n/a                          n/a
Coloabia (Filp, 1983)          ro  |U&R   4-7    no          no             0                                                 n/a                         0
Cotumbia (Nimnicht, 1986)     rno      R    0-7    yes                                                  _ _                                              n/a
Peru (Myers, 1985)            yes    U&R   3-5    yes        es                                   0                           n/a                         0
Morocco (Wagner, 1984)         no    U&R   5-7    no         no            n/a                                                n/a
India (Chaturvedi, 1987)      yes      R    0-6    yes      yes                                    a 
India (Lal & Wati, 1986)      yes      R    0-6    yes      yes                                  n/                 iid1"
n/a          (.   #  ma#e 
Turkey (Kagitcibasi, 1987)    yes      U    3-5    yes       no            n/a                   n/a                          n/a
Brazil (Feij6, 1984)           no      U    6-7    no        no            n/a                                                n/a O
Brazil (Min. Saude, 1983)      no      U    4-6    no       yes                         na   1st grade up by 29%
n/a                                                                          n/a
The data presented in this table is taken from: Robert G. Myers, The Twelve Who Survive: Strenathening Proeraimmes of EarLy Childhood Develoement in the Third World
(London: Routledge, 1991).
Notes:
SEhaded areas indicate positive inpact
N Mo statistical difference
n/a This variable was not monitored by the study.                                                                                                              0
Summarv of conclusions:
1.  Enrollment: 5 of 7 studies presenting information showed a positive effect.
2. Progress (repetition or dropout): 7 of 10 studies presenting information showed significant improvement through the system as indicated by
reduced repetition & dropout.
3. Performance: 7 of 11 studies presenting information showed significant improvement in academic performance.                                                O XIo
II 140



Annexc 9
RATIONALE FOR IE
Page 4 of 7
The Perry Preschool Program
LONG TERM EFFECTS OF EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION
8.   The Perry Preschool study is based on a program of early intervention in the lives of low-income children wh
were at risk of school failure and placement in special education. Between 1962 and 1967, 58 children, aged 3-4,
from Ypsilanti, Michigan received with 2 years of preschool (2.5 hours per day) coupled with weekly home visits.
The study provides the principal source of information on the long-term effects of early childhood education.
Information on the participants, as well as a 60 member control group was collected annually while the children we
between years 3-11 and again at ages 14, 15 and 19.
9.   Short-Term JmDact. Preschool programs can substantially increase the efficiency of elementary and second
education. During and at the end of preschool, early education improved the performance of study participants on
tests, however the difference between treatment groups diminished over time and by second grade was no longer
statistically significant. Nevertheless, early education led to increased academic achievement, as measured by
standardized tests given throughout elementary and middle school grades. Teacher ratings of children's social and
emotional maturity after kindergarten also favored the preschool group. By fourth grade, children who had attended
preschool were less likely to have been placed in special education or retained than the control group children.
Through the elementary years, preschool attenders also had fewer absences than their no-preschool counterparts.
Throughout secondary school participants had fewer failing marks and better grades than the no-preschool subjects.
Preschool attenders spent fewer years in special education and were less likely to be classified as mentally retarded.
10.  Loe-Term ImD. The Perry Preschool program had significant positive long-term benefits not only for th
participants (higher secondary school performance and income generating skills) but also for society in general (ow
welfare payments and more law abiding citizens). At age 19, persons who had attended preschool had higher score
than those with no preschool on a measure of competence in skills of everyday life (the Adult Performance Level
Survey). On average, participants enjoyed a high school grade point average 20 percent greater than non-program
students, were 50 percent more likely to terminate high school and 80 percent more likely to attend college or
vocational school. Furthermore, participants were more likely to be supporting themselves by their own or spouse'
earnings (45 percent compared to 25 percent), and the mean annual welfare payment was 140 percent higher for
members of the control group. Finally, only 31 percent of the preschool participants had been detained compared t
51 percent for non-participants, while the rate of teen pregnancies was 83 percent higher in the control group.
11.  The immediate effects of the Perry Preschool program provided the first links in a chain of cause and effects
that permanently changed the lives of the preschool participants. Preschool had an immediate positive effect on
intellectual performance measured prior to school entry. This improvement is believed to have affected the child's
initial transactions with teachers and the school environment, leading to greater school com nitment and better
scholastic placement. School achievement, in turn, is the only significant direct predictor of scholastic attainment a
age 19. Finally, scholastic attaimment is the principal predictor of adult success, as measured by number of arrests
ai months worked.
12.  Cgs. The average unit cost of the program was about US$7,200, including implicit interest and depreciation
costs (1991 dollars). The program was relatively expensive, as it was a high quality curricula for children whose
educational prognosis was poor. Instruction costs were 82 percent of total costs, reflecting the relatively high



Annex 9
RATIONALE FOR IE
Page 5 of 7
student/teacher ratio of 5 to 1. There were no fees for participation and all school supplies were provided by the
program.
13.  One year of Perry Preschool yielded economic benefits with an estimated present value seven times greater
than the costs of the program. This takes into account the participant's higher earnings (particularly after age 19) a
lower welfare payments, crime, repetition and drop-out rates, compared to non-participants. This calculation
excludes some non-quantifiable benefits that may be expected but were not measured by the study, such as improve
personal and family health care and a higher quality of leisure activities.
TABLE 2: THE LONG-TERM EFFECTS OF THE PERRY PRESCHOOL PROGRAM
WITH         WITHOUT
CAtEGORY   - --- --- PRESCHOOL    PRSCHOOL
___-_-    ____-_-_-       __--_X__-_-_-               EXPERIENCE   E        lPE iENCE
. - S - .- - -.-- . ...~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..........              . .  ... .  .     ... ...........
High School GPA (max. 4.0)                                 2.08            1.71
H.S. Graduation (or equivalent)                            67 %           49 %
College or Vocational Training                             38 %           21 %
Adult Test of Functional Competence (possible score 40)    24.6          21.8 %
Employed                                                  59 %            32 %
Persons supporting themselves by own or spouse's earnings  45 %           25 %
Persons receiving welfare                                  18 %           32 %
Mean annualized welfare payment ($ 1981)                  $ 633          $ 1,509
Ever detained or arrested                                  31 %           51 %
Teen pregnancies per 100 (females only)                     64             117
Results of an Evaluation
14.  In 1987, the Netherlands-based Bernard Van Leer Foundation, one of the financial supporters of the Mexican
program, conducted an evaluation to assess the achievement of the original program objectives and its impact on
children's development as well as on families and communities (Fundaci6n Bernard Van Leer, 1982). The study
evaluated the program's impact on children's school readiness (using a test of social, cognitive, and perceptive moto
skills), school performance and on parental interest in their children's further education. No statistical tests were
performed on the data to determine if the means between program and non-program (control group) students were
statistically different. In addition, there are some inconsistencies in the dat'. Nonetheless, the information presente
in Table 3 does provide insight on the overall effectiveness of the program. The evaluation suggests that the non-
formal program was equally effective, and in some cases more effective than the formal preschool program in
improving the child's performance in primary school.



TABLE 3: THE EFFECT OF MEIICO'S NON-FORMAL INITIAL EDUCATION PROGRAM
School                       l Ist Grade       Absenteeism          Drop-out Rates          Acadenic        |             Paarental
Readiness                | Repetition          (#Days Missed)           After I st              Skill                     interest inl
Test                          Rates           I Academic              Grade                                          Child Education
l__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _  Cycle                                                                l
* PS scored 8% higher than NPS              PS =9%              PS   3.4              PS = 3.6%         .  P3 = 13 % higher    .  The proportion of parents
KG  =9%             KG  =4.4              DCS = 20%         than NPS                   attendine all school metins  |
c Compared to NPS, PS scored:               NPS =27%            NPS = 6.5             NPS =25%                                     was double for parents of PS
11% higher on social skills                                                                         . KG = 14% higher          and compared to parents of
85% higher on social skills             0 Repetition                          * Drop-out rates     than NPS                    NPS.
5% higher on percept motor ski"s        Rates improved                        declined by 85% for
by 66% for PS                         PS                    . Indigenous PS 27%    .  87% of parents of PS heled
* Indigenous PS 21% higher than iidigenous                                                              higher than indigenous     children with homework
NPS                                                                                                     NPS                        compared to 58% for parents of
* Rural PS 11% higher than rural NPS                                                                                               NPS.
* Urban-marginal PS 8% higher than urban                                                                . Rural PS 14% higher
NPS                                                                                                     than rural NPS         .  Parents of PS and DCS were
26% more likely to participate
. Urban PS 16% higher     in school activities.
than urban NPS
. Failure rates on
academnic tests 66%
lower for PS and DCS
compared to NPS
Notes:
1. PS= Non formal initial education progam students
NPS= Non program students (control group- students of same age and from same cormmunity)
KG= Preschool (Kindergarten)
2. School readiness test measured cognitive and perceptive motor skills. Study also provided a conposite score, (scores reflects a longitudinal and cross-sectional study.
o  7
_0 ^ 2
< M-X



Annex 9
RATIONALE FOR IE
Page 7 of 7
15.  School Readiness. The study clearly indicates that the non-formal program improves participant children's
school readiness skills. Program students scored 8 percent higher on the composite test than non-program students.
As shown in Table 3, the greatest impact of the program was on the student's social skills, followed by their
cognitive and perceptive motor skills. Traditionally disadvantaged rural and especially indigenous students
experienced the highest gains from the program. Indigenous students participating in the program scored 21 percent
higher on the school readiness test than non-participants, while urban and rural students scored 8 and 11 percent
higher than their control group.
16.  School Performance. The study also suggests that participation in Mexico's non-formal initial education
program is associated with improved academic performance during the first year of primary school. The data
presented in Table 3 reveal that both early childhood education programs (preschool and non-formal) were effective
in lowering repetition and drop-out rates, absenteeism, as well as in improving the child's academic performance.Y
Repetition rates drop from 27 percent in the control group to 9 percent, for students participating in the preschool an
non-formal initial education program. First grade dropout rates decreased from 25 percent among the control group to
20 percent for preschool students to 3.6 percent among non-formal program students. This implies that the initial
education program caused dropout rates to fall by 85 percent, compared to a decrease of 20 percent for those who
had participated in the preschool program. The program's effects were also evident in increasing the children's
overall academic achievement during the first year of elementary education, particularly indigenous students. The
latter scored 27 percent higher than their control group, while urban and rural students scored approximately 15
percent higher than non-program students on the academic test.
17.  Parental Interest. The program also has a positive effect in terms of improving parent/children relations, as
well as parents' participation in activities related to educational matters. Since the program enabled parents to be
more informed about and directly interested in their children's education, participating parents were more prone to
keep their children at school and help with homework. Thus the non-formal initial education program participants
are more likely not only to obtain good grades, but also to have better attendance records and to remain in the scho
system longer.
J/ The repetition and drop-out rates presented in Table 3 are consistent with recent nationwide data
indicating a repetition rate of 32 percent and a drop out rate of 6.87 for first grade students. The Van
Leer estimates are higher, reflecting the fact that the initial education program is targeted to the poor,
which can be expected to have higher drop-out and repetition rates.



Annex 10
NON-FORMAL IE IN LATIN AMERICA
Page 1 of 2
NON-FORMAL EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION IN LATIN AMERICA
1.         Low Cover,a. Initial childhood education programs are not widespread and enrollment
levels are low in Latin America and the Caribbean. While 33 out of the 35 countries in the region
have government-sponsored preschool programs, only nine have government-sponsored initial
education (IE) programs. In the early 1980s, the average IE enrollment rate was less than 1%,
compared to Mexico's 2.5% (1991). Similarly, in the early 1980s, the average regional enrollment
rate for preschool was 22%, compared to Mexico's 65.5% (1991)."' In 1983, Colombia and Mexico
each had slightly less than one third of the total number of regional enrollments in early childhood
programs (0-6), followed by Venezuela and Argentina, each with about 10% of the region's total
enrollments.
2.         Structure. There are three general formats for non-formal early childhood education
programs. First, there are center-based programs whereby a community promoter receives 20
children in his or her home or a community center and provides them with a combination of child
care and child development activities. This type of program exists in Colombia, Chile, Brazil, and
Peru. Second, there are home-based programs whereby community promoters visit families
approximately once per week and work directly with children to promote their social, intellectual, and
physical development. The visit is carried out in the presence of the mother or the child's principal
caregiver. In addition, there also is a monthly meeting for participating parents to review key child
development concepts. Countries with this type of program are Chile, Bolivia, Brazil, Colombia,
Venezuela, and Peru. Third, there are home-based programs whereby community promoters train
parents to stimulate their children. In this instance, parents' education is the key intermediary
instrument, developed through periodic meetings which are supplemented by weekly or bi-weekly
home visits. Colombia, Peru, Guatemala, El Salvador and Mexico have non-formal EE programs that
seek to reach poor children through the training of parents. In addition, all the programs may also
offer a nutrition and, in some cases, a health component (mainly vaccinations).
3.        Institutional Format. Throughout the region, government-sponsored IE programs are
optional. They are managed either by the Ministry of Education, a state govcrnment, or a
government welfare institution. Many of the programs receive support from international
organizations, such as the World Bank (Colombia and the proposed Mexican project), UNICEF, the
Organization of American States, the Bernard Van Leer Fcundation, the World ORT Union, USAID,
and others.
4.         Annual Unit Costs. Annual urit costs of non-formal programs presented in Table I
range from US$31 to US$150, reflecting the different structure and cost methodologies of the
programs. Nonetheless, non-formal community-based education and day care programs clearly cost
significantly less than formal day care: for example, per unit costs of the Mexico formal, CENDI
day care program are US$1,406, compared to US$150 for the Colombia center-based day care
_/ Maribel Cormack Lynch and Gaby Fujimoto Gomez, "Estado del Arte de la Atencion del Nifio Menor de
Seis Anos en Anmrica Latina y El Caribe, " Documentos de Iabajo de PRODEBAS (Organizaci6n de los
Esados Americanos, 1992), 22-23.



Annex 10
NON-FORMAL IE IN LATIN AMERICA
Page 2 of 2
programn, which also has a strong nutrition component. The unit costs oi Mexico's current non-
formal program and of the proposed project are very reasonable compared to other similar programs
(Chile's Parents and Children and Peru's Portage), especially considering the higher labor costs in
Mexico (e.g., the minimum wage in Colombia is approximately 20% the minimum wage in Mexico).
The Peru Portage study indicates that rural non-formal programs are less costly than urban programs.
Unit Costs for Non-Formal Initial and Pre-School Programs
in Latin America
(US$/child 1990 prices)
PROGRAM             TYPE/AGE.           UNIT COST             COMPONENTS
(US$/Child 1991)
Brazil - Proape         Center-based     US$39                   Education, nutrition &
ages 4-6                                 health
Chile - Parents &       Home-based       *US$99                  Parent education &
C'hildren               ages 4-5                           .    radio
Peu - Pronei Portage    Home-based       *US$83 Urban            Parent education
ages 3-5         *US$97 Rural
Peru__-_Pronei_ages_3_ __________ __ 'US$43                      Educaion_ad_nutitio
Per - Pronei            Center-based     *US$40                  Education and nutrition
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ages     3-5   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Peru - Vitart           Center-based     US$135                  Education and nutrition
______ ______ ______ ages    3-5                            _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _
Peru - Conosur          Center-based     US$108                  Education, nutrition &
ages 0-6                                 health
Chile - Cadel           Center-based     US$133                  Nutrition & education
ages  3-5        _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Colombia - Hlogar de    Center-based     *US$150 (including      Community day care
Bienestar Infantil     ages 2-6          US$30 of costs to families provides 75% of
_____________ .& govt. overhead)         child's nutrit. needs
Mexico - SEP Initial    Home-based       US$31                   Parent education
Education Program       ages 0-6
Sources:   Robert Myers, The Eleven Who Survive; Martha Llanos and Donald R. Winkler, "Los
Benefic os y Costos de la Educacidn Preescolar No-formal: El Proyecto Portage en
Peruf; and Robert Myers, Memorandum to Eleanor Schreiber, February 3, 1992.
* Unit costs for experimental program with high training costs.



Annex I I
PROJECT SCOPE AND
POPULATION TARGETING
Page 1 of 5
PROJECT SCOPE AND POPULATION 'TARGETING
A. Targetina
1.   The project would operate in ten of Mexico's poorest states, which include approximately 52%
of all children under age 4, and where in 1991 the non-formal program enrollment rate was 20%
below the national average. Within the ten states, the project would be targeted toward rural
communities of less than 15,000 inhabitants and urban marginal areas, which experience the greatest
incidence of poverty. The decision to focus on rural and urban marginal areas in ten states would
target the project towards the poor and would not overburden the Government's limited institutional
capacity. Nonetheless, a ten-state project would be sufficiently large to have a significant impact on
national enrollment rates, spreading investment costs over a large number of beneficiaries in order to
keep unit costs at a minimum.
2.   The ten states were selected from a ranking of all Mexican states according to a poverty index
based on the following proxies: (i) population of children aged 0 to 3 years!'; (ii) indigenous
population; (iii) primary education completion; (iv) preschool coverage; and (v) marginality indicators
as computed by the National Population Council (CONAPO). All proxies were homogenized by
converting them to a scale of 0 to 100 (the higher the index the greater the level of marginality). A
composite index was then computed from the weighted average of the five indicators, with the highest
weight assigned to the CONAPO marginality index and to the population of children 0-3 (35% each),
and smaller weights of 10% each to indigenous population, primary completion, and preschool
coverage (Table 1).
B. Proiect Demand
3.   The project enrollment rate is measured by the number of children participating in the non-
formal IE program in a given year, divided by the total population of children under four years of
age. The program has a duration of one year, but children are eligible to participate once at any time
during their first four years. Therefore, coverage is defined as four times the annual enrollment rate.
This differs from the definition of coverage in formal educational systems, where the age span of the
cohort is equal to the duration of the educational cycle, and therefore the coverage and enrollment
rates are the same. Project demand has been estimated on the basis of potential coverage of the 0-3
population in the selected states.
4.   As program participation is optional, the size of the project would be determined by the
effective parental participation rate. In 1991, a survey of over 50 programs from the ten states
estimated that the parental response rate was 68 % in rural areas and 40 % in urban marginal areas. In
rural adult education programs, time constraints, distance of homes to meeting places, lack of
transportation, and even some degree of cultural resistance have been reported as inhibiting
participation. Despite the greater population density and easier accessibility, parents in urban
1/ Ages 0-3 include children up to 3 years, 11 months and 29 days.



Annex 11
PROJECT SCOPE AND
POPULATION TARGETING
Page 2 of 5
marginal communities are subject to many more demands on their time and to many competing urban
attractions that take precedence over a voluntary program of education. Consequently, to satisfy
program demand, the project should cover approximately 68% and 40% of eligible rural and urban
marginal parents and children. Given the difficulties and limited experience in reaching scattered
rural communities with populations under 1,000, rural demand estimates are conservatively based on
a 60% rural participation rate and calculated from data for communities of 1,000 to 15,000
inhabitants, even though the project would also operate in the smaller communities.
5.   With these criteria, and assuming that project enrollment will be at least 70% rural, a target
total enrollment of 349,000 children per year has been established, to be reached in the fifth year of
the project. At the end of five years, the project would then have reached a total of approximately
1.2 million children in the ten states. If the non-formal IE programs in the other 21 states were to
continue without change at the 1991 level of operation, another 531,000 children will have been
enrolled at the end of the five-year period, for a national total of about 1.7 million children (Table 2).
C. Expansion Plan
6.   In 1991, total enrollment rates of the non-formal IE program ranged from 0.6% in Veracruz to
10.9% in Campeche, with a national average of 2.3%. Average enrolPment rates for the ten selected
states were 1.8%, while for the other 21 states, 2.8%. Rural coverage was 9.4% for the ten states
and 24.1 % for the other 21. Among the project states, rural coverage ranges from 3.3 % in Veracruz
to 25.6% in Guerrero. The project would raise the urban marginal and rural coverage rates in the ten
states to meet the projected levels of demand, and would reduce the disparity among coverage rates in
the ten states. Enrollment growth is projected at a rate of 46 % annually for the first three years, 25 %
in the fourth and 13% in the fifth year, with annual increments beginning at 35,000, peaking at
81,000 in the third year, and tapering to 39,000 in the last year of the project, because expansion is
expected to become more difficult over time as more resources would be required to reach isolated
communities.
7.   With a 70% rural content in project enrollment, rural coverage would reach an average of
44.4% in the project states. However, since most of the project states have a very high proportion of
rural population, the rural proportion of enrollment would be higher than 70% in those states
(between 81 % and 92%; See Table 2). With this correction, the project would reach at rural coverage
of 50.1 % and urban marginal coverage of 33.0% in the project states, well within the maximum
expected participation rates of 60% and 40%, respectively. Rural coverage rates would range from
36.2% in Veracruz to 77.6% in Guerrero, and urban marginal coverage rates would range from
21.1 % in the state of Mexico to 57.7% in Guerrero.
8.   Project operations would emphasize rural communities of 2,500 to 5,000 inhabitants in the first
year. These are usually reasonably accessible, and the non-formal IE program has had considerable
experience and good parental response with rural communities in this size range. Poverty indicators
will be used to select rural and urban marginal communities and establish target prior,ties for project
operation. In the second year, the range of community size to be selected would expand to between
1,000 and 10,000 inhabitants, and in the third year, the project would expand to all rural communities
under 15,000 inhabitants.



Annex 11
PROJECT SCOPE AND
POPULATION TARGETING
Page 3 of 5
MARGINALITY INDEX USED TO SELECT TEN PROJECT STATES
Population    Indian   School   Preschool Marginality  Composite
States       0-4      Population  Completion  Coverage    Index  Index
I_ _ _ _ _ _ _           (% )      (% )    _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Oaxaca              33.04     100.00     73.80     50.58     100:00     69.00
Veracruz            67.75     70.61      69.00     76.83      64.43     67.91
Chiapas             36.53     54.45     100.00     42.08      99.65     67.32
Puebla              51.10     54.67      50.20     63.32      63.33     56.87
Guerrero           32.13       30.41     73.00     47.10      85.27     56.14
Michoacan           45.14      12.11     59.60     89.77      62.34     53.77
Mexico             100.00      39.75     14.60     100.00      7.93     53.21
Hidalgo             19.18      33.61     31.40     78.57      75.89     47.63
S.L.Potosi          22.83      21.48     43.20     39.03      63.97     40.65
Guanajuato         42.99       3.40      40.40     51.16      44.98     40.29
Jalisco             63.82      6.70      39.20     49.61      21.16      39.29
Yucatan             12.62     55.18      69.60     49.42      47.87     38.59
Zacatecas           12.08      0.11      41.00     49.23      71.87      38.42
Sinaloa             27.94      3.83      41.20     74.90      47.06     38.24
Tabasco             14.90      5.91      53.00      0.00      75.72      37.61
Durango             12.82      7.26      41.40     78.76      43.36      32.40
Campeche            2.61        8.16     71.00     61.00      45.79     30.96
Queretaro           10.45      2.14      20.60     44.79      55.98     30.00
Chihuahua           30.73      7.26      42.60     27.22      26.89     27.88
Quintana Roo        2.22       9.01      40.40     28.96      54.30     27.62
Tamaulipas          20.92      2.87      26.40     65.25      26.43      26.02
Tlaxcala             5.34       3.04     10.60     27.22      50.97      23.79
Morelos             9.79       3.10       0.00     66.60      34.73     22.55
Nayarit             5.96       2.36      38.60     43.44      33.98     22.42
Sonora              15.98      6.48      30.60     49.23      21.07     21.6u
Coahuila            18.57       1.75     11.60     49.23      14.85      17.95
Nuevo Leon          28.51      2.87       9.00     58.30       0.00      16.99
Colima              0.71       0.00      42.00      9.65      30.07      15.94
B.C.Sur              0.00      0.06      18.80     51.54      23.01      15.09
Aguascalientes      5.50       0.23       9.80     53.47      13.17      12.88
B.C.Norte           13.56      2.03       9.20      13.32      2.11      7.94
Source: CONAPO



Annex 11
PROJECT SCOPE AND
POPULATION TARGETING
Page 4 of 5
POPULATION & PROJECTED ENROLLMENT FOR 10 PROJECT STATES
AND EXPECTED RURAL & URBAN COVERAGE ON PROJECT COMPLETION
States     Total     Rural    Urban  I Projected  Projected  % Rural I  Rural     Urban  IEnrollment Rates
0-3       0-3       0-3    Coverage Enrollment          Enrollmentl Enrollment  Rural  Urban
Chiapas        380105   290920    33926    36.7%        38121  91.07%      34719       3402   11.9%   10.0%
Guanajuato     425884    197382    94232    47.0%       33102  70.00%      23171       9931   11.7%   10.5%
Guerrero       280929    180802    37741    62.7%       40504  86.57%      35063       5441   19.4%   14.4%
Hidalgo        191353    142149    18439    49.1%       24950  90.36%      22546       2404   15.9%   13.0%
Mexico         969344    278294   245186    43.4%       43182  70.00%      30227       12955   10.9%    5.3%
Michoacan      364356    216564    64657    37.9%       29317  82.25%      24115       5202   11.1%    8.0%|
Oaxaca         315947    252960    25156    34.0%       30750  92.04%      28302       2448   11.2%    9.7%
Puebla         427299   25503'   68804    48.7%         44315  83.90%      37179       7136   14.6%   10.4%
S.L. Potosi    203524    11555      38287    57.5%      23720  81.19%      19258       4462   16.7%   11.7%
Veracruz       610187    371268   110633    30.9%       41030  81.87%      33591       7439    9.0%    6.7%
10 States    4168928  2300933   737061    44.4%    348991  82.57%    288170  1    60821   12.5          8.3%
21States     3830079  1233450  1024265    24.1%    106296  7000%1   74407r  31889    6.0%
Total      L 7999007q  35343831  17613261   40.7%1   455287 1 79.64%1  362577 1   92710 1  10.31   5.3
Enrollment          Coverage Rates         |    Total Projected Enrollment perYear
il  Stf tes   | Totalf]   Rural  |Urban  |Total  |  1            2   | -3   |4   1  5   |Tt
States   |            Coverage  Coverage | CoveragegT
Chiapas          10.0%      44.7%      40.1%      40.1%    9188   15162   25020   32960   38121        1204511
Guanajuato        7.8%      47.0%      42.2%      31.1%   11323   16519  24098   29663   33102         114705
Guerrero         14.4%      77.6%      57.7%      57.7%   20896   26378   33299   37854   40504        158931|
Hidalgo          13.0%      63.4%      52.2%      52.2%    9105   12983   18514   22507  24950          88059
Mexico            4.5%      43.4%      21.1%       17.8%    13229   20063   30426   38262   43182      145162
Michoacan         8.0%      44.5%      32.2%      32.2%     74001  12015   195061 25468   29317,        937061
1axaca            9.7%      44.8%      38.9%      38.9%    6663   11415   19556   26299   30750         946831
Puebla           10.4%      58.3%      41.5%      41.5%    15941   22847   32745   39917   44315       1557657
S.L. Potosi      11.7%      66.7%      46.6%      46.6%   10809   14255   18798   21889   23720         894711
Veracruz          6.7%      36.2%      26.9%      26.9%    7766   13953   25069   34609   41030        122427
10 States       8.4%      50.1%  1  33.0%  1   33.5% 11123201 1655901 2470311 309428  348991    1183360
121 States   1    2.8%      24.1%  r   12.5%  1   11.1% 1 1062961 1062961 1062961 1062961 1062961    531480
ITotal      1     5.7%  1  41.0%  |  21.1%  |   22.8% | 218616 2718861 3533271 4157241 4552871   17148401
lncrements  I                      -                     1 352401  532701  814411  623971  395631    271911
Notes:       Effective enrollment per year               348,991 children
Proposed average rural coverage            44.4%
Minimum rural percentage of enrollment     70.0%
Years to reach proposed coverage           5
Corrected rural/urban percentage of enrollment   82.6%/17.4%
Corrected average rural/urban coverage     50.1%/33.0%
The complement of the percentage of urban marginal population over total population is used to correct rural/urban
percentage of enrollment in predominantly rural states. Rural coverage refers to communities of less than 15,000
inhabitants.



TARGET PARTICIPATION NUMBERS
BY TYPE OF HUMAN RESOURCE, STATES, AND PROJECT YEAR
PARENTS                                   COMMUNTY EDUCATORS                          MODULE SUPERVLSORS                  ZONE COORDINATORS   I
STATE   I                                                      *                                                 O                                 1       2    3    4  1 5  ITo]
Chiapas                                                      ,                                                      35   58   96  127  147   463    6   10   16   21   25    78
Guanajua        87101  12707   185371 228181 25463I 88235              4EMi                                 M        4   64   93  114  127   442    7          I   16   19   21    74
Guerrero  N= NEMIM MEM  El                                                                3                         80 102 128 146 156  612  13 _1 21 24 26 101
HidalgO         70041   99871  142421  173131  191921   677381   3501    4991    7121    8661    9601   3387   35   50   71   87   96   339              6    8   12  15  16  57
Mexico                                                               091    7721   11701   14721   16611   5584   51   77,  117  147  166   558   9   13   20   25   28    95
MiChOaCan  33= E 2 E = E;                                                              3                            29  46  75  98 113  361   5  8  13  16  19  61
OaXaCa                                                       326   44   75  101]118   36 4 4    7    13   17   20    61
Puebla     1   12262   17575  25188  30705  34088 119819.1                                                          61   88  126  154  170   599   10   15   21   26   28   100
S.L.Potosi      8315   10965   14460  16838   18246   68824         416     5481  7231   8421    9121   34411  42   551  72  841  91    3440   7    9   12  1415     5
Veracruz        5974   1073318          26622  362    9417           9      537     964    1331    1578   47091  30   541  96   133TI181          4711    5         1  22 26    7
1TarALs        _ I 864 i2737   190024 238024 2684551 910277   43211   63691  9501   119031  134231 455161 4331 6381 949 1191113421 45531  72  107  160  199  224   7621
INCRE-   I           1       1        1       1       1            15I    20481   313'1   24031   15201  107011 2311 2051 3111 2421 151  1140   291  351  531  391  251  181
Children 0-3 per parent                                  :        1.3
Parents per community educator                                   20
Community educators per module supervisor                         10
Module supervisors per zone coordinators                         6
0
CA   I



Annex 12
TOR: EXTERNAL TRAINERS
Page 1 of 1
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR EXTERNAL TRAINERS
1.   Objective
To cooperate with the Public Education Secretariat in the training program of the different
human resources involved in the Initial Education project at both central and state levels.
2.   Requirements
(a)   Outstanding knowledge on early childhood development, especially in the professional
area in which the cooperation is expected;
(b)   At least five years experience in teacher or other human resource training area in which
he/she is invited to work;
(c)   A graduate academic deg; ee in the professional area of identification; and
(d)   Faculty membership at a higher education institution, Normal School, or other institution
of acceptable level and quality.
3.   Tasks
(a)   To get acquainted with the Mexican IE program (its evolution and problems) and the
project;
(b)   To interact (e.g., consultation, observation) with IE personnel prior to any actual
involvement with training activity;
(c)   To get acquainted with the human resource training component of the project, its
categories and groups;
(d)   To participate in the project training teams along with in-house trainers and other kinds
of project leaders, seeking to establish a cooperative relationship;
(f)   To give lectures, or conduct workshops on topics of their competence, at the appropriate
technical level for the group of participating trainees, and in accordance with the training
plan prepared for the project; and
(g)   To travel to the location or locations where the training activities are to take place, at the
scheduled times, and remain there for the time that their cooperation is required.
4.   Organization
The external trainers will be selected by the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) in consultation
with the Initial Education Unit on the basis of their competence. At an introductory phase, the
external trainers will be provided with basic information on the Initial Education program and project.
The participation of local and regional professors and trainers is encouraged. Their participation in
the training component of the project has a short-term duration. The external trainer has to report:
(i) to the respective team leader after each training unit participation on the processes and outcomes;
and (ii) to the PCU on the overall participation in the training program.



Annex 1
TOR: EDUCATIONAL MATERIALS ANALYSIS
Page 1 of 2
SPECIAL STUDY 1: EDUCATIONAL MATERIALS ANALYSIS
Objectives
To cooperate with the Public Education Secretariat in: (i) revising the existing guidebooks and
handbooks of the Initial Education Program for a project edition; and (ii) create a set of criteria for a
continuing revision process of these guidebooks and handbooks.
General Requirements
An interdisciplinary gruup will take charge of the revision and must count on professionals
with the following characteristics:
(a)   Experience with developmwn. of cognitive and operational contents at a non-formal level;
(b) Writing and production experience with training-oriented texts;
(c) Experience in curriculum design and evaluation; and
(d) Experience in textbook evaluation under both the psycholinguistic and sociolinguistic
aspects.
Time Fram
The revision process would comprehend approximately five weeks of full-time work by a core
group of IE professionals with the support of external consultants, and be completed in time for the
second production of educational materials.
LMe:thodology
(a) To start with a coherent knowledge of the IE program, the project and the interaction of
the diverse components;
(b) To stick to a participatory approach with direct and detailed consultation with
community educators and module supervisors, and people in the central office who have
been in constant contact with the field agents;
(c)   To become acquainted with the inputs provided by all pertinent co-sultants during the
project preparation process;
(d) To benefit from the regular trips and visits made by the national supervisors and zone
coordinators to collect the information needed now and in the future;
(e) Be aware that the proposed materials have at least thr ee roles in the project: training,
management and diffusion; and
(f)   Part of the present group (content analysis) are expected to continue as an active segment
of the workshop on visual program and communication (see Annex 13).



Annex 1
TOR: EDUCATIONAL MATERIALS ANALYSIS
Page 2 of 2
Tasks
With no attempt to prevent other additional inputs deemed valuable by the consultancy, the
working group will be responsible for:
(a)   Gathering as much knowledge as possible on the basic documentation and the role of the
key project components;
(b)  Identifying the content organization of each guidebook and handbook used by the IE
program;
(c)   Exanining the adequacy betmcon these materials and contents to the Mexican
popuNations groups targeted by them;
(d)  Ic itifying the possible need for new educational areas to be included or expanded or
otherwise treated in these guidebooks and handbooks both for parents benefit and for
agents' training;
(e)   Looking into the general sequence and continuity of the topics covered, so that the key
concepts and skills could be easily understood by poor and unsophisticated users;
(f)   Assessing whether the words and idioms used in these texts fit into the vocabulary and
social context of the population groups who are the targeted beneficiaries;
(g)  Designing a methodology and a selt of criteria (for instance, how useful, how easily
understood, how culturally adequate) which could serve as general guidelines for
information gathering in the field and continuing evaluation of these guidebooks and
landbooks; and
(h)  Putting together the final results of these activities in terms of conclusions, proposals and
recommendations for the improvement (inclusion of new elements, exclusion of any
element, content adjustments, minor correction, etc.) of the guidebooks and handbooks
analyzed.
Organization
The process will be led by SEP's Initial Education Unit. Counting on the active involvement
of the IE departments, sectors, and state-level leaders involved in the non-formal IE program
development, the activities are expected to be completed in five weeks. A consultant or two would be
particularly needed for eight person/weeks, to cover the technical aspects associated with the psycho-
lingdistic and socio-linguistic elements of language and comrmunication.
Prodc
A final report is required in which conclusions and recommendations resul.ing from these
activities would be submitted to SEP and the Bank. This same document must be used as one of the
most important working inputs by the visual program and communication group and workshop (see
Annex 13).



Annex-14
TOR: VISUAL PROGRAM AND COMMUNICATION
Page 1 of 2
VISUAL PROGRAM AND COMMUNICATION
To cooperate with the Public Education Secretariat and particularly with its Initial Education
Unit in the general improvement of the visual program and communication strategy of the printed and
audio-visual material used in the Initial Education programr and project: Parents' Guidebooks,
Children's Notebook, Operations Manual, Zone Coordinator's Handbook, Module Supervisor's
Handbook, Community Educator's Handbook, Pro-Childhood Committee's Handbook, bulletin, wall
calendar, flip charts, didactic games, project symbols, promotional materials.
Professional Requirements
The major consultant, who will be the leader of the working process, is required to exhibit
evidetce of:
(a) Form. training in Communicatior;
(1b) At leasL five years of experience with projects of visual communication, institutional
promotion, and cultural marketing;
(c) Experience with education technology and other media applied to social communication;
(d) Recognized domain of the production technology for printed and audio-visual materials;
(e) Leadership skills in the work with interdisciplinary groups; and
(f) Efficient communication in Spanish.
Phases and Time Frame
The activities will be developed by an interdisciplinary group over approximately five months
and in three phases: first, a month-long preparatory workshop (led by the consultant) for
approximately 30 professionals, invoiving a field test of the resulting samples; second, development
of planned activities (ed by an assistant leader) by the professionals for one or two months; and third,
the actual development or completion (led by the consultant) of the graphic and audiovisual projects
by the consultant and the group for two months.
TaskI
Without any attempt to limit personal and group-originated contributions and initiatives, the
consultant is required to:
(a) Have a in-depth knowledge of the Initial Education program and project and especially of
its guidebooks, handbooks, and training strategies;
(b) Conduct a workshop for a polyvalent group of professionals involved in visual program
and book production: writers, members of the educational materials analysis group (see
Annex 12), national supervisors, illustrators, photographers, trainers, evaluators, and
representatives of module supervisors;
(c) Discuss the right integration of content, printed text and illustration (images, color,
message maximization for each page, different "reading" levels, cultural adequacy);



Anne14
TOR: VISUAL PROGRAM AND COMMUNICATION
Page 2 of 2
(d) Examine the right dimension of each document in terms of message conveyed and time
available for interaction;
(e) Discuss and help select the right dimension for each guidebook and handbook, the cover
and the type of paper most useful and cost-effective;
(f  Create a consistent overall project corporate image with a set of identification symbols
(forms, key words, logos, and colors) to convey the institutional objectives and activities
of the IE project;
(g) Develop with the group and express in the manuals the concept of "social marketing"
associated with project participation and support;
(h) Develop the terms of reference for the radio programs and provide general guidelines for
their actual production;
(i) Draw a detailed plan of activities for each professional to carry out during the second
phase. A careful follow-up will be needed;
(j) Approve the final graphic form of all printed materials mentioned above.
(k) Write the specifications for the bidding of the materials so that quality and durability are
assured;
(   Put together the results of the three phases so that the end result would be the complete
graphic project for the above specified documents; and
(m) Write two reports: first, a report on the development and results of the workshop,
especially on participants' professional characteristics, participation level, working
conditions provided and results expected of the second phase; and second, a final report
emphasizing the same aspects of the first report and providing the final results.
Conditions and Organization
To meet the desired results the work the following conditions are set as a minimum:
(a) The activities should be carried out in Mexico under the coordination of SEP's central IE
Unit;
(b) Most participating professionals belong to the IE sectors but some (particularly those
more associated with audiovisual areas) should be hired for the specific purpose;
(c) Full-time commitment is required of every participant;
(d) Active participation is expected of the members of the (previously completed) working
group on book contents; and
(e) An assistant leader will be selected to help manage the work and play a more significant
role during the second phase.



Amex L15
TOR: RADIO PROGRAMS
Page 1 of 2
RADIO PROGRAMS
Objectives
To cooperate with the Public Education Secretariat and particularly with its Initial Educrtion
Unit in the design and production of radio programs included as one of the educational and
promotional strategies for the Initial Education Project.
Professional Requirements
(a) At least five years of experience with design of radio programs;
(b) Higher education degree in a project-related area; and
(c) Recognized skills in teamwork participation and coordination.
Tasks
(a) Get acquainted with the Initial Education project, its purposes and strategies, especially
in what concerns the cultural and educational interests and needs of rural and urban
marginal populations;
(b) Design the audio structure and written presentation for four annual series of one-minute
promotional spots which will run four times daily over four weeks;
(c) Design four annual series of 20-minute shell programs to broadcast project news,
interviews with community leaders and project participants. These programs would be
broadcast for 18 weeks each year. This kind of program has a fixed section for planned
educational messages and an open section to be filled out along the weeks as needed,
especially to suit regional characteristics and program developments;
(d) Write specific orientation on how to complete and develop the 20-minute program for
regional broadcast, specifying the materials to be used, news to be selected, people
involved, interests to be raised, problems to tackle, etc. Provide as much orientation as
possible in terms cf materials and diffusion, to facilitate the regional development of the
complete programs;
(e) Plan the programs with three main purposes in mind: (i) expansion of the IE project; (ii)
preparation of the communities for project participation; and (iii) promotion and support
of the project where it already exists, and support of the community educators' work;
(f) Be aware that both types of programs should be fully adjusted to local socio-economic
and cultural circumstances;
(g) Even though designed for four consecutive years, both kinds of programs will require
annual revision and updating on the basis of the previous year's experience;
(h) Train Communication Specialists at the central and state JE units;
(i) Conduct a workshop with all the IE Unit departments involved with program contents,
human resources training, program supervision and particularly Educational
Communication;
() Provide assistance to Communication Specialists for program management and
improvement;
(k) Record both programs for the three subsequent years after first-year general definition
and recording;



Annex 15
TOR: RADIO PROGRAMS
Page 2 of 2
Q) Make recommendations on a network of local and regional radio stations in the project
states with recognized audience in the project communities and lower diffusion costs;
(m) Draw a plan for program distribution among the regions and radio stations;
(n) Establish norms and timetables for program management and espec.ally for distribution
and follow-up of the material; and
(   Create a set of indicators and standards for program evaluation, at least in terms of
audience (communities covered, audience index, etc.) and adequacy (topics, approach,
timing, cultural codes, applicability of messages, etc.).
Ptoducts
Three kinds of products are expected from the consultant: (i) the design and actual
production of the one-minute radio spots for each year; (ii) the design and production of the 20-
minute programs, recording the fixed section and giving orientation for the ensuing completion of the
program in the regions; and (iii) a set of written guidelines on how to manage the program,
emphasizing strategies and techniques for the completion of the 20-minute programs.
Ti,Enc
The program should be designed within the first three months of loan effectiveness, and then
revised each subsequent project year on th, basis of the experience gathered.
Conditions and Organizto
The consultant must work in close association with the central IE Unit in order to assure
program contents and strategies in view of the target population. The Communication Specialists at
central and state levels should be in close contact with the development of the design and production
of the programs. The regional completion of the 20-minute programs must be carried out under the
leadership and orientation of the state Communication Specialist, according to orientation provided by
the Department of Communication at the central IE Unit in consultation with the consultant.



Annex 16
TOR: EDUCATIONAL MANAGEMENT
INFORMATION SYSTEM (EMIS)
Page 1 of 2
EDUCATIONAL MANAGEMENT INFORMATION SYSTEM (EMIS)
General Obiectives
To develop an information system based on simplified data collection formats and analytical
and feedback procedures to improve the IE project's educational planning, budgeting, and
management. With three subcomponents (monitoring system, permanent statistics to complement SEP
current statistical system, and cost accounting) the EMIS will be designed to allow statistical
information to improve and accelerate the overall IE management, especially the decentralized
decision making process at the state level.
The project would support the integration of databases into an efficient information storage
and retrieval system at she central and local levels, built around appropriate hardware and
management software.
Time Frame
Sufficient work is to be completed in time for the EMIS to be fully operational by mid-term
review.
Two terms of references were defined, one for an information needs study and another for the
information system design.
1. Information Needs Study
Obiective
To identify throughout the IE bureaucracy the information needs which will become the
indicators to be included in the information system.
Technical Requirements
The study is required to incorporate:
(a) An assessment of the current methodologies to collect and analyze information;
(b) An identification of current dissemination mechanisms;
(c) An identification of new information categories (indicators) and dissemination
mechanisms to be included in the desired system;
(d) The following categories of information: selection and training of educational agents,
community selection, image creation, project community diffusion, community
educators' selection and training, organization of community groups, community
educator performance (with parents, communities, and other institutions), supervision,
production, and distribution of educational materials; and



Annex 16
TOR: EDUCATIONAL MANAGEMENT
INFORMATION SYSTEM (EMIS)
Page 2 of 2
(e) The results of in-depth interviews with educational agents and administrators at the
central as well as at the state and local levels.
2. Information System Design
Objective
To design a system to provide tinely and valid information for problem identification and
follow-up action during project implementation.
Technical Requirements
The information system is required to:
(a) Be based on portable hardware and software such as standard microcomputers, Unix-like
operating systems, and so called fourth-generation programming languages to shorten the
system developme;it time, preserve independence from vendors, and alleviate the
problems caused oy the observed high personnel turnover; and
(b) Include the following:
- Specification of the different databases needed and their relationship;
- The information structure to identify sources and users of information for planning and
management purposes;
- A system structure to identify information volumes and the different applications;
- A technology structure to specify the software and hardware to be used;
- A training program for administrators and operators;
- Data collection instruments;
- Data collection and dissemination procedures, including operation manuals; and
- An implementation schedule, including specification for software and hardware
acquisition, and pilot testing and overall implementation.
Criteria for Proposal Selection
The criteria for proposal selection must include the pertinence between the methodological and
technical aspects of the proposal and the specified system characteristics; the pertinence of the
schedule proposed (adequate relation between tasks and time proposed for implementation); and
researchers' experience with informatic: system design. Contracts should be signed with institutions
rather than with individuals.



AnnexJ1
TOR: EDUCATIONAL IMPACT EVALUATION
Page 1 of 2
EDUCATIONAL IMPACT EVALUATION
Qbjectiv
To evaluate the impact of main project component on parents' learning achievement and child-
rearing and -educating behavior, and children's psychosocial development, school readiness, learning
achievement, and probability of passing the first grade.
Sgecific Issues
The specific issues to be evaluated are:
(a) The extent to which the current structure of Initial Education (TE) is adequately serving
Mexico's needs for human resource development, and eventually how such structure and
the related strategies should be changed or adjusted to meet those needs;
(b) The extent to which IE quality is adequate in terms of parents' learning and behavior,
and children's socio-psychological development, school readiness, and learning
achievement;
(c) The search for the most cost-effective combination of inputs (zone coordinators', module
supervisors', and community educators' training, educational strategies and materials,
parents:community educators ratio, module supervisors:community educators ratio, etc.)
needed to improve program quality;
(d) Tne extent to which access to the program should be expanded; and
(e) The indication of how rural and urban underprivileged groups and families could be
better served by IE services.
Methodloogy
The following elements must be included in the impact evaluation proposal:
(a) Longitudinal panel data gathered in at least three points in time, including data from
control groups;
(b) The sample design should allow for representation of the different types of communities
(i.e., urban marginal, rural, and rural indigenous) where the program is delivered;
(c) The variables to be included should provide measures of parents' knowledge and
practices related to children's socio-psychological development and school readiness, and
the quality of educational output as defined by learning and achievement, including
results of standardized tests in language and mathematics in primary education;
(d) Family and community socioeconomic characteristics, and school/teachers characteristics,
once children reach formal schooling; and
(e) Indicators of educational inputs, including those of IE (training, educational materials,
quality of supervision, etc.) as well as those of preschool and primary school (textbooks,
teacbing and learning materials, pre- and in-service teacher training, supervision, school
construction and maintenance, etc.).



Annex 1
TOR: EDUCATIONAL IMPACT EVALUATION
Page 2 of 2
Time Frm
The study would be undertaken under contract with SEP over a five-year period with no less
than three measurements by a group with high qualifications and experience in research and education
policy analysis. Preliminary results will be submitted for mid-term review.
Elements of Research Proposal
The final research proposals should include the following elements:
(a) Specificat-on of main research (impact evaluation) questions;
(b) Design of sample;
(c) Design of information gathering instruments;
(d) Definition of logistic of field work, including mechanisms to reduce the attrition rate;
(e) Definition of schedule of field work;
(f) Definition of data processing;
(g) Definition of statistical models and methods of analysis to be used;
(h) Implementation schedule specifying the tasks to be done and their respective durations.
This element should also include report schedule. A report should be produced and
delivered to SEP and the Bank after each measurement. A final report should
incorporate the longitudinal analysis;
(i) Detailed budget, including costs by activity and type of expenditures, i.e., direct
(personnel and others) and indirect costs. The implementation schedule and the budget
would allow the contract to be divided into several phases and payments to allow Bank
review and approval on intermediary steps (e.g., design of questionnaires and tests,
sample selection, review of first report); and
(j) Coordination mechanisms with the research Technical Committee, EEU and SEP's
General Directorate of Evaluation.
Criteria for Proposal Selection
The criteria for proposal selection include the pertinence between the methodological and
technical aspects of the proposal and the specified research elements; the pertinence of the schedule
proposed (adequate relation between tasks and time proposed for implementation); and experience of
the researchers in education research, particularly in impact evaluation. Contracts should be signed
with institutions rather than with individuals.



Annex 18
TOR: PROCESS EVALUATION
Page 1 of 2
PROCESS EVALUATION'
Objectives
The main objective of the process evaluation is to assess the quality and short-term effects of
the main project components. It will complement project monitoring and the educational impact
evaluation (see Annex 16) to assess whether the current IE structure and strategies are adequately
serving the program objectives, and how this structure and related activities should be changed or
adjusted to meet these objectives.
The specific objective is to follow up the key processes: project promotion, training of
education agents, project diffusion in the communities, community educators' selection and training,
Pro-Childhood Committee organization, community educators' performance with parents,
communities, and other institutions, and effectiveness of links with related social service activities.
MeboQdology
Process evaluation will rely mainly on systematic observations of participating communities
and families, and will be based mainly on a case study approach combining quantitative as well as
qualitative research techniques.
Time Frame
The studies would be undertaken during the first years of project implementation to provide
feedback for management and eventual project redesign and produce at least preliminary results for
project mid-term review.
Elements of Research Proposal
The process evaluation proposals should include:
(a) Specification of main research (process evaluation) questions;
(b) Sampling specifications;
(c) Proposed measures and indicators as well as draft instruments;
(d) Definition of logistics and schedule of field work;
(e) Definition of methods for data treatment, including data processing and analysis.
Qualitative evaluation methods will be required (direct observation, structured and semi-
structured interviews, open-ended questionnaires, focus groups, etc.);
(f) Implementation schedule specifying the tasks to be undertaken and their respective
durations. This element should also ir.clude report schedule;
(g) Proposed staffing;
(b) Detailed budget including costs by activity and type of expenditures, i.e., direct
(personnel and others) and indirect costs for each process evaluated; and
(i) Coordination mechanisms with the research Technical Committee, SEP's General
Directorate of Evaluation and with project administrators should be discussed with SEP
authorities and incorporated into the proposal.



Annei1
TOR: PROCESS EVALUATION
Page 2 of 2
Criteria for Proposal Selection
The criteria for proposal selection include the pertinence between the methodological and
technical aspects of the proposal and the specified elements; the pertinence of the schedule proposed
(adequate relation between tasks and time proposed for implementation); and experience of the
researchers in education research, particularly in process evaluation. Contracts should be signed with
institutions rather than with individuals.



Annex 19
TOR: SPECLAL STUDIES
Page 1 of 3
SPECIAL STUDY 2: COST-EFFECTIVENESS
Objectiv
To measure the cost-effectiveness of the main educational inputs included in the Initial
Education Project. The study seeks to specifically identify Qie most cost-effective combinations of
inputs (amounts and kinds training of zone coordinators, module supervisors, and community
educators, quantity and kind of educational materials, parents:community educators ratio, module
supervisors:community educators ratio, etc.) needed to improve program quality.
Methodology
The data yielded by the impact evaluation study (see Annex 16) will be used for the cost-
effectiveness study. Data on IE costs, including main educational inputs, and unit costs would be
collected to complete a cost-effectiveness part of the study. Costs should be estimated using the
"ingredient" method, or the methodology developed by the cost accounting for the EMIS. The
sample will be exactly the same used for the impact evaluation. Some of the variables included in the
impact evaluation model should be selected for the cost-effectiveness analysis.
Time Frame
The study would be carried out during the lass years of project implementation when the
information from the impact evaluation and information about costs will be available.
Elements of Research Proposal
The final research proposals should include the following elements:
(a) Specification of main research questions;
(b) Information-sharing arrangements with education impact and process evaluation systems;
(c) Design of instruments and of logistics of field work;
(d) Definition of statistical models and methods of analysis to be used;
(e) Implementation schedule specifying the tasks to be undertaken and their respective
durations. A final report must be written and delivered to SEP and the Bank; and
(h) Detailed budget, including costs by activity and type of expenditures, i.e., direct
(personnel and others) and indirect costs.
Criteria for Proposal Selection
The criteria for proposal selection include the pertinence between the methodological and
technical aspects of the proposal and the specified elements; the pertinence of the schedule proposed
(adequate relation between tasks and time proposed for implementation); and experience of the
researchers in economics of education research, particularly in cost-benefit analysis and cost-
effectiveness studies. Contracts should be signed with institutions rather than with individuals.



Annex1
TOR: SPECIAL STUDIES
Page 2 of 3
SPECIAL STUDY 3: PARENTS' AMITUDES AND PARTICIPATION
To analyze the values and attitudes parents have about children's psychosocial development
and how they (parents) respond to project strategies. This will allow for identifying the profile of
both participating and non-participating parents, and as a result, for formulating of strategies to be
adopted for those who may be considered at risk or those who need more motivation and support
toward participation
Methodology
This study requires survey information from a sample of participating and non-participating
parents. Communities included in the sample could be a subsampie of those selected for the impact
evaluation study. The statistical analysis should incorporate multivariate analysis.
Time Frame
The study would be undertaken during the second year of project implementation.
Elements of Research Proposal
The final research proposals should include the following elements:
(a) Specification of main research questions;
(b) Administrative arrangements with monitoring and process evaluaticn to access
information leading to a sample selection of participant and non-participant parents;
(c) Design of instruments and of logistics of field work;
(d) Definition of schedule of field work;
(e) Definition of statistical models and methods of analysis to be used;
(f) Implementation schedule specifying the tasks to be undertaken and their respective
durations. A final report will be delivered to SEP and the Bank;
(g) Detailed budget, including costs by activity and type of expenditures, i.e., direct
(personnel and others) and indirect costs; and
(h) Coordination mechanisms with the Technical Committee, central EE unit, and SEP's
General Directorate of Evaluation.
Criteria for Proposal Selection
The criteria for selection include the pertinence between the methodological and technical
aspects of the proposal and the specified elements; the pertinence of the schedule proposed (adequate
relation between tasks and time proposed for implementation); and researchers' experience with
educational research. Contracts should be signed with institutions rather than with individuals.



TOR: SPECIAL STUDIES
Page 3 of 3
SPECIAL STUDY 4: PSYCHOSOCIAL DEVELOPMENT SCALE
Objective
To construct and validate a scale to measure children's psychosocial development in the
Mexican context. The study should include a critical review and assessment of the main instruments
that have been developed in Mexico and other regions, mainly in Latin American countries.
Technical Requirements
The proposal is required to:
(a) Identify the instrument to be assessed. At least the following instruments must be
considered: comparison list, parents interview, Cravioto scale, Perinatologfa scale,
ICBF-Ortiz scale (Colombia), and CEDEP scale (Clhile);
(b) Establish methodologies to assess scale reliability and validity;
(c) Design the sample;
(d) Set an implementation schedule, specifying the tasks to be carried out and their
respective durations. This element should also include report schedule;
(e) Specify the necessary staff;
(f) Present a detailed bludget, including costs by activity and type of expenditures, i.e. direct
(personnel and others) and indirect costs;
(g) Define coordination mechanisms with the Technical Committee, IEU and SEP's General
Directorate of Evaluation; and
(h) Propose an implementation timetable.
Criteria for Proposal Selection
The criteria for proposal selection include the pertinence between the methodological and the
specified technical requirements of the proposal; the pertinence of the schedule proposed or the
adequate relation between tasks and the timetable proposed for implementation; and researchers'
experience with educational and socio-psychological research. Contracts should be signed with
institutions rather than with individuals.



Annex 20
PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
Page 1 of 4
PROJECT COST SUMMARY!'
(US$ million)
|    Mex$ billions       US$ millions
_Loal Foreign I Total Local Foreign I Total
Human Resources Development 248.5     1.5 250.0  81.5     0.5  82.0
Educational Materials       21.5    17.7  39.2   7.0      5.8  12.8
Institutional Strengthening  22.3     2.1  24.4   7.3     0.7  8.0
TOTAL BASELINE COSTS    792.3    21.3 313.6  95.8         7.0 102.8
Physical Contingencies      i.7     0.6   2.3   0.6      0.2  0.8
Price Contingencies        33.1     1.8  34.9  10.8      0.6  11.4
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS        327.1    23.7 350.8 107.2      7.8 115.0
PROJECT FINANCING
(US$ million)
Local     Foreign       Total
Government of Mexico                   34.0        0.0         34.0
IBRD                                   72.2        7.8         80.0
UNDP/UNICEF                             1.0        0.0          1.0
TOTAL FINANCING                       107.2        7.8        115.0
1/ Project costs were estimated using May 1992 price levels (US$1.00 = Mex$3,050).



PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
Page 2 of 4
PROJECT COSTS BY SUMMARY ACCOUNTS
(US$ million)
Local        Foreign        Total
INVESTMENT COSTS
Equipment & Materials                            7.1           6.7          13.8
Training                                        24.1           -            24.1
Technical Assistance                             1.6           0.3           1.9
PCU                                              2.0           -             2.0
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                           34.8           7.0          41.8
RECURRENT COSTS
Salaries & Allowance                            44.7           -            44.7
Equipent & Supplks                               0.6           -             0.6
Operating Costs                                  0.7           -             0.7
Existing Recurrent                              15.0           -            15.0
Total RECURRENT COSTS                            61.0            -           61.0
Total I;ASELINE COSTS                            95.8           7.0         102.8
Physical Contingencies                           0.6           0.2           0.8
Price Contingencies                             10.8           0.6          11.4
Total PROJECT COSTS                             107.2           7.8         115.0



Annex 20
PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
Page 3 of 4
PROJECT COST SUMMARY BY COMAPONENT
(US$ 000)
Humut       Educational   nstitutional              Physical      Price
Resources     Materials   Strengthening  Totl    Contingencies Contingenoies
Developmer| Development                             5IT`Arnount  % |Amout
INVESTMENT COSTS
Equipment & Materials                641.0      12,079.0      1,116.0     13,836.0  5.0  691.8 12.3  1,696.6
Traiming                           23,530.0         0.0        555.0      24,085.0  0.0    0.0  9.5  2,286.0
Technical Assistane                    0.0        768.0       1,106.0      1,R74.0  0.0    0.0  7.5   141.4
PCU                                    0.0          0.0       2,049.0     2,049.0  0.0    0.0  9.7   198.4
Total INVESTMENT COSTS               24,171.0     12,847.0      4,826.0     41,844.0  1.7    0.0 10.3  4,322.4
RECURRENT COSTS
Salaries & Allowances              42,788.0          0.0      1,857.0     44,645.0  0.0    0.0 12.4  SS32.5
Equipment & Supplies                    0.0          0.0        622.0        622.0  5.0   31.0 10.1    63.0
Operating Costs                         0.0          0.0        707.0        707.0  5.0   35.4 11.7    82.7
Existing Recunent                  15,000.0          0.0          0.0.    15,000.0  0.0    0.0  9.7  1,450.6
Total RECURRENT COSTS                57,788.0         0.0       3,186.0     60,974.0  0.1   66.4 11.7  7,128.9
Total BASELINE COSTS                 81,960.0     12,847.0      8,012.0    102,818.0  0.7  758.3 11.1 11,451.3
Physical Contingencies                 32.0        604.0        122.0        758.0
Price Contingencies                  9128.0      1,431.0        892.0     11,451.0  0.8   87.7
Totad PROJECT COSTS                  91,120.0     14,882.0      9,026.0    115,029.0  0.7  846.0 10.0 11,451.3
Foreign Exchange                      500.0      5,800.0        700.0      7,000.0  4.6  379.9



Ann§U1Q
PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
Page 4 of 4
SUMMARY ACCOUNTS BY YEAR
(US$ 000)
Year 1    Year 2     Yea 3      Year 4    Year 5      TOl       FB egI
Exchange
!   Amoun
INVESTMENT COSTS
Equipment & Material             2,108.0    1,720.0    2,296.0    2,617.0    5,096.0   13,837.0 48.4   6,700
Traing                           5,396.0    4,133.0    5,074.0    5,127.0    4,355.0   24,085.0  0.0      0
Technical Assitae                  695.0      398.0      247.0     296.0      239.0    1,875.0 16.0    300
PCU                                409.0      409.0     409.0      411.0      411.0    2,049.0  0.0       0
Tot  NSTMENT COSTS                 8,608.0    6,666.0    8,026.0    8,451.0   10,101.0   41,846.0 16.7   7,000
RECURRENT COSTS
Salaries & Allowances             2,755.0    5,424.0    9,444.0   12,557.0   14,465.0   44,645.0  0.0      0
Equipment & Supplies                125.0     124.0      124.0      124.0      124.0      621.0  0.0       0
Opeating Coss                       89.0       111.0     147.0      173.0      188.0      708.0  0.0       0
Existing ReCurrent                3,000.0    3,000.0    3,000.0    3,000.0    3,000.0   15,000.0  0.0      0
Tot,l RECURRENT COSTS              5,969.0    8,659.0   12,715.0   15,854.0   17,777.0   60,974.0  0.0      0
Toal BASELINE COSTS               14,S77.0   15,319.0   20,741.0   24,305.0   27,878.0   102,820.0  6.8   7,000
'hysical Continge cies             116.1       97.7      128.3      145.7      270.4      758.3 26.4    200
Price Contingencies                271.8      866.2    1,988.1    3,320.1    5,005.1    11,451.3  5.2    600
Tota PROJECT COSTS                14,964.9   16,282.9   22,857.4   27,770.8   33,1S3.5   11S,029.6  6.8   7,800
Foreign Exchange                  1,014.8    1,104.1    1,549.9    1,883.1    2,248.1    7,800.0100.0   7,800



Annex 21
ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENTS
Page 1 of 2
DISBURSEMENTS
WITHDRAWALS OF THE PROCEEDS OF THE LOAN
Amount of the
Category          Loan Allocated           % of Expenditures
(expressed in            to be financed
US$ equivalent)
Equipment & Furniture       1,100,000     100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of locl
expenditures (ex-factory cost), and 90% of
other local exponditures
Educational Materials &    13,600,000     90% of eligible expenditurese-
Library Books
Staff Training & Annual    27,100,000     100% of total costs
Conferences
Studies & Technical         1,400,000     100% of eligible expenditures
Assistance
Incremental Salaries &     30,800,000     100% until an aggregate amount of US$8.6
Other Operational Costs                   million s reached; 90% until an aggregat
amount of USS17.4 million is reached; 75%
until an aggregat amount of US$27.0
million has been reached; and 25% for the
remainder
Unallocated                 6,000,000
Total                      80,000,000
a/     Exclusive of US$0.2 million to be financed by UNDP/UNICEF/UNESCO
Exclusive of US$0.54 million to be financed by UNDP/UNICEF/UNESCO
ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENTS TIMETABLE
IBRD Fiscal Year
1993     1994     1995  i 1996       1997      1908
Annual                11.0I1    9.0      16.0     16.0     18.0       10.0
Cumulative            11.0     20.0     36.0      52.0     70.0      80.0
Includes Special Account deposit of US$8.0 million. Retroactive financing of
US$5.0 millien would be available for eligible expenditures incurred after
May 1, 1992.



Annex21
ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENTS
Page 2 of 2
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
(US$ million)
Bank   Quarter Ending  Disbursed  Cumulative   Disb. as   Balanue of
Fiscal                 During     Amount   Percentage     Loan
Year                   Quarter      _        of Total
Mar. 31, 1993        8A0?       8.0                   72.0
93   Jun. 30, 1993        3.0       11.0        13.75      69.0
Sep. 30, 1993        1.0       12.0                   68.0
94   Dec. 31, 1993        2.0       14.0                   66.0
Mar. 31, 1994        3.0       17.0                   63.0
l_____ Jun. 30, 1995        3.0        20.0       25.00       60.0
Sep. 30, 1994        4.0       24.0                   56.0
95   Dec. 31, 1994        4.0       28.0                   52.0
Mar. 31, 1995        4.0       32.0                   48.0
l_____ Jun. 30, 1995        4.0        36.0       45.00       44.0
Sep. 30, 1995       4.0        40.0                   40.0
96   Dec. 31, 1995        4.0       44.0                   36.0
Mar. 31, 1996        4.0       48.0                   32.0
Jun. 30, 1996        4.0       52.0       65.00       28.0
Sep. 30, 1996        4.0       56.0                   24.0
97   Dec. 31, 1996        4.0       60.0                   20.0
Mar. 31, 1997        5.0       65.0                   15.0
Jun. 30, 1997        5.0       70.0       87.50       10.0
Sep. 30, 1997        3.0       73.0                    7.0
98   Dec. 31, 1997        3.0       76.0                    4.0
Mar. 31, 1998        2.0       78.0                    2.0
IL     Jun. 30, 1998        2.0        80.0      100.00        0.0
Includes Special Account deposit of US$8.0 million and a portion of
retroactive financing of up to US$5.0 million for eligible expenditures
incurred after May 1, 1992.



- uw im                                                            SEGfETARY
r~~~~~M                I    A |
C   I     .     .         I                       I            . -               -            I ml
.~ ~ ~~ E  a.                              ..                      .m.                                         , 
MM"     0- £0Orr%=
mmomp Om                                                                                                                               mmIOUYma    ns,ENY*.  ~  mi   ~  u
quaznwa5l O~ |            IU                                                            Eu I|    Eu a  || e            xZ5n        
~~~~'Aqt                                  u1A.L -I-nCA            PU WE4I H1u                                     - 'I@w', &
,~~~m                                          m
mom w*UT. Lu                              man       m mama          -  aI                   -       -n'   I       uL Wl  Eu m11f10                '
a~mmw EuW          agman       L    .am rauw                am.  .u
F-----_____.---                                  U2
1-'w1-1---'--------' ----  ----  
ml comimam 0M ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ O   gamc
Source: SEP                                                                                           u                 __



CENTRAL EE UNIT
GENERIAL
DIRECTOR              SECFkErARY
ADVISORV co      E VM__                             _     _ORLD BANK
FOR NONFORMIAL IE pJCj
|DEPUTY DIRECTOR        DEPUY DIRECTOR          rEPUIY DIRECTOR )D|  STRMf1
FOR PLANNING           FOP, TECH. ASSIST.          D.F. OPS    |         COORDINATOR
| DEI ITENT OF 1DEPARTMENT OF                   DFEPAtTMENT OF           DEPARTULNT OF I
BPUDGET    l       |  CURRICULUM j1            CENDI-SEP            HUMAN RESOUrCEaJ
MEPAIITUI  OF   DEPARTMET OF  DEPARTMENT OF                      DEPARTMENT OF
DEPARTLilE  DEPARTMENT OFDNPN OMLFINANCIAL
_INFORTION                  TRAINING                                   _
SYSTEMS                                       INMAL EDIJC.              RESOURCES
LDEPARTMENT OF |DLPA{> 4ENN OF                                            DEATMN OF
DEPARTPENT Of                                             OFl
SIJFEERVISION AIC
_   TEH. ASSIST.                                                      z _
:>W
>TQ
40 Ct



PROJECT
COORDINATING UNIT
[      DIRECTOR
lTECHNICALEVALUATION                   ri  ADMINISTRATIE
COORDINATOR          COORDINATOR             COORDINATOR
10-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



STATE IE UNIT
f      STATE SECRETARIAT
OF PUBUC EDUCATION
DIRECTOR OF
ELEMENTARY EDU,CATION
DEPARTMENT OF
INTIAL EDlUCATION
SUB-DEPARTMENT OF                                            8UB-DEPET OF T
THE FORMAL PROGRAM                                             NON-FORMAL PROGM
OFFICE OF            TRAINING        CMMUNICATION         PLANNING &
.M. SVCES.             PECIAIST          SPECIALIST        .
h.0
:iCNG I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~:
1| ezAutEnoN 11-~ I~
B



Annex-2
PROJECT MONITORING & IMPLEMENTATION
Page 1 of 2
PROJECT MONITORING INDICATORS & IMPLEMENTATION TARTGETS
Activitiesi Unit   Quantity I Year I  Year 2  Year 3 | Year 4 | Year S
OVERALL MANAGEMENT
Establish central- & state-level IE units             Units           11    100%
Conduct Annual Implementation Review                  Reports          5    D        D        D        D       D
Conduct Mid-Term Review                               Report           I                   S  C
Contract independent auditor                          Audits           S    D        D        D        D       D
HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT
Train high-level professionals                        No.             60      20%     20%      20%      20%     20%
Purchase training equipment                                                   70%     10%      10%      10%
Train training leaders & technical staff              No.             8S      50%     50%
Select & hire supervisors & zone coordinators         No.          4,600      30%     25%      25%      20%
Train supervisors& zone coordinators                  No.          5,260      30%     25%      25%      10%     10%
Select & hire community educators                     No.         38,000      30%     25%      25%      20%
Select communities for ivtervention                   No.                     10%      15%     25%      25%     25%
Train community educators                             No.         4),000      30%     25%      25%      10%     10%
Train parents                                         No.        900,000      10%      15%     25%      25%     25%
* I Parent learning achievement                                                   Annual quality control audit
* Rate of parent attendance to meetings
* 2 Community educator performance                                                Annual quality control audit
* Regularity of parent group meetings
* Effectiveness of use of educational materials
* Frequency and use of home visits
EDUCATIONAL MATERIALS DEVELOPMENT
Revise/print Parents' Guidebook& Child's Notebook     No.       1,500,000             10X      25%     25%      40%
Revise/print Community Educators' Handbook            No.         45,000      20%     50%      10%      10%     10%
Revise/print Supervisors' Handbook                    No.          5,260      40%     60%
Revise/print Zcne Coordinators' Handbook              No.                     40%     60%
Develop printed materials for parents/community                               20%     20%      20%     20%      20%
Develop audio & video cassettes                                               20%     20%      20%     20%      10%
Conduct public campaigns by radio                     Spots          560      20%     20%      20%     20%      20%
INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING
Establish Pro-Childhood Committees                                               On-going
Select & hire new staff                               No.             80      30%     25%      25%      20%
Purchase vehicles                                     No.             27      45%      19%     18%      18%
* 3 Level and regularity of community educator payment                            Annual quality control audit
* 4 Quality and frequency of supervision                                          Annual quality control audit
 Quality and frequency of module supervision
* Quality and frequency of state and central supervision
* 5 Pro-Childhood Committee and community participation                           Annual quality control audit
* Number of Pro-Childhood Committees established
* Type and quality of Pro-Childhood Committ-
activities
EDUCATIONAL MGMT INFO SYSTEM (EMIS)
Contract technical assistance                                                100%
Design EMIS modules                                   No.              3    100%
Purchase ocomputer equipment & software                                       77%      7%       6%       5%      5%
Imple.nent project monitoring module                                                  25%      25%      25%     25%
Implement cost accounting module                                                      25%      25%      25%     25%
Implement statistics module                                                           25%      25%      25%     25%



Annex 23
PROJECT MONITORING & IMPLEMENTATION
Page 2 of 2
Activities                      Unit   Quantity I Year 1  Year 2  Year 3  Year 4  YeAr 5
EVALUATION SYSTEM & STUDIES
Contract tooh. assistance for process evaluation                         100%
Conduct program evaluation                                                20%      30%     30%     10%     10%
Conduct study on psychosoeial development scale    Study            1    100%
Conduct evaluation study on educational materials   Study           1                     100%
Conduct study on parents' attitudes& behavior       Study           1             100%
Conduct study on program's cost-effeetiveness      Study            1                              50%     50%
Contract technical assistance for Impact evaluation                      100%
Conduct impaot evaluation study                                           10%     20%      30%     30%     10%
D   Discroet activities   S - Start activity    C - Complete activity
* Indicators marked with an asterisk will be evaluated on a random sample basis by the independent annual quality control audit.
Numbers in front of major areas of Indicators signal ordor of priority and relative, weight.



PROJECr MONITORING MATRIX
___ r  .. 
The project is designed to support
ifprove.ent of the quality and
efficiency of the Mexican non-forma(
initial education progran, expend its
coverage in ten states, and
strengthen the federal aJd state
goverrrnt agencies, technical
capacity to plan, expuad, monitor and
evaluate the program. The project is
targeted to the rural and urban
marginal population of children uider
four years of age, and includes three
major conponents: (a) Human
Resources Development; Cb)
Educational Naterials Development;
and (c) Institutional Strengthening.
A.      Human Resources Development
A.!.    RacrWitnmnt of Tranimng Staff           _   _
Evidence that comumnities have been identified in each           GA 3.09(8)  For the arinnal review each year, 1993-97
of the ten project states to meet the project expansion    SL Ax 1. 4.1(a)
targets set for year.                                                                                                          l
Evidence that the appropriate nmrber of module               SL Anx 1,4.1(b)  For the annual review each year, 1993-97
supervisors and zone coordinators to meet the year's
l_________________________________   project expansion targets have been recruited.                                                                                       l
A.2.    Training of operationat Staff   Evidence that initial training courses have been               SL Anx 1.4.1c(   For the anntual review each year, 1993-97
conpL eted for all moduLe supervisors and zone
coordinators.                                                                                                                  I
Detailed training program for community aducators,           GASch1.A 1.1  Each year for the annuaL and mid-term
module supervisors, and zone coordinators invvolved in                       impiementation review and plamning meetinigs
the project for the respective year. ,
Evidence of timely payment of community educators'           GA 3.06B 3.09(b)  within one yea- after effectiveness, and for
compensation of at least USS50 equivalent in real                            each year at the annual and mid-term reviews
l ___________________________________     terms.                                                                                                                          l
0
i 0I



-AMU. JECMIS AM CW12ETfS                               PIDAIECT ACTIVTIES                          EMTIFRE- T
Evidence that the monthly supervision travel allowance           GA 3.06   For effectiveness
for module supervisors and zone coordinators are at
least US$60 and US$50 equivalent in real terms,
resrectively.
A.3.    Training of Catity              Evidence that Pro-Childhood Committees have been           SL Anx 1,4.1(o)  For the anual review each year, 1994-97
Eiacters aI Parent  rvups               organized and commity educators have been trained for
the year.                                                                                                                 l
Evidence that parent training groups have been             SL Amt 1, 4.1t0  For the antual review each year, 1994-97
organized and that training courses are being
conducted.
Evidence that continuing in-service training activities    SL Am 1, 4.1X(1   Fo! the anuwal review each year, 1993-97
for cofmity educators, module supervisors and zone
l______________________________  coordinators are proceeding regularly.
Review of the graduate program for top-level              LA Sch 1. S3(,W)  .nnual implementation reviews and planning
____________ executives.                                                  meetings
A.4.    ProfessinaL Staff Training                                   ___                  ____l
Evidence that an amual training seminar has been            SL Anx 1. 4.2  By March 31 of each year, 1993-1996
I ___________________________________   conducted  for  training   specialists.                                   _
Evidence that an annual training seminar has been           St Am 1,4.3  By June 30 of each year, 1993-1996
l___________________________________  conducted for memrers of the technical staff.
B.      Edeatiuml Iterials
Delt                                                                                                                                                             l
3B..    Printed mterials                Evidence of revision, updating, or design of all           SLAn 1,2.1(a)  By February 28, 1993
printed educational materials have been completed.
Printing and distribution of all printed materials.       SLAncx 1. 2.1)b)  By August 31, 1993
Revision of all educational meterials.                    SL Am x.2.1o B  Februarv 28  1995
Printing and distribution of the balance of all           SLAx1,2.1(d)  By August 31, 1995
l _____________________________________  educational   m aterials.                                                                                                l
0A



AIN UJECTrIVES AND C _UPEItS                             PROJECT ACTIVTIES                           C(FEEIMT                         TIE RIAE
8.2.    Nan-print educational            Develop and submit for Bank approval terms of reference    SL Anx 1. 2.1t,)  By February 28, 1993
mteriats                                 and content specifications for non-print educational
materials.
Contract for the design and production of educational        SLAnx 1,2.1(b,)  By March 31, 1993
games.
Contract for the production of a 6 to 8 minute               SLAnx 1,2.1(b,)  By March 31, 1993
educational video cassette.
Contract for the production of four 60 minute audio          SL Anx 1.2.1(b,)  By March 31, 1993
cassettes.
B.3.    Radio Edwationat Materials       Contract for the developnent and production of three          SL Anx 1. 2.1Cc,)  By February 28 of each year, 1993-1997
different one-minute radio spots.                          _
Evidence that appropriate arrangements have been made        SL Anx 1. 2.1 dj   By March 31 of each year, 1993-97
with local and regional radio stations.
Contract for the development and production of a series    SL Anx 1, 2.1(e,J  By March 31, 1993
of radio programs.
C.      Institutiaul Strenthening
C.1.    Centrat ard State Initiat        Evidence that at least the Deputy Directors at the                 LA 6.01(c)  For effectiveness, and for disbursement of
Edicatian tiits                          central IE unit and two of the technicat positions in                         project resources for each individual state
the state IE units have been filled.
C.2.    Eduatiomtl Nuemn                 Select consultants and contract for the study of                              By November 30, 1992
Informatin Syystm                        information needs and for the design of a system to
generate and process information required for project
I _______________________________    monitoring   and   implementation.
The Educational Management Information System will be              GA 3.05   By December 31, 1993
l ___________________________________      in     operation.
0



|    Y^Id 00JECTIVES AND C£hPOXE"TS                       PR0JECT ACTIVITIES                           OCOVEANT    |                     TINE FRANE
l                                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IN LamN I 
l                                                            j    A6RE 0EN T   I  ________________________________A_E E_
C.3.    Project Evaluation System         Impact evaluation:                                               SL Anx 1, 3.4
- Select consultants and contract for the impact study                        8y February 28, 1993
- Sampling and instruments design                                             Approved by SEP and Bank by
February 28, 1994
l  - First report                                                             By December 31, 1994
Process evaluation:                                             SL Anx 1, 3.4
- Select consultants and contract for the process                             By December 31, 1993
evaluation
Studies:                                                        SL Anx 1. 3.4
- Select consultants and contract, satisfactory to the
Bank, for the following studies:
- Psychosocial development scale:         (contract)                          By February 28, 1993
(final report)                      By December 31, 1993
- Evaluation of educational materials:  (contract)                            By December 31, 1994
(finat report)                      By December 31, 1995
- Parents' attitudes and behavior:        (contract)                          By December 31, 1993
(final report)                      By December 31, 1994
- Cost-effectiveness:                     (contract)                          By December 31, 1995
(final report)                      By July 31, 1997
Contract for independent research center or consulting               GA 3.12  Each year, 1993-97
firm to perform a quality control review.
OVERALL PROJECT IEPLEIENTATION        Evidence that an agreement has been signed with each            LA Sch 1l 3(b)  For disbursement of project funds for each of
state for project implementation.       _______    the project states
Evidence that satisfactory agreements have been signed             LA 6.01(b)  For effectiveness
with at least three of the ten project states.                       GA 3.03
Furnish terms of reference for mid-term implementation            GA 3.10(al  By April 30, 1995
review meeting.
A mid-term review conducted by SEP, jointly with the              GA 3.10(b)  By October 31, 1995
Bank.                                                           _
Action plans based on recommendations of special                              Annual reviews, 1994 - 1997
studies submitted.
Action plans, satisfactory to the Bank, based on the               GA 3.10(b)  By November 30, 1995
results of the mid-term review meeting.
o
5", -~
SQo  0oI



P     OJECTIVS AM                                         PRWJECT ACTIVITIES                           C|ENNT                            TINE FR_                      1
in LOUN 
Preparation of a work plan and budget for the following                        By September 30 of each year, 1993-97
fiscal year.
Annual project progress reviews.                                     LA 3.03   By October 31 of each year, 1993-97
GIA 3.09(a)
Evidence that the Advisory Comrittee has been                        GA 3.08   By June 30, 1993
established.
Furnish to the Bank a certified copy of the audit             LA 4.01 (b)i),6),  Not later than 6 months after the end of each
reports.                                                                (iv)  year
GA 4.01 (b)l(i4,6i
Submit a copy of the signed agreement between SEP and                          Three months after effectiveness.
the Health Secretariat for cooperation in JE.
0
z
0  0o
4.



Annex 25
DOCUMENTS IN PROJECT FILE
Page I of 6
DOCUMENTS IN PROJECT FILE
A.    Studies and Reports on the Project
1.    Diario Oficial. Extractos de Legislaci6n referente a Servicios de Atenci6n para el Bienestar y
Desarrollo Infantil. 1983, 1988.
2.    Ernesto Zedillo Ponce de Le6n, Secretario de Educaci6n Publica. Apreciable Maestro.
Mexico, D.F., 1992 (May 18).
3.    Estados Unidos Mexicanos. Acuerdo Nacional para la Modernizaci6n de la Educaci6n
Basica. M6xico, May 18, 1992.
4.    Fundaci6n Bernard Van Leer. Proyecto Acci6n Investigaci6n del Programa de Desarrollo del
Nifno de 0 a 5 Afios a traves de Padres de Familia y Miembros de la Comunidad. Informe Final.
Mexico, Direcci6n General de Educaci6n Preescolar, 1987.
S.    Gabriela Palomino. Prograrna de Educaci6n Inicial No-Escolarizada PNUD-SEP. Informe de
Consultorfa: Componente de Nutrici6n. Mexico, 1991 (October).
6.    Gian Calvi, Disefio de Materiales Impresos y Audiovisuales (Informe de Consultorfa), May,
1992.
7.    INEGI - Instituto Nacional de Estadfstica, Geograffa e Informatica. Documentaci6n Basica
Censal de los 10 Estados a Participar en el Proyecto de Educaci6n Inicial No-Formal Financiado por
el Banco Mundial. Mexico, 1990.
8.    INEGI - Instituto Nacional de Estadfstica, Geograffa e Informatica. Sistema para la Consulta
de Informaci6n Censal. Diez Estados Seleccionados. Mexico, 1990.
9.    Jorge Rivera. Propuesta de Comunicaci6n Educativa para el Pro rama de Fducaci6n Inicial.
Informe de Consultorfa. Mexico, 1991 (September).
10.   Manuel Vera. Informe de Consultorfa y Actividades. M6xico, 1991 (Noviembre 25).
11.   Marta Arango. Propuesta para el Componente de Capacitaci6n del Programa de Educaci6n
Inicial No-Formal. Informe de Consultorfa. Mexico, 1991 (September).
12.   Martha Llanos-Zuloaga. Proyecto de Educaci6n Inicial de Mexico. (Informe de
Consultorfa), 1992.
13.   Programa Nacional de Acci6n. Mexico y la Cumbre Mundial en Favor de la Infancia.
Mexico, Secretarfa de Salud, 1991 (Noviembre).



Annex 25
DOCUMENTS IN PROJECT FILE
Page 2 of 6
14.   Raul Benftez Zenteno. Estimaci6n de la Demanda Potencial del Programa de Educaci6n
Inicial. Secretarfa de Educaci6n PUblica. Ciudad de Mexico, 1992 (September 19).
15.   Raul Benftez Zenteno. Poblaci6n Rural de los Estados Seleccionados en el Provecto
Educaci6n Inicial - Banco Mundial. Mexico, 1991.
16.   Roberto lunes. Documentos de Trabajo y Presupuestos del Programa de Educaci6n Inicial.
17.   SEP - Direcci6n General de Educaci6n Inicial. Seminario Taller sobre Planeaci6n de la
Educaci6n Inicial. Cuernavaca. Mor., 8 al 13 Junio 1992.
18.   SEP - Estadfsticas de Educaci6n Inicial No-Formal y del Sistema Educativo.
19.   SEP - Plantilla del Personal de la Unidad de Educaci6n Inicial. 1992.
20.   SEP - Programa de Educaci6n Inicial No-Formal. Bases de CMlculo para el Banco Mundial.
Mexico, 1991 (Febrero).
21.   SEP - Secretarfa de Educaci6n Piblica. Clasificaci6n por Obieto del Gasto. 1987 (Mayo).
22.   SEP - Secretarfa de Educaci6n Publica. Educaci6n Preescolar. M6xico 1880-1982. Mexico,
Direcci6n General de Educaci6n Preescolar, 1988.
23.   SEP - Secretarfa de Educaci6n Publica. Estadfstica Basica del Sisteina Educativo Nacional.
Inicio de Cursos 1991-1992. (Resumen). Mexico, Direcci6n General de Planeaci6n, Programaci6n y
Presupuesto, 1992 (Mayo).
24.   SEP - Secretarfa de Educaci6n Publica. Gufa de Padres del Programa de Desarrollo del-Niflo
de 0 a 5 Anos a traves de Padres de Familia y Miembros de la Comunidad. M6xico, Direcci6n
General de Educaci6n Inicial, 1991 (Abril).
25.   SEP - Secretarfa de Educaci6n Pdblica. Gufa de Padres para la Educaci6n de los Niiios desde
el Nacimiento hasta los Cuatro Afios. Mexico, Unidad de Educaci6n Inicial, 1991 (December).
26.   SEP - Secretarfa de Educaci6n Publica. Informe de las Investigaciones Realizadas en las
Universidades para Detectar las Maestrfas Afines de Educaci6n Inicial. M6xico, Unidad de
Educaci6n Inicial/Departamento de Capacitaci6n y Superaci6n Profesional, 1992.
27.   SEP - Secretarfa de Educaci6n Pdblica. Informe Estadfstico de los Centros de Desarrollo
Infantil a Nivel Nacional. Perfodo Junio-Septiembre. Inicio de Curso 1991-1992. Mexico, 1992.
28.   SEP - Secretarfa de Educaci6n Pdblica. Informe Estadfstico de los Centros de Desarrollo
Infantil de los Organismos Publicos y Privados a Nivel Nacional. Mexico, 1992 (Mayo).
29.   SEP - Secretarfa de Educaci6n Publica. La Educaci6n Inicial No-Formal en Mexico a partir
de 1981. Mexico, SEP, 1991 (Febrero).



Annex 25
DOCUMENTS IN PROJECT FILE
Page 3 of 6
30.   SEP - Secretarfa de Educaci6n Publica. Lineamientos para el Perfodo 1991-1992 del
Prograrrna No-Formal de Educaci6n Inicial. M6xico, Unidad de Educaci6n Inicial, 1991
(Septiembre).
31.   SEP - Secretarfa de Educaci6n Ptblica. Manual de Organizaci6n de la Coordinaci6n de
Educaci6n Inicial en los Estados. 1990 (Diciembre).
32.   SEP - Secretarfa de Educaci6n Piblica. Manual de Organizaci6n de la Unidad de Educaci6n
Inicial. (Propuesta). 1992 (Abril).
33.   SEP - Secretarfa de Educaci6n Publica. Manual del Promotor. Programa de Desarrollo del
Nifio de 0 a 5 Afios a traves de Padres de Familia y Miembros de la Comunidad. Mexico, Direcci6n
General de Educaci6n Inicial y Preescolar, 1989 (Noviembre).
34.   SEP - Secretarfa de Educaci6n Publica. Manual dal Responsable del M6dulo de Educaci6n
Inicial no Escolarizada. Mexico, Subsecretarfa de Educaci6n Elemental, 1985 (Augusto).
35.   SEP - Secretarfa de Educaci6n Pdblica. Manual del Supervisor de M6dulos de Educaci6n
Inicial no Escolarizada. M6xico, Direcci6n General de Educaci6n Preescolar, 1988 (Mayo).
36.   SEP - Secretarfa de Educaci6n Publica. Manual de Orsanizaci6n del M6dulo de Educaci6n
Inicial No-Escolarizado. Mexico, Unidad de Educaci6n Inicial, 1990 (Octubre).
37.   SEP - Secretarfa de Educaci6n Piblica. Memoria Eiecutiva para la Misi6n de Evaluaci6n del
Banco Mundial. M6xico, Unidad de Educaci6n Inicial, 1992 (Mayo). (Main document and two
annexes).
38.   SEP - Secretarfa de Educaci6n Publica. Presentaci6n del Programa de Educaci6n Inicial No-
Formal. Mexico, Unidad de Educaci6n Inicial), 1991 (Mayo).
39.   SEP - Secretarfa de Educaci6n Publica. Programa de Apoyo a la Educaci6n Inicial No-
Formal para Poblaciones en Situaci6n de Pobreza. Bases Programdticas. M6xico,
SEP/UNICEF/UNESCO, 1990. (Cocoyoc Report. Initial meeting on the project. Cocoyoc,
Morelos, May 25 to June i, 1990).
40.   SEP - Secretarfa de Educaci6n Publica. Programa para la Modernizaci6n Educativa 1989-
1994. V. 1. Mexico, Poder Ejecutivo Federal, 1989.
41. SEP - Secretarfa de Educaci6n PNblica. Proyecto Banco Mundial. Mdxico, Unidad de
Educaci6n Inicial, 1992 (Febrero).
42.   SEP - Secretarfa de Educaci6n Publica. Proyecto de Educaci6n Inicial No-Escolarizada
(Banco Mundial). Presupuesto y Cronograma de Actividades. M6xico, Subsecretarfa de
Coordinaci6n Educativa/Subsecretarfa de Educaci6n Elemental, 1991.



Annex 25
DOCUMENTS IN PROJECT FILE
Page 4 of 6
43.   SEP - Unidad de Educaci6n Inicial. Informe Estadfstico de los Centros de Desarrollo Infantil
a Nivel Nacional. Perfodos: 1981-1991.
44.   SEP - Unidad de Educaci6n Inicial. Programa de Educaci6n Inicial. Modalidad No-
Escolarizada. 1991 (Junio).
45.   SEP - Unidad de Educaci6n Inicial. Proyecto Piloto de Educaci6n Inicial No-Escolarizado -
UNICEF. 1991 (Noviembre).
46.   SEP - Subsecretarfa de Educaci6n Elemental. Programa Nacional para la Modernizaci6n
Educativa. Inforine de Avances 1989-1991. M6xico, 1991.
47.   World Bank Appraisal Mission: Economic Analysis of Partially Ouantified Benefits and
Costs, July 1992.
Initial Education Program - Background
1.    Informe Estadfstico de los Centros de Desarrollo Infantil a Nivel Nacional. Perfodos: 1981-
1991.
2.    Modelo de Evaluaci6n para el Programa de Educaci6n Inicial No-Formal en Mexico - Marco
Te6rico Metodol6eico del Modelo de Evaluaci6n Sistemico-Estructurado. Juan Jose Chavez Cepeda,
Consultor UNESCO, 1991.
3.    Programa de Educaci6n Inicial - Modalidad No-Escolarizada. Unidad de Educaci6n Inicial,
1991 (Junio).
4.    Resumen del Reporte Final de la Evaluaci6n del Proerama de Desarrollo del Nifio de 0 a 5
anios a traves de Padres de Familia y Miembros de la Comunidad. de la Secretarfa de Educaci6n
Ptblica de Mexico. Evaluaci6n Publicada por la Fundaci6n Bernard Van Leer, 1987.
5.    Unidad de Educaci6n Inicial - Departamento de Operqci6n y Supervisi6n CENDI-SEP.
Centros Infantiles Comunitarios.
Institutional Development
6.    Initial Education Unit Payroll. (Plantilla de Personal).
7.    Manual de Organizaci6n de la Direcci6n General de Educaci6n Inicial. 1992 (Enero).
8.    Manual del Responsable de M6dulo de Educaci6n Inicial No-Escolarizada. Secretarfa de
Educaci6n Pdblica, 1991 (Diciembre).



Annex 25
DOCUMENTS IN PROJECT FILE
Page 5 of 6
9.    -   Organigramas de las Unidades de Educaci6n Inicial.
-   Legislation regarding child care and development services for government employees.
-   Comparativo de las denominaciones anteriores y actuales de las oficinas estatales de la
S.E.P. en 10 entidades federativas en torno a la '"Federaci6n de la Educaci6n Basica".
10.   SEP - Secretarfa de Educaci6n Publica. Manual de Organizaci6n de la Coordinaci6n de
Educaci6n Inicial en los Estados. 1990 (Diciembre).
11.   SEP - Seminario Tallei sobre Planeaci6n de la Educaci6n Inicial, Cuernavaca, Mor., 8 al 15
Junio 1992.
Initial Education Budget
12.   Costos Unitarios de la Educaci6n Inicial. (Documentos de trabajo de R. Tunes).
13.   1991 Program Costs. (Documentos de trabajo de R. Tunes).
14.   Organization charts, travel allowances and salary scales for federal and state initial education
units.
15.   Secretarfa de Educaci6n Publica. Clasificaci6n por Obieto del Gasto. 1987 (Mayo).
Population and Project Demand
16.   -   Estadfsticas del Programa de Educaci6n Inicial No-Formal, 1985-1992.
-   Cuadro Comparativo de la Estadfstica de Inicio y Fin de Cursos, afios 1989-90 y 1990-
91.
17.   Estimaci6n de la Demanda Potencial del Programa de Educaci6n Inicial. Trabajo de
Consultorfa de Raul Benftez Zenteno, 19 de Septiembre de 1991.
Project Proposal
18.   Programa de Educaci6n Inicial. Unidad Coordinadora de Proyectos Estrat6gicos - Unidad de
Educaci6n Inicial. 30 Julio 1991.
19.   Propuesta de Capacitaci6n. Misi6n de Evaluaci6n.
20.   Proyecto de Educaci6n Inicial - Banco Mundial. 1992 (Enero).
21.   SEP - Programa de Educaci6n Inicial No-Formal. Documento Informativo para el Banco
Mundial. Mexico, 1991 (Febrero).
22.   Unidad de Educaci6n Inicial. Respuesta a los Acuerdos y Recomendaciones Asentados en Ia
Avuda Memoria del dfa 14 de Febrero de 1992. Febrero 28 de 1992.



Annex 25
DOCUMENTS IN PROJECT FILE
Page 6 of 6
Project Cost Estimates
23.   Budget Price Estimates. (Documentos de trabajo de R. lunes).
24.   Cuadro de Materiales y Equipos, 1992 (Mayo). Gian Calvi, consultor.
25.   Project Budget Estimates. Louise Cord, Roberto lunes.
26.   Secretarfa de Educaci6n Ptblica - Presupuesto de Educaci6n Inicial (Banco Mundial). 1991.
Other Documents
27.   SEP - Proyecto Piloto de Educaci6n Inicial No-Escolarizada - UNICEF. 1991 (Noviembre).



' d. '                         ,,INITIAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Ql IFOFNIA                                                                                                                                                                                                     -  k4
\~~                        ~ ~~~~~~ I   (  A    I  f\   H  U    H  U A   j,
0                 S \   W )                 t 9                   Ag3  \ .- s{ll              Cd A<sno . \
ihvoWo                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROJECT STATES
| NATIONAL CAPITAL
%   Gstrymos%,         \                                                             ,gNo.ce Rolih 9                 d " '                                              STATE CAPITALS
S9AJA         0saroRoudb       >udodOb              f                    t         %                     fr Nuevoldho'                                                                      PRINCtPAI CITIES OR TOWNS
CAllfOfIiA  >             XNavojoll 1 54                         \         ii                  9   z / ,<                    *-S/                                        -.-      DIVIDED HIGHWAYS
SELECTED MAIN ROADS
SUR  j     po""' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-RAILROADS
RIVERS
L ...                                                                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4'    PRINCIPAL AIRPORTS
F  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--- STATE BOUNDARIES
|mw 41'-oF   _          -             '- .   -    INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
X                   auSiechn  ~~~~~~~~~D U f A     ~ N\   ,* t                               ;,:"\lt    rd.AU,  $
A                            1    $   v.<   |                                                 (. u t ,'  u/   M ,A A            rCA
-   '          I_gS./\- I.,  -
nd^flgtirwly;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                             tiroowo^ru.nrwge                                                 pi-ihut8, HNUA
prop..   -      ~~~~P', J'6...
e'AN I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'IAINV9dl
vSARcWnJeriva.                                                                                                                                                                            4
L.- C.0                        1                                                                                                             ZU0.1,  ,
GUEPRERO ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~opoh 
!BELIZE
KILOMETERS 0    Ioo    2RR      ER     0ER       ER                                                                                       ' -I1' E otirO                                                           ' 
MILRES 0                                                                                                                                  -' 0hu260' 300
His oRS ho. R.oopo.poo.dR2rOh. WodARoRsooIf oefiotool Ion                               Enod'~oGUATEMALA                                                             '
dokGru. I5. cin liF '.Zc/Ad t-O'ol oRhono coE.
o.~~~ liooosotoo  ~a                                                                                                                                                     ToHONDURAS
L, MU =~~~tN                                                                                                 RE



