Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.: 17192
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
INITIAL EDUCATION PROJECT
(Loan 3518-ME)
October 30, 1997
Mexico Department
Human and Social Capital Development Group
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World
Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = New Peso (N$)
US$1.00 = 7.8 New Pesos (June, 1997)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS & ACRONYMS
CENDIs        Child Development Centers (Centros de Desarrollo Infantil)
CONAFE       National Education Development Council (Consejo Nacional de Educaci6n)
IE           Initial Education
ICR           Implementation Completion Report
IMSS          Mexican Institute of Social Security (Instituto Mexicano de Seguridad Social)
ISSSTE        Public Sector Employees Social Security Service (Instituto de Servicios de
Seguridad Social para Trabajadores Estatales)
MIS           Management Information System
PAREB         Primary Education Project I1-Loan 3722 (Proyecto de Educaci6n Primaria II)
PCC           Pro-Childhood Committee
PRODEI        Initial Education Project-Loan 3518 (Proyecto de Educaci6n Inicial)
SEP           Public Education Secretariat (Secretaria de Educaci6n Pzublica)
UNICEF        United Nations Children Fund
Managers and Staff Responsible
Vice President         Mr. Shahid Javed Burki
Director               Mr. Olivier Lafourcade
Sector Manager         Mr. Julian Schweitzer
Task Manager           Mr. Manuel Vera



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO: INITIAL EDUCATION PROJECT
(Loan 3518-ME)
Table of Contents
PREFACE ..............................................iii
EVALUATION SUMMARY ..............................................v
PART 1: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ..............................................1
PROJECT BACKGROUND ..............................................1
PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION ..............................................2
Original Objectives ..............................................2
Assessment of Original Project Objectives ..............................................3
Original Project Design and Organization ..............................................3
Agreed Changes ..............................................4
IMPLEMENTATION RECORD ..............................................4
Human Resource Development ..............................................5
Development of Educational Materials ..............................................6
Institutional Development ..............................................6
Coordination with Other Social Programs ..............................................7
Procurement of Goods and Services and Distribution ..............................................8
ACHIEVEMENT OF ORIGINAL OBJECTIVES ..............................................9
MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT .............................................                                                    11
Factors not subject to Government control .............................................                                           11
Factors subject to Government control .............................................                                               11
Factors subject to implementing agency control .............................................                                      11
PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY ..........................                                                                                    12
BANK PERFORMANCE ..........................                                                                                          12
BORROWER PERFORMANCE ..........................                                                                                      13
ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME ..........................                                                                                     13
LESSONS LEARNED ..........................                                                                                           14
FUTURE OPERATIONS ..........................                                                                                         15
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES ..........................                                                                               16
APPENDIXES ...........................31
APPENDIX A ...........................32
APPENDIX B ...........................35
APPENDIX C ...........................36
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






iii
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
INITIAL EDUCATION PROJECT
(Loan 3518-ME)
PREFACE
This Implementation Completion Report (ICR) evaluates the Initial Education Project
(PRODEI) in Mexico, for which Loan 3518-ME, in the amount US$80.0 million equivalent, was
approved on September 8, 1992. Upon loan signing, the Mexican Government changed the
designated Federal implementing agency responsible for the project from the Ministry of Education
(SEP) to the National Education Development Council (CONAFE). This change required a re-
examination of the organizational arrangements for the project and an amendment to the Loan
Agreement, which was approved in July 1993. The Loan became effective on August 12, 1993.
In July, 1995, responding to a request by the Borrower, US$6 million of this loan were canceled
due to lower costs resulting from the December, 1994 peso devaluation. In March, 1996 the
Government requested the consolidation of activities from three education projects - including
PRODEI - into one, in order to make more efficient use of the administrative resources and
simplify financial flows. For this purpose, the second Primary Education Project (PAREB - Loan
3722-ME) was restructured, appropriate funding provided for all consolidated activities, and an
amendment to the Loan Agreement approved by the Board on May 15, 1997. PAREB includes
financing until December 31, 1999, for continuation of all initial education (IE) activities that were
being financed under PRODEI. Concurrently with signing of the PAREB amendment, the
Government requested cancellation of the unused balance of Loan 3518-ME, amounting to
US$45.6 million.
Since IE activities will continue for another two years as part of the restructured PAREB
project, this ICR is not an evaluation of a closed operation, but rather an interim assessment of the
progress made in IE during three years of implementation (1993-1996). Lessons learned, that could
help improve IE under PAREB financing are listed. The Loan was closed on June 30, 1997. The
final disbursement took place on June 30, 1997, and the total amount of the loan disbursed was
US$28.4 million. Total project cost amounted to US$47.8 million. The Loan and Government
contributions represented respectively 40% and 60%, compared with the breakdown of 68% % and
32% estimated at appraisal. State governments had committed to participate with US$15 million
or 47 percent of the Borrower's contribution. Their actual contribution was close to 50% of the
Borrower share.



iv
The ICR was prepared by Nydia Maraviglia (LCSHD Consultant) after the final supervision
mission that took place from May 5 to 17, 1997. The mission consisted of Manuel Vera (Education
Specialist, LCSHD), Nydia Maraviglia (Consultant), Rosita Estrada (Procurement Specialist,
(LCCCR), and Patricia Romero-Casco (Task Assistant, LCSHD). The report was reviewed by
Manuel Vera, LCSHD Task Manager, and Carmen Hamann, Sector Leader, LCC1C. This ICR is
based on the findings of the project completion mission, documents in the project file, field visits,
and interviews with Government officials and relevant Bank staff. The last mission Aide-Memoire
is included as Appendix A). The Borrower prepared its own evaluation of project execution
(detailed report available in the project files, as indicated in Appendix B). The Borrower was
requested to comment on the Bank ICR and the response is included as Appendix C.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
INITIAL EDUCATION PROJECT
(Loan 3518-ME)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
This project formed part of a specific strategy adopted in the early 1990's by the Government
of Mexico, and supported by the Bank, consisting of strengthening the social sectors and
alleviating poverty through improving the equity of resource allocation. In addition to IE,
several other projects were approved in 1990-91, targeting underserved regions of the poorest
states. Since 1981, Mexico has implemented IE programs aimed at child development for ages 0
to 5 years, by involving parents and community members as educational agents. There were two
different kinds of child development programs; one type of program, operated by the Education
Secretariat (SEP) was intended for children of low income families, and a second type, offered
by the social security institutions (IMSS for private employees and ISSSTE for public
employees), in specially designed centers called CENDIs, benefited the children of working
mothers in the public and private sectors. Both types of programs were designed to strengthen
the educational vole of the home in infant and toddler care and the subsequent supporting role of
parents to children during their school years. The CENDIs are well funded and continue to offer
their services to increasing numbers of families with working mothers. The government funded
program had many successes from 1981 to 1985, but it stagnated in the latter part of the decade,
both in terms of limited expansion and quality of operations and program contents.
There is still a large gap in the coverage of IE services for poor families. In 1996 there were 8
million children under 4 years of age and only around 15% benefited from government initial
education programs (including 9.3% coverage from this project). In 1990, initial education for
children in poor communities was singled out again as an important way of helping to reverse the
deterioration in primary education attaimnent. In 1990-91, repetition rates were estimated at near
32% for the first grade, partly as a result of low school readiness. An evaluation done in 1987
indicated that the non-formal IE programs were equally effective - and in some cases more
effective - than kindergarten programs in improving child school readiness and eventual primary
school performance. The evaluation further indicated that these programs would require
considerable expansion and quality improvement to have a significant impact. Consequently, the
Government decided to seek international financing in support of these changes. Although some
elements of early childhood development had been incorporated in a few Bank projects in the
past, this was the first time that a comprehensive free-standing initial education project was



vi
proposed for Bank assistance. The project was an innovative approach to assist children in poor
communities in reaching their full development potential, and in improving their school
readiness.
Project Objectives and Description
The project objective consisted of improving the quality and efficiency of initial education
and increasing the participation in it of low income families in the ten poorest Mexican States.
The project consisted of three components: (a) Human Resources Development (79% of total
project cost) would upgrade the performance level of all personnel involved in the management
and training process, and improve parents' developmental performance vis-a-vis their children,
train community educators and training leaders, and improve supervision; (b) Educational
Materials Development Component (13% of total project cost) would improve the quality of
printed instructional materials and guidebooks and create additional audiovisual supporting
instruments; and (c) Institutional Strengthening (8% of total project cost) would strengthen the
managerial capacity of the Federal implementing agency and the State Education Secretariats and
support community participation. The objectives of this project were in line with the overall
development objectives of Mexico and the Bank, by targeting the poorest states and creating an
outreach system for young children and parents with low incomes, living in isolated communities
or marginal urban areas.
A change in the designation of the Federal implementing agency from the Public Education
Secretariat (SEP) to the National Education Council (CONAFE), after the Loan had been
approved and signed, required an amendment to the Loan Agreement and a lengthy
postponement of loan effectiveness. This change was necessary because of the restructuring and
decentralization of the education system, but the delay may not have been entirely unavoidable.
Implementation Experience and Results
The IE activities that began with this project will continue as part of the restructured second
primary education project (PAREB). Consolidation was considered more efficient for handling
the financial aspects of education projects in Mexico and does not imply any negative judgment
on the performance of the consolidated projects. This completion report is therefore not a final
evaluation of IE performance, which will only be possible at the conclusion of the restructured
project, on December 31, 1999. Findings and lessons learned presented here would need to be
applied to the operation of the restructured project.
The project had a good record in the development of human resources. A step-down approach
was successfully followed to train the educational agents involved in the project. Promoters'
training was based on participatory workshops encouraging initiative and creativity, and
consisted of an initial course, three annual seminars, and weekly meetings. The project
employed 1,172 external trainers. UNICEF contributed by financing technical assistance for the
preparation of courses and materials, as well as consultants for making a diagnosis of training
needs, and for developing a program and strategy for management training of technical and
managerial staff. Training through three annual seminars took place for 492 zone coordinators
and 2,635 module supervisors, representing 83.4% of the cumulative target up to 1996. The



vii
responsibility for curricula development and training of 29,567 community promoters (or 92% of
the target set for 1996) was given to the module supervisors with the support of the zone
coordinators. On training content, improvements are needed in child stimulation and play
practices, for which better toys would be required, as well as appropriate arrangements among
promoters, to double up for some sessions. An aspect of training not covered was post-graduate
training in specialties related to IE, for professionals at Federal and State levels, due to the heavy
workload of the staff. Alternatively, this need could have been covered by hiring consultants
qualified in early child development. Improvement and preparation of new educational materials
was a priority and beginning in 1994 intensive preparation and reproduction of printed and mass
media material took place. Evaluation of quality and impact of these materials will be done this
year as part of the restructured PAREB project.
Advances in institutional development were slow and uneven among the States. At the
beginning, in many states the project functioned independently of the existing regular Program of
Initial Education, although the design prescribed an integrated structure. Organizational changes
are currently underway in all project states and in three of them - Guerrero, Hidalgo and Mexico
- both operations have been established as an integrated program. Concerning management and
evaluation, the new and otherwise useful management information system (MIS) lacked
indicators for management decisions and for relating the cost of activities to outcomes. On
supervision, the project contributed to strengthening the field teams - zone coordinators and
module supervisors.
Regarding community participation, Pro-childhood Committees (PCCs) with broad parents'
participation were established in 20,000 communities to support IE to ensure its continuity after
the conclusion of the regular 80-hour program; these commnittees have been active in a variety of
tasks including support to promoters, children's rights campaigns and, with UNICEF assistance,
establishment of about 4,000 playgrounds. An issue in institutional development still unresolved
is to strike a proper balance between continuity and obsolescence in the use of promoters. These
are volunteers receiving a "gratuity" for their work in the community and although the objective
of the program is not to perpetuate them in this role, the efforts and expenditures invested in their
training make it worthwhile to coordinate assignments for these persons among several social
development programs such as health and literacy campaigns. This approach would also help
achieve better complementarity, already taking place in many communities, between IE and
literacy, health, nutrition and other programs.
The project financed furniture, equipment and vehicles for the central and state coordinating
units and to support training and information/communication activities, reaching 95.5% of the
1996 goal. The States provided some additional equipment and generally good building space
for the IE offices. The project financed contracts for external lecturers. Technical assistance for
strengthening the contents and methodology of human resource development programs and for
development of materials was mainly financed from sources other than the Loan (UNICEF gave
substantial support in this respect).
The project was less successful in contracting and utilizing technical assistance for studies on
cost-effectiveness, analysis of content and effectiveness of educational materials, impact on



viii
changes in parents' attitudes, values, motivation and interests, measurement of the efficiency of
the program's processes, and construction of a scale to measure psychosocial development of
children, validated in the Mexican context. These studies are still pending and will be carried out
under the PAREB project. In the last year of the project, certain successful pilot experiences
were undertaken in several states to decentralize procurement; it would be desirable to expand
the application of this approach, together with appropriate state level training in procurement. In
reference to financial management and flow of funds, there were recurring delays in the release
of funds to the States throughout the project period. Late release of project funds from the
Federal level to the States also affect other Bank projects in Mexico and would require a national
financially related solution, rather than a sector specific one.
Assessment of Outcome
Notwithstanding initial delays and persistent shortages of financial resources, by the time of
loan closing the project had substantially achieved service coverage and staff training objectives.
Attainments were less remarkable regarding development of policy oriented capacity, and
improvement of evaluation processes at the Federal level and in the State Education Secretariats;
these shortcomings may be attributed mainly to the rapid staff turnover, a high diversity in
degree of commitment to IE among states, and a reluctance to clearly define and contract
technical assistance and studies. In other aspects of institutional development, better progress
was made. This was particularly true concerning improvements in the supervision of field
activities, in organization of pro-childhood committees and in promotion of community
participation. Project impact on child development and parents' attitudinal changes toward child
rearing practices have not yet been evaluated. IE activities are being continued under the
restructured PAREB project and impact evaluation is planned during the current year.
Continuation should also provide an excellent opportunity to apply lessons learned.
Major Factors Affecting the Project
A factor potentially subject to government control that caused an initial long delay and
additional expenses for both the Borrower and the Bank -- the transfer of project responsibility
from SEP to CONAFE -- could have been prevented if the transfer had been done before rather
than after project appraisal and approval, or if appraisal could have been postponed. Another
factor subject to government control were the annual delays in budget approval for project
expenses, which created periodic implementation bottlenecks. There were other factors affecting
the smooth operation and quality of the project that could have been minimized or eliminated
through intervention by the implementing agency --CONAFE -- including: (a) persisting
complicated internal procedures and controls for approving budgets for specific activities; and
(b) prolonged postponement of decisions regarding important studies for evaluation. Lastly, the
low level of commitment to the IE program by some state education secretariats worked against
staff morale and resolution of managerial and personnel problems.
Summary of Findings
The evaluation of this project concluded that its overall performance was satisfactory. IE
coverage through this project was substantial. At its originally planned conclusion in mid-1998,



ix
the project had been designed to benefit about 1.2 million children 0 to four years old in the ten
poorest states. By the end of 1996, the actual accomplishment was 90% of the 1996 target, or
almost 750,000 children in 23,000 predominantly small, rural communities of the 10 project
states, 70% of which suffered extreme or very high incidence of poverty and deficient basic
services.
The project comfortably achieved the targets set at appraisal and made remarkable progress in
staff training and in obtaining substantial community participation. However, with the exception
of three states, the project has not yet become fully integrated with the regular IE program and
the respective state education systems. Moreover, employment conditions, such as those
prevailing in many of the project states for IE staff, has resulted in a high turnover, particularly
among technical and managerial levels. Integration and stability of personnel should be a goal of
the restructured PAREB project. At the Federal level, CONAFE has recently been reorganized
and IE has been given formal status as a Department within the Under-Secretary of Basic
Education.
Up to loan cancellation, a large proportion of the IE activities (over 70%) depended on
external financing (Bank, IDB and UNICEF) although under the restructured education project,
recurrent costs for IE (that is, salaries and other recurrent costs) will be financed on a declining
basis, so that by the year 2000 all recurrent expenditures would need to be absorbed by the
Federal and state governments. The restructured project could ensure project sustainability by
carefully monitoring compliance of IE related covenants, which include obligations to establish
the IE program with a formal organizational structure, to create managerial and operational
positions as part of the Federal the state education secretariats, and to control costs on the basis
of information to be obtained through cost-effectiveness studies.
Key Lessons Learned
The main lessons learned from the implementation of this initial education project may be
summarized as follows: (a) the Federal government's financial authorities would need to make
their best efforts to maintain the agreed budgetary commitments and release funds yearly in a
timely manner; (b) in community based programs it is important to apply an appropriate training
methodology for promoters that discourages lectures and emphasizes class interaction and small
group discussions; (c) lack of process and impact evaluation studies prevented program managers
from evaluating project progress more accurately and for developing strong arguments for
strengthening state level commitment; (d) moreover, effective indicators on the cost of activities
in relation to outcomes are needed for decision-making, as well as for future cost-effective
improvements of program design; (e) there is a need to strike a proper balance between
continuity and obsolescence in the use of IE promoters by coordinating their temporary cycles in
the program, with assignments in other social sector programs, such as literacy and health; (f)
decentralized procurement should be tested and subsequently adopted, as a more effective
alternative to a centralized system; (g) decentralizing planning and implementation of the
program proved to be very effective and enabled state coordinating units to respond to widely
varied challenges and needs; and (h) organizational changes in project administration after
appraisal are disruptive and when changes are anticipated appraisal should be postponed.



x
Lessons learned regarding means to achieve improvements in child development and in parents'
attitudes will be drawn from on-going impact evaluation studies under PAREB.
Future Operations
IE activities will continue to be supported through the restructured PAREB Bank project. The
work plan for the current year includes contracting of much needed studies on evaluation of the
program and of the educational materials being used. The restructured project will further
expand the IE program to a total of 14 states -- four additional with respect to the original
operation. It will also extend the project period two more years. The project was scheduled until
1998, while the restructured project will enable to maintain Bank support until the end of 1999.



PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
PROJECT BACKGROUND
1.  This project fonned part of a specific strategy adopted in the early 1990's by the
Government of Mexico, and supported by the Bank, consisting of strengthening the social sectors
and alleviating poverty through improving the equity of resource allocation. In addition to Initial
Education, the following projects were approved in 1990-91, targeting underserved regions of
the poorest states: the first Basic Health Care Project (Loan 3272-ME); the Low-Income Housing
Project II (Loan 3140-ME); the Technical Training Project (Loan 3358-ME); the
Decentralization and Regional Development Project (Loan 3310-ME); the Water Supply and
Sanitation Sector Project (Loan 3271-ME) and the Primary Education Project (Loan 3407-ME).
2.   Prior to the Initial Education Project (PRODEI) , there was experience in Mexico with
initial education (IE) programs. In 1981 SEP initiated a program of child development for ages 0
to 5 years, involving parents and community members as educational agents. The program was
aimed at strengthening the educational role of the home environment in early infant care and the
subsequent supporting role of parents to children during their school years. Although the
program had many successes from 1981 to 1985, in the latter part of the decade it stagnated. The
program underwent organizational downgrading and merging with pre-school education, both at
the Federal and state levels. By 1991 non-formal initial education was operating in all 31 states
plus the Federal District, but its quality had deteriorated, funds were scarce, and had experienced
loss of institutional capacity including a deterioration in administration, planning and training
capabilities. Moreover, enrollment had fallen to 183,400 (or less than 3% of all children aged 0-
3 in the country), from its peak of almost 300,000 in 1985. There is still a large gap in coverage
of low income families with these services. In 1996 there were 8 million children under 4 years
of age and only around 15% benefited from government initial education programs (including
9.3% coverage by this project).
3.   Other IE experiences pioneered in the 1980's, consisted of formal initial education
programs -- Child Development Centers (CENDIs) -- that were offered to 0-5 year old children
of working mothers employed in the formal public and private sectors, as part of a child care and
preschool program mandated by Social Security Law. By 1991 CENDI enrollment reached
153,700 children. These programs continue to be offered to the children and parents of
Mexico's workforce and are a very valuable benefit, carefully monitored and protected by the
workers' unions. Due to the high cost of their inputs, however, they could not possibly be used as
affordable models to reach parents and children in many poor communities.
4.  In 1990, initial education for children in poor communities was singled out again as an
important resource to help reverse a deterioration in educational attainment, particularly
concerning primary education. In 1990-91, repetition rates were estimated at near 32% for the
first grade, partly as a result of the low school readiness of children who did not attend any pre-



2
school classes; other contributing factors included poor teaching, scarcity of didactic materials,
as well as poverty related conditions within the family and the community. Although the
Government should be credited with the rapid nationwide expansion of kindergarten coverage of
children 4 to 5 years of age, which reached 60% in 1990 and then increased to 70% in 1991, in
many communities of the poorest states pre-school attendance was very limited.
5.  An evaluation financed by a Dutch Foundation in 1987 indicated that the non-formal IE
programs were equally effective - and in some cases more effective - than kindergarten programs
in improving child school readiness and eventual primary school performance. But the
evaluation also concluded that although proven valuable when given appropriate resources, the
programs were hindered, among other factors, by a low priority profile, limited institutional
capacity, inadequate targeting mechanisms, poor educational inputs, and sporadic linkages with
other complementary programs. It was further concluded that, in order to have a major impact
among the country's poor communities, the program needed to significantly increase its coverage
and improve its institutional capacity and quality. The Government then decided to seek
international financing for these purposes.
6.  The Public Education Secretariat (SEP) was designated as the Federal implementing
agency. However, immediately after the Loan had been approved and signed, the Government
changed the designation of implementing agency to the National Education Council (CONAFE)
due to restructuring and decentralization of the education system; this change required an
amendment to the Loan Agreement and a lengthy postponement of loan effectiveness.
7.  Prior Bank experience in this field was through the incorporation of some elements of
early childhood development in a few Bank projects. PRODEI was the first comprehensive free-
standing initial education project that was proposed for Bank assistance. The project was
designed to introduce activities for early childhood stimulation during the age period 0 to 3 years
and at the same time, to inform and educate parents on effective child rearing practices, including
play, reassuring parent-child interchange, as well as paying attention to proper child health care
and nutrition.
PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
Original Objectives
8.  The project objective was to alleviate poverty and increase human capital development by
improving the efficiency and quality of the non-formal education program in the ten poorest
Mexican states. This was to be accomplished through: (i) preparing young children of low-
income families for timely school entry, and improving their primary school attendance and
performance; (ii) educating parents, especially mothers, in home-based child development
practices; and (iii) strengthening the Government's policy oriented capacity to plan, expand,
monitor and evaluate the initial education programs. The project would help develop a non-



3
formal initial education model in the 10 poorest states, that could be expanded and replicated in
the rest of the country. The new model was to constitute an improvement on the contents and
operation of IE activities and it was designed to strengthen institutional capacity at federal and
state levels, refine targeting criteria, promote community participation, and establish linkages
with existing complementary social programs.
Assessment of Original Project Objectives
9.   The objectives of this project were in line with the overall development objectives of
Mexico and the Bank, by targeting the poorest states and creating an outreach system for young
children and parents with low incomes, living in isolated communities or marginal urban areas.
The purpose of the outreach efforts consisted of providing information and guidance to parents
on how to improve child rearing and care and to encourage early stimulation of children from
birth to age four in order to promote physical, emotional, intellectual, and social development.
These objectives addressed long standing problems of low human capital formation, particularly
among the extremely poor with low levels of education. The objectives rightly focused also on
the need to achieve greater preparedness for primary school among children of low
socioeconomic groups. Lastly, taking into account lessons learned from past experience with
similar programs in Mexico and elsewhere, the objectives appropriately aimed at creating a new
model that would bring about improvements in critical aspects where weaknesses had been most
prevalent in the past. Thus, the objectives correctly singled out for especial attention aspects
such as improving the teaching methodology of IE concepts, by making it more participatory,
and strengthening the institutional capacity at Federal and state levels to refine targeting criteria,
promote community participation, and establish linkages with existing complementary social
programs.
Original Project Design and Organization
10. The project consisted of three components:
(a) Human Resources Development (79% of total project cost) would upgrade the
performance level of all personnel involved in the management and training process, and
improve parents' developmental performance vis-a-vis their children. The project would: (i)
develop parents' skills in fostering their children's cognitive, psychomotor and social
development; (ii) train community educators to lead their local activities with parents, children
and the community; (iii) improve the supervisory and coordinating skills of module supervisors
and coordinators; (iv) improve the performance of training leaders and technical staff; and (v)
upgrade the managerial capacity of the high level professionals in the Federal implementing
agency and the State Education Secretariats.
(b) Educational Materials Development Component (13% of total project cost) would
improve the quality of printed instructional materials and create additional audiovisual
supporting instruments. It would particularly: (i) revise the existing Parents' Guidebook to
include new areas like health and nutrition, family planning, and environmental protection, as
well as more adequate illustration; (ii) revise the operating handbooks to accommodate the use of



4
new educational strategies and methods; (iii) produce better illustrated printed materials with
greater contents for training and communication purposes; (iv) develop a series of educational
games and videos; and (v) produce a series of promotional and educational radio programs.
(c) Strengthening of Policy Oriented Capacity (8% of total project cost) would strengthen
the managerial capacity of the Federal implementing agency and the state Secretariats of
Education and support community participation. The project would: (i) strengthen the central
Initial Education Unit at the Federal implementing agency; (ii) organize Initial Education Unit at
the State level; (iii) design and support the implementation of an educational Management
Information System (MIS); (iv) design and implement an evaluation system (including process
and impact analysis, quality audit, and special and tracer studies); (v) improve the supervision
system; (vi) promote the organization of Pro-Childhood Committees (PCCs) at local and state
levels; and (vii) support the cooperation with other community oriented services like health and
nutrition.
Agreed Changes
1 1. Immediately following project appraisal, loan approval and signing of the Loan
Agreement, in October 1992 the Government re-assigned responsibility for this project to the
National Education Council (CONAFE), from the Public Education Secretariat's Basic and
Normal Education Department. The Loan Agreement had to be amended, involving a protracted
process of consultations between the Bank and the Government, that resulted in almost one year
delay in loan effectiveness. This change was necessary because of the restructuring and
decentralization of the education system.
IMPLEMENTATION RECORD
12. As already mentioned, the IE activities of this project will continue as part of a restructured
primary education project. The consolidation of several education projects into one project is a
more suitable manner of handling the financial aspects of education projects in Mexico and does
not imply any negative judgment on the performance of the projects that were being financed
with the canceled loans. This completion report is not therefore a final evaluation of IE
performance, which will only be possible at the conclusion of the restructured project, at the end
of 1999. The current section presents a record of the project activities that took place until the
loan closing date regarding: human resource development, educational materials, institutional
development, and administration, procurement and disbursements. Subsequent sections discuss
achievements, lessons learned, and other conclusions that could be drawn from this on-going
program. Findings should be taken into account in the continuation of IE activities under the
restructured project.
13. Although the change in implementing agency from SEP to CONAFE was an unavoidable
event in view of major organizational restructuring of the education sector, the project sustained
serious initial implementation delays which are not entirely justifiable. While appraisal had



5
taken place in May 1992, it was only in August 1993 that the loan was declared effective. After
the organizational changes in SEP took place, there was a long interval of an apparent
misunderstanding in the Governmnent/Bank dialogue before it was possible to reach agreements
on project adjustments and legal document revisions. Moreover, CONAFE took some time to
create the organizational structure that was to take charge of the project. This delay was costly to
the Government and to the Bank in terms of staff time and other expenditures incurred in
renegotiating the changes and in time lost in implementing field activities. An amendment to the
Loan Agreement was finally approved by the Board in late 1993 and project implementation only
started in earnest after the launching seminar in February 1994. Another problem were the
recurring difficulties on fund availability at state level due to delayed release of funds. Indeed, a
yearly occurrence throughout project implementation was the late approval of budgetary
allocations for the project by the Federal Finance Ministry. Similar problems of delays in the
annual release of funds have affected other Bank projects in the social sectors in Mexico and they
would need a country (rather than a sector) specific solution.
Human Resource Development
14. The project had a good record in the development of human resources. Throughout this
process, UNICEF provided substantive technical and financial assistance for the preparation of
courses and materials. A step-down approach was successfully used to train the educational
agents involved in the project. The technical teams and managers of the initial education units at
Federal and state level received training in 1994 through one course each for technical (50
persons) and administrative (47 persons) staff; but in 1996 the workload made it impossible to
bring together these groups for training; instead, a more flexible approach was adopted, carrying
out workshops three times a year for smaller groups, according to their specialty.
15. Promoters' training was not based on rigid, pre-established contents, but on general
guidelines. From there, small groups of supervisors and coordinators participated in curricula
development workshops which took into account local situations. The training received by the
promoters consisted of an initial course, three annual seminars, and monthly meetings to discuss
needs and problems and to identify the best approaches to educate parents and children.
16. In all courses, seminars, and workshops conducted during the project period for all levels
of initial education agents the program employed 1,172 external trainers from various higher
education institutions, as well as from national public and private organizations. Also, in 1995,
with financing from UNICEF, consultants prepared a diagnosis of training needs, and developed
a program and strategy for management training of technical and managerial staff. However,
management training did not take place due to the heavy workload of the involved staff.
Moreover, it was not possible to send technical and managerial staff to post-graduate courses
covering specialties related to initial education due to high staff turnover. Access to such
expertise could have been acquired through hiring qualified consultants or employing graduates
on early child development with university degree courses.



6
Development of Educational Materials
17. In the project design, emphasis was placed in the improvement and preparation of new
educational materials to give IE workers good support to carry out their functions vis-a-vis
parents and children. Beginning in 1994, the Federal IE coordinating unit, with assistance from
national and international consultants, reviewed the materials that had been used in the regular
program and, during 1995, the following materials were developed: (a) a complementary
package of 12 illustrations for use as flip charts; (b) 20 promotional radio programs; (c) TV
programs showing IE committees in action, entitled "In favor of our children"; and (d) an
almanac and the first two numbers of a newsletter on the program. The materials were developed
with the purpose of reinforcing the messages that the program is designed to transmit and
particularly to encourage parents to express their creative and demonstrative capacities toward
their small children. A required evaluation study on the quality and impact of initial education
has not been carried out within the project period, but will be initiated by CONAFE before the
end of 1997, under the restructured PAREB project.
Institutional Development
18. With the transfer of project responsibility from SEP to CONAFE, the latter took some time
to prepare itself to assume an implementing role. After this initial delay, the project structure
evolved satisfactorily with the establishment of an IE in CONAFE. Regarding the structure of IE
at state level, when the project began it was interpreted in some states that the project would
function independently of the existing regular Program of Initial Education (which, as mentioned
earlier, has been functioning since 1981). The central IE unit explained through meetings and
technical visits that the concept of the project was to integrate, improve and expand the
operations of the existing program, rather than duplicating functions. In many of the project
states modifications in organizational structure were made and in three - Guerrero, Hidalgo and
Mexico - it has been established as a Department; but in the remaining project states integration
with the regular IE program has not yet been achieved.
19. A management information system for IE was created by a specialized team appointed at
the Federal level (rather than using a private firm, as proposed by the Staff Appraisal Report).
This approach proved to be effective and by October, 1994 the system had been tested and
delivered for use. The management information system is a source of valuable information about
program performance and comparison with original targets. One significant omission, however,
has been the preparation of indicators for management decisions and on cost of activities in
relation to outcomes.
20. The project also contributed to strengthening of the field teams - zone coordinators and
module supervisors - as well as promoters, some of whom were working in the ten states prior to
the initiation of the project under the state Directorates of Basic or Elementary Education. The
existing teams in the ten project states consisted of 43 zone coordinators, 202 module supervisors
and 2,722 promoters. The project incorporated 136 zone coordinators and 725 supervisors
(respectively 87% and 73% of the set goals). PRODEI also added 17,081 education promoters to
the existing 2,722 in the regular program. All of these workers received either induction training
or retraining within the project period.



7
21. Another important feature ofthe lI project were Pro-Childhood Committees to support the
activities in the communities and to ensure their continuity after the conclusion of the regular 80-
hour program (carried out during a ten-moth period). PCC functions vary among the states. In
addition to supporting the work of the promoter, these committees engage, for example, on
organization of campaigns to disseminate and promote concepts such as respecting children's
rights, community cleanliness, sport events, child nutrition and health, and layout and establish
children's recreation parks (or playgrounds). Almost 4,000 children playgrounds were created
with assistance from UNICEF. In 1994-1995 the project supported the preparation of a manual
and video explaining the formation and functions of the committee. In 1996 those materials were
widely available and each committee was given an introductory presentation. From 1993 to
1996, over 20,000 committees were formed.
22. The project placed emphasis on sensitizing municipalities to the benefits of this program
for children and families; the objective was to facilitate its institutionalization within the local
governments, thus ensuring its permanence. A good start was made in 22 municipalities of four
states, which assumed the costs for about 30 promoters. Promoters are not state employees, but
volunteers who receive a "gratuity" for their work in the community; but a still pending problem
is the need to fully equalize gratuities given to promoters in the project and in the regular
program.. In the case of the project, the promoters were recruited from within the community
where they lived and were only engaged for the period of the community IE sessions (about 10
months) and then -released. In the regular program they keep receiving gratuity as volunteers for
long periods of time, but in many cases their usefulness decreases once most parents and children
in the community go through the IE program. There is a need to strike a proper balance between
promoters' continuity in their community work and the risk of obsolescence. In view of the
investments made in promoters' training and in order to better use their experience and
knowledge of the community, CONAFE and the State Education Secretariat are looking into the
possibility of coordinating using these "volunteers" in coordination with other community
programs, either within the same Secretariat (e.g., with the literacy program) or in cooperation
with other agencies (e.g., health).
Coordination with Other Social Programs
23. The project design recommended to seek close coordination between the activities of the
IE promoters with workers in other relevant social programs. And indeed, such complementarity
took place at the local level in almost 7,000 communities, between IE activities and pre-school
or primary programs, health services, nutrition and other programs for indigenous groups. In
many communities, the program also made important linkages with the adult literacy program
(INEA). While in contact with parents, particularly with mothers, IE promoters found that a
large proportion were illiterate. In the process of transmitting to them good child rearing
practices and other information on child development, nutrition and health, illiteracy became a
strong barrier and many promoters, with the assistance of the zone coordinator, began to address
this problem by directing the mothers toward INEA classes or, in same cases, taking the initiative
of giving mothers the first elements of reading and writing. The importance and usefulness of
this particular link has come more widely to the attention of State coordinators and Federal
education authorities, which begun to establish a more formal relationship, in order to strengthen



8
both programs. The IE divisions in the states of Chiapas, Hidalgo, Puebla, San Luis Potosi and
Veracruz, undertook coordination initiatives with other programs of the respective state Public
Education Secretariats and of the National Institute for Adult Education, to enable the
participation of IE promoters in adult literacy campaigns. A total of 24,457 persons learned to
read and write through these efforts, using IE materials.
24. There are several other examples of inter-institutional cooperation, including the
participation of IE workers in health and vaccination campaigns of the Health Secretariat and the
IMSS. Moreover, health and nutrition professionals have joined in IE sessions to discuss child
health and nutrition issues with parents, and have advised communities in the construction of
latrines and potable water sources. Other worthwhile actions of the IE workers have been to
refer children with abnormal development and physical or mental impediments to appropriate
organizations for care. Another instance of cooperation was the introduction of Initial Education
among indigenous groups, though an agreement in the state on Oaxaca, between the state Public
Education Institute and CONAFE to provide IE materials to 25 regional representatives and 238
IE promoters. This program will be expanded in 1997-98 as part of the continuation of IE
activities under the restructured PAREB project.
Procurement of Goods and Services and Distribution
25. The project financed furniture, equipment and vehicles for the central and state
coordinating units and to support training and infonnation/communication activities. Between
1993 and 1996 the project procured and financed 1,627 pieces of equipment comprising
audiovisual, office and computing equipment, furniture and vehicles (the latter financed by the
Government). This represented 95.5% of the goal up to the fourth year. The state governments
contributed with 337 units of supplemental equipment. The States also provided generally good
building accommodations for the IE offices. Technical assistance for strengthening the contents
and methodology of human resource development programs and for development of materials
was primarily financed from sources other than the Loan. The United Nations Children Fund
(UNICEF) gave technical and financial assistance in this respect. The Loan financed contracts
for external lecturers.
26. Until 1996, procurement for this project was centralized and carried out by CONAFE's
Financial and Administrative Unit, which made the task difficult and consumed considerable
time from the Federal technical teams, for preparing proposals, terms of reference and technical
specifications. This process also involved a complicated system for distribution of the acquired
goods. In 1996, CONAFE, with Bank support, initiated several pilot programs that involved
decentralizing procurement in some of the project states, giving the state project implementing
units the necessary authority. Expanding this approach of decentralized procurement to the state
executing units, with the appropriate training for this purpose, would be advisable in view of the
good results achieved through the mentioned experiences.



9
ACHIEVEMENT OF ORIGINAL OBJECTIVES
27. Despite the initial delays, coverage of IE through this project has been substantial. The
project had been designed to benefit about 1.2 million children 0 to four years old in the ten
poorest states, at its originally planned conclusion in mid-1998. By the end of 1996, 90% of the
1996 target (830,000 children in the stated age groups) was achieved. That is, 680,000 children
in 23,000 communities were reached. About 600,000 parents received training. The project
operated predominantly in very small communities. About 43% of the localities had populations
of 100 to 500, another 45% had 500 to 2,500, and only 12% had a population above 2,500. The
use of good targeting mechanisms enabled to select many communities with extreme or very
high incidence of poverty and deficient basic services (70% of the localities chosen were in these
categories).
28. Another planning criteria was to give priority to child development needs in the rural areas
(the target was 70% rural children). This goal was surpassed, since 86% of the children served
by the project were from rural communities, including 15% belonging to indigenous
communities. Penetration into isolated areas was amply accomplished by choosing two thirds of
the localities in mountainous territory. Reaching those communities and expanding the program
represented great challenges for the state coordinators regarding recruiting supervisors, zone
coordinators, and promoters, training and supervising them, and transporting materials.
However, during some periods in the year, these workers had to face hardships because of the
delays in receiving funds for making monthly payments and difficulties encountered in some
areas due to lack of safety in transporting the funds. In all these aspects, the states have used, in
many instances very effectively, different strategies and approaches to resolve the problems that
were within their control. The successful results of allowing for flexibility have demonstrated
the advantages of decentralizing planning and implementation of the program in responding to
widely varied challenges and needs.
29. Regarding human resource development, training through three annual seminars took place
for 492 zone coordinators and 2,635 module supervisors, representing 83.4% of the cumulative
target up to 1996. The responsibility for curricula development and training of 29,567
community promoters (or 92% of the target set for 1996) was given to the module supervisors
with the support of the zone coordinators. From observations of some classes and of the work of
supervisors, zone coordinators and community promoters, it is evident that ktaining was enriched
by the abandonment of rigid practices based on traditional lectures, and by the use of a
participatory approach, as well as by the encouragement of initiative, self-esteem and the
development of self-learning habits. The approach of continued training for supervisors and
coordinators and their involvement in curricula development, as well as the intensive training of
promoters and the close follow up of their performance in the community by supervisors has
been crucial in enabling promoters to transmit strong educational messages to community
members and to help mothers understand the importance of increasing their own self-esteem,
seeking medical care for their reproductive health needs, and practicing good child-rearing. The
success thus far detected in transmitting undiluted messages to parents and in motivating them to
change their attitude regarding child rearing may be attributed to the participation of seasoned



10
educators in curricula development and to the use of a participatory approach to training staff and
parents. The impact of not having implemented management training and attendance to post-
graduate courses for professional staff, is not clear and should be examined in the evaluation
studies proposed under the restructured PAREB project.
30. The good quality of community promoters training was observed in instances in which
promoters succeeded in bringing about attitudinal changes in parents groups, from a resistance to
participate, to open exchanges and reflection on many subjects related to problems affecting the
community, family life, and child development. Yet, the program could be enriched even further
if it would be possible to increase the interaction of the promoters with the children, by forming,
for part of the sessions, separate groups for parents and children, and by having access to more
appropriate sets of toys for children. Definitely, efforts to encourage child stimulation should be
increased and more resources allocated so that better materials and toys are made available.
Also, as observed in some parts of the country, the municipal governments could be encouraged
to provide additional resources for the program. Given that there is only one promoter per
community, group sessions could be organized through cooperation between two promoters in
nearby communities or by enlisting the help of mothers from the local PCC.
31. Concerning materials development, the visual materials have helped maintain uniform and
consistent messages. The project distributed 1.2 million Parents' Guides (more than double of
the original set target for 1996). The program also produced and distributed manuals for module
supervisors, the PCC committees and the promoters, as well as other materials for training (over
400,000 units) and 3.7 million units of promotional and educational materials. Beginning in
1996, responsibility for acquiring and distributing material was transferred successfully to the
states. Free public space has been used to make the program known through radio, television and
road billboards. An evaluation of the materials produced for the project is still pending and will
be implemented within the restructured project.
32. The institutional development goals of IE activities consisting of integration and operation
of the program by the states are beginning to be achieved through the absorption of the program
in the respective state education secretariats. But this change needs to be formalized in most
States. Implementation of this organizational stage is important for proper institutionalization of
the IE project and will need to be completed during the continuation of this project under the
restructured PAREB project. The same principle of absorption of activities by the state level
applies to procurement. The transfer of these functions will need to be strengthened with training
and technical support from the Federal level.
33. The original design prescribed five main studies that would have required contracting of
consultants, but this process suffered considerable delays largely due to the heavy workload of
Federal project staff in launching and expanding project activities. There were also problems
with selection of consultants, including several instances of non-response from the groups or
firms invited to submit proposals for the studies. The following studies were not carried out: (a)
cost-effectiveness; (b) analysis of content and effectiveness of educational materials; (c) an
impact study of changes in parents' attitudes, values, motivation and interests; (d) a study to
measure the efficiency of the program's processes; and (e) construction of a scale to measure



11
psychosocial development of children, validated in the Mexican context. These studies are
planned to be implemented under the restructured PAREB project.
MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
Factors not subject to Government control
34. Community support and participation in IE activities was in some instances difficult to
obtain and in such cases IE workers spent considerable time and effort trying to gain acceptance.
There were, however, many satisfying experiences in which the program managed to break
through stubborn resistance and become a welcome activity by the communities, once the new
ideas being introduced in favor of children were understood.
Factors subject to Government control
35. A main cause of extensive delay in project initiation was the transfer of project
responsibility from SEP to CONAFE. Although this change was unavoidable in view of an
overall reorganization of the Education Sector, timing such change so that it occurs at an earlier
stage of project development, prior to its final appraisal, would have saved considerable effort
and expense both to the Government and the Bank. Another alternative could have been to
postpone project appraisal until after the change of administrations.
36. Another factor subject to Government control are the annual delays in budget approval for
project expenses. Prompt release of annual funds at the beginning of each fiscal year would
enable smoother implementation of programmed activities. This problem, however, applies to
Bank projects in other sectors as well, and needs to be discussed and resolved in that general
context.
Factors subject to implementing agency control
37. Factors that affected project implementation, that would be subject to intervention by
CONAFE, were: (a) persisting complicated internal procedures and controls for approving
budgets for specific activities; and (b) prolonged postponement of decisions regarding important
studies for evaluation. Another factor that depended on the state Education Secretariats was the
low level of commitment to the IE program in some states, which worked against staff morale
and resolution of managerial and personnel problems. Reliable data on project effectiveness and
impact on school preparedness, from evaluation studies, would make it easier to obtain support
for IE among state education authorities.



12
PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
38. While IE made remarkable progress in outreach and staff training, the project is not yet
fully integrated with the regular IE program and has not yet been completely absorbed by the
state education systems. Nevertheless, a beginning has been made in this direction in a few
states where state level coordinating staff are holding state government positions. There are also
some municipalities that have absorbed a few positions for promoters. However, as a
consequence of the unstable employment conditions prevailing in the project and the periodic
delays in monthly payments to workers due to lagged release of Federal funds, in most states IE
has been affected-by a high technical and managerial staff turnover. At the Federal level,
CONAFE has recently been reorganized and IE has been given formal status as a Department
within the Under-Secretary of Basic Education. Assimilation of IE into the regular education
system will continue to be pursued under PAREB.
39. Until the Loan cancellation a large proportion of the IE activities (over 70%) depended on
external financing (Bank, IDB and UNICEF) although under the restructured education project,
recurrent costs for IE (that is, salaries and other recurrent costs) will be financed on a declining
basis, so that by the year 2000 all recurrent expenditures would need to be absorbed by the
Federal and state governments. The restructured project will also ensure project sustainability by
carefully monitoring compliance of IE related covenants, which include obligations to establish
the IE program with a formal organizational structure, to create managerial and operational
positions as part of the Federal the state education secretariats, and to control costs on the basis
of information to be obtained through cost-effectiveness studies.
BANK PERFORMANCE
40. Preparation and Appraisal. Project preparation was thorough and was based in many
national and international studies on issues regarding the importance of programs to enhance the
educational climate in households, in low income communities. The Bank prepared an Initial
Education Strategy Paper (Report No. 10129-ME) and discussed and agreed upon its contents,
issues, and conclusions with the Government. The issues raised in the sector report were
carefully considered in the design of this project. Additionally, the Bank guided the overall
planning of costing of IE activities for the five years of the project, allowing for enough
resources to implement an effective program. Nevertheless, costs were estimated without taking
fully into account predictable delays in annual budget approval and fund releases, which usually
affect Bank operations in Mexico, and under-spending for this reason did indeed occur.
Moreover, expenditures were much lower due to peso devaluation. For all these reasons a
substantial amount of unused funds from the loan had to be canceled.
41. Supervision. In order to strengthen the rationale for investments in IE programs, there is a
need for data on costs and effectiveness in relation to results. These were aspects in which the
Bank would have needed to place more emphasis during supervision. Even though the project
design included studies to link and analyze financial and performance data, and to conduct
process and impact evaluation, these studies were not done during the project period. The
studies will, however, be undertaken as part of the restructured project which includes



13
continuation of IE activities. The project would have benefited from more participation of early
childhood development specialists as part of supervision missions, to review programs in action
and advise on quality of program contents and on the use of materials and toys for child
stimulation.
BORROWER PERFORMANCE
42. The Borrower provided an effective and cooperative role in preparing this project. The
SEP (initially designated as implementing agency) managed several national consultants who
contributed with various documents which were used in the preparation of the proposal, and SEP
staff responsible for project preparation directly produced many documents and papers dealing
with IE program contents, implementation modalities, targeting and selection of communities,
and program evaluation. The SEP staff also prepared the final project proposal and collected and
compiled detailed cost information. Moreover, in 1991, in cooperation with UNICEF, it
conducted a pilot project on IE.
43. An earlier transfer of functions for implementation from SEP to CONAFE would have
avoided the long and costly delay in project initiation. It would have been less disruptive if the
change of agencies would have been decided before project appraisal or if the appraisal would
have been postponed. Another recurning problem during implementation were the delays in
transferring funds to the states, from the Federal level. Regarding audits of project accounts, the
Government submitted them to the Bank in a timely manner.
ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
44. Notwithstanding initial delays and persistent shortages of financial resources, by the time
of loan closing the project had substantially achieved service coverage, staff training objectives
and parents participation. Attainments were less remarkable regarding development of policy
oriented capabilities, and improvement of evaluation processes at the Federal level and in the
state Education Secretariats; these shortcomings may be attributed mainly to the rapid staff
turnover, a high diversity in degree of commitment to IE among states, and a reluctance to
clearly define and contract technical assistance and studies. In other aspects of institutional
development better progress was made. This was particularly true concerning improvements in
the supervision of field activities, in organization of pro-childhood committees and in promotion
of community participation in IE activities. Instances of cooperation with other community
oriented programs were more a result of the efforts of local authorities and community
promoters, than of formal agreements among agencies at Federal or state levels.
45. The project made considerable progress in the three years of implementation (1993-1996).
Continuation of IE activities under the restructured PAREB project should provide an excellent
opportunity to apply lessons learned thus far and implement the necessary assessments. These
evaluations should pay particular attention to the contents, quality and costs of the program and



14
measure the impact upon children and communities regarding improvements in school readiness,
return to education, and potential reductions in welfare burdens.
LESSONS LEARNED
a) Delays by central government in transferring funds to the states cause considerable disruption
in the work programs and waste valuable resources ahd staff time; consequently, once an
annual budget for a project is approved and programs are prepared by state governments,
central financial authorities would need to make their best efforts to maintain the agreed
commitments.
b) In community based programs, a key element to project success in transmitting undiluted
messages to the grassroots is the participation of seasoned educators in curricula development
and a training strategy and methodology for promoters discouraging a lecture approach, and
instead emphasizing a participatory mode with dynamic promoter-participants interaction,
complemented by small group discussions and frequent reinforcement through weekly
meetings.
c) Process and impact evaluation studies are essential to demonstrate the project's effectiveness
to meet stated objectives, and to measure impact. In this project, delays in planning such
studies and failure to conduct them within pre-established dates resulted in a lack of
meaningful indicators to evaluate project progress more accurately and to develop firm
arguments that could have strengthened the commitment of state education authorities to this
program.
d) Social sector projects need to include the development of effective indicators on the cost of
activities in relation to outcomes. Unit costs should be accounted for annually in relation to
specific products, and this information should be used for decision-making, as well as for
future cost-effective improvements of program design.
e) There is a need to strike a proper balance between continuity and obsolescence in the use of
IE promoters; although the objective of the program is not to perpetuate them in this role, the
efforts and expenditures invested in their training make it worthwhile to coordinate
assignments for these persons among several social development programs such as health and
illiteracy campaigns. This approach would also help achieve better complementarity, already
taking place in many communities, between IE and literacy, health, nutrition and other
programs.
f) Given the temporary nature of IE promoters and in view of the investments made in
promoters' training, it is highly desirable to coordinate the use of these "volunteers" with
other community programs, either within the same Secretariat (e.g., with the literacy
program) or in cooperation with other agencies (e.g., health). In this way, the experience and
knowledge of the community acquired by these workers would be better utilized.



15
g) In cases where centralized procurement of goods and services is the norm, decentralized
procurement should be tested and subsequently adopted, as a more effective alternative,
providing appropriate training to the state staff which will be responsible for it;
h) Decentralizing planning and implementation of the program made it easier for state
coordinating units to respond to widely varied challenges and needs, including reaching
communities with difficult access, recruiting supervisors, zone coordinators, and promoters,
and taking initiatives for training and supervising them, arranging for transportation of
materials, and providing and making monthly payments to workers.
i) Organizational changes in project administration after appraisal are disruptive and should be
avoided. A main cause of extensive delay in project initiation was the transfer of project
responsibility from SEP to CONAFE after Loan signing. Although this change was
unavoidable in view of an overall reorganization of the Education Sector, decisions on new
organizational requirements should have been expeditiously studied and agreed upon and
amendments to documents made accordingly; this would have saved considerable effort and
expenses both to the Government and the Bank.
FUTURE OPERATIONS
46. IE activities will continue to be supported through the restructured PAREB Bank project.
The work plan for the current year includes contracting of much needed studies on evaluation of
the program and of the educational materials being used. The restructured project will further
expand the IE program to a total of 14 states -four additional, with respect to the original
operation. It will also extend the project period two more years. The project was scheduled until
1998, while the restructure project will enable to maintain Bank support until the year 1999.






17
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
INITIAL EDUCATION PROJECT
(LOAN 3518-ME)
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:     Summary of Assessments
Table 2:     Related Bank Credits
Table 3:     Project Timetable
Table 4:     Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursement
Table 5:    Key Monitoring Indicators
Table 6:     Studies included in Project
Table 7A:   Project Costs
Table 7B:   Project Financing
Table 8:    Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 9:    Bank Resources: Missions
Table 10:    Status of Legal Covenants



18
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
Macro policies                                                                          4
Sector policies                                         4
Financial objectives                                                                     4
Institutional development                               4
Physical objectives                     4
Poverty reduction                                       4
Gender issues                           4
Other social objectives                 4
Environmental objectives                                                                4
Public sector management                                l
Private sector development                                              4
Other (specify)
Sustainability                          4
Identification                                         4
Preparation assistance                                 4
Appraisal                               4
Supervision                                            4
D. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .I..
~~~............~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.......................
Preparation                                            4
Implementation                                         4
Covenant compliance                                    4
Operation                                              4
Assessment of Overall Outco.e                          4
Assessment of Overall Outcome4



Table 2: Related Bank Loans
.*. .  .    *. . *..*.*  *..*.**.~.*.~ . .~. . *.. .. *..*.*.*..* .*.*                  ~. . *..*..*...*....... *---*. ............~. .
...   .... .... ....   ..   .... ........ ... .............*.*   A -..*.
........... . ..........~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~.......  :.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.;.:.:.:......... ...  ...L.U R.........*.....*........    ...
Narn w~~~~~~~~~~~                   Purpo~~~~~~~~~.-              .ppQ.a .....C .nnt
Primary                   To assist the Government of Mexico in                                  1991             Closed   Lower repetition and abandonment rates
Education Loan  improving the quality and efficiency of                                                                          were achieved, compared to non-project
3407-ME                   Primary Education, focusing on four                                                                    states
Mexican states (Oaxaca, Guerrero,
Chiapas and Hidalgo).
Primary                   Improve quality and efficiency of primary                              1994            Ongoing  The Loan Agreement was amended and
Education II              education, focusing on the poorest                                                                      approved by Board on 5/15/97, to include
Loan 3722-ME   municipalities, and continuing with Initial                                                                       continuation of IE activities initiated with
Education activities.                                                                                  Loan 3518-ME



20
Table 3: Project Timetable
***.~~~~* ~...   ....     ...a                                                        .    ........
E~~~
1. Preparation                              05/21/91                     10/28/91
2. Appraisal                               05/05/92                     05/05/92
3. Negotiations                              08/03/92                    08/03/92
4. Board presentation                            09/08/92                    09/08/92
5. Signing                                10/08/92                     10/08/92
6. Effectiveness                                12/92                     08/12/93
7. Project completion                            03/01/97                    05/05/97
8. Loan closing                              06/30/98                    06/30/97
i                ~~~~~Project Tiffetables
24-Jul-98
1 1-Mar-97
28-Oct-95
15-Jun-94-
.~31-Jan-93.4..Date planned
19-Sep-91                  54                      MDate actual
7-May-90.
23-Dec-88 
11 -Aug-87 -
1   2   3   4   5   6   7   8
Processing Steps



21
Table 4: Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(Millions of US$)
Appraisal estimates           11.00a'    20.00       36.00      52.00       70.00      80.00
Revised estimates             11.00      20.00       36.00      52.00    a) 74.00        ---
(1995)
Actual                          ---       9.36       16.86      20.30    b) 28.43        ---
Disbursements
Actual as % of                  ---       46.8        46.8       39.0        38.4        ---
Revised Estimate
Date of Last                                          June 30, 1997
Disbursement
a) The Government requested cancellation of $6.0M in July 1995.
b) An undisbursed balance of US$45.6 million was canceled at loan closing, on 6/30/97.
Disbursements
80                                            _____________
--.-Appraisal estimates
.2
40    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~.,.                    U-Revised estimates
n  20                                 A ~~~~~~~~~~--Actual Disbursements
C )            U)      <D             (0C
0)                     0)     0)      0)
U.     U.      U-      U-     U-      U-



22
Table 5: Key Monitoring Indicators
A. Human Resource Development i _
1. Train Higher level professionals            48                 50             50          100%
2. Train leaders and tech. Stafft2 80                               r-        f 
4. Train superv, & coord.                    5,260               3,736         3,127         83.4%
5. Train promoters                           40,500             32,100         29,567        92.0%
6. Train parents                            641,823             641,823       597,482        93.1%
* Parents learning achievement    Annual assessments
* Rate parents attendance
$ Rate promoters performance
* Effectiveness of educational
materials
* Frequency of home visits
B. Educ. Materials Development
1. Print and distribute revised             604,000           1.6 million    1.2 million     75%
parents' Guidebook
2. Print and distribute revised              85,000             85,000         71,578        84.2%
Promoters' Guidebook
3. Print and distribute revised              8,800               8,800         3,142         36.0%
supervisors' Guidebook
4. Print and distribute revised zone          1,300              1,300            -            -
coordinators' Guidebook
5. Develop audiovisual cassettes             51,200             51,200        45,549 a)       NA
6. Conduct public campaigns by                448                 NA          61,700 3        NA
radio
lIndicators marked with an asterisk were to be evaluated on a random sample basis by the independent annual control
assessment, qualitative assessments are given in the text of the report, based on a sample of 12 communities where case
studies were made to examine the effects of the project.
2Although a strategy for management training was developed with technical assistance provided through UNICEF, no training
took place due to heavy workload of high level programn staff.
3 During the project period there were 61,000 radio announcements or broadcasts about the project, and 13,200 on national
TV.
a) Of these 4,960 videos were produced in 1997.



23
Key Implementation Indicators in    Original    Revised      Actual      Percent
SAR                  Targets       Targets     Achieved   Achieved
through 1996  Set for end-  as of Dec.    over
'96       31, 1996    Revised
..____ _____ _____ _____ _ _   ..__   I__   .__ .__ .._ _ . T argets
C. Institutional Strengthening
1. Establish Pro-childhood        On-going
Committees
2. Select and hire new staff         80            70          70          100
3. Purchase vehicles                 27            27          29         107.4
* Level and regularity of       Annual
promoters' payments            assessments
* Quality and frequency of
supervision
* Q & F of module supervision
* Q & F of state and central
supervision.
* PCC and community
participation
* No. of PCCs established
* Type and Q of PCC activities
Service Coverage to children 0 to 4  830,000    830,000      747,316      90%



24
Table 6: Technical Assistance and Studies Included in the Project
Tech n<:ical Assistance (T.A.)    Purpose as defined at     Status               Impact
or Study;            Appraisal/ redefined
I.T.A. Initial technical review   Objective was to add new   Parents' Guidebook and    Formal evaluation of
of design and printing of  topics, bring old topics up   Promoters' Guidebook  impact planned for
Guidebooks for: Parents,   to date, and improve write- revised, reproduced and    September,'97 under
Promoters, Module           ups and visual          distributed             restructured PAREB
Supervisors, and Zone      presentations                                    project
Coordinators
2. TA. for audiovisual      Assist CONAFE and       Institutional logos were    Id.
communication program      particularly the IE Unit, in  designed and reproduced
improving its printed   in a multitude of printed
materials and mass media  and visual materials. Two
programs, as well as its  Guidebooks were
communication strategy,   designed: for module
and quality of designs,  supervisor and for PCCs.
write-ups, artistic     Flip charts with 12
illustrations, coordination  illustrations was designed
of production, quality  and reproduced, as well as
control during production   many other materials,
of materials            including brochures, radio
and TV programs, video
on IE program and on
PCC functions, calendar,
and diplomas for courses
3. T.A. to prepare and present  To provide annual training  Workshops for 50  Favorable evaluation
Annual Workshop for        on planning,             technical staff conducted   of training by
Technical Staff            communication,           on September 26-October  participants
information systems,    5, 1994, and March -Dec.,
management and training   1996 (several short
strategies              sessions throughout
period)
4. T.A. to prepare and present  To provide training to  Two workshops offered,   Favorable evaluation
Annual Workshop for state    trainers on planning,  on Dec. 5-16, '94 to 47  of training by
trainers                   organizing and supervising  trainers and on Nov. 20-    participants
all step-down training  29,'96 to 31 trainers
activities in the state



25
Table 7A: Project Costs (US$ Million)
Appraisal Estimates                    Actual Costs
Item        Local    Foreign      Total               Local-   For6ignp   Tal
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ F o re i g n _ _ _ _ _ _F re g
1. Equipment     0.7        1.0 1-.7             58.8       0.4       0.5      0.9      55.0
and furniture
and vehicles
2.Educational    6.4        5.7        12.1      47.1       3.1                3.1
materials and
supplies
3. Staff         23.5        -         23.5        -        5.6                5.6
training and
conferences
4. Studies and   1.5        0.3        1.8       16.7       0.3       0.3      0.6      50.0
technical
Assistance
5. Salaries &    63.7        -         63.7       -        36.6               36.6       -
other
recurrent
costs
Baseline         95.8       7.0       102.8       6.8      47.0       0.8     47.8      1.7
Costs
Physical         0.6        0.2        0.8       0.3         -         -        -        -
contingencies
Price            10.8       0.6        11.4      5.3              -             -        -
Contingencie
s
Total Project   107.2       7.8       115.0      6.8       47.0       0.8     47,8      1.7
Costs                    _ .    .    .   .   .
Table 7B: Project Financing (US$ Million)
Appraisal Estimates                        Actual Costs
Source      Local Costs    Foreign        Total      Local Costs   Foreign       Total
Costs                                 Costs
IBRD           72.2          7.8          80.0         27.6         0.8          28.4
Government        34.0           -           34.0         19.2          -           19.2
UNDP UNICEF         1.0            -            1.0         0.1          0.1          0.2
107.2         7.8          115.0        46.9         0.9         47.8



26
Table 8; Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Preparation to Appraisal                                     135.2              255,313
Appraisal                                                     21.7               40,746
Negotiations through Board Approval                             9.2               15,779
Supervision                                                 131.2*              372,820
Completion                                                     10.6              30,923
1 Post appraisal work was required to amend the Loan Agreement, as a result of project organizational changes
made by the Government.
* Supervision figures included the time spent by a full time resident staff following up construction activities.



Table 9: Bank Resources: Missions
.......................i ~ ~ ~ ~ ...  ....
Through Appraisal
Identification             05/91         4             1.5             A                 N/A               N/A
Preparation                07/91          3           2.8              A                 N/A               N/A
Preparation                10/91          5           0.8             A,B                N/A               N/A
Preparation                12/91          4           2.0              A                 N/A               N/A
Preparation                02/92          6           2.0              A                 N/A               N/A
Preparation                02/92          1            0.7             B                 N/A               N/A
Preparation                05/92          5            2.0            A,C                N/A               N/A
Appraisal Through
Board Approval
Appraisal                  09/92          8            2.0             A                 N/A               N/A
Post Appraisal             10/92         2             1.0             A                 N/A               N/A
Supervision
Supervision 1              05/93          3           0.7              A                 N/A               N/A              N/A
Supervision 2              02/94          7           2.0           A,B,C,D              N/A               N/A              N/A
Supervision 3              03/94         3             1.0            A,C                N/A               N/A              N/A
Supervision 4              10/94          3            1.0            A,D                 S                 HS              N/A
Supervision 5              02/94          6           0.8            A,C,D                S                 HS               F
Supervision 6              06/95         6            2.1          A,C,D,E,F              S                HS            F,P,S,T,Tr,
Supervision 7              10/96         6            2.0            A,E,G                S                 S              E,F,S,T
Completion                    05/97          3            1.2           A,C,H                S                 S                 T
a/ A= Education Specialist; B= Management; C= Procurement Specialist; D= Architect; E= HR Economist; F= Portfolio Manager; G= Office Manager; H= Task Assistant
hb 1= Problem Free; 2= Moderate; 3= Major Problems; S= Satisfactory; U= Unsatisfactory
_I M=Management; F= Financial; P= Procurement; S= Studies; E= Monitoring & Eval.; T= Technical Assessment; TR= Training;



28
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
I .........         .                                            _.
Guarantee Agreement
G. 3.03          5          C                                 Evidence that satisfactory        For effectiveness
agreements have been signed with
at least three of the ten project
l _____________  ____________                    _____________   states
G. 3.05          13         C        06/30/93      12/31/94    The Educational Management        In process of developing the
Information System will be in     Administrative-Finance Module with
l _________    _________                         __________    operation.                        PAREB.
G. 3.06          13         C        06/30/93                 Evidence of timely monthly         Complied in 1996.
payments of community educators
compensation of at least US$50
equivalent in real terms
G. 3.06          13         C        06/30/93                 Evidence that the monthly         Complied.
supervision travel allowance for
module supervisors and zone
coordinators are at least US$60
and US$50 equivalent in real
terms, respectively.
G. 3.08          10         C        06/30/93                 Evidence that the Advisory         Formal Committee will not be
Committee has been established.    established. However, ad-hoc
meetings take place regularly with all
potential members. Not applicable
under new structure
G. 3.09 (a)      10         C        10/31/93                 Annual project progress reviews    1992-1996 progress was reviewed
during SPN mission. By October 31
__ _ _ _   _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ eachyear, 93-96.
G. 3.09 (b)      13         C                                 Evidence that communities have    For Annual Review each year 1993-
been identified in each of the ten  97. Communities identified in all
project states to meet project    states.
expansion targets set for year.  _
G. 3.09 (b)      13         C        06/30/93                 Evidence of timely monthly        Monthly allowance of MEX$500 is
payments of community educators   being paid to community educators,
compensation of at least US$50    at each annual review.
l __________    __________          ___________                equivalent in  real terms.
G. 3.10 (a)      10         C        04/30/95     04/30/96    Furnish terms of reference for mid-  Complied.
term implementation review
l __________  __________                         ___________   m eeting.
G. 3.10 (b)      10         C        10/31/95                 A mid-term review conducted by    Complied.
SEP, jointly with the Bank.
G. 3.10          10         C        11/30/95                 Action plans based on the results  Complied.
(b)(iii)                                                      of the mid-term review meeting.
G. 3.12          13         C                                 Contract for independent research    Substitute with annual process
center or consulting firm to      evaluation before August 31.
l______  ______                                  _______   perform a quality control review.
G. 4.01 (b)      1 0        C                                 Furnish to the Bank a certified   1994-1995 completed. 1996 in
(i)(ii(iii)    I  _copy of the audit reports.                                                   revision. Before June 30.
Loan Agreement
L. 3.03          09         C                                 Annual project progress reviews   Complied.
L. 4.01 (b)      01         C                                 Furnish to the Bank a certified   1994-1995 completed. 1996 in
L.(i)(ii)(iv)                                                 copy of the audit reports         revision. Before June 30.
L. 6.01 (b)      10         C                                 Evidence that satisfactory        For effectiveness.
agreements have been signed with
at least three of the ten project
states.
L. 6.01 (c)      03         C                                 Central and State Initial Education   For effectiveness, and for
Units. Evidence that at least the  disbursement of project resources for
=   - ________ -   =     -    =   -   Deputy Directors at the Central IE   each individual state.



29
.............: ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M.   .... .......  .
*.............::  ..::::.:.;::::::.:......~.. ...... ..... ...... ... ..
unit and two of the Technical
positions in the state IE units have
been filled.
Sch. 1, 3         10         C                                  Evidence that an agreement has      Complied.
(b)                                                             been signed with each state for
project implementation.
Sch. 1, 3         10         C                                  Review of the graduate program      Not applicable.
(c), (d)                                                        for top-level executives.                                                l
Annex 1,        10, 09       c        11/30/92                  Select consultants and contract for   Not applicable.
3.3                                                             the study of information needs and
for the design of a system to
generate and process information
required for project monitoring and
l__________                                                     implementation.
Annex 4.4         9          C                                  Preparation of a work plan and      Complied.
budget for the following fiscal
l_________                  year.                                                                   l
Side Letter       13         C                                  Evidence that communities have      Complied.
Annex I,                                                        been identified in each of the ten
4.1 (a)                                                         project states to meet project
expansion targets set for year.                                         l
Side Letter,      13         C                                   Evidence that the appropriate      Complied.
Annex                                                            number of module supervisors and
1.4.1 (b)                                                       zone coordinators to meet the
year's project expansion targets
have been recruited. ,
Side Letter,      13         C                                  Evidence that initial training      Complied.
Annex                                                            courses have been completed for
1.4.1 (c)                                                       all module supervisors and zone
coordinators.
Side Letter,      13         C                                  Evidence that Pro-Childhood         Complied.
Annex 1,                                                        Committees have been organized
4.1 (e)                                                         and community educators have
been trained for the year.                                             l
Side Letter,      13         C                                  Evidence that parent training       Complied.
Annex 1,                                                        groups have been organized and
4.1 (f)                                                         that training courses are being
conducted.
Side Letter,      13         C                                  Evidence that continuing in-        Complied.
Annexl,                                                         service training activities for
4.1 (g)                                                         community educators, module
supervisors, and zone coordinators
are proceeding regularly.                                               l
Side Letter,      13         C                                  Evidence that an annual training    Complied.
Annex 1,                                                        seminar has been conducted for
4.2                                                             training specialists.               __l
Side Letter,      13         C                                  Evidence that an annual training    Complied.
Annex I,                                                        seminar has been conducted for
4.3                                                             members of the technical staff.
Side Letter,     13                                             Evidence of revision, updating, or    Complied.
Annex I,                                                        design of all printed educational
2.1. (a)                                                        materials have been completed.
Side Letter,      13         C                                  Printing and distribution of all    Complied.
Annex 1,                                                        printed materials.
2.1 (b)
Side Letter,      13         C                                  Revision of all educational         Approved TORs. Contracts in
Annex 1,                                                        materials.                          process.
2.1 (c)                                 ._l
Side Letter,      13         C                                  Printing and distribution of the   Pending revision of education
Annex 1,                                                        balance of all education materials.   materials.
2.1 (d)                                                        _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _



30
O WN
Side Letter,     13         C                                 Develop and submit for Bank       Complied till 1996.
Annex 1,                                                      approval terms of reference and
2.1 (al)                                                      content specifications for non print
educational materials.
Side            13          C                                 Contract for the design and       Complied.
Letter,                                                       production of education games.
Annex 1,
2.1 (bl)
Side Letter,     13         C                                 Contract for the production of a 6    Complied.
Annex 1,                                                      to 8 minute educational video
2.1 (bl)                                                      cassette.                               -_._l
Side Letter,     13         C                                 Contract for the production of four   Complied.
Annex 1,                                                      60 minute audio cassettes.
2.1 (bl)
Side Letter,     13         C                                 Contract for the development and    Complied.
Annex 1,                                                      production of tree different one-
2.1 (cl)                                                      minute radio spots.
Side Letter,     13         C                                 Evidence that appropriate          Complied till 1996.
Annexl,                                                       arrangements have been made with
2.1 (dl)                                                      local and regional radio stations.
Side Letter,     13         C                                 Contract of the development and    Complied.
Annex 1,                                                      production of a series of radio
2.1 (cl)                                                      programs.
Side Letter,     13         C                                 Process evaluation: (i) Select     Waiting for technical proposals
Annex I,                                                      consultants and contract for the
3.4                                                           process evaluation.
Side Letter,     13         C        07/31/93                 Selection of consultants and       Integrated into impact evaluation.
Annex 1,                                                      contract for the study             Complied.
3.4                                                           Psychological Development Scale.
(Final Report).
Side Lettei,     13         C                                 Impact Evaluation: (i) Select     Waiting for technical proposals.
Annex 1,                                                      consultants and contract for the
3.4 (i)                                                       impact study.
Side Letter,     13         C                                 Impact Evaluation: (ii) Sampling  Impact evaluation.
Annex 1,                                                      and instruments design.
3.4 (ii)                                                                                                                            l
Side Letter,     13         C                                 Impact Evaluation: (iii) First    Integrated into impact evaluation.
Annex 1,                                                      Report.
3.4 (iii)                                                                                                                          l
Side Letter,     13         C        12/31/94                 Selection of consultants and      TORs approved. Contract in process.
Annex 1,                                                      contract for the study Evaluation
3.4                                                           of Educational materials. (Final
Report).                                                             l
Side Letter,     13         C        04/30/94                 Selection of consultants and      Complied.
Annex 1,                                                      contract for the study Parents
3.4                                                           attitude and Behavior. (Final
Report)
Side Letter,     13         C        12/31/95                 Cost Effectiveness. (Final Report).  Integrated into impact evaluation.
Annex 1,
Side Letter,     13         C                                 Evidence of cooperative           Complied.
Annex 1,                                                      arrangements among SEP and the
3.7                                                           federal and state health secretariats
or equivalent organizations.



31
Status:
C    - Complied with
CD   - Compliance after Delay
NC   - Not Complied With
SOON- Compliance Expected in Reasonably Short Time
CP   - Complied with Partially
NYD - Not Yet Due
Covenant Class:
1 Accounts/audit
2 Financial performance/generate revenue from beneficiaries
3 Flow and utilization of Project Funds
4 Counterpart Funding
5 Management aspects of the Project or of its executing agency
6 Environmental Covenants
7 Involuntary resettlement
8 Indigenous people
9 Monitoring, review and reporting
10 Implementation
1  Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation
12 Sectoral or cross-sectoral regulatory/institutional action
13 Other






13.
APPENDIXES






APPENDIX A
35.
BBL-335-VI-97
GERENCIA DE FlN-ANCIAMIENTOS MULTILATERALES
9 de junio de 1997
SR. MANUEL VERA
Especialista en Educaci6n
Banco Mundial
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C.
20433, U.S.A.
Hago referencia al Prestamo 3518-ME contratado con ese Organismo para financiar
parcialmente el Programa de Educaci6n Inicial (PRODEI), y especificamente a la Ayuda
Memoria generada con motivo de la Misi6n de Supervisi6n que el Banco realiz6 en nuestro pais
del 5 al 6 de mayo de 1997.
Sobre el particular, anexo me petmito enviar a usted tin ejemplar de dicho documento, el cual
contiene las firmas correspondientes a la SHCP, CONAFE y esta Instituci6n.
Sin mas por el momento, aprovecho la ocasi6n para enviarle un saludo.
ATENTAMENTE
& IC. J  MA EL IZQUIERDO SOSA
Ger4I
Anexo: lo citado
c.c.p.  Lie. Alejandro de la Canal.- Director General de Planeaci6irt. Programaci6n y Presupuesto.- SEP. Anexo
c.c.p.  Lic. Edmundo Salas.- Director Gene. al.- CONAFE. Anexo
c.c.p.  Lic. Lorena Gabilondo A.- Subdirectora de Proyectos Sociales y de Recursos Humanos.- SHCP. Anexo
c.c.p.  Lic. Manuel Morales H.- Asesor dc la Direccifn General.- DGPPP.- SEP. Anexo
c.c.p.  Lic. Timnoteo Harris Howard.- Subdirector de Organismos Internacionales.- NAFIN.
c.c.p.  Lic. Socorro Padilla Monroy.- Gcrcnte de Operaci6n de Financiamientos Especiales.- NAFIN. Anexo
AEP*EGD*lmg



36
MEXICO
MISION DE SUPERVISION DEL BANCO MUNDIAL
PROYECTOS DE EDUCACION INICIAL (PRODEI - Prestamo 3518-ME),
Y EDUCACION PRIMARIA I Y II (PARE - 3407-ME Y PAREB - 3722-ME)
AYUDA MEMORIA
Mayo 5 al 16 de 1997
1. Una misi6n integrada por Manuel Vera, Madalena Dos Santos, Fernando Reimers y
Patricia Romero (LASHD), Rosita Estrada (LADCR), y Nydia Maraviglia (consultora)
se realiz6 del 5 al 16 de mayo de 1997 para preparar el Informe de Cierre (Project
Implementation Report - ICR) del PRODEI, y revisar los compromisos legales de
PAREB (recientemente reestructurado mediante una enmienda), y PARE. La misi6n
mantuvo reuniones con el Lic. Edmundo Salas Garza, Director General del CONAFE,
Lic. Lorena Gabilondo, Sub-Directora de Proyectos Sociales de la SHCP, Lic. Manuel
Morales, Asesor de la Direcci6n General de Planeaci6n, Programaci6n y Presupuesto de
la SEP, Lic. Juan Manuel Izquierdo Sosa, Gerente de Financiamientos Multilaterales de
NAFIN, Lic. Carlos Marquez Perez, Coordinador de Programas Compensatorios del
CONAFE, Lic. Joaquin Jardi, Director de Planeaci6n del CONAFE, y funcionarios
ejecutivos y tecnicos del CONAFE, SEP, NAFIN y otros organismos tecnicos.
2. Miembros de la misi6n realizaron visitas a los estados de Guanajuato, Oaxaca y
Veracruz, y se entrevistaron con los Secretarios de Educaci6n, asi como con
funcionarios ejecutivos y tecnicos y autoridades municipales de dichos estados.
Tambien realizaron visitas y observaron el funcionamiento de grupos del programa
PRODEI en comunidades rurales e indigenas.
3. La misi6n desea agradecer la amable cooperaci6n y el apoyo brindado por las
autoridades del Gobierno Federal y los Gobiernos de Guanajuato, Oaxaca y Veracruz. A
continuaci6n se presenta un resumen de los principales asuntos tratados y los acuerdos
tomados durante las reuniones llevadas a cabo durante esta misi6n.
ASUNTOS ACORDADOS
4. La misi6n recibi6 un informe de avance y logros del proyecto PRODEI, en preparacion
para el cierre de este prestamo. Se realizaron reuniones en NAFIN, destinadas a tratar
los aspectos financieros relacionados con el cierre de PRODEI, y la revisi6n del estado
de cumplimiento de los compromisos legales para PRODEI Y PAREB. NAFIN
inform6 a la misi6n que solicitara la cancelaci6n de los saldos no utilizados de los
prestamos 3518-ME (PRODEI) Y 3407-ME (PARE) a la fecha de la firma de la
enmienda al proyecto PAREB (Pr6stamo 3722-ME).



37
5. Los informes financieros de PRODEI presentados a la misi6n deben considerarse como
preliminares. Los informes financieros definitivos incluiran la comprobaci6n de los
gastos pendientes y el monto sujeto a cancelaci6n. De acuerdo con la informaci6n
financiera tentativa suministrada a la misi6n, puede estimarse que la cancelaci6n para
cerrar el prestamo seria de $US 45.6 millones. La misi6n fale informada, asimismo, que
la cancelaci6n del remanente no desembolsado del prestamo 3407-ME (PARE) sera
entre US$16.5 millones y US$17.3 rmillones.
6. La misi6n verific6 que el objetivo de extender la cobertura de servicios de educaci6n
inicial a 1.2 millones de nifios menores de 4 afnos en zonas altamente marginadas y
mejorar la calidad de dichos servicios, fue en gran medida alcanzado. En efecto, hasta
el 31 de diciembre de 1996, se habia logrado beneficiar con este programa a casi
750,000 nifios, o un 90% de la meta originalmente establecida para esa fecha.
7. Se acord6 que con respecto a las obligaciones comprometidas bajo el prestamo 3518-
ME, cuya ejecuci6n no se haya completado al tiempo de la cancelaci6n, NAFIN
elaborard un listado de estas (contratos) para recabar del Banco una nueva "no
objeci6n" a fines de financiar la parte pendiente con fondos del prestamo 3722-ME.
8. La informaci6n obtenida por la misi6n permitird proceder a la preparaci6n del informe
del Banco ICR. Dicho informe se finalizard una vez que se haga efectiva la cancelacion
del remanente no utilizado del prestamo, dentro de los seis meses siguientes a dicha
cancelaci6n.
9. Se acord6 que CONAFE enviara al Banco, en las fechas indicadas, la siguiente
inforrnaci6n o documentaci6n:
10. Antes del 15 de junio de 1997, informaci6n actualizada acerca del monto de las
contribuciones financieras al proyecto por parte de los estados participantes, en
categorias elegibles, las cuales constituyen parte del aporte nacional al financiamiento
del proyecto. Esencialmente estos gastos corresponden al componente de Recursos
Humanos (ver el SAR en ingles, Annex 20 para tener una idea clara de los gastos
elegibles procedentes de los estados, que se habian estimado en US$15 millones al
momento de preparar el SAR).
1 1. Antes del 31 de mayo de 1997, el inforne final de consultoria para la primera fase de la
reorganizaci6n administrativa de la unidad coordinadora de los proyectos financiados
por el Banco, y la n6mina del personal de la nueva organizaci6n.
12. El CONAFE inform6 a la misi6n que el estudio sobre la educaci6n secundaria en
Mexico, se realizard bajo un diagn6stico previsto en el nuevo proyecto de educaci6n
basica actualmente en preparaci6n.
13. Asimismo, se acord6 que el CONAFE contratara, antes del 31 de agosto de 1997, la
consultoria externa para el segundo estudio evaluativo de procesos, el cual deberd
incluir los aspectos relativos a la organizaci6n institucional y administrativa a nivel



38
estatal, al uso y efectividad de los materiales educativos, y al funcionamiento y estado
de implantacion del sistema de informaci6n educativa y gerencial.
14. CONAFE inform6 a la misi6n que se ha iniciado el proceso de contrataci6n para la
consultoria de evaluaci6n de impacto y se espera que la iniciaci6n del estudio tenga
lugar dentro de un plazo no mayor de tres meses a partir de la fecha.
15. La misi6n particip6, junto con personal del CONAFE y de la Secretarfa de Educaci6n
del Estado de Oaxaca, en el Seminario convocado por la Organizaci6n Civil
TRASPARENCIA para informar a un grupo de organizaciones civiles del estado sobre
los objetivos, organizaci6n y alcances del proyecto de educaci6n inicial PRODEI. El
seminario solicit6 que se tome en cuenta la posible colaboraci6n de las organizaciones
civiles en el diseino y ejecuci6n de los proyectos de educaci6n.
Ciudad de M      6d mayo de 1997
Lic!Edmune b                               :ala;arzi  'Manuel Vera
Director C   al\dL   AFE                 / Banco Mundial
Lic. Juan Manuel uedo                       Lic.    a Gabilondo Alpizar
Gerente de Financi  jen                     Subdifectora de Proyectos Sociales
Multilaterales, NAP                         SHCP.



39
APPENDIX B
GOVERNMENT EVALUATION REPORT AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILES






41                            APPENDIX C
Consejo Nacional de Fomento Educativo
Rio Elba No. 20 Piso 16 CA. 06500 MWxico, D.E Tels. 553.88.82 553.29.77
Mexico D.F., 22 de octubre de 1997
OFICIO No. CPC1744.97
CARMEN HAMANN
GERENTE DEL SECTOR SOCIAL
DEPARTAMENTO DE MEXICO
P RES ENTE.
AT'N: Lic. Claudia Macias.
Adjunto a la presente le envio los comentarios al documento Implementation Completion
Report. Informe aue el Banco Mundial ha preparado para presentar la operaci6n del
Proyecto para el -Dsarrollo de la Educaci6n Inicial PRODEI, de 1993 a 1996; a la Junta
de Directores del organismo internacional.
Conviene precisar,. que los comentarios resumen los beneficios importantes no
considerados en el informe del Proyecto, a lo largo del periodo senalado, y que son parte
de las experiencias esenciales de car6qter educativo que se han derivado de este como
accciones innovadoras.
Sin otro particular, hago propia ia4casion para enviarle un cordial saludo.
ATE NT AM
LIC. CARLOS M    UEZ PEREZ
COORDINAD)R DE LOS PROGRAMAS
COMPENSkORIOS DEL CONAFE
c.c.p. Lic. Lorena Gabilondo Alpizar SHCP.
Lic. Alejandro de la Canal Knapp, SEP.
Lic. Timoteo Harris, NAFIN.
Lic- Juan Manuel lzquierdo. NAFIN.
CMPI(GRAJsrm.



42
Consejo Nacional de Fomento Educativo
Rio Elba No. 20 Piso 16 C.P. 06500 M6.ico. D.F. Tels. 553.88.82 553.29.77
Comentarios al documento Implementation Completion Report, elaborado
por el Banco Mundial
La informaci6n presentada en el documento Implementation Completion Report (ICR),
sobre ia operaci6n del Proyecto para el Desarrollo de la Educaci6n Inicial PRODEI,
(enviado al CONAFE el 29 de septiembre de 1997); la considero pertinente. No existen
datos o hechos que alteren el desarrollo del Proyecto de 1993 a 1996, y por lo tanto, no
habria inconveniente para que la junta del Banco Mundial (BM) la utilice para los fines que
considere convenientes.
El ICR describe las acciones emprendidas en cada uno de los componentes del proyecto:
las metas de operaci6n comprometidas, el monto presupuestal asignado, el costo global
desembolsado; los alcances y las limitaciones, la problematica detectada, los resultados y
las experiencias obtenidos, los pendientes y las recomendaciones a incorporar en la
continuaci6n del Proyecto a partir de su reestructuraci6n en el PAREB.
Sin embargo, habria que sehalar al Banco Mundial, en el punto del Componente de
Desarrollo de Recursos Humanos, que las capacitaciones para Promotores Educativos
que participan en la operaci6n del Programa de Educaci6n Inicial No Escolarizado, se
Ilevan a cabo en tres fases: Inicial, Trimestral y Mensual; y no de manera Semanal como
lo indica el documento ICR, para que realice la rectificaci6n que proceda.
Tambien considero necesario destacar tres puntos en los que se resumen los beneficios
del Proyecto y que podrian ser incorporados en el Informe del BM, estos son:
1. Municipalizaci6n del Programa de Educaci6n Inicial no Escolarizada
El Proyecto tiene como compromiso prioritario, instrumentar acciones que faciliten su
institucionalizaci6n en los estados donde se implementa. Un avance que el Proyecto
ha tenido en este sentido, es sensibilizar a los Municipios para que participen con el
Programa de Educaci6n Inicial, logrando que 22 de ellos, en los Estados de Hidalgo,
Mexico, Puebla y Veracruz han asumido los gastos de la gratificaci6n de 30
Promotores Educativos, con beneficio directo a 600 padres y 780 niFos. Lo que
significa que de seguir impulsando esta politica en los Municipios, de estas entidades,
y de los demas estados que conforman el Proyecto, propiciara el arraigo y la
permanencia del Programa No Escolarizado en la comunidades donde se ofrece el
servicio educativo. De tal forma que los beneficios de este, continuen liegando a los
padres de familia capacitandolos en el mejoramiento de las practicas de crianza hacia
los menores de 4 ahos y favoreciendo el que los ninos alcancen su desarrollo integral
para que ingresen con mayor exito a los niveles educativos posteriores.
2. Apoyo a los sistemas Estatales de Educaci6n Inicial e Inicial Indigena.
El Proyecto ha apoyado a las Coordinaciones Estatales de Educaci6n Inicial para que
a la fecha cuenten:



43
Consejo Nacional de Fomento Educativo
Rio Elba No. 20 Piso 16 C.P. 06500 MIxico, D.F. Tels. 553.88.82 553.29.77
a) Con un equipo tecnico que apoya la implementaci6n de las acciones previstas en los
componentes del Proyecto, ademas de 162 recursos humanos que las Secretarias de
Educacion Publica ha asignado a las mismas.
b) Con mobiliario, equipo y vehiculos de conformidad con las metas establecidas para
cada aho, ya que se entregaron en forma global: 1627 unidades de equipamiento
audiovisual, de oficina y c6mputo, mobiliario y parque vehicular, cumpliendose con ello
el 95.5% de la meta comprometida. A este respecto, es importante destacar que
gradualmente los Gobiernos Estatales fueron proporcionando equipo complementario:
un total de 337 unidades de mobiliario y equipo con lo que se ha mejorado
substancialmente las condiciones fisicas de las Coordinaciones.
c) Con la contrataci6n de 136 Coordinadores de Zona, 725 Supervisores de M6dulo y,
17,081 Promctores Educativos para la cobertura del Proyecto. Ademas de los recursos
humanos que se han incorporado, producto de los esfuerzos de institucionalizaci6n del
Proyecto: 63 Coordinadores de Zona, 327 Supervisores de M6dulo y 3,654 Promotores
Educativos.
d) En cuanto a Educaci6n Inicial Indigena, recientemente en el Estado de Oaxaca se
estableci6 un acuerdo entre el Instituto Estatal de Educacion PuTblica de Oaxaca y el
Consejo Nacional de Fomento Educativo para que a partir del ciclo operativo1997-
1998, el PRODEI capacite y suministre materiales a 25 representantes regionales y a
238 promotoras de Educaci6n Inicial indigena. Al respecto, se sugiere apoyar la
elaboracion de materiales educativos en lengua indigena, a fin de que tales figuras
puedan utilizarlos en Ia capacitaci6n que se brinda a los padres que atienden en esta
modalidad.
La acci6n anterior representa un ejemplo de coordinaci6n y apoyo entre diferentes
instituciones, que se seguira fomentando en las demas entidades para facilitar una
mejor atenci6n, tanto en cobertura como en la calidad de prestaci6n de dicho servicio
educativo. De forma tal que se logre responder a la filosofia del Proyecto, que es llegar
a las comunidades mas marginadas del pais, entre ellas, las indigenas.
3. Actividades de Alfabetizaci6n.
En el rubro de enlaces interinstitucionales se avanz6 mas alla de lo establecido en el
Proyecto ya qLle. las Coordinaciones Estatales de Educaci6n Inicial en los estados de
Chiapas, Hidalgo, Puebla, San Luis Potosi y Veracruz han emprendido acciones de
Coordinaci6n Interinstitucional con las Secretaria Estatales de Educaci6n Publica y con
el Instituto Nacional de Educaci6n para Adultos, con el prop6sito de participar en las
cruzadas estatales para la Educaci6n de los Adultos, en beneficio de las madres y
padres analfabetos que participan en el Programa No Escolarizado de Educaci6n
Inicial.



44
Consejo Nacional de Fomento Educativo
Rio Elba No. 20 Piso 16 C.P. 06500 Mexico, O.F. Tels. 553.88.82 553.29.77
Como producto de este esfuerzo, durante 1995 y 1996 se capacit6 a 3 752 Promotores
Educativos que, gracias a su movilidad y presencia en los municipios y comunidades
mas marginadas del pais, asi como su capacidad de liderazgo, representatividad,
solvencia moral y compromiso con el programa, alfabetizaron a 24,457 adultos de las
comunidades donde opera el Proyecto utilizando materiales del programa que
atendemos para cumplir exitosamente con esta encomienda. Experiencia que se
aprovechara para continuar con estas acciones, ya que brindan grandes beneficios a
los adultos que participan en nuestro Programa educativo.



MAP SECTION



ISRD 23995
MnicooIi00-                                                                                                                                                                                                                  90-                                          -
UNITED  STATES  OF   AMERICA                                                                                                          MEXICO
INITIAL EDUCATION PROJECT
CAtIFORItIIA   2   I     Y    J    ~  x 0H      sillo
S .  O~ IfO  A  -.- F/UA  ; -:r.J
4.  I                                                                                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROOJECT STATES
,          , Hermosillo         +    tt,            ll        W    X40   hikuohu  /            Auo                                                       <
NATIONAL CAPITAL
      STATE CAPITALS
8AJA                                           0 A H           A  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0                                            PRINOPAL CITIES OR TOWNS
DIVDED HIGNWAYS
CAlIfORNIA      P.-I                                                                                                                                  ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SELECTED MAIN ROADS
SUR   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ - RAILROADS
RIVERS
4-     PRINCIPAL AIRPORTS
%~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ STATE BOUJNDARIES
T-    ~ ~ ~  ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     4 Molnors-                                                 INERPRATIONAL BOUNDARIES
Lc   P . .L                         s o            D -G                  Z A   A A  l G ,6 A ,SX       f       S  U  /
X  a  t\ DE AS i VictO) Ih G ~~~~~~~~~~~~~  /1                                                                                  ~ /     -   x
.ord.,
%; A # I r t / ;; 6: 1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IRO
_   stux/lo-v-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~''' -1~~~~~~~~~~~0loS.
-   -t    _ CA|PECHE
04845sAs  ji       s   ~BELIZE,
-lLOMLETERS G      IOG      ?00               lw        M0                                                                                                                                                                                   900   .-
.,LES              100           2;30           3030_                                                                                                                  -ALA                                                                                       1
,h   h. L. -dbr. v  dii. LaL '/. 1 o 2 Wf f
..  Fono pry onXprt oT2eWord-kfGop  ny==  oa HONDURAS
JULY I199i



