Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3518 ME
                    (Initial Education Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                                and
                    NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C.
                       Dated October 8, 1992
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3518 ME
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated October 8, 1992, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and NACIONAL
FINANCIERA, S.N.C. (the Borrower).
      WHEREAS: (A) United Mexican States (the Guarantor) and the
Borrower, having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, have
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
      (B)   by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date
herewith between the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has
agreed to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of
the Loan and to undertake such other obligations as set forth in the
Guarantee Agreement; and
      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
Page  2
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:
      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
      (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:
            "(k)   An extraordinary situation shall have arisen
      under which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
      inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of
      the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "Central Initial Education Unit" means the unit
responsible for the Initial Education Program within SEP;
      (b)   "Community Educators" means the educators trained under
the Project whose functions are described in paragraphs 1.1 through
1.4 of Annex 1 to the letter agreement of even date herewith between
the Bank and the Guarantor;
      (c)   "Initial Education" means the education of young
children up to 4 years of age by their parents with the assistance
of Community Educators with a view to improving the children's
preparation for basic education;
      (d)   "Initial Education Program" means the program for
Initial Education adopted and operated by the Guarantor;
      (e)   "Module Supervisors" are the supervisors of the
Community Educators whose functions are described in paragraphs 1.5
and 1.6 of Annex 1 to the letter agreement of even date herewith
between the Bank and the Guarantor;
      (f)   "Operating Handbooks" means the Community Educator's
Handbook, the Module Supervisor's Handbook, and the Zone
Coordinator's Handbook used in the Initial Education Program and the
Operations Manual and the Pro-Childhood Committee Handbook which are
referred to in paragraph 2.1 of Annex 1 to the letter agreement of
even date herewith between the Bank and the Guarantor;
      (g)   "Operations Manual" means the manual referred to in
paragraph 2.1 of Annex 1 to the letter agreement of even date
herewith between the Bank and the Guarantor;
      (h)   "Parents' Guidebook" means the guidebook for parents
used in the Initial Education Program;
      (i)   "Participation Agreements" means the agreements referred
to in Section 3.03 of the Guarantee Agreement between the Guarantor
and each of the Project States;
      (j)   "PCU" means the Project Coordination Unit ("Unidad
Coordinadora del Proyecto") referred to in Section 3.07 of the
Guarantee Agreement;
      (k)   "Pro-Childhood Committee" ("Comite Pro-Ninez") means the
committee referred to in paragraph 3.6 of Annex 1 to the letter
Page  3
agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and the Guarantor;
      (l)   "Project States" means the States of Oaxaca, Veracruz,
Chiapas, Puebla, Guerrero, Michoacan, Mexico, Hidalgo, San Luis
Potosi, and Guanajuato;
      (m)   "SEP" means the Guarantor's Public Education Secretariat
("Secretaria de Educacion Publica");
      (n)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
      (o)   "SPES" means the Public Education Secretariat or
equivalent institution of the Project States;
      (p)   "State Initial Education Unit" means the unit
responsible for the Initial Education Program within a SPES;
      (q)   "Technical Advisory Council" ("Consejo Tecnico
Consultivo") means the council referred to in Section 3.08 of the
Guarantee Agreement; and
      (r)   "Zone Coordinators" are the supervisors of the Module
Supervisors whose functions are described in paragraph 1.6 of Annex
1 to the letter agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and
the Guarantor.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of eighty million Dollars ($80,000,000), being the sum of
withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued
by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in Banco de
Mexico on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1998 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.
      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.
      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.
      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost of
Page  4
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.
      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)    "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                   ending on the date immediately preceding each
                   date specified in Section 2.06 of this
                   Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in
                   which this Agreement is signed.
            (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
                   as reasonably determined by the Bank and
                   expressed as a percentage per annum, of the
                   outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
                   after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
                   or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated to
                   fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans
                   which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989
                   bearing interest rates determined otherwise than
                   as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
            (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the
                   second six months of a calendar year.
      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
                   "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
            from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
            (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
            2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
            accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
            preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."
                   "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of
            each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the
            Guarantor of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined
            in respect of such Quarter."
                   "(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
            a calendar year."
      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                         ARTICLE III
            Transfer of Loan Proceeds; Other Covenants
      Section 3.01. The Borrower shall enter into contractual
arrangements with the Guarantor, satisfactory to the Bank,
providing, inter alia, for: (a) the transfer to the Guarantor of the
proceeds of the Loan; and (b) the transfer by the Guarantor to the
Borrower of such funds as the Borrower shall be required to pay to
the Bank on account of principal, interest and other charges on the
Loan. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
not change or fail to enforce any provision of such contractual
arrangements.
      Section 3.02. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and
9.09 of the General Conditions (relating respectively to insurance,
Page  5
use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports,
maintenance and land acquisition) shall be carried out or caused to
be carried out: (i) by the Guarantor pursuant to Section 3.11 of the
Guarantee Agreement with regard to the parts of the Project carried
out by the Guarantor; and (ii) by each of the Project States,
pursuant to paragraph 1 (c) of Annex 4 to the letter agreement of
even date herewith between the Bank and the Guarantor, with respect
to the parts of the Project carried out by the Project States.
      Section 3.03. The Borrower shall participate in the annual
reviews referred to in Section 3.09 of the Guarantee Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and separate accounts adequate to reflect, in
accordance with sound accounting practices, the resources and
expenditures in connection with the execution of the Project.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section, and the records
                   and accounts for the Special Account, for each
                   fiscal year audited in accordance with generally
                   accepted auditing standards and procedures
                   consistently applied, by independent and
                   qualified auditors;
            (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                   any case not later than six months after the end
                   of each such year, the report of such audit by
                   said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                   as the Bank shall have reasonably requested;
            (iii)  furnish to the bank each month certified
                   statements of the Special Account; and
            (iv)   furnish to the Bank such other information
                   concerning said records and accounts as well as
                   the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
                   time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall provide to the Guarantor any
information that may be required by the Guarantor to comply with the
Guarantor's obligations under Section 4.01 (c) of the Guarantee
Agreement.
                             ARTICLE V
                       Remedies of the Bank
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that any one of the Project States has failed to perform any of its
obligations under its Participation Agreement in which case the Bank
may, after consultation with and by notice to the Borrower and the
Guarantor, suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to
make withdrawals from the Loan Account for expenditures incurred by
the Project State in question or for purposes of benefitting the
Initial Education Program of that Project State specifically.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that the event specified in Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall
occur for at least five Project States at the same time and shall
continue for a period of 90 days after notice thereof shall have
been given by the Bank to the Borrower and the Guarantor.
Page  6
                          ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
      (a)   the Borrower shall have entered into the contractual
arrangements referred to in Section 3.01 of this Agreement with the
Guarantor;
      (b)   at least three of the Participation Agreements have been
entered into in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.03 of
the Guarantee Agreement; and
      (c)   with respect to the Central Initial Education Unit and
all the Project States, the Deputy Directors in the Central Initial
Education Unit shall have taken up their position and two of the
technical positions in the State Initial Education Units shall have
been filled.
      Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
      (a)   the contractual arrangements referred to in Section 3.01
of this Agreement have been duly authorized or ratified by, and
executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and the Guarantor
and are legally binding upon the Borrower and the Guarantor in
accordance with their terms; and
      (b)   the Participation Agreements submitted to the Bank in
satisfaction of the condition set forth in Section 6.01 (b) above
shall have been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and
delivered on behalf of, the Guarantor and the respective Project
States and are legally binding upon the Guarantor and the respective
Project States in accordance with their terms.
     Section 6.03. The date January 8, 1993 is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Director Internacional of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
             Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)
      For the Borrower:
Page  7
            Direccion Internacional
            Nacional Financiera, S.N.C.
            Plaza NAFINSA, Insurgentes Sur 1971
            Torre 4, piso 8
            01020 Mexico, D.F.
            Mexico
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   NAFIN                     NAFIME 383-1775765
                   Mexico City               Mexico City
            Fax:
                   325-7249
                   325-7097
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in Mexico, D.F., United Mexican
States, as of the day and year first above written.
                         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                           RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                         By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
                                           Regional Vice President
                                   Latin America and the Caribbean
                         NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C.
                         By /s/ Oscar Espinosa Villarreal
                                         Authorized Representative
                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Equipment and              1,100,000        100% of foreign
    Furniture                                   expenditures and
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 90%
                                                of other local
                                                expenditures
(2) Educational               13,600,000        90%
    Materials and
    Supplies
(3) Staff Training            27,100,000        100%
    and Conferences
Page  8
(4) Studies and                1,400,000        100%
    Technical
    Assistance
                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(5) Salaries and              30,800,000        100% until
    Other Recurrent                             withdrawals
    Costs                                       have reached an
                                                aggregate amount
                                                of $8,600,000
                                                equivalent; then
                                                90% until with-
                                                drawals have
                                                reached an aggre-
                                                gate amount of
                                                $17,400,000
                                                equivalent; then
                                                75% until with-
                                                drawals have
                                                reached an aggre-
                                                gate amount of
                                                $27,000,000; and
                                                25% thereafter
(6) Unallocated                6,000,000
                             ___________
         TOTAL                80,000,000
                              ==========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Guarantor for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Guarantor;
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Guarantor or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Guarantor; and
      (c)   the term "salaries and other recurrent costs" means the
recurrent costs and salaries of the staff of the Central Initial
Education Unit and the State Initial Education Units, including the
Module Supervisor and Zone Coordinators.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
      (a)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to
exceed the equivalent of $5,000,000, may be made in respect of
Categories (1) through (5) on account of payments made for
expenditures before that date but after May 1, 1992; and
      (b)   payments made for expenditures for any Project State
until the Bank shall have received: (i) a copy of the Participation
Agreement between the Guarantor and such Project State in accordance
with the provisions of Section 3.03 of the Guarantee Agreement; and
(ii) legal opinions satisfactory to the Bank to the effect that such
Participation Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified, and
executed and delivered on behalf of, the parties thereto and is
legally binding upon them in accordance with its terms.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
Page  9
      The objectives of the Project are to improve the quality and
efficiency of the Initial Education Program and to increase
participation in it by low-income families in the Project States.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Human Resources Development
      Upgrading of the performance of all personnel involved in the
management and training process of the Initial Education Program,
including improvement of parents' development performance with their
children through, inter alia:
(1)   development of parents' skills in fostering children's
cognitive, psychomotor and social development;
(2)   training of Community Educators to lead Initial Education
activities with parents, children, and the community;
(3)   improvement of the supervisory and coordinating skills of
Module Supervisors and Zone Coordinators;
(4)   improvement of the performance of training leaders and
technical staff involved in the Initial Education Program; and
(5)   upgrading of the planning and managerial capabilities of high-
level professionals of SEP and SPES.
Part B:     Development of Educational Materials
      Improvement of the quality of printed instructional materials
and creation of additional supporting audio-visual supporting
instruments through, inter alia:
(1)   revision of the Parents' Guidebook to include new areas such
as health and nutrition, family planning, and environmental
protection, as well as more adequate illustration;
(2)   revision of the Operating Handbooks to accommodate the use of
new educational strategies and methods;
(3)   production of more dynamic printed materials for training and
communication purposes;
(4)   development of a series of educational games and videos; and
(5)   production of a series of promotional and educational radio
programs aimed at parents and community leaders to supplement the
educational content of the Parents' Guidebooks and to reinforce and
promote community participation in the Initial Education Program.
Part C:     Institutional Strengthening of SEP and SPES
      Strengthening of the organizational and managerial capacity of
SEP and SPES and support of community participation through, inter
alia:
(1)   strengthening of the Central Initial Education Unit;
(2)   organization and reinforcement of State Initial Education
Units;
(3)   design and operation of an educational management information
system within the Central Initial Education Unit;
(4)   design and operation of a monitoring and evaluation system at
the levels of both the Central Initial Education Unit and the States
Initial Education Units;
Page  10
(5)   improvement of the supervision system at all levels of the
Initial Education Program;
(6)   organization and promotion of Pro-Childhood Committees at
State and local levels; and
(7)   support of coordination with other community-oriented services
such as in health and nutrition.
                               * * *
      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1997.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                       Amortization Schedule
                                      Payment of Principal
      Date Payment Due               (expressed in dollars)*
May 1, 1996                               2,100,000
November 1, 1996                          2,180,000
May 1, 1997                               2,265,000
November 1, 1997                          2,350,000
May 1, 1998                               2,440,000
November 1, 1998                          2,530,000
May 1, 1999                               2,625,000
November 1, 1999                          2,725,000
May 1, 2000                               2,830,000
November 1, 2000                          2,940,000
May 1, 2001                               3,050,000
November 1, 2001                          3,165,000
May 1, 2002                               3,285,000
November 1, 2002                          3,410,000
May 1, 2003                               3,540,000
November 1, 2003                          3,675,000
May 1, 2004                               3,815,000
November 1, 2004                          3,960,000
May 1, 2005                               4,110,000
November 1, 2005                          4,265,000
May 1, 2006                               4,430,000
November 1, 2006                          4,595,000
May 1, 2007                               4,770,000
November 1, 2007                          4,945,000
____________________________
*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
      Premiums on Prepayment
      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:
      Time of Prepayment                         Premium
                                     The interest rate (expressed
                                     as a percentage per annum)
                                     applicable to the Loan on the
                                     day of prepayment multiplied
                                     by:
Not more than three years                        0.20
      before maturity
More than three years but                        0.40
      not more than six years
      before maturity
Page  11
More than six years but                          0.73
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity
More than 11 years but not                       0.87
      more than 13 years
      before maturity
More than 13 years before                        1.00
      maturity
                            SCHEDULE 4
                          Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $8,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                   deposits into the Special Account at such
                   intervals as the Bank shall specify.
            (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
                   documents and other evidence required pursuant
                   to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment
                   or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                   requested. On the basis of each such request,
                   the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                   withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into
                   the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                   shall have requested and as shall have been
                   shown by said documents and other evidence to
                   have been paid out of the Special Account for
                   eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
Page  12
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.
