Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 7333
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NIGER
DOSSO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 967-NIR)
June 24, 1988
Africa Regional Office
This document bas a restdcted diutributon and way be used by reipicnbt only In the perfonrmaee of
their official duties. Its contents may nt othenrise be disdosed without World Bank authorizatio



NIGER
DOSSO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ABBREVIATIONS
BDRN    -  Banque de Developpement de la R6publique du Figer
(Niger Rural Development Bank)
CF.A    -  Centre de Formation des Jeunes Agriculteurs
(Young Farmers' Training Center)
CCCE    -  Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
(French Agency for Economic Cooperation)
CNCA    -  Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole
(National Agricultural Credit Bank)
CNSS    -  Caisse Nationale de Securite Sociale
(Social Security)
COTEAR  -  Comite Technique d'Arrondissement
(District Technical Committee)
COTEDEP -  Comit6 Technique Departemental
(Provincial Technical Committee)
CPR     -  Centre de Promotion Rurale
(Residential Training Center)
DEP     -  Direction des Etudes et de la Programmation
(Studies and Programs Directorate)
EDF     -  European Development Fund
FAC     -  Ponds d'Aide et de Cooperation
(French Fund for Assistance and Cooperation)
FNI     -  Fonds National d'Investissement
(National Investment Fund)
GM      -  Groupement Mutualiste
(Mutual guarantee group)
IDA     -  International Development Association
INRAN   -  Institut National de la Recherche Agronomique au Niger
(Niger National Agricultural Research Institute)
MDR     - Ministere du Developpement Rural
(Ministry of Rural Development)
MES     -  Project Monitoring and Evaluation Section
OED     -  Operations Evaluation Department
PPF     -  Bank Project Preparation Facility
RMWA    -  Regional Mission in Western Africa
SAD     -  ' :vice Agricoli Departemental
(iPcovincial Agricultural Service)
UNCC    -  Union Nigerienne de Cr6dit et de Cooperation
(Niger Credit and Cooperation Union)
USAID   - US Aid Agency for International Development



FOR OVICIAL US OLY
TWf WOtLD SANK
W.stwton. O.C. 20433
U.S.A.
O0Co Dir0.cowaW
Opsata Iabkasto
Jtue 24, 1988
MEMORANDUM TO TEE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report - Niger Dosso Rural Development
Project (Credit 967-NIR)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
"Project Completion Report - Niger Dosso Rural Development Project
*(Credit 967-NIR)" prepared by the Africa Regional Office.  No further
evaluation of this project by the Operations Evaluation Department has
been made.
Attachment
Yves Rovani
by Graham Donaldson
Thsdocument has a rstficted ditbutonand may be ued by recipients only In the pufoms_
oftheirofAcial dutis Its contents may nsot odwise be discloed without Wowd Bank authoiuatlonL



IL - .     iiL X . _ E
NIGER
DOSSO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
PREFA       CEC..**                                    ...... i
ABBREVIATIONS ...*...............................  ii
BASIC DATA SHEET..... ... ..  ..... **to.* ........ .. iii
EVALUATION SUMMARY ......                     **t  ..... . vi
I.    BACKGROUND*.* .....                      ...................... 
II.   PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL ................... *. ...   2
Project descriptions...... a... #.           ......3
Cost and financing ......4....... ..... ....
Organization ....5.*  ....
III.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .......................... . 6
Changes after appraisal ............................6
Project yerformance ..........                 ... ..*.6
- Administration and management......***..* ....... . .7
- Recruitment of staff .... . ................ . . .. ..8
- Technical assistance. ..... . . .. . .. ...... ........ .8
- Monitoring and evaluation ....           ........ .....8
- Applied research.*... ..to ........    ...  ....*8
- Seed multiplication and distribution ............. .9
- Fertilizer distribution ..........................9
- Animal traction ....... *.. ... ...... ....
-   Credit .................................1
- Training and extension ..........................l2
- Bottomland development ................ ....... . 13
- Livestock.,.*,... #.... ^1
- Buildings, vehicles and equipment .....4
- Strengthening of farmers' associations ...l.....14
Project operational constraints.....*..**...... .14
IV.   PROJECT ACHIEVEMENTS ...... ............. . 15.  15
V.    PROJECT EXPENDITURES AND FINANCING ................ 16
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



VI.   INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT ................. . ...... . 20
VII.  PERFORMANCE BY GOVERNMENT AND IDA ................. 22
VIII. LESSONS OF THE PROJECT .......... ................ 23
TABLES
1. Assets and liabilities 1981-1985
2. Source and application of funds
3. Projected expenditure
4. Actual expenditure
5. Actual expenditure as a percentage of projected expenditure
6. IDA disbursements
7. Project objectives and achievements
Annex - Commente from Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
Maps: IBRD 14214, 14215



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
DOSSO RURAL DEVELOPMEPT PROJECT
(Credit 967-NIR)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) of the Dosso Rural
Development Project, for which IDA Credit 967-NIR in the amount of US$20
million was approved on December 20, 1979. The Credit Agreement was
amended on June 29, 1984, to modify allocations by disbursement categories
and disbursement percentages. The project hat% been jointly financed with
he French Caisse Centrale de Coopdration Economiaue (CCCE) and French
bilateral aid (FAC), in the amount of 20 million and 10 million French
francs respectively. The original closing date of June 30, 1985 has not
been extended, in spite of a Government request. However, one disbursement
category was kept open until December 31, 1985 to audit the project
accounts at  the closing  date.   Tne final  disbursement was  approved  on
December 31, 1985.   More than US$16.5  million of the  IDA credit was  not
disbursed and was cancelled. The project was the seventh financed by the
Bank in the rural sector, the third and by that date so far the largest one
specifically  for  agriculture.   It  followed  pilot  operations  and was
prepared by consultants assisted by Bank staff, on the basis of two studies
financed by the PAC  and Belgian bilateral aid.   A small rural  operations
project, to be implemented in part in the same area was appraised in May,
1987.
This PCR was prepared by the West Africa Region and is largely
based upon a report of the FAO/Bank Cooperative Program, and on information
available in a completion report prepared by Government, the staff
appraisal report (no. 2493-NIR) and the attached working papers, the
President's report (no. 11109a-NIR), the IDA Credit Agreement of June 13,
1980, the amendment to the Credit Agreement, dated June 29, 1984, various
reports issued by the project man.igement, donors' supervision reports and
other relevant documents, as well as upon interviews and discussions with
donors' staff and Nigerien officers who have been associated with the
project.
A copy of the draft report was sent to the Borrower on February
17, 1988,  for  comments.   Comments  received  from  the  CCCE  have  been
incorporated and is attached as an Annex.
This project has not been subjected to an audit by OED.



- ii -
NIGER
DOSSO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 967-NIR)
Basic data sheet
Key project data                       Appraisal      Actual or         Actua. as X of
estimate      estimated           appraisal
actual             estimate
Total project cost (US$ millions)        39.3           12.2                 31.0
Total project cost(CFAF millions)    8,639.0         4,203.0                 48.7
Credit amount($US millions)              20.0            3.2                 16.0
Credit amount (CFAF millions)         4,400.0        1,210.0                 27.5
Other donors:
- CCCE ($US millions)                  4.5            1.5                 33.3
- CCCE (CFAF millions)             1,000.0          552.0                 55.2
- FAC  ($US millions)                  2.3            0.8                 34.8
- PAC  (CFAF millions)               500.0          303.0                 60.6
Date Board approval                                   12.20.79
Date Credit agreement                                 06.13.80
Date Credit effectiveness              09.16.80       02.25.81
Closing date                           06 30.85       06.30.85
Economic rate of return (%)               25            N.A.
Financial rate of return (Z)             N.A.           N.A.
Institutional performance                          unsatisfactory
Number of beneficiaries                 25,000          N.A.



- ill 
Cumulative disbursements
FY 80  FY 81  FY 82  FY 83  FY 84  FY 85 FY 86
Appraisal Estimate (US$ millions)           0.10   1.50   4.20   9.80   15.80  119.60 20.00
Actual (US$ millions)                          -    0.12   0.82   1.76    2.27   3.16  3.20
Actual as Z of estimate                        -    8.0   19.5   18.0    14.4   16.1  16.0
Date of final withdrawal approval:  December 31, 1985
Other project data
Borrower                  : Republic of Niger
Executing Agency          : Ministry of Rural Development
On-lending institution   : N.R.
Fiscal year of borrower  : April 1 to March 31
Currency exchange rate
Average exchange rates 1/
Used at appraisal         1978 1 US$ - CFAF 220
1979 1 US$ - CFAF 213
1980 1 US$ - CFAF 211
1981 1 US$ - CFAF 272
1982 1 US$ - CFAF 329
1983 1 US$ = CFAF 381
1984 1 US$ - CFAF 437
1985 1 US$ - CFAF 449
I/ From Interr.ational Financial Statistics published by IMF
Related projects
Preceding projects                  Follow-up project
Name                Agric. Credit      Drought relief                SROs
Credit Number           207-NIR          441-NIR                      NA
Credit amount
(US$ millions)          0.6               2.0                        NA
Date Board approval    06.16.70          11.13.73                     NA



Supervisions
Date         No.of           Nd in          Specializations           Performance          Trend       Types of
(mo. yr)        persons        field (1!       represented (2)            ratina (3)             (4)      problems (5)
Identification (Rl4WA)           03/77
Preparation I (FAC)              04/78            -               -
Preparation II (Bank)            10/78            -               -
Appraisal - IDA                  12/78            6              1:O             A,L,T,E,AE,I                                    -
Supervision I                    06/80            2              28              A,E                          2                 1             M,F
SupervisJon Ir                   10/80            2              14              A,F                          2                 1             M
Supervision III               03-05/81            2              30              A,F                          2                 2             M,F
Supervision IV                01-02/82            2              20              A,F                          2                 1             M,F
Supervision V                    06/82            1               3              A                            -                 -             Sq
Supervision VI                   12182            1              16              A                            3                 2             T,F,M
Supervision VII                  02/83            1               8              L                                              -             T
Supervision VITT                 12/83            1              18              A                            3                  2            T,F,M
Supervision IX                   03/84            4              72              A,L,AE.RE                    3                 2             T,F,M
Supervision X                    09/84            1              13              A                            3                  3            N,T
PCR                              10/86            1              13              S                            -                 -              -           4
(1) Time spent in Niger by several supervision missions also covered other activities and only part of total time was devoted to the Dosso project.
(2) A: Agriculture; L: Livestock; T: Training; E: Extension; AE:  Agricultural economics; I:  Institutions; F: Financial analysis; RE: Rural
engineering; S: Sociology
(3) 2: Moderate problems; 3: Major problems
(4) 1:  Imprwving; 2: Stationary; 3: Deteriorating
(5) M: Managerial; F: Financial; T: Technical
STAFF INPUTS (Staff Weeks)
FY77    FY78    FY79    FY80    FY81    FY82    FY83    FY84    FY85   FY86   FY87 FY88
Pre-appraisal    16.9   12.4   19.3
Appraisal                        78.1
Negociations                              4.2
Supervision                               8.1    19.6      9.5    10.9   14.9      5.5    1.6
PCR                                                                                         .1  10.1 1.1
Other              .2     1.1     4.1     4.9       .4      .4      .1      .2       .3    1.3
Totals           17.1    13.5  101.5    17.2    20.0       9.9   11.0   15.1        5.8    3.0  10.1 1.1
TDTAL  AFF INPUTS IN STAFF WEEKS - 225.4



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
DOSSO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 967-NIR)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.        This was  the  third project  financed by the Bank addressing
directly the development of Nigerien agriculture. The two other projects
were for rural development in the Maradi area, still in progress under a
follow-up project,  and for irrigation.   Two other earlier projects  -
Agriculcural credit and Drought relief - were clso related to some extent
to agriculture. The Bank had in addition financed in the rural sector a
forestry project and a livestock project. (para 1.4) Niger, which used to
be self-sufficient in terms of basic foodstuffs, went through a severe
drought from 1973 to 1975, which resulted in a large increase in cereal
imports.   This  disquieting  experience  highlighted  the  importance  of
national cereal production, a subsector hitherto neglected. The concern
did not wane in spite of good yields in 1976/77 and 1978/79. Endowed with
generally poor soils and an unfavorable climate, Niger was furthermore
facing a problem of declining fertility, due to high population growth,
translating into pressure upon the land and shortening of the fallow
period. (para 1.3) It appeared, therefore, that an intensification effort
would be justified, which would mainta.- self-sufficiency in cereals w1th
average rainfall, and provide some surpluses to be marketed in Nigeria in
good years. Government informed a Bank (RMWA) identification mission of
its interest in obtaining IDA assistance to expand an on-going FAC-financed
pilot project, aiming, in particular, at increasing yields of major crops.
Project preparation started with PAC financial assistance and was completed
with PPF funding by a team of consultants, assisted by Bank staff. The
project was appraised in end-1978 and the IDA credit was approved in
December 0979. The project was financed jointly by the FAC and CCCE.
ObJectives
2.        Project objectives were in agreement with Government policies of
(i) exploiting the potential in rainfed crops and livestock production, and
increasing the area under controlled irrigation, (ii) in respect to rainfed
agriculture, setting up in each province a productivity projezt, to improve
all services available to smallholders, and (iii) developing agricultural
production, to cover the domestic needs for foodstuffs, to raise farmers'
incomes, and to improve the standard of living of the rural population.
(para 2.5)   More precisely,  the prcject was intended  to develop  the
production of cereals, cowpeas, groundnuts, livestock products and
bottomland crops, and to reverse the declining trend in productivity. The
project included (i) the construction of a training center for local staff,
(ii) the construction and operation of 24 residential centers for farmers'
training, and introduction of the "Training and Visit" extension system



- vi -
(para 2.5 (a)), (iii) the improvement of farming practices and application
of inputs on some 150,000 ha, and accelerated supply of donkey-traction and
ox-traction farm equipment (para 2.5 (b)), (iv) the improvement of
veterinary coverage and animal husbandry (para 2.5 (d)), (v) the
development of stall fattening, (vi) the rehabilitation of a cattle market
and a slaughterhouse, (vii) the establishment of a rural engineering
provincial service, for construction works and development of 200 ha of
bottomlands (para 2.5 (e)), (viii) applied research, particularly for
protection of soil fertility (para 2.5 (f)), and (ix) a small project unit,
working with the farmers through the regular Government technical agencies,
but having the capability for evaluating project progress and for providing
guidelines  for  future projects  (para  2.5  (g)).   The  total  cost was
estimated at US$ 39.2 million, or CFAF 8.639 billion, to be financed by IDA
(51Z), CCCE (11%), the FAC (6%), and the balance by local contributions
from Government, CNCA and beneficiaries (para 5.4). The IDA credit of US$
20 million was to be disbursed over somewhat less than five years.
Implementation experience
3.        The project was expected at appraisal to be implemented over five
years, but the actual implementation period was substantially shorter. The
Credit Agreement signed in June 1980 assumed that the project would become
effective in December 1980 and be completed in December 1984.  It took
however longer than anticipated to meet the conditions of effectiveness and
the project only became effective in June  1981  (paras 3.1,  3.2).   In
mid-1983, the Government submitted a request to reorient project activities
and to extend the closing date. It was also upon the request of donors,
and particuliarly the CCCE, which had envisaged a two-part financing plan
(three years, then two years), that Nigerien authorities were led to
prepare a reorientation of the project.   The reorientation proposals,
prerared by project staff, were only made available in March 1984. They
were largely similar to those which were reviewed at the end of 1983 for
the Second Maradi project and which were still being discussed with
Government. In essence, they consisted of involving the rural population
much more than before in the planning and implementation of development
activities, and of making the farmers responsible for the maintenance and
operation of investments. Project operating costs were to be reduced, by
developing a new and less costly village-based extension system, and by
testing alternatives to the expensive and largely unsuccessful training of
farmers  in  residential  centers.   Donors,  including  the  Bank  with  a
four-staff-member mission, reviewed in depth the proposals in the field.
They concluded that the new approach being contemplated entailed dramatic
changes that would require  imaginative and energetic management.   The
chances of achieving this successfully appeared to be reasonably good in
Maradi, where there was at the time an effective project management team.
In Dosso, however, where project management was particularly weak, it
appeared most unlikely that the proposed reorientation would have a chance
to succeed, unless the capability and attitude of local staff changed, and
unless the whole project team and most chiefs of Government services were
replaced (paras 3.4, 3.5, 6.1). Consequently, donors together decided to
stop the project in May, 1984 and informed the Government that they saw no



- vii -
justification for extending the project, which was cXosed as projected on
June 30, 1985 (para 7.3). Hc-sever, one disbursement category was kept open,
to allow for the audit of project accounts at the closing date, and the
final withdrawal application was approved on December 31,  1985.  Total
project expenditures, expressed in local currency, were less than half of
projections because major targets were not met, and disbursements of the
IDA credit reached only 16% of projections in US dollars, but 27.5% of
projections in CFAF, due to a higher than anticipated exchange rate of the
US dollar versus the CFAF.  As a consequence, some US$ 16.8 million of the
IDA credit were cancelled at the closing date.  In contrast, Government and
other local sources contributed 51% of total costs instead of 32% as
planned, equivalent to 77.5% of projected disbursements.
4.        The appraisal mission was aware that a rural development project
in the Dosso region would face multiple technical, institutional and
sociological problems. During project implementation it became clear that
the recommended technical packages, which had been designed during a period
of satisfactory rainfall, were not sufficiently proven with the rainfall
deficit which prevailed during much of the project life (para 3.24 (a)).
They were also ill-adapted to the diversity of conditions in the project
area and did not well enough take into account farmers' constraints (para
3.11). The packages were based upon a considerable increase in the
application of chemical fertilizer, which was to be largely subsidized. In
fact, fertilizer distribution through official channels remained negligible
(para 3.14).   Government was unable to continue subsidizing inputs as
expected, due to the loss of revenues caused by the uranium crisis, and
cheaper fertilizer from Nigeria was available anyhow on parallel markets
(para 3.13 (a)). Furthermore, despite experience with the earlier pilot
project, farmers' motivation had not been well perceived and understood.
Total fertilizer consumption is not known precisely, due to unknown imports
from Nigeria, but has without a doubt been much below appraisal
pro'ections, which anyhow were too optimistic. The project also suffered
from an unsatisfactory management structure.  The Project Manager was never
able to effectively coordinate activities of technical services, with a
large turnover of local staff, which remained under the de facto authority
of  their  respective  ministries  (paras  3.7,  3.24  (e).   Furthermore,
technical assistance staff, whose responsibilities were not clear, also
lacked stability and some of them were not replaced (para 3.8). Finally,
supervision by the Bank and other donors was inadequate at the most
critical time (paras 3A.4, 7.3).
Results
5.        Accor-ding to Government statistics, agricultural production of
the province increased during three consecutive years. It is unlikely that
the project  substantially  contributed to  such  an  increase.   Evidence
suggests, to the contrary, that the prcject had at best a marginal impact
and that the recommended technical packages were little adopted by farmers.
In the absence of reliable data, no meaningful rate of return can be
computed.   In view of the limited achievements of the project,  it is
however reasonable to assume that the actual rate of return is well below



- viii -
the 25X projected at appraisal, and possibly close to zero or even
negative.   Applied  research,  monitoring and  evaluation  (MES)  of  some
aspects of the project, and bottomland development are the project
components with the most satisfactory results. Little has been achieved in
the livestock sector, but vaccination coverage has remained reasonably
good, although it gradually decreased.  Stall fattening developed outside
the project.(para 4.2) Training of farmers in residential centers was not
up to expectations, and the "Training and Visit" extension method was
rapidly abandoned, in part because it was perceived to be too costly, and
in part because it was not succeeding in getting the technical packages
adopted. In retrospect, the packages were wrong, not the extension method
(para 8.1 (e)). Institutional arrangements have not worked, but the
provincial rural engineering service, set up by the project, has been
useful.
Sustainability
6.        Rules and methods for developing bottomlands have been defined
and continue to be applied (para 3.20). Farmers' requests are increasing
for such investments, which involve beneficiary participation in cash and
in kind.   This  is  encouraging  for  the  future  small  rural  operations
project. Trials by the applied research section have provided a number of
practical proposals, which have not been used for the project but will be
of interest later for the development of the area.  In spite of limited
impact upon the livestock sector, the project has contributed in the longer
term to the better handling of cattle herds, through training of field
staff, setting up a small stock of drugs, and at least starting systematic
monitoring of animals (para 3.21). The many reports of MES have helped to
better understand the overall rural environment, which will be useful for
preparation and implementaticn of future projects in the region.
Findings and lessons
7.        Findings and lessons to be learned from the project include:
(a) Projects covering large areas, with a wide variety of conditions,
and many components, face considerable problems, in particular of
management and coordination; simplicity must be the watchword.
(In addition, it will be necessary to find appropriate modes of
intervention by better incorporating the notion of "time" (i.e.,
results cannot be obtained with the same speed in the following
areas: distribution of existing improved seed, perfection of new
production systems adapted to farmer strategies, creation of
farmer organizations, etc.), and by taking into account the links
between different geographic/administrative levels (plot, farm,
village, region, country, group of countries....)(para 8.1 (a));
(b) When there is a large range of ecological variations and rainfall
is a crucial factor, findings and recommendations of a pilot
project in the same area are not necessarily replicable; on the



- ix -
other hand, experience gained with similar projects ought to be
taken into account during project preparation (para 8.1 (b));
(c) Project preparation requires an in-depth analysis, not only of
physical conditions, but also of all farmers' incentives and
constraints in order to set realistic targets; this can best be
done by representative pilot operations, not by extending the
orthodox preparation process even further.  (One may also wonder
if, in the interest of efficiency, integrated rural development
projects must not rely on one or two successful "products" and/or
on a real regional unity.)(para 8.1 (c));
(d) Small rural operations, such as bottomland development, with a
rapid impact upon revenues, are of interest to the farmers, even
when participation in cash and in labor is being requested (para
8.1 (d));
(e) An institutional structure has to be sufficiently flexible to
adjust to changing circumstances, but has nonetheless to define
clearly from the start the responsibilities of all participants
to avoid any risk of misunderstanding (pars 8.1 (f)); and
(f)  It is difficult to judge to what extent less erratic supervision
by the Bank and other donors would have improved project
implementation, but it does seem that, without interfering in
daily management, more systematic supervision, particularly in
the initial stage, would have helped in solving problems, in
overcoming constraints, and in taking rapidly whatever measures
were needed to improve the situation (paras 3.24 (g), 7.3).



NIGER
.;OSSO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (Credit 967-NIR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
I. BACKGROUND
1.1       At the end of the  1970s Niger was in a favorable economic
position, and the time seemed appropriate for investments in the
agricultural sector. As the world's fifth largest uranium producer, the
country drew 80% of its revenues from uranium exports, which at that time
commanded a high price on the world market (CFAF 24,500 per kg. fob for
uranium metal).  In 1979, external debt service represented only 3% of
export earnings.
1.2       Government's strategy for the rural sector consisted of  (i)
developing the potential for irrigation; (ii) increasing both production
and productivity of rainfed farming through crop- and region-specific
projects; and (iil) rebuilding cattle herds that had been decimated during
the period of  drought.   Since  for practical  reasons  the  area under
irrigation could not be increased by more than about 1,000-2,000 hectares
annually, the chief potential 'or development lay in rainfed crops and
livestock production.
1.3       The Bank supported this strategy, which aimed at achieving food
self-sufficiency while Laintaining exports of agricultural and livestock
products, particularly meat.   Nevertheless,  at  the time of the Dosso
project appraisal in 1979, the risks of investing in rainfed farming and
livestock were pointed out, the main constraints being inter-alia uncertain
climatic conditions, the absence of adapted technological packages and poor
soils.
1.4       The Dosso project was the seventh financed by the Bank, wlhich by
that time was providing assistance to the major agricultural and livestock
areas of the country. Between 1969 and 1979, six credits were approved for
the rural sector, namely:
(a)  1970:   Credit  207-NIR  for  US$  0.6  million,  to  provide
smallholders with credit.  The project ran into difficulties,
mainly due to the 1971-74 drought, but also to the lack of
technical advice and effective extension services, which should
have accompanied credit provided to producers;
(b) 1974: Credit 441-NIR for US$ 2 milion, to finance a variety of
sub-projects aimed at assisting economic recovery after the
drought. Execution was generally satisfactory;
(c) 1976: Credit 603-NIR for US$ 10.7 million, for rural development
in Naradi. This was the reasonably successful first phase of a
project, whose second phase, including a sizable irrigated



-2-
component, is still in progress after undergoing major changes at
the end of 1983; this follow-up project (Credit 1026-NIR for US$
16.7 million) encountered problems and required attentive
monitoring;
(d)  May 1978:  Credit 800-NIR for US$ 4.5 million, for a forestry
project, including a pilot component of 400 hectares of irrigated
tree  plantations;   the  project  was  disappointing  concerning
estate plantings, but was promising with respect to protection of
the environment and resources;
(e)  September  1978:   Credit 8U1-NIR for US$  15 million,  for the
Namarigoungou irrigation project, including a new 1,500 hectare
perimeter, which was successfully completed in the end of 1983,
but the irrigated perimeter was included in the "Irrigation
Rehabilitation Project" (Credit 1618-NIR for SDR 9.6 million)
because further support was needed; and
(f) March 1979: Credit 885-NIR for US$ 12 million, for a livestock
project, to provide support services and a variety of innovative
technical packages to pastoralists in the semi-arid zones in the
center and east of the country; in spite of problems caused by
severe drought in the early eighties, the project proceeded well
and a follow-up is being prepared.
1.5       The present report deals with a project that benefitted from the
largest credit (US$ 20 million) to the rural sector made available to Niger
by the International Development Association (IDA). The main sources of
information are the documents on the project prepared by Bank supervision
missions, the CCCE (the French Agency for Economic Cooperation) and the FAC
(French Fund for Assistance and Cooperation), together with some of those
produced  by  the  project  itself.   Government,  with  the  assistance  of
provincial authorities, prepared a project completion report which served
as the basis for the present mission's discussions with various technical
officers. During the mission's visit to Niger, from October 5 to 18, 1986,
it was not  possible  to meet  former project  officers.   Since precise
quantitative data are not available, this report is concerned essentially
with the quality of performance.
II. PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL
2.!       During the years 1974/75 to 1979/80, the FAC (French Fund for
Assistance and Cooperation) financed a pilot "productivity project" in the
Dosso Pruvince ("departement"). The project, which was based essentially
upon the cultivation of cowpeas, aimed at rehabilitating soils in areas
under rainfed crops and at increasing yields.   Cereals,  planted after
cowpeas, would benefit both from the residual effects of chemical
fertilizers  and  from  nitrogen-fixing  by  cowpeas.   Technical  messages
relating to the project (pure stands, drill-seeding, application of
chemical fertilizer) were based upon 10 ha blocks of land in which



individual farmers had one ha plots. This approach in itself was not too
popular. Nevertheless, a considerable number of farmers voluntarily grew
more cowpeas and carried over to part of their traditional fields what they
had been taught in collective fields. Under the circumstances, the pilot
project was quite reasonably regarded as successful, even though the high
yields that were observed may well have been due in part to the favccable
rainfall during the period.
2.2       Several other projects were also being undertaken at the time in
the Dosso Province, including a USAID-financed seed production project,
which encountered serious distribution problems. In the livestock sector,
the European Development Fund (EDF) and the FAC were providing financing to
improve and extend the fattening of beef cattle and to encourage the use of
animal traction.  At the time of appraisal of the Dosso project, early
results were considered encouraging, despite a somewhat unsystematic
approach.   In  principle,  the  Dosso  project  was  expected  to  extend
activities of the productivity project and to create favorable conditions
for integrating the development of agriculture and livestock.
2.3       After the visit by a Bank project  identification mission in
March-April 1977, terms of reference were prepared for a feasibility study
which was financed by the FAC. The team responsible for the study visited
the country in September and November 1977, and suhmiitted a feasibility
study in March 1978. A parallel visit by a team from Belgian bilateral aid
took place in Jul,-September 1977, to examine the justification in the area
of a small-scale rural development project. The Belgian team's report was
submitted to the Government in early 1978.
2.4       Government  decided  that  an  additional  study  was  needed  to
reconcile the approaches to development proposed in the reports financed by
the FAC and by Belgian bilateral aid. A Bank mission visited Niger in May
1978 and reviewed the two reports, and in agreement with Government
prepared terms of reference for the proposed supplementary study. At the
request of Government, the Bank made available US$ 30,000 under the Project
Preparation Facility (PPF) to finance that study. The supplementary study,
prepared by consultants with the assistance in the field of Bank staff, was
completed in October 1978.  The project was appraised in November 1978.
The appraisal report includes as annexes five working papers covering
social aspects, training and extension, livestock development, project
costs, and economic analysis. The authors of the first three papers raised
a substantial number of technical, institutional and sociological issues,
and they insisted that these issues be taken into consideration and that
appropriate answers be found. The appraisal mission was consequently well
aware of the difficulties of setting up a rural development project in the
Dosso Province.   (Furthermore, an additional mission was necessary after
the appraisal mission ex-ante to work out disagreements between the donors
and the Nigerien authorities on the CPRs and the extension system.
Project description
2.5       According to the appraisal report, the overall objective of the



- 4 -
proposed project was, in agreement with Government's policy of increasing
agricultural production and farm incomes, to improve the welfare and
standard of living of the rural populaLion. The project's specific target
was to increase the production of cereals, cowpeas, groundnuts, livestock,
and bottomland crops, and to reverse the declining trend in productivity.
The project was expected to benefit some 25,000 farmers during the
five-year implementation period. The proposed components consisted of:
(a) constructing a training center with facilities for 75 boarders,
providing courses for village extension workers and staff,
introducing the "Training and Visit" system for agricultural
extension, and constructing and operating 24 r-rmers' residential
training centers (CPRs);
(b) improving farming practices, increasing Input use on about
150,000 ha of rainfed cereals, cowpeas and groundnuts, and
supplying about 6,400 donkey-traction units and about 1,800
ox-traction units;
(c) strengthening the farm input and implement supply system, and
constructing 30 new and improving 12 existing rural cooperative
centers;
(d) improving the vaccination coverage and the supply of drugs and
feed supplements, and upgrading animal husbandry practices for
beef cattle and work oxen;
(e)  establishing -a rural engineering unit to plan and supervise the
construction of dispersed rural works, and to develop 200 ha of
small-scale irrigation in bottomlands;
(f) conducting trials to test the introduction of new techniques and
farming practices, particularly with regard to soil fertility;
and
(g) setting up a management structure with the required technical and
administrative   staff  and  logistical  support,   capable  of
evaluating project progress and providing guidelines for future
projects.
Cost and financing
2.6       The total project cost was estimated at US$ 39.2 million.  Base
costs amounted to US$ 31.4 million.   The various components listed in
paragraph 2.5 represented the following percentages of base costs:



Component           Percent
(a)                 19
(b) + (c)           61
(d)                  7
(e) + (f)            2
(g)                  7
Financing for the project was provided by IDA, CCCE and FAC with
a substantial contribution from Government (see Chapter V - Project
expenditures and financing). The economic rates of return were estimated
at 25% for the project as a whole; 232 for rainfed farming (89% of project
costs); 40% for livestock development (9% of project costs); and 41% for
bottomland development (2% of project costs). The IDA credit was granted
on standard terms, providing for repayment of the principal over the period
July 1, 1990 to July 1, 2029.
Organization
2.7       Unlike the Maradi project, which was provided with a conventional
type of project structure with its own technical services, according to the
appraisal report the Dosso project was designed "to avoid duplication of
effort".  The project was to be executed through the regular government
technical  agencies  operatiag  in  the  Dosso  Province.   All  proposed
activities were, however, to come under a single Project Manager, who would
report to the Minister of Rural Development and the Provincial Governor
("prefet" of the "d4partement"). He would be responsible for planning,
supervising and managing all project activities, including the activities
of all project-financed staff in the provincial agencies. To support him
in  this  task,  two  sections  were  attached  to  his  office:   (i)  the
Commercial, Administrative and Financial Section, and (ii) the Technical
Section,  responsible  for monitoring  and  evaluation.   For all matters
related to project execution, the provincial officers for agriculture,
livestock, input supply (UNCC), credit (Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole
- CNCA), rural engineering, and applied research (Institut National de la
Recherche Agronomigue - INRAN) were to report directly to the Project
Manager, and each of these agencies would receive a share of financing, in
proportion to the activities it was expected to undertake.  Provincial
agencies were, however, to remain under the authority of their head offices
in Niamey. This ambiguous situation was never clarified. Coupled with the
inability of project management to exercise sufficient authority, the
institutional arrangements have badly affected project implementation.
2.8       By the fifth year, the project was expected to have a local
technical staff of 222, 144 (65%) of whom would be village extension
workers.  There would be six expatriate specialists.  By the end of the
project, it was to be operating in all five administrative districts of the
Dosso Province, making gradual progress in each of the three ecological
zones (north, center and east) described in the appraisal report.



-6 -
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
3.1       The IDA credit was approved by the Board on December 20, 1979,
the Credit Agreement was signed on June 13, 1980, and eight months later,
on February 25,  1981,  the credit became effective.   Effectiveness was
conditional on the establishment of three separate revolving funds to
prefinance project activities as follows:
(a) a Farm Supplies Fund with CNCA for prefinancing procurement of
inputs and farm implements;
(b) a Special Project Account with the Niger Rural Development Bank
(BDRN) tar prefinancing all project operating costs; and
(c) an account with the Treasury in the form of a line of credit, to
be used for prefinancing all project investments.
In the course of negotiations, Government undertook to replenish these
accounts at the beginning of each fiscal year.
3.2       The start-up of the project was delayed by the time needed to
complete the lengthy legal procedures for meeting the conditions of the
Credit Agreement and by the difficulty of rapidly recruiting local and
expatriate technical staff. The delays upset the projected timetable. The
estimates of operating and infrastructure costs had to be revised upwards.
The project actually started In June 1981.
Changes after appraisal
3.3       In the course of implementation, changes were made both in the
Credit Agreement and in certaeu proposals and objectives outlined in the
appraisal report.  The Credit Agreement was modified to take account of the
financial problems with which Niger was faced from the second year of the
project.  The disbursement  schedule was  adjusted:   a new category of
operating costs was created, and donors financed a larger share of
investments, and a revolving fund. Continual delays made it necessary ta
review periodically the program of operations and the budget allocations.
Local technicians, expatriate specialists and donors had different ideas
about the training and extension system, and the proposals put forward by
the appraisal mission were modified  accordingly.   The  purpose  of the
changes was obviously to improve project performance. However, they also
contributed to make the task of the Project Manager even more difficult,
given his uneasy relations with government technical agencies.
Project performance
3.4       As stated in paragraph 3.2 above, the project began operating in
1981.  It was closed in June 1985.  During the 1983/84 and 1984/85 rainy
seasons,   project  activities  were  virtually  limited  to  bottomland
development and very little was achieved in terms of rainfed crops, which



-7-
suffered  from  inadequate  rainfall.   Local  technicians  reappraised  the
project in 1983, hoping to request an extension of the project's closing
date. It was also upon the request of dnors, and particuliarly the CCCE,
which had envisaged a two-part financing plan (three years, then two
years), that Nigerien authorities were led to prepare a reorientation of
the project. Their proposals were made available to the donors in March
1984. They were based upon the recommendations of the Zinder seminar. The
seminar was organized in 1982, because Government had become disappointed
with large area projects, which were costly and yielded limited tangible
results,  and  was  looking  for  new  ideas  to  make  projects  more
cost-effective. The proposals were very similar to those which had been
submitted to the donors at the end of 1983 for a reorientation of the
Second Maradi project, and which at that time were still the subject of
discussions with the Government. Basically, they intended to substantially
increase the role of the rural population in decisions concerning the
future of their village.   Farmers would be closely associated with the
concept and execution of development plans, which were to include an
expansion of small rural operations requested by them, and they would be
fully responsible  for operating and maintaining the  investments.   The
proposals also recommended a village-based extension system, which would
have relied upon the group of educated farmers in the village, with advice
:being provided by extension officers of a higher level than the usual
i           extension agents.  Finally, various alternatives were to be tested on the
method of farmers' training in residential centers (CPR), which had proven
to be  costly  and  rather  inefficient.   Donors  reviewed  the  proposals
carefully.  The Bank in particular sent a four staff-member mission, which
spent more than two weeks in the field.  Following these investigations,
donors agreed that the proposed measures made sense.  They had supported
them in Maradi, where at that time a strong management was in charge. They
reached a consensus however that the measures implied a totally new
approach to the problems of development, which was well beyond the
capabilities of the particularly weak Dosso management team and inefficient
Government services. They agreed that, in order to put them possibly into
effect successfully, a radical change of attitude towards the farmers would
be needed, and all project staff together with most Government staff in the
project area would have to be replaced by qualified and motivated cadres,
with  a  different  mentality.   This  was  unlikely  to  be  accepted  by
Government, and, in any case, would have been virtually equivalent to
initiating a new project. As a consequence, donors did not approve the
reorientation proposals and rejected the Government's request to extend the
project's closing date. Implementation of the various project components
and activities is described briefly in the following paragraphs.
3.5       Administration and management.   There have been two Project
Managers, neither of whom ever had all the technical staff which had been
projected to carry out the planned activities. Local staff, both technical
and administrative, were all too frequently transferred to other posts,
contrary to the terms of the Credit Agreement, which stipulated that they
should remain at post for at least three years. The Project Managers were
neither able to coordinate the Government technical services nor able to
establish themselves as the authority responsible for all project



- 8 -
activities. By the end of the first year, the two sections attached to the
Manager's office (financial management, and monitoring and evaluiation) were
fully staffed, but this did not last, since both the local technicians and
the  two  expatriates  were  replaced  several  times  during  project
implementation.   It took the expatriate technical assistants almost 15
months to make effective contact with the provincial technical agencies
they were supposed to assist, mainly because of the lack of clarification
regarding the respective responsibilities of the Project Manager and the
Chiefs of provincial agencies.
3.6       The   project   suffered   financially   from  Niger's   economic
difficulties, with the Government no longer able to replenish project
accounts and to pay the input subsidies. Moreover, the IDA disbursement
procedures were not properly followed, resulting in delays in making funds
available.  Progress reports were not prepared in time (and indeed were
non-existent for the third year), so that donors were unable to monitor
operations adequately.
3.7       Recruitment of staff.  The project had considerable difficulty in
finding local technical staff with sufficient training for such posts as
counterparts for the expatriate specialists, agricultural district chiefs,
training officers, cooperative warehouse managers, and extension officers.
Salaries and benefits for project staff were to be in line with government
rates, which were insufficient to attract well-qualified personnel. A more
flexible policy on pay scales and benefits would probably have helped to
reduce staff turnover and to produce better service.
3.8       Technical assistance.  The expatriate  staff consisted of the
Chief of the commercial, financial and administrative section, a training
specialist,  an  agronomist,  a  rural  engineer,  an  applied  research
specialist, and the head of the Monitoring and Evaluation Section (MES).
These posts were filled in the first year of the project but replacements
were necessary and early in project life several posts remained vacant.
Combined with the rapid turnover of local staff, this prevented proper
follow-up of operations.
3.9 Monitoring and evaluation. This unit performed well and the number of
studies  undertaken  (use  of  inputs,  feedlots,  migration,  etc.)  is
impressive. Unfortunately, bacause of the lack of coordination between the
project and provincial agencies, the conclusions and suggestions of these
reports had little effect on the conduct of the project. Nonetheless, this
section did contribute to a better understanding of farmers' conditions and
attitudes, and of farming systems in the region.
3.10      Applied research.   This section was very active during the first
three years of the project. From the fourth year onward, however, it was
virtually paralyzed by the departure of the expatriate specialist.  The
section worked with INRAN and tested the project's proposals for improving
farming techniques.  These were presented to the farmers as a package:
fertilizer recommendation per crop, frequency of weeding, pure stands and
improved seed varieties, seeding methods, etc. The package also included



- 9 -
the purchase of animal-drawn farm equipment. As presented, the proposals
implied that the validity of the improved techniques depended on the
adoption of the package as a whole. Applied researct was conducted mainly
in the residential training centers (CPRs), with the farmers who were
following the training courses; it was also carried out in a number of
villages, sometimes with former trainees.
3.11      Based upon available reports on fertilizer technical and economic
justification, and on the variety of agricultural conditions and farmers'
attitudes, it appears that: (i) there was no technical package for rainfed
crops well suited to the diversity of physical and human conditions in the
Dosso area;  (ii) the technological recommendations were too rigid, they
offered no alternatives and had not been sufficiertly proven; and (iii) the
farmers react to other factors (such as land tenure, labor availability,
and climatic uncertainties) in deciding whether to adopt one or the other
of the technical recommendations.  Both in design and implementation of
applied research, too much emphasis was given to response to fertilizers,
and not enough to comprehension of farming systems. Research was conducted
in isolation and the results could not be extended to modify the original
technological package, because of both organizational problems and the
limited life of the project.
3.12      Seed multiplication and distribution.  The seed multiplication
program was conducted both at the residential training centers (CPRs) and
on the land of volunteering farmers. Tha program covered millet, maize,
cowpeas and groundnuts.  Production figures in the reports are not vsry
precise, and are sometimes contradictory.  They are in any case rather
irrelevant, due to problems with seed distribution:   frequent delays in
making seed available to contract farmers caused by poor organization; in
farmers' view, excessive cost of selected seed; financial difficulties of
CNCA, which was to provide marketing funds to the project and credit to
farmers; and increasing disappointment of contract farmers, who were faced
with marketing problems of their seed production and received little help
to that effect from government agencies.  In addition, yields from the
so-called "Lproved" seeds were often about the same as or even lower than
those from the traditional varieties because selected varieties required
better than average ecological conditions, and technical husbandry which
disregarded farmers' constraints. As a consequence, it was impossible to
achieve one of the project's main objectives, which consisted of providing
farmers with large quantities of improved seeds in order to substantially
increase average yields.
3.13      Fertilizer distribution.   This would have been the project's
principal  component.   Objectives were very  ambitious.   They aimed  at
distributing an additional 30,000 tons of fertilizer by the fifth year of
the project apart from rock phosphate, with 100% financing from the IDA
credit. Fertilizer use in the year before the project was less than 1,000
tons. UNCC would continue to be responsible for distribution. Procurement
of fertilizer supplies would be by competitive bidding. Subsidies would be
financed by the National Investment Fund (FlI). No seasonal credit was to
be provided for fertilizer.   In fact,  only 1,76G tons in total were



- 10 -
distributed through official channels (Table 7). The fertilizer component
s>uffered from the following constraints:
(a)  the proximit:' of Nigeria, which subsdized fArtilizer heavily,
and whose currency was weak compaLed to the CFA franc. Border
control was inefficient and farmers were able to purchase
Nigerian fertilizer at prices 50% below official prices in Niger.
This means that the volume of fertilizer actually used was
certainly well in excess of that distributed through official
channels, but by how much is not known (see paragraph 3.14) 1/;
(b)  logistical  problems:   trucks were  ill-suited  to  dirt  roads,
warehouses were poorly managed, fertilizer was available only at
canton level, at cooperative headquarters; and
(c)  the financial difficulties of the FNI.
3.14      Moreover, the agreements with the Bank were not rebpected insofar
as competitive bidding was concerned during the first fiscal year, and
there was some confusion between the respective roles of UNCC central
supply  office  and  the  project.   After  the  second  year,  fertilizer
distribution through official channels fell to a level close to the
pre-project period,  and financing for this component stopped.   It was
observed d4ring project implementation   2/ that actual consumption of
chemical fertilizer did not increase rapidly, even though it was still the
most  used  input.   This  would  seem  to  indicate,  first,  that  the
technological packages were not adequate (poor response to recommended
applications) and that the extension program had little impact. and second,
that a number of essential factors had not been taken into account in the
project's design, such as the existing arrangements between farmers and
herders for using organic manure, and market situation for cash crops,
which determines the level of application and the rate ot recovery of
fertilizerEi.
3.15      Animal traction.  Distribution of draft farm equipment financed
by the IDA credit suffered from the same logistical and also financial
constraints, which limited the provision of credit and subsidies.   The
supply of farm implements was handled through LNCC, outside the authority
1/   In Maradi, a survey by the MES of the Maradi project has showed that
imports from Nigeria on the parallel market outnumbered fertilizers
purchased through official channels in the proportion of four to one.
Even assuming the same occurred in Dosso, project targets were not
met.
2/   Reappraisal    paper,    1983.       Periodical    reports    by    the
monitoring/evaluation section on farm development.



- 11 -
of the project, which therefore could not adjust supply and demand. This
should, for example, have been done for carts, which are essential for
tran3porting organic manure from cattle yards or manure pits, and which
were in much greater demand than any other kind of equipment, such as
plows,  base  frames  ("batis  de  base")  or  cultivators.   Seeders  were
considered unsuitable by the applied research section but were not
modified.   Major  constraints  on  the  success  of  the  animal  traction
component were:
(a) farmers' obligation to purchase complete sets, which included
expensive implements they did not really need, instead of letting
them acquire what they wanted specifically, especially carts;
(b) difficulties in obtaining supplies from Government imposed
manufacturers (CDARMA), due to delayed arrival of raw materials;
(c) delays in delivering equipment to the farmers;
(d) restrictions on credit; and
(e) the limited impact upon other farmers and farming husbandry of
former trainees from CPRs, who after returning to their village
with draft equipment had often problems re-integrating into the
rural cominunity and were not adequately monitored.
3.16      Credit.  Agricultural credit remained the responsibility of the
CNCA.   Credit  was  to  be  provided  for  draft  equipment,  bottomland
development, stall feeding, seeds and seasonal loans.  The project was to
contribute financing for agricultural equipment and bottomland development.
During the first project year the CNCA granted only loans for farm
equipment to trainees of CPRs.  In the second year,  these loans were
extended to some other farmers.   Subsequently, loans for equipment were
virtually stopped for the duration of the project: fewer than 50 loans in
total were made for draft equipment. In all, about one thousand loans were
made for activities related directly to the project in the whole of the
Dosso Province, which has a population of about 700,000 and some 100,000
farm units.
3.17      Access to credit was very limited and strictly regulated.  The
project as designed was based upon the existing credit system. The CNCA
delegated credit management to an intermediary, in this case UNCC. Before
granting a loan, UNCC had to go throagh a selection process, involving in
sequence the village mutual guarantee group ("Groupement Mutualiste" - GM),
the "canton"  cooperative, the District Technical Committee (COTEAR), and
the  Provincial  Technical  Committee  (COTEDEP).   Obtaining  a  loan  was
conditional upon belonging to a GM and to a cooperative having repaid 95%
of previous loans (a joint guarantee was required), upon being sufficiently
trusted by the GM, upon being on good terms with the "canton" chief -- who
has administrative authority over the cooperative -- and finally, upon
having reached a good level of technical expertise, which was supposed to



- 12 -
have been acquired through extension, and upon having control over the
land.   All  this  was  aimed  at  providing  safeguards  for  the  credit.
Nevertheless, mainly because of Its operations with parastatal enterprises,
but also because cooperatives were mainly top-down imposed fictions the
CNCA is virtually bankrupt.
3.18      Training  and  extension.   The  system  relied  upon  the  UNCC
extension agenta, who worked with the cooperatives, and field staff of
agricultural services. Initially, extension was to be relayed by "contact
farmers", the great majority of whom, it was assumed, would be former
trainees  from CPRs.   These farmers  (couples),  who were chosen by the
villagers, spent nine months at residential centers, where they were
trained in improved farming methods, functional literacy, simple management
practices, etc. Upon completion of their training, they returned to their
villages, taking with them part of the crop, to which they had contributed,
and an animal-traction unit bought on credit. Other contact farmers had
often had some training at the Young Farmers Training Centers (CFJA).
Extension staff and contact farmers together were then to be responsible
for mass training of other farmers (usually all members of GMs). CPRs also
served for supplementary training courses for the various categories of
field officers; the building of a specific training center, considered at
appraisal, no longer appeared justified and was abandoned.   In summary,
major training activities consisted of:
(a)  training of farmer groups at the CPRs, as described above.  In
the fourth year of the project, draft equipment could not be
provided to the trainees due to CNCA's difficulties;
(b)  short  additional  course"  for  the  trainees,  on  cooperative
organization, community development ("animation"), health, etc.;
(c)  ten-day courses over three crop seasons for training officers and
extension workers;
(d) short courses on cooperative development at irregular intervals
for UNCC officers; and
(e) on-the-job training for the expatriate specialists' counterpart
staff, which was more or less erratic but more consistent for the
surveyors of the MES.
3.19     -Actual training and extension differed quite subsantially from
the appraisal mission's proposals. The major problems in implementing this
part of the project were:
(a) ambiguities about the concept and role of training and extension;
differences of view between local and expatriate staff caused the
expatriate training specialist to resign;
(b) the generally low level of extension agents, their frequent
transfers, and the lack of regular recycling;



- 13 -
(c) the uncertainty about how to handle extension, when Government
after November 1982, following the Zinder seminar, decided that
projects would switch to a "village-based extension system", for
which farmers were not prepared, and extension staff who were to
assist educated farmers were neither sufficiently qualified nor
motivated;
(d) poor cooperation between Government agencies resulting in
unsatisfactory coordination of project activities, from the
preparation of training programs to field operatiuns; and
(e) less than adequate results with the program of farmers' training
in residential centers: recruitment of trainees was difficult,
as they often were youngsters the village would rather get rid of
(602 of trainees in the first year did not own their farm), as a
consequence many trainees did not reintegrate well into their
villages, they rapidly sold their draft equipment and did not
provide as expected advice to other farmers; and the project
failed to provide former trainees with follow-up and technical
support.
3.20      Bottomland development.  Work on this component started in the
second year and reached a total of 155 ha, compared with a target at
appraisal of 200 ha. More might have be^n achieved had not supplies been
delayed through insufficient knowledge of competitive bidding procedures by
the Rural Engineering Department and Project Management.  Apart from these
delays, activities proceeded without any major institutional problems, and
participation by the farmers was reasonably good. The Rural Engineering
Department completed after the project's closing date  the works that had
been started, with funds provided from other sources.
3.21      Livestock.     Achievements in terms of livestock were well below
what had been expected at the time of appraisal.   Vaccination against
rinderpest and pleuropneumonia went reasonably well during the whole
project period, although the coverage gradually declined.   The project
supported  these  vaccination  campaigns,   through  financing  (i)  the
improvement of facilities for the Livestock Department, (ii) the purchase
and   operating   costs   of  vehicles,   and   (iii)   the   training   of
paraveterinarians. However, Government financed the purchase of vaccines,
and vaccinators were paid by village communities. On the other hand, in
spite of repeated demands by supervision missions, it was only in late 1984
that a stock of antiparasitic drugs was finally purchased, and virtually
nothing was done for smallstock. Construction of a slaughter house and a
cattle market was abandoned because considerable cost overruns made it
difficult to economically justify these investments. The Applied Research
section did not set up trials with forage crops, and very little was
accomplished in terms of integration of livestock and agriculture.
Finally, stall feeding did quite well in a number of villages, but the
project was not involved at any time and did not finance the ambitious
program considered at appraisal, which envisaged 800 additional loans each
year.



- 14 -
3.22      Buildings, vehicles and equipment.   A number of constructions
which had been projected were not built,  but  the program which was
completed is nonetheless substantial (see Chapter V - Expenditure). Some
equipment planned at appraisal was not supplied.  Initial deliveries of
vehicles went according to plan.  However, donors had agreed to replace
vehicles of provincial services in the final project year, but this did not
occur on account of negligence on the part of project management.  In
general, delays in tendering and failure to comply with bidding procedures
adversely affected the building program.  Construction was often of low
quality, resulting in additional repair costs (CPRs, warehouses, etc.).
3.23      Strengthening of farmers' associations.  Project action in this
area was limited to providing cooperatives with additional facilities.
Project operational constraints
3.24      Implementing a rainfed farming and livestock project in a region
of great human and physical diversity is not an easy matter.  From the
description of project management and development, a number of issues and
constraints which contributed to the project's severe problems and poor
performance can be identified:
(a) An inflexible project design, which did not sufficiently take
into account the diversity of the human and physical environment;
a possibly too superficial analysis of socio-economic conditions
and cultural background (trade relations with Nigeria, markets,
available labor force, agricultural timetable, etc.); and a
technical program focussing upon intensification of two or three
crops, but ignoring the farming system as a whole and climatic
uncertainties;
(b) An insufficient review of experience accumulated with similar
projects and of their causes for failure or success;
(c) A lack of farmer interest in a technical package, which was not
well proven and poorly extended, with in addition an inefficient
credit and input distribution system;
(d) Too rigid of an organization, which was unable to react rapidly
to necessary changes, and to reorient activities and tasks
accordingly,   with   an   unclear   definition   of   functions,
responsibilities and levels of decision, preventing any adequate
coordination; differences of opinion between expatriate and local
staff, on matters ranging from training and extension to
management of day-to-day operations, also contributed to the
deterioration of working relationships;
(e) Poor performance by the provincial services, which retained their
traditional structure, with a high turnover of often poorly
qualified staff, taking their instructions, not from the project
authority, but from their ministries in Niamey;



- 15 -
(f)  Government's financial difficulties:   after 1980 the price of
uranium fell by 61% in three years 3/, and by the end of 1981
debt  service,  which  was  partly  denominated  in  dollars,
represented 13% of exports, increasingly preventing the FNI from
meeting its obligations; and
(g) Erratic supervision of the project by the Bank and other donors
(see Chapter VII).
As a consequence, the project role consisted primarily of transferring
foreign financing to Government services, rather as anticipated extending
appropriate technical packages to the rural sector.  The closing of the
project in June 1985 resulted in a reduction in the activities of all
services involved. Neither the Government, nor UNCC, which has since been
wound up, nor the village associations had the necessary means to support
the technical staff, or to operate and maintain the facilities, such as
warehouses, CPRs, etc.
IV. PROJECT ACHIEVEMENTS
4.1       With  the  project  closed  down  and  project  staff  no  longer
available, it has been hard, on the basis of limited information, to
compare actual achievements with objectives at appraisal. Nevertheless,
some figures are listed in Table 7 (Annex). Official statistical data seem
to indicate that agricultural output in the Dosso Province increased during
three consecutive seasons. There is no evidence, however, that the project
contributed significantly to this increase  (if, indeed,   there was an
increase). Everything seems to suggest, on the contrary, that the impact
of the project was quite marginal, and that the adoption by farmers of
technical packages insufficiently proven was very limited. In the absence
of reliable data, no meaningful rate of return can be computed. It seems
probable nonetheless that the internal rate of return on the project was
very low and possibly negative.
4.2       In spite of all the problems and the meager achievements, the
project has to be credited with a positive impact in a few areas:
(a)  Bottomland development.   Thanks to the experience gained under
the project, rules and methods for developing small ponds and
bottomland  were  prepared,  which  continue  to  be  applied.
According to a number of sources (MES reports and agriculture
department, in particular), field surveys indicate an increase of
fertilizer consumption and substantially higher revenues from
3/   Ministry of Planning:   1979/81 implementation review of the 1979-83
Five Year Plan



- 16 -
vegetable gardening, which may have contributed to reduce
seasonal migration 4/ among the families concerned. The rural
engineering department has recorded a marked increase in requests
for bottomland development, with financial contribution of
beneficiaries. This has to be attributed to the project.
(b)  Livestock.     Project activities in the livestock sector were
limited. Nonetheless, training of 45 paraveterinarians, who have
acquired good field experience, improvements to facilities, the
constitution of a small reserve stock of drugs, and first steps
in systematic monitoring of cattle herds, have improved the basis
for more effective coverage of cattle health control in the
future.
(c) Applied research. Results of experiments and field trials fill
three volumes,  that have been made available to INRAN.   The
results could not be used for the project, but provide some clear
recommendations  regarding  the  most  appropriate  crops  and
fertilizer   applications   for   the   different   regions.    In
particular, the advantages of associated crops, as traditionally
practiced by the farmers, have been confirmed (millet and cowpeas
in the north, millet and groundnuts in the south).
(d) Monitoring and evaluation. About a hundred briefs and reports
have been issued, including some ten studies on specific matters,
ranging from the use of fertilizer to the socio-economic aspects
of existing production methods  in the Dosso Province.   These
studies have helped to understand better the overall conditions
in the project area.
V. PROJECT EXPENDITURES AND FINANCING
5.1       Based  upon  data  provided  in  the project's  annual  financial
statements and the Bank's disbursements, a number of tables have been
prepared showing the balance sheet for the project period (Table 1), the
sources and application of funds (Table 2), projected expenditure (Table
3), actual expenditure (Table 4), and a comparison of the project
objectives and actual achievements (Table 7). The tables are appended.
Estimated project cost at appraisal
5.2       Total project costs over five years were estimated at US$ 39.3
4/   64% of the men in the western zone and 33% in the eastern zone usually
migrate for short periods to the coastal countries (MES, 1982/83).



- 17 -
zillion (US$ 1 - CFAF 220). IDA was to finance 51% with a credit of US$ 20
million, and the French Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE)
11% with US$ 4.5 million; the French Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (FAC)
was to make a grant of US$ 2.3 million, equivalent to 6% of total costs.
Total projected external financing thus amounted to US$ 26.8 million, or
68% of total costs, covering 100% of foreign exchange (US$ 24 million) and
18% of local costs.
5.3       Counterpart funds were expected to be substantial (32% of total
costs).  Government would have been the major contributor, with US$ 7.2
million, to finance the cost of all local staff, part of the operating
costs, and some capital expenditure. The CNCA and beneficiaries were to
contribute US$ 5.2 million, for cattle supplied on credit and steer
fattening.



- 18 -
5.4          The following table summarizes projected distribution of funds:
Distribution of funds by type of expenditure and source of funds
;Total                       Breakdown %
CFAF million     %        IDA      CCCE        FAC     Niger
I. Investments
- Studies                       6.5       0.1    100.0        -          -        -
- Civil works               1,308.5      15.1      40.0      26         13       21
- Equipment/Vehicles          509.0       6.8        -       50         25       25
Sub-total               1,905.0      22.0      27.8      33.3       16.7     22.2
II. Operating expenses
- Local staff                 768.0       8.9        -         -          -     100
- Expatriates                 665.5        7.7     44        37         19        -
- Operating costs             582.0       6.7        -       20         10       70
Sub-total               2,015.5      23.3      14.5      18.0        9.2     58.3
III. Inputs                 4,545.5      52.6        1/         -         -       2/
IV. Unallocated               177.0        2.1       -          -         -        -
TOTAL                       8,643.0        100    4,385     1,000        500    2,758
(51%)     (11%)       (6%)    (32%)
1/ 100% of additional fertilizer and farm equipment
2/ Government (FNI) - 100% of first 1000 tons of fertilizer and seed;
CNCA - 100% of stall feeding



- 19 -
The distribution of funds reflects the logic behind the project concept:
more  than 52% of total financing was allocated to inputs.   The main
objective consisted of setting up a system to provide farmers with large
volumes of inputs.  The other project components were meant at least in
part to help in achieving this primary objective. Buildings, vehicles and
training (which accounted for a major proportion of operating and personnel
costs) were intended to facilitate and improve the distribution and
consumption of inputs.
Modification of the IDA Credit
5.5       The terms of the IDA Credit were modified in June  1984 to
contribute much more substantially to operating and personnel costs, after
the Borrower ran into financial difficulties. IDA also increased its share
in the financing of certain capital expenditures.
Project expenditures
5.6       Total disbursements reached CFAF 4,203 million, instead of CFAF
8,643 million estimated at appraisal, or 49% (Table 5). Major observations
concerning actual expenditures are:
(a) less than 8% of the amount originally planned and only 8.5% of
total expenditures were spent on inputs;
*                (b)  in contrast, expenditures for technical assistance amounted to
some 82% of appraisal estimate;
(c) none of the components reached expenditures projected at
appraisal; and
(d) in light of the disappointing project achievements, the project
proved expensive for the Borrower, which in the final analysis
financed 51% of total project costs, instead of 32% as
anticipated; there is however no clear information as to how more
than 40% of counterpart funds were spent, an indication of poor
accounting.
5.7       The fact that inputs accounted for only 8.5% of total expenditure
confirms that the project failed in implementing what was to be its main
component, even if it is reasonable to assume that without Niger's
financial problems appraisal estimates of fertilizer application would
nonetheless have proved too optimistic.
IDA's financial participation
5.8       IDA's  contribution  to  project  costs was US$  3.201 million,
roughly 16% of the US$ 20 million credit. Translated into local currency,
IDA's   contribution  was,   however,   significantly  higher   (27.5%  of
projections), due to the rise in the dollar exchange rate vs. the CFAF
during project implementation. A breakdown by category shows that:



- 20 -
(a) inputs (essentially farm equipment) have represented 272 of all
expenditures financed by IDA; and
(b) expatriate staff and buildings accounted for 222 and 19% of
expenditures  respectively,  equivalent  to  91%  and  45Z  of
projections.
5.9       Other donors contributed a higher share of total costs than
anticipated:   552 for the CCCE and 612 for the FAC, mainly due to the
technical assistance component for which more than 702 of projections were
disbursed.   Two factors moreover have affected participation of other
donors in total costs:  (i) they were not involved in the financing of
inputs, and (ii) their contributions, with the CFAF pegged to the French
franc, did not fluctuate with exchange rates, as did those of IDA.
VI. INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
6.1       Institutional  arrangements  for  the  Dosso  Rural  Development
Project provided for a small Project unit only. The program was to be
carried out by existing Government services at the provincial level and by
the UNCC.  The only new unit developed by the project was the rural
engineering service. In the course of project implementationb provincial
services no doubt improved their capacity, thanks to the logistic support,
facilities and additional staff provided with external funds. However, the
institutional framework has not changed and there has hardly been any
Improvement  in  the  effectiveness  of  existing  services.   The  Project
Manager, with the support of the technical assistance team, should have
coordinated technically and financially the various Government agencies
Involved in the project.  This was in fact not possible for a number of
reasons:
(a) the authority of the Project Manager was never recognized or
accepted by the chiefs of provincial services, who continued to
give priority to the requirements of their respective traditional
authorities: ministries, the CNCA in Niamey, and the UNCC;
(b) the project was not able to recommend to provincial services a
new strategy for rural areas or technical innovations, except for
bottomland development and - to some degree - for livestock;
(c) the frequent turnover of senior and intermediate field staff, as
well as the uncertain role and changes of expatriate staff,
adversely affected the creation of a strong institutional
framework, which would have provided conditions for better
coordination; and
(d) finally, the repeated conflicts between the various partners,
concerning inter alia the use of logistic support, the nature and



- 21 -
level of financial control by the project, compliance with
donors' rules and procedures, and technical concepts, developed a
working  atmosphere  that  was  detrimental  to  good  mutual
understanding and to the formulation of a joint strategy and
action program.
In fact, from the institutional point of view, a number of new facilities
are the only lasting impact of the project.
6.2       As  mentioned  earlier,  the  place  of  expatriates  in  the
organization chain was unclear, making their role all the more difficult.
The effectiveness of the various specialists has in fact been contingent
upon personal qualities, professional competence and dynamism. In short:
(a) the performance of the Monitoring and Evaluation Section was
consistently satisfactory;
(b)  the  achievements  of  the  head  of  applied  research  were
substantial, but his work, which was carried on in isolation, was
not continued after his early departure, in the absence of a
trained .ocal successor;
(c) the technical specialist was skilled and experienced, but he had
difficulties in his personal relations with local staff. He was
faced with technical problems, and he was not able to carry out
his mission of general guidance, coordination and advice,
because, in the absence of strong backing by the Project Manager,
he had very little authority; this caused him to leave;
(d)  differences of opinion about training ard extension between local
staff and the expatriate br_.-alist led the latter to leave the
project rapidly, before he could really be tested;
(e)  assistance to the rural engineering department was generally
satisfactory as far as technical aspects are concerned, much less
in terms of administration;
(f)  the integrity of the two successive administrative and financial
managers was questioned by the Government - a matter that has not
yet been fully clarified, despite the audit of accounts and other
investigations;
(g) frequent changes in expatriate staff, and failure to replace some
of them, reduced effectiveness of the technical assistance team;
and
(h) short term consultancies on technical matters have been piecemeal
and insufficiently consistent.



- 22 -
VII. PERFORMANCE BY GOVERNMENT AND IDA
7.1       Due to its financial difficulties, the Government was not able to
meet  specific commitments agreed upon during project negotiations and
confirmed in the Credit Agreement, namely:
(a) to replenish the three accounts for prefinancing of project
activities;
(b) to provide in the budget of FNI subsidies on inputs;
(c) to make available to the CNCA the necessary funds for
agricultural credit; and
(d) to pay counterpart funds in accordance with the agreed timetable.
7.2       The Credit Agreement provided that local technicians would remain
at post for at least three years.  This condition was not met.  On the
other hand, on the occasion of meetings between Government and donors at
the beginning of the second project year, the institutional relationship
which had been projected between the project and provincial services was
clarified, but in practice the Project Manager's authority has not been
strengthened, because the necessary instructions were not given to
provincial services.
7.3       Bank  supervision  missions  were  erratic  and  often  of  short
duration.   Furthermore,  supervision  missions  were  most  of  the  time
frustrating.   There was little dialogue with the chiefs of provincial
services, who were usually new in their position, due to considerable
turnover, and who knew little about their functions and responsibilities,
and  were  thus  unable  to  provide  reliable  information.   Inadequate
supervision by the Bank was not offset by more active and efficient
supervision by other donors, who were also unable to develop a constructive
dialogue with local technicians. From the end of 1982 to the end of 1983,
supervision by the Bank was limited to a brief visit by a livestock
specialist. The most in-depth supervision took place in March 1984, with a
Bank team consisting of four specialists, who reviewed the project
achievements and the proposals by project management for a reorientation of
project activities. That mission reached the cc.nclusion that the project
had achieved very little, that there were no reasons to believe that the
reorientation proposals could be 'mplemented successfully with the existing
institutional set-up and staff, and that the project should not be extended
beyond the normal closing date. It is not easy to judge in retrospect to
what extent  closer monitoring by the Bank and co-lenders would have
contributed to improve project performance.   Clearly, more  supervision
would have done nothing to remedy the unfavorable weather conditions which
adversely affected project implementation.  It is reasonable to believe,
however, that it would have been easier for project management to overcome
its severe institutional and staffing problems, had there been more
frequent supervision missions, particularly during the critical start-up
period, and more pressure upon Government to meet its commitments in terms



-23 -
of institutional arrangements, continuity of local staff, and timely
recruitment of qualified technical assistants. More intensive supervision
would also have led probably to an early redesign of the project. This
should have taken place as soon as it was obvious that the climatic and
economic conditions prevailing at the time of appraisal had changed
dramatically, and in any case well before the reorientation proposals were
submitted by Government in March 1984, and donors had come to the
conclusion that the situation was hopeless and the project was beyond
salvation.
7.4       Concerning  project  financiig,  the  Bank  was  strict  about
disbursement procedures, but showed flexibility by amending the Credit
Agreement to reduce Government contribution and this helped the Borrower to
overcome its cash flow problems. The terms of the Credit Agreement were
modified to that effect on June 29, 1984.
VIII. LESSONS FOR THE FUTURE
8.1       The main lessons of the project are:
(a) Projects such as the Dossc project, dealing with a large area and
a   variety   of   components,   are   faced   with   considerable
institutional  problems,  particularly  in  terms  of  project
management and coordination amongst services; simplicity must be
the watchword.   (In addition,  it will be necessary to  find
appropriate modes of intervention by better incorporating the
notion of "time" (i.e., results cannot be obtained with the same
speed in the following areas: distribution of existing improved
seed, perfection of new production systems adapted to farmer
strategies, creation of farmer organizations, etc.), and by
taking    into    account    the    links    between    different
geographic/administrative levels (plot, farm, village, region,
country, group of countries....);
(b) Technical experience from a pilot operation is not necessarily
transferable to a large-scale project, particularly where
rainfall is the essential key to success or failure;
(c) Project preparation has to include an in-depth analysis of all
Londitions in the project area;   such analysis should not be
limited to a study of the physical environment - which in Dosso
had been carefully reviewed - but has also to take into
consideration human, social, economic and financial factors, in a
word, everything that could encourage farmers to produce more and
better.   This  can  best  be  done  by  representative  pilot
operations, not by extending the orthodoex preparation process
even further.   (One may also wonder if,  in the interest of



- 24 -
efficiency, integrated rural development projects must not rely
on one or two successful "products" and/or on a real regional
unity.);
(d) The satisfactory results obtained with bottomland development are
an indication of the interest for small rural operations, with a
rapid impact upon income, that are undertaken with active
participation of beneficiaries;
(e) As indicated in para 2.5, ertension of technical messages was to
be based upon the "Training and Visit" system; this approach was
rapidly abandoned and extension was in disarray during the whole
project cycle; this had little effect upon achievements with
rainfed crops, given that with the poor rainifall and technical
packages which were not well adapted there was little to extend
anyhow; setting up an efficient extension service adapted to the
specific conditions of Niger and consistent with Government's
limited financial resources is however an urgent priority; and
(f) Project management must remain the prerogative of the project
authority, but donors can assist in improving ianagement
performance, through regular follow-up, particularly during the
early stages, and through fast and appropriate action, in order
to help resolving problems, overcoming constraints, and when
necessary making changes, in agreement with Government.



- 25 -                                         Table 1
DOSSO PROJECT                                      Page 1
Assets and liabilities 1981-85
ASSETS                                         December         March           March           March          December
1981          1982            1983            1984             1985
........................... .CFAF million.
A. Capital assets                                  158.7         843.5         1.915.7         2.422.8          3,010.3
I. Capitalized expenses                             -            484.0         1,154.2         1.677.2          2.366.6
- Project management                               -             179.6           330.9           415.3            663.1
-Agricultural service                               -            188.1           523.9           754.9            976.9
- UNCC delegation                                  -              32.9            89.6           162.6            227.6
- Livestock service                                     .         34.2            92.7           124.7            160.8
- Rural engineering                                               47.2            92.3           143.4            218.5
- Other services                                   -               2.0            13.5            23.4             37.9
- DFP MDR                                          -                 -            11.3            46.1             64.2
- Bottomlands                                                        -              -              6.8             17.6
11.  Civil works and equipment                    153.3          300.2           727.6           734.3            643.7
- CPR construction/improvement                     59.9           54.1           245.6           560.6            613.9
- Building rehabilitatton                           -              8.0            90.7            87.7            129.0
- Vehicle,                                         51.4          173.5           205.8           205.8            208.2
- Equipment and tools                               -             33.5            77.8           115.7            122.8
- Furniture/equipment for housing                  42.0           24.3            31.3            34.8             35.3
- Workshop equipment                                -                -             4.1             4.1              4.1
- Construction in progress                          -             39.9           207.7               -                _
- Depreciation allowance                            -            (47.1)         (151.1)         (295.4)          (491.3)
III. Other capital assets                           5.4           59.3            33.9             11.3            -
- Advance payments to suppliers                     -             54.0            23.4             -               -
- Deposit and guarantee                             0.1             -              -               -               -
- Draft animals                                     5.3            5.3            10.5             11.3            -
B. Inventories                                    279.4          124.2           103.4            104.8            63.1
- Fertilizer stock                                  -             15.1             6.8              2.5             0.3
- Farm equipment                                    -             30.1            14.5             11.9            11.9
- Pesticide and sprayers                            -             25.8             8.4              7.9             -
- Veterinary products                               -              1.3             0.4              -               8.9
- Seed stock                                        -             47.9            53.5             22.9             9.2
- Materials and supplici                          279.4           15.7            19.8             59.6            32.8
- Depreciation allowance                            -            (11.7)            -                -                -
C. Current and liquid assets                      316.7          151.2           836.2            807.4           745.5
- Advance payments to suppliers                     -              1.8             6.5             18.5             8.6
- Debtors UNCC/CNCA/SAD                             -             51.0            59.2             66.7            16.6
- FNI - input subsidies                           139.7           71.0            77.4             77.3              -
- Financing agencies                                -             10.9           553.0            394.3              -
- Miscellaneous debtors                             9.2            5.5           113.6            210.2            11.9
- Adjustment (assets)                               -             10.2            14.9             16.7              -
- Cattle feed operation                             -              -                -               -             112.8
- FAC reimbursement requests                       51.4            -                -               -              52.6
- Interest on CNCA overdraft                        -              -                -               -             435.9
- Deferred costs and charges                       65.2            -                -               -                -
- Cash and BDRN bank                               51.2            0.8            11.6             23.7           107.1
Total Assets                                      754.8        1,118.9         2,855.3          3,335.0         3,818.9



- 26 -                                        Table 1
Page 2
NICEP
DWSSO PROJECT
Assets and liabilities 1.981 - 1985
LIABILITIES                                     December           March           March          March        December
1981            1982            1983            1984           1985
.......................... CFAF million..
A. Funds                                           421.9           667.5         1.908.6        2,580.5        3,231.5
I. Financing of expenditures                         71.9          317.5         1,558.6        2.230.5        3.174.7
- Govt.-General budget                              12.9             5.9            13.5            21.1          31.0
- Govt.-FNI (Investment)                               -               -          475.5           897.5        1,066.0
- IDA Credit 967-NIR                                20.4           226.5           559.6          646.5        1,210.2
- CCCE loan 58.2700.80                              25.7            56.7           340.7          443.4          551.5
- FAC Grant 93/163/194/NIR                          12.9            28.4           169.3          220.7          302.5
- Penalty financing                                           -      -                               1.3          13.5
IT. Working capithl                                350.0           350.0           350.0          350.0           56.S
Govt.-FNI
- Deposit co operating account                     200.0           200.0           200.0          200.0          200.0
- Deposit to investment account                    150.0           150.0           150.0          150.0          150.0
- Less input subsidies                              -                                                -           (77.2)
- Less re4abursement requests                       -                -               -               -          (216.0)
B. Short-term debt                                 332.9           451.4           946.7           754.5         587.4
- Suppliers (equip./operation)                     107.1            98.2            95.2           67.2           16.1
- Adjustment (liabilities)                          -                -             139.3           71.4
- CNSS                                              -                2.9             -               -
- Miscellaneous creditors                            2.3            33.7             1.9             -
- CNCA bank overdrafts                             223.5           316.6           710.3          615.9          571.3
Agricultural inputs                            -               78.5          100.6            44.1           33.6
Investments                                                   134.6          264.9           287.9          236.0
Operations                                     -              103.5          344.8           283.9          211.7
Total Liabilities                                  754.8         1,118.9         2,855.3         3,335.0       3,818.9



-  27 -                                      Labte 2
NIGER
DOSSO PROJECT
Source and saplication of funds
December 1981    March 1982-   March 1983-    March 1984         Total
1981       March 1982         1983           1984       December 1985
A. Source of funds. ...................   CFAF millton  ...........---
Govt.- general budget               12.9             (7.0)            7.6          7.6               9.9         31.0
Govt.- FN1                                             -            475.5        422.0             168.5      1,066.0
IDA Credit 967-N1R                 20.4             206.1          333.1          86.9            563.7       1,210.2
CCCE loan 58.2700.80                25.7             31.0           284.0        102.7             108.1        551.5
FAC Grant 93/163/194/N1R            12.9             lS.S           140.9         51.4             81.8         302.5
Penalty financing                                                                  1.3              12.2         13.5
Govt.-  FNI                        350.0               -               -            -             (293.2)        56.8
(deposit to *c:ount)
Sub-total financing                421.9            245.6         1.241.1        671.9             651.0      3 231.5
Suppliers                          107.1             (8.9)           (3.0)       (28.0)            (51.1)        16.1
Adjustment (liabilities)               -              -             139.3        (67.9)            (71.4)           -
CNSS                                                  2.9            (2.9)          -                 -             -
Misc. creditors                      2.3             31.4           (31.8)        (1.9)                             -
CNA bank overdrafts                223.5             93.1           393.7        (94.4)            (44.6)       571.3
Sub-total short-term debt         332.9            118.5          495.3        (192.2)           (167.1)       587.4
Depreciatton allowace                               58.8            92.3        144.3             195.9        491.3
Total available resources          754.8            422.9         1.828.1        624.0            679.8       4.310.2
8. Application of resources
- Project management                   -            179.6           151.3         84.4            247.8         663.1
A* gricultural services                -            188.1           335.8        231.0            222.0         976.9
- UNCC delegation                      -             32.9            56.7         73.0             165.0        227.6
- Livestock servtce                    -             34.2            58.5         32.0             36.1         160.8
- Rural engineering                    -             47.2            45.1         51.1              75.1        218.5
- Other services                       -              2.0            11.5          9.9             14.5          37.9
- DEP-MDR                              -               -             11.3         34.8             18.1          64.2
- BOttoalands                          -               -               -           6.8             10.8          17.6
Sub-total capitalized costs                       484.0           670.2        523.0             689.4      2.366.6
- Civil works                       59.9             42.1          442.0         104.3             94.6         742.9
- Equtpment                         51.4            122.1            32.3           -               2.4         208.2
- Implements and tools                               33.5           44.3          37.9               7.1        122.8
- Furniture                        42.0              (3.7)            8.7          8.8              1.2          57.0
- Other capitalized assets          70.6            (11.3)          (21.3)       (22.6)            (11.3)       (4.1)
Sub-total civtl vorks and
equipment                        223.9            182.7           506.0        128.4              94.0      1.135.0
Inventories (fertilizer,           279.4           (143.5)          (32.5)         1.4             (41.7)        63.1
equipment, pesticide, vetertnary
products, seeds, materials)
Sub-total inventortes            279.4           (143.5)          (32.5)         1.4             (41.7)        63.1
Financing agencies                     -             10.9           542.1       (158.7)          (394.3)            -
Govt.(FNlI)-subsidies              139.7            (68.7)            6.4         (0.1)            (77.3)           -
Cattle feed operation                  -                               -                          U2.8          112.8
Interest CNCA overdrafts                       -               -                    -             435.9         435.9
Miscellaneous                       60.6              7.9           125.7        117.9            (222.4)        89.7
Sub-total current assets          00.3             (49.9)         674.2         (40.9)           (145.3)       638.4
Total app.ication of resources    703.6             473.3         1.817.9        611.9             596.4      4W203.1
Surplus (deficit)                   51.2            (50.4)           10.8         12.1              83.4        107.1
Starting balance                       -             51.2             0.8         11.6              23.7            -
Ending balance                      51.2              0.8            11.6         23.7             107.1        107.1



- 28 -                            Table 3
NIGER
DOSSO PROJECT
Projected expenditure
TOTAL         IDA         CCCE        FAC       NIGER
...................... ,CFAF million,*e ..o...
Type of expenditure
Civil works                 1,308.5        532.4        340.2     170.1       274.8
Equipment, vehicles           590.0          -          295.0     147.5       147.5
Local staff                   768.0          -            -          -        768.0
Technical assistance          665.5        292.9        248.4     124.2         -
Operating costs               582.0          -          166.4      58.2       407.4
Inputs                      4,545.5      3,562.2          -          -        983.3
Consultant studies              6.5          6.5          -          -          -
Unallocated                   177.0          -            -          -        177.0
Total       8,643.0        4,385.0    1,000.0      500.0    2,758.0
1/ Expenditures by the various donors are estimated in accordance with the
percentages in the financing plan. For technical assistance and inputs,
estimates are based upon total expenditure.
Source: Balance sheet and closing statements of the Project on June 30, 1985,
FIPEC, December 1985.



Table 4
NIGER
DOSSO PROJECT
Actual expenditure
Total          IDA         CCCE        FAC         NIGER        NIGER
Govt.        Other
.............. CFAF million..
Type of expenditure
Civil works                       564.7          233.2      142.4        73.1        116.0          n.d.
Equipments, vehicles              339.1            1.3      164.0        90.7         83.1          n.d.
Local staff                       370.8           94.9         -                     275.9          n.d.
Technical assistance              542.7          266.3      188.6        87.8          -             -
Operating costs                   458.3           79.6       56.5        50.9        271.3          n.d.
Inputs                            357.4          327.9         -           -          29.5          n.d.
Consultant studies                  9.3            9.3                                 -             -
Interest CNCA overdrafts          435.9            -           -           -           -           435.9
Unallocated                     1,124.9          197.7         -           -         321.2         606.0 1/
,  Total               4,203.1        1,210.2      551.5       302.5      1,097.0       1,041.9
1/ Allocation unknown.
Source: Balance sheet and closing statements of the project on June 30, 1985, FIPEC, December 1985



-30 -                           Table 5
NIGER
DOSSO PROJECT
Actual expenditure as a percentage of projected expenditure
TOTAL       IDA       CCCE       FAC      NIGER
. . . . . . . . . . C *  *.%   *..-* *  .... ......... *- .   . **.*-*
Constructions                     43          45        42        43         42
Equipments, vehicles              57          1/        56        61         56
Personnel local                   48          1/         -         -         36
Technical assistance              82          91        76        71          -
Operating costs                   79          1/        49        87         67
Inputs                             8           9         -         -          3
Consultant studies                70          70         -         -          -
Interest CNCA overdrafts          50           -         -         -         50
Unallocated                      635          1/         -         -        524
Total             49           28         55       60         78
1/ Actual expenditure for items for which nothing was projected.



-31 -                            Table 6
NIGER
DOSSO PROJECT
IDA disbursements
Currencies
CFAF                      FF                     US$
................ thousands. . . .    .
1981                     -                                              171
1982                  189,257                                            91
1983                  293,927                      -                    146
1984                  162,799                     142                   113
1985                  341,309                     327                    36
1986                   10,028                     131
Total                 997,320                     6C0                   503
Source: World Bank



- 32 -
NIGER                                        Table  7
DOSSO PROJECT
Objectives and achievements
Activity                       Objectives    Achievements        %    Comments
Contact farmers                          -            2,081      -
Couples trained at CPR                   -              720      -    Included in the number of contact farmers
lmproved seed (t)
- Millet                             1,014             30.2     3.0
- Cowpeas                              869              1.5      -
- Groundnuts                         2,370           817.9    34.5
- Sorghum                               84                -      -
- Maize                                678             0.15      -
Fertilizer (t)
- Rock phosphate                   17,560              9.35     0.1
- TSP                              13,980         1,529.30    10.9
- Urea                             14,600           223.30      1.5
Insecticide ('000 1)                   219            n.a.    n.a.
Fungicide ('000 packets)               484              350    72.3
Donkey traction units                6,387             n.a.    n.a.   Contradictory data: between 300 and 1000 loans
Ox traction units                    1,824             n.a.    n.a.   by CNCA.
sprayers                             7,296            n.a.    n.a.
Civil works
- Training Center                        1                -      -
- Meeting room buildings                 6                -      -
- Staff houses                          12                -      -
- District warehouses                   31               13      42
Extension Center                         1                -      -
Veterinary posts                         1                1     100
Vaccination yards                       12               12     100
Improvements to slaughter house          1                -      -
Improvements to market                   1                -      -
Rural engineering office                 1                1      1
CPRa                                    24               12      So
Livestock office                         1                1     100
UNCC office                              1                1     100
Agric. service office                    1                1     100
Vehicles                                                              Vehicles in operation at end of project.
- 7-10 ton trucks                       20               10      50
- 1.5 ton truck                          1                -      -
- 4-wheel drive pickups                 28               1S      54
- 4-wheel drive station wagons           4                5     125
Bottomiland development (ha)           200            156.5      78   According to the Rural Engineertng Service,
the project financed some 200 ha.
Stall feeding                       4,000                 -    n.a.   The project was not involved.
Livestock vaccination RP and CBPP        -                -      -    10% increase in coverage.
Expected increase: 15%
Total local staff                      330              188      57
- including village extension          144              41       28
workers
Source:  Data provided by World Bank supervision reports (1984) and project cotpletion report prepared by
Government (1986)



33 -
Annex
Page 1
CCCE Letter and Comments - Translation of Wrench Text.
Paris, March 18, 1988
World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Attention Mr. Donaldson
Re. NIGER - Project Completion Report for the Dosso Rural Development Project
Dear Sir,
I examined with much interest the Project Completion Report for the
Dosso Rural Development Project, together with Mr. Courtant from the Ministry
of Cooperation.
It would appear that the report needs to be completed and the
following points should be mentioned:
Additio.as:
P. vii - Project execution: 3
- It was also at the request of donors, and particularly the CCCE,
which had envisaged a two-part financing plan (three years, then two years),
that the Nigerien authorities set out to redirect the project.
P. viii - Project execution
- It should be more clearly indicated that the decision to abandon
the project in May, 1984, was made jointly by the donors unanimously.
P. ix - Conclusions and lessons - a.
- It would be a good idea to determine whether integrated rural
development projects would be more effective if they were based on one or two
successful "commodities" and/or on an existing regional production unit.
P. 3 - 2.4.
- In addition another mission had to be undertaken after the
appraisal mission to settle the disagreement between the donors and the
Nigerien authorities about the CPR and the extension system.



- 34 -                               Annex
Page 2
Content:
I believe it would be worth mentioning the results of the report
written in January 1984 on the "Progress of the Dosso Rural Development
Project" by Messrs. Benhamou and Papazian on behalf of the Ministry of
Cooperation.
In addition, it will be necessary to find the appropriate operational
methods by:
- better incorporating the concept of "time" (i.e., results cannot be
achieved in the same time period for: the distribution of existing improved
seed, the development of new production systems adapted to farmers' strategies,
and the creation of farmer organizations); and
-  taking   into   account   the   relationship   between   different
geographical/administrative  levels  (i.e.,  land,  farms,  villages,   region,
country).
I hope these comments will be taken into consideration.
Yours sincerely,
3. Bailliez
Division Chief



2'                  20                                               40  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ 400
f  W                                             JJUS,5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~40
i @\ ~~~~~~~~~T A H    O U ANIE
NIGER
00    DOSSO AGRICULTURAL
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
AFt-RAINFALL AND POPULATION DENSITY
POPULATION DENSITY PER Km2
Mor thant  I mm
JN, >, , S stst wor ,> , ot                                    Anst ratve1                                                                          D i  oundsriea
-       -  9nentoalBudre
2 t- 30 f 8>2v 4t 5 F~~~~~~~~~~~~AS NL  G    E  R   I  A    .-PR*LleI
1 - 4 ~ ~    ~
0  .                                                                                                                           120~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  shyt nm
\  \                                                                                                                    MA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C                  Poics Bonaies  I 0 
9    ~~~  4~~                            A          L     E       II
BURKINA  FA.SO        \A J                                                                  5ILOMETERS
C                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t.o"d Wo Mn. , on.a0~ by The Ktod 80* no. SUN~4 to, of. foo,,.o  ~ so~o o,5 CH4A
ltd                                                         Po,o,o,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-. Cop=o,Oo ron d-noo.t,o 000 004 0,0 6-00o0dn.-  on -A 0.o do dot
M*'~. on. 0d p.1 ofT. Wo0d0a W00  M.04, Ot.et-.o ro   Co,Po,t,.  for,%-#n,
oOo00o1V nteoa of n.y todooy  w, Onrdornono o,vn,bto Of -ho 0-0,0000         ~
20                       0                                                                        40                                                )       BUKN-~.j             NI GE RI A
APRIL I



__________________________                                                                                                                                                                 IBRD 1
20                                                  30                40                                              .5
/                Mauurde    TAHOUA
t                ,J, cz<>trotks 1-                                    A TAHONIGER
/tv 6g  "'"~i "Db_                                                                                    DOSSO AGRICULTURAL
u  X-    AY ni ",gt m 1lq    \DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
"A                                               L         A          __ L  0   G A                                                             Administrative District Offices
it"                           * A                                                        r %                                       0*   Aricultural District Offices
--t..~~~~~~~~~-i[t..n ~~~~~~~~~0   Input Warehouses
a > Noani;torVeterinary Faeilitieswit Permanent Staff
U Young Farmers Training Center
CC>< \                                                      **v             "                                                                               *|_wVN
|OU4~   \                   ,~/             "'                                                                                 ;;2 t%_  VmE   z-t !!i w  Abatr anSeed Farnm
tJ  ii? ift r  m   s i <s  S) ,fs   j,e  2 J 4ff    __                                                     *r3           _      pAnimal Implement Asoembly Unit
a tR            (IIhIIIIIdI N(UIIBI     6 -I     *1l                               2Small Irrigation Schemes
  -  ,r-t~~~~~~~~~~   L'~~~~~r~~~  M~~~~e ~PROPOSED:
$   ~~~~~~~~~~  .ij                                                             * ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Training Center
00~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  Mc ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0   Farm Service Centers
A veterinary Post
NORTH'                                                                    0 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.ottom Land Developmnents
i(se~~~~~~~~~  Dofflo                                                                 ()~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Abattoir and Market improvements
i                                            /                                                                                                          - c Agricultural District
IIillIlIIIAgro-ecologlcal Zones WFarm Model Zones)
I  '    (ttola                           -                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~      ~~~AGRICUJLTURAL  YEAR OF  - TarRoads
I01                                                        DISTRICTS     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IMPLEETTON  Laterite Roads
'N BGPAM                                                                                                       PY 2          ----Traks
t .               t1i>a&j4~.~                                     H              PY3                   Feeder Roads improvement Ptogram
I CENTfER~'                                                           ii              PY 4          '"~Escarpments
it,  V  I  Z-S  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~'  -                             N ~~~~~Py e                    --Administrative Distict Boundaries
K  t~~~~~~~ ~~~~  /  '~~~~~~~9~~~~Y   I   I,t                                                                  -   . -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~International Boundaries
URKINA FASO \. B 9     P@.E      
//                                                                                            C    ~-rnriefn I~~ A rca thown n9pvC
400                         ~~~ru...
2,30                                           {~  1                             t        ~ 30                                                              bo       AI5Rti    L            N        R G  E  R I  A
4.~ ~ ~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AR



