Document of                   FILE COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2659-NIR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF NIGER
FOR A
DOSSO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
November 28, 1979
This document has a rsricted distribution and my be use by neipints only in the perfornmce of
their ofici dutis. Its COntelst may nt oterwise be disclosd withot Word Bank authorbation.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit:             CFA franc (CFAF)
US$ 1.00:                  CFAF 220
CFAF 1,000:                US$ 4.55
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilogram (kg):           2.20 pounds
1 metric ton:              0.98 long tons
I hectare (ha)             2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km):          0.62 miles
ABBREVIATIONS
APMU              Bank Agricultural Projects Management Unit
CAFS             Project Commercial Administrative and Financial Section
CCCE             Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
(Bank for Economic Cooperation)
CNCA             Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole
(National Agricultural Credit Bank)
FAC              Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation
(Fund for Assistance and Cooperation)
FED              Fonds European de Development
(European Development Fund)
ICRISAT           International Crops Research Institute for the
Semi-Arid Tropics
IFDC             International Fertilizer Development Center
INRAN            Institut National de Recherche Agronomique Nigerienne
(National Agricultural Research Institute)
MES               Project Monitoring and Evaluation Section
OPVN             Office des Produits Vivriers du Niger
RMWA             Bank Regional Mission in West Africa (Abidjan)
SONARA            Societe Nigerienne d'Arachide
(National Groundnut Company)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
DOSSO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:              Republic of Niger
Amount:                US$20.0 Million
Terms:                 Standard
Project                The project comprises a five-year program intended
Description:          to increase farm incomes and improve the welfare and
standard of living of the rural population of Dosso
Province and to build up an extension service
through (a) the introduction of improved farming
practices for rainfed cereals, cowpeas and ground-
nuts; (b) the improvement of vaccination coverage,
delivery of drugs and feed supplements and animal
husbandry practices for beef cattle and work
oxen; (c) the construction of small-scale irrigation
schemes for 200 ha of bottomlands; (d) the introduction
of a Training and Visit extension system; (e) the
strenthening of the farm input and implement supply
system; and (f) applied research.   Training, extension,
input supply and credit services would be made
accessible to about 80,000 farm families, of whom
25,000 are expected to adopt the recommended improved
practices. The main risk is that the estimated rate
of adoption of recommended practices ray not be
attained due to poor implementation of the Training
and Visit system, poor organization of input delivery
and/or to inadequate financing of inputs. To minimize
these risks, experienced practitioners would be
employed to manage the Training and Visit system;
input delivery would be managed by the project's
own Commercial, Administrative and Financial Section
through a special Farm Supplies Fund; and Government's
contribution to nonincremental input financing would
be payable in advance into the same Fund.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only n the performance
of their official duties. Its content's may not otherwise be disclosed without WotA Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost: 1/                     Local         Foreign         Total
-----------US$ Million-----------
Training                    0.9              1.6            2.5
Extension                   1.9              1.7           3.6
Input Supply                7.0            12.3           19.3
Livestock Development       0.7              1.4           2.1
Irrigation Development      0.4             0.8            1.2
Applied Research            0.2             0.5            0.7
Project Management          0.9             1.1            2.0
Base Cost Estimate       12.3            19.4           31.4
Phycial Contingencies    0.3              0.5            0.8
Price Contingencies       3.0             4.1            7.1
Total               15.3            24.0           39.3
%                   39              61            100
IDA     CCCE/FAC      GOV'T      CNCA    BENEFICIARIES   TOTAL
……------------------……US$ Million---------------------------
Local Cost       2.1       0.7         7.3        1.1           4.1         15.3
Foreign Cost   17.9        6.1          -          -             -         24.0
Total     20.0        6.8         7.3        1.1          4.1         39.3
%         51         17          19         3            10          100
Estimated
Disbursements:
FY         FY          FY          FY          FY         FY
1980       1981        1982        1983        1984       1985
--------------  US$  Million--
Annual           0.3        2.5         4.0         5.5         5.5         2.2
Cumulative       0.3        2.8         6.8        12.3        17.8       20.0
Rate of Return:      25 percent
Appraisal Report:   No. 2493-NIR
Map: IBRD 14215
1/   Project costs are expressed net of taxes since Government has indicated
that it intends to exempt the project from import duties and identifiable
taxes.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF NIGER
FOR A DOSSO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Republic of Niger for the equivalent of US$20
million on standard IDA terms to help finance an agricultural development
project. The French Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (FAC) would provide a
grant of US$2.3 million, and Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
(CCCE) a loan of US$4.5 million for 20 years including 5 years of grace, with
interest at 3.5 percent per arnum.
PALT I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "Economic Memorandum:  Niger" (RN 1109a-NIR) was
distributed to the Executive Directors on May 13, 1976. An economic mission
visited Niger in October 1978 and its draft report is to be discussed with
Niger's Government shortly; the main findings of the mission are incorporated
in the following paragraphs. Annex I contains country data.
Background
3.        Until recently, Niger was a resource-poor country.  Consumption as
a proportion of GDP was high ind sometimes in excess of domestic production.
Accordingly, gross domestic savings were very low or negative, and most
investment, modest at 12 percent of GDP, was financed by foreign savings.
This trend was reversed in recent years thanks to rapidly growing uranium
revenues: in 1978, uranium mining acounted for 13 percent of GDP, about 75
percent of total export earnings, and about one-third of government revenue.
As a result, gross domestic savings represented 9 percent of GDP in the
period 1975-78, while the country's resource gap decreased substantially
from 14 percent to less than 7 percent of GDP. The resource gap is likely
to further decline to about 4 percent of GDP in 1979. Despite the encouraging
trends, Niger, with a per capita GDP of about US$250 in 1978 remains among
the 29 least developed countries of the United Nations.
4.        With uranium revenues already significant and expected to
increase substantially over the next couple of decades at least, Niger's
overall development prospects have improved. However, the restricted
possibility of mobilizing domestic savings was not, in the past, the unique
or even the most critical development constraint. Despite the enhanced
availability of domestic financial resources, a number of formidable
natural, economic, and human constraints to development still have to be
overcome or alleviated gradually so as to ensure self-sustained economic
growth in the long run. Thus although rainfed agriculture sustains about
80 percent of the population, four-fifths of the country is desert or



semi-desert and in the rest, soil fertility is low and probably declining;
rainfall is inadequate or irregular and costs of irrigation schemes are
unusually high; the country's landlocked position induces high transport
costs and sometimes serious delays in delivery of external trade goods;
with the primary school enrollment rate of 17 percent, the level of formal
education is amongst the lowest in Africa; acute shortage of qualified
personnel is felt at all levels in many fields, while many of the government
development institutions are still at an embryonic stage.
Economic Growth
5.        Real GDP grew at 3 percent per year during the last six-year
period (1972-78), while population grew at 2.7 percent. Between 1972 and
1975, real GDP recorded negative growth, mainly as a result of severe
drought-induced setbacks in agriculture and livestock, compounded by the
resulting recession in agro-industries. In the subsequent three years
(1976-78), however, the economy picked up considerably to achieve an annual
growth rate of over 9 percent.
6.        Niger's recent economic development has been characterized by a
notable structural change towards an accentuated dualistic growth: the
booming "enclave" uranium-mining, and related activities such as transport
and construction, in contrast to modest growth in traditional sectors, in
particular in agriculture and agro-industry. The fastest growing sector
has been the mining sector which is dominated by uranium. Production of
uranium concentrates increased rapidly from some 400 to about 2,000 tons
between 1971 and 1978, while its export prices almost quintupled from
US$20/kg to US$98/kg. Present forecasts indicate that uranium production
will reach about 3,000 tons in 1979, providing over three-quarters of total
exports and about 40 percent of Government revenue.
Public Finance
7.        Over the last seven years, sound fiscal management, with the help
of rapidly rising revenues from uranium mining, has enabled the Government
to generate substantial current budgetary surplus. This amounted to about
CFAF 9.2 and 14.1 billion in FY76/77 and FY77/78 respectively. This
permitted rapid growth of capital expenditures in absolute as well as in
relative terms from CFAF 2.6 billion in FY75/76 (about 10 percent of total
budgetary expenditures) to CFAF 14 billion in FY77/78 (32 percent). As a
result, French budgetary grants, which averaged about CFAF 1.2 billion
annually over the period 1970-75, were discontinued, and more importantly,
the contribution of budgetary savings to total public investment increased
from 10 percent in FY70/71 to more than 25 percent in FY77/78. On the
other hand, the tax base has been undergoing significant changes in recent
years. First, total Government revenue now relies heavily upon uranium
mining, which accounted for about 30 percent of this revenue in FY77/78.
Second, in an attempt to ease the tax burden of low-income groups, a



-3-
number of measures were introduced: livestock head taxes were abolished in
FY74/75 following the 1973 drought; the head tax levied on the population
aged 14 years and over was completely abolished in FY77/78; and finally,
income taxes on monthly salaries below CFAF 15,000 were eliminated beginning
FY77/78. The foregone revenues from those sources are estimated at about
CFAF 3 billion. Those fiscal measures reflect Government's increasing
concern with the problems of social equity and particularly the fate of the
rural poor.
Money, Inflation and Interest Rates
8.        Money supply increased relatively rapidly during 1976 and 1977.
Compared to 17 percent over 1972-75, the annual rate of monetary expansion was
high at 30 percent. The acceleration of money supply was attributed mostly to
massive increase in foreign assets, which at end December 1977, reached a
record level of CFAF 22.3 billion, equivalent to about five and one-half
months of that year's imports. During the first half of 1978, money continued
to grow, though at a lower rate than in the previous years. This time, the
main factor was the fast growing credit to the private sector. The bulk of
credit expansion in the first six months of 1978 resulted from credit demand
in the construction and transpert sectors, in part because of the construction
of the Tahoua--Arlit road.
9.        In sharp contrast with the average 8 percent over the period 1972-75,
the annual rate of inflation in 1976 and 1977 was high at over 20 percent.
Due to the normal harvest in 19,77/78, inflation levelled off somewhat in the
first half of 1978 at an estimated annual rate of 12 percent. Three major
factors contributing to recent inflation include the supply constraint in basic
commodities, especially in food, rising prices for imported goods, and rapid
monetary expansion.
10.       The rediscount rates by the Central Bank were raised in July 1975
to 8.0 percent for standard loans and to 5.5 percent for "priority" loans.
The commercial banks are allowed a spread of up to 5 percent, with a
maximum of 9.5 percent for priority sector loans such as Government,
housing, small-scale enterprises, and agricultural trade. These interest
rates are negative in real terms, when account is taken of inflation.
Balance of Payments
11.       In spite of the rapid increase in export earnings from uranium,
Niger's balance of payments continues to be characterized by a trade deficit:
the imports required for operat:ing the economy as well as for new capital
formation including development: of new uranium mining still exceed foreign
exchange earnings. This trade deficit was, however, more than compensated by
the inflow of foreign private zmd public capital so that the overall balance
of payments showed a substantial surplus until 1977. However, preliminary
estimates indicate an overall cleficit of US$17 million in 1978: the low level
of buffer stocks necessitated imports of foodgrains worth some US$15 million,



4
WJli~: 5fimports of capital goods were accelerated so as to speed up the imple-
mentation of development projects. Over the near to medium term, however,
Niger's trade balance should improve if only because of expected further
increases in uranium export earnings. The recovery of agricultural exports
(mainly groundnuts) is still uncertain.
Deve Lo Leent Plannina
12.       Gov rnmcnt development objectives are broadly reflected in the
Interim Program, which proposed a program of public investments of CFAF
78.2 billion XUS$320 million) for the 1976-78 period. The Program emphasized
infrastructure and power (46 percent of total investments), agriculture (33
percent) and development of human resources (18 percent). About one-fourth
of total investment was expected to be financed by domestic resources.
While the final outcome of the Interim Plan will not be known for sometime,
indications are that actual implementation will fall short of targets
primarily due to absorptive capacity constraints. A new Five Year Plan
covering the 1979-83 period is currently under preparation. It is expected
to further the general strategy outlined under the Interim Plan.
Foreign Aid
13.       Between 1971 and 1977 Niger's total recorded net flow of resources
from DAC countries and multilateral agencies averaged about US$80 million
annually, of which 95 percent was on concessionary terms. The European
Development Fund (FED), France, Germany and Canada remain Niger's major aid
donors. In the last two years Arab oil-producing countries have expanded
their progams of lending to Niger.
14.       At the end of 1978, external public debt outstanding amounted to
US$394 million, including an undisbursed amount of US$200 million. A Canadian
loan in the amount of US$44 million was written off late 1977. Bilateral
loans, mostly from the People's Republic of China, France and the Federal
Republic of Germany, accounted for 47 percent of total debt in 1978, and IDA
credits, totalling US$64.6 million, represented 16 percent. Debt service
payment amounted to US$9.3 million, and the ratio of debt service to exports
of goods and non-factor services was about 3.2 percent in 1978, down from
5.2 percent in the previous year. Debt service payments are projected to go
Up to US$14.9 million in 1979, while the debt service ratio will remain
virtually unchanged in view of expected increases in uranium exports.
Development Issues and Prospects
15.       Niger now stands at the threshold of a new era of economic develop-
ment. Thanks to rapidly growing uranium mining, projections for 1985 indicate
that over the period 1979-85 the economy would grow at an annual rate of
6.5 percent in real terms - a much higher rate than in the last decade. With



- 5 -
uranium mining increasing at an annual rate of 18 percent, its export earnings
will most likely increase to US$850 million in 1985 (compared to US$200
million in 1978) and its contribution to Government revenues will rise to
about US$270 million in 1985 (compared to US$59 million in 1978).
16.       The emerging economic perspectives of Niger are unprecedented in
the Sahelian region. The major issue facing Niger is how to best use the
increasing financial revenues from its exhaustible uranium resources so as to
lay a sound basis for self-sustained economic growth in the future. In the
short run, the most serious and difficult economic management problems are to
strengthen the economy's limited absorptive capacity, and to assure balanced
growth and income distribution between rural and urban areas.
17.       The new circumstances of Niger raise important and difficult
issues centering essentially around the appropriate balance between public
and private investment and present consumption, especially the satisfaction
of basic needs of the lower income groups; the development of human resources;
and the management of financial reserves; and the appropriate exploitation
rate of uranium reserves over an extended period of time.
18.       While the long-term development potential of Niger thus appears
promising it is also a formidable challenge, both for the local authorities
and for the foreign governments and agencies that have traditionally
provided assistance to this country. For indeed, Niger remains a basically
poor country, much poorer in terms of standards of living of the people -
in rural as well as urban areas - than even the modest figure of US$250 per
capita income would suggest. The revenues from uranium will remove only
one of the many obstacles on the road to a broad based and sustainable
growth. The physical and humarL constraints are much more difficult to
overcome. While the government will be in a position to contribute more
than in the past to the cost of development projects, external funds should
continue to be provided on concessionary terms in view of Niger's extreme
poverty and present balance of payments situation.
PART II - WORtLD BANK OPERATIONS IN NIGER
19.       Beginning with an IDA credit for road construction in 1964, sixteen
IDA credits, including two supplementary credits, have so far been approved
for Niger totalling US$100.0 miLllion. Past Bank Group lending was heavily
concentrated on transport and communications. Of the sixteen projects
approved to date, five aimed at expanding and upgrading the domestic road
network, one provided for improvement and extension of existing facilities at
Niamey international airport, and one for the installation of a more reliable
telecommunications system. The Association's lending to date for the rural
sector includes projects for drought relief, rural development, forestry,
irrigation and livestock. Annex II contains a summary statement of these
credits as of October 31, 1979 and notes on the execution of on-going projects.



-6 -
20.       In keeping with Niger's overall development strategy, fulure Bank
Group lending will increasingly focus on efforts to ensure some degree of
food self-sufficiency and to improve the incomes and standard of living of
the rural population; to upgrade and expand physical infrastructure; to
develop alternative approaches to training and educational reform; and to
diversify the economic structure and expand modern sector employment. We
will also continue to advise Government on policy issues and options through
our economic and sector work.
21.       For the two fiscal years 1980-81, IDA's lending in the rural
sector will consist of the proposed Dosso agricultural development project and
a second phase of rural development for Maradi Province concentrating on
improved cultivation practices for rainfed farming, development of irrigation
schemes tested under the ongoing first project and strengthening of extension
services. An education project to strengthen the Ministry of Education and
train extension agents and technicians in agriculture and livestock production
is being prepared. A second line of credit to the Banque de Developpement de
la Republique du Niger for small scale enterprise is also planned.
22.       In transport, we plan to place emphasis on assistance for the
construction of a network of secondary and access roads to support the Govern-
ment's agricultural program while continuing our support for maintenance of
the existing infrastructure; the recently approved feeder roads project will
mark a first step towards this objective. In education, our objectives are to
help the Government address the urgent problem of developing qualified high
and middle level manpower, particularly for agricultural development activi-
ties, and to achieve some expansion in enrollment, improvement in the quality
of existing institutions and development of non-formal education programs.
In addition, all future projects will also include, as needed, training,
technical assistance, and other provisions necessary for strengthening
institutions.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
23.       Share in GDP and Exports.  Since 1970, the rural sector's share of
GDP has dropped from 60 percent to 45 percent, and its share of exports from
80 percent to 30 percent. This dramatic change reflects not only the rapid
rise in uranium production but also slow development of the rural sector.
Recent crop production has been disappointing, particularly groundnut produc-
tion which has declined - due to previously prevailing low producer prices,
disease, drought and subsequent seed stock problems - from 250,000 tons
(shelled) to about 100,000 tons. Although farmers have switched into grains
and cowpeas, crops now account for less than 30 percent of GDP and 10 percent
of exports. Livestock production was disrupted by the 1973 drought which
according to Government estimates, reduced the national herd from 4.2
million cattle to 2.2 million, and from 9 million smallstock to 7 million.
Although herd reconstitution has begun, pre-drought cattle numbers will not
be reached for another decade. Increases in prices of live-stock products
have, however, largely offset the reduced volume of production; livestock
now accounts for 15 percent of GDP and 20 percent of exports.



24.       Food Balance.  Before 1973, Niger was self-sufficient in basic
foodstuffs in normal years. Over the three drought years 1973-75 however,
cereal imports averaged about 120,000 tons/year, equivalent to only about 10
percent of normal annual production but a much higher proportion, perhaps 50
percent, of marketed production. This disquieting experience drew attention
to cereal production - a hitherto neglected subsector - and this attention
has not waned despite good hariests in 1976/77 and 1978/79.  Although some
recent projections have suggested that there would likely be an important
millet and sorghum deficit in the years to come, present indications are that,
provided rainfed farming produc:tivity projects are implemented as envisaged,
Niger will continue to be about: self-sufficient in cereals. In good years,
surpluses will be marketable in northern Nigeria; poor-year deficits will be
met by imports.
25.       Institutions.  The M:Lnistry of Rural Development, which has main but
not sole responsibility for the rural sector, is divided into four Depart-
ments: Agriculture, Livestock, Rural Engineering and Forestry. The Union
Nigerienne de Credit et de Cooperation (UNCC), established in 1962, is respon-
sible for cooperative development, input supply, seasonal and medium-term
credit recovery, and primary marketing, as well as the management of some
agricultural projects. The Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole (CNCA),
established as an offshoot froim UNCC in 1967, is responsible for provision of
funds for agricultural credit, review of loan applications, and bookkeeping
for consolidated cooperatives' accounts. Para-public agencies have been set
up to compete with the private sector in secondary marketing, processing
and subsequent retail distribution of the main crops. The Societe Nigerienne
d'Arachide (SONARA) handles both groundnuts and cowpeas, volumes of which have
fluctuated widely as a result of weather and erratic pricing. The cowpea
volume bought by SONARA declined from 50,000 tons in 1976/77 to 4,100 tons in
1977/78; the groundnut volume, which was regularly over 150,000 tons (shelled)
in the late 1960s and early 1970s, has not exceeded 15,000 tons in the three
years through 1977/78. The Office des Produits Vivriers du Niger (OPVN)
handles millet and sorghum, between 10,000 and 60,000 tons/year purchased
locally, and processed rice, about 3,000 tons/year. Prices payable by these
para-public marketing agencies are fixed by a National Price Committee. Since
1977, the general trend has been one of gradual increase in producer prices.
Prices for the 1978/79 season show significant increases over the previous
year's initial prices and are, in fact, close to economic prices.
26.       Constraints and Challenges.  Apart from uranium, the country's
known natural resource endowment is unusually poor. The climate imposes a
severe limit on the area where cultivation is possible, and even in that area,
uncertain rainfall makes farmiLng a hazardous occupation. Soils are generally
poor and in many areas productivity is declining as fallow periods are being
shortened, reflecting increased land pressure stemming from population growth
of perhaps 2.7 percent per year. The decline in productivity may, in many
areas, have reached a point whlere it is now worthwhile to intensify land use.
Water, though abundant underground, is found in only a few valleys, and
large-scale irrigation is costly, exceeding US$10,000/ha.



27.       Objectives and Strategies.  Government has responded to these
constraints and challenges by selecting a two-fold objective: to exploit the
potential in rainfed crop and livestock production, and to increase the area
under controlled irrigation. The strategy in rainfed agriculture is to set up
a regional "Productivity Project" in each province whereby improved services
of extension, input supply, credit and marketing would be made available to
smallholders. It is Government's intention that such projects should cover
the whole of the cultivable part of the country by 1980. By 1979, such proj-
ects were being implemented in five of the six relevant provinces including
one for Maradi Province financed under Credit 608-NIR (US$10.7 million) and
the existing FAC-financed pilot project for the Dosso province. These
existing projects differ in emphasis, in coverage of subsectors and also in
administrative structure. Government's strategy in controlled irrigation
is a modest rate of development of about 1,200 ha per year, while building the
institutions that could later manage a more rapid rate of implementation of
new perimeters. Full development of the country's considerable irrigation
potential along the Niger River (100,000 ha) would also depend on construction
of the proposed Kandadji regulatory dam currently being studied.
28.       Niger follows a policy of subsidization of agricultural inputs and
equipment, financing the cost of subsidies with revenues from its uranium
earnings. Subsidies represent a large proportion of costs; in the case of
fertilizer, as much as 60 percent. While this level of subsidy is acceptable
in the short run to facilitate introduction of improved cultivation techniques
in an environment surrounded by acute climatical risk, the Association has
advocated a gradual reduction of subsidies in order to avoid misallocation
of resources. For Government, however, the aspect of distributing part of
uranium revenues to the rural population is paramount. General increases
in producer prices, the main alternative way of achieving this objective,
are not always feasible; in the case of cereals, for instance, because of
the inelasticity of domestic demand and the high elasticity of supply from
across Niger's long and very permeable borders. Implementation of this
subsidization policy does not pose an unreasonable financial burden on
Government: expenditures on input subsidies represented 1.5 percent of the
capital budget in 1978, and they are projected to reach at most 8 percent
by 1985. The Association has obtained Government's agreement (under Credit
851-NIR) that subsidy policies will be reviewed periodically in order to
correct unexpected and undesirable side effects.
29.       Previous Bank Involvement.  Since 1969, six credits have been
approved for the agricultural sector. The first, Credit 207-NIR for US$0.6
million, signed in 1970, was designed to provide smallholders with credit for
seasonal inputs and implements and to strengthen the cooperative movement.
As the Completion Report 1/ concludes, "the project was an unfortunate under-
taking" since (a) it concentrated on financial aspects of agricultural credit
without providing for specific structured actions aimed at improving produc-
tion technology at the field level; (b) the key agency, UNCC, provided no
extension services to groundnut farmers; (c) the project period, 1971-74,
coincided with severe droughts; and (d) until late 1974, Government adopted a
unremunerative producer price policy. Instead of a 100 percent rate of return
1/   Niger:  Agricultural Credit Project Completion Report, April 27, 1977.



-9-
as estimated at appraisal, the actual rate of return was barely positive. The
second credit, made in 1974 for the Drought Relief Project, Credit 441-NIR for
US$2 million, financed a variet:y of small subprojects which were generally
executed satisfactorily. The third, Credit 608-NIR for US$10.7 million, for
the Maradi Agricultural Development Project has, despite a year's delay,
satisfactorily completed two agricultural seasons and a follow-up project
including a sizeable irrigation component, is under preparation. The fourth
Credit, approved in May 1978 for a Forestry Project, Credit 800-NIR for US$4.5
million, will finance 400 ha oif pilot irrigated tree plantations and 700 ha of
rainfed plantations as well as some rural forestry activities.  The fifth
credit, approved in September L978 for the Namarigoungou Irrigation Project,
Credit 851-NIR for US$15 million, will primarily finance a new 1,500 ha
perimeter. The sixth credit, for the Livestock Project, Credit 885-NIR for
US$12 million, was approved in March 1979. Located in the center and east of
the country, it will finance an innovative approach to provision of a package
of services to pastoralists in the semi-arid pastoral zone and a series of
specific livestock-related actions in the cropping zone.
30.       Sector Lending Stratigs.  Bank Group investments in the agricultural
sector should support Government's generally sound strategy, namely regional
productivity projects, gradual development of the country's irrigation poten-
tial, provision of services to pastoralists, and crop-livestock integration.
It must also be recognized, however, that with present technical knowledge and
the severity of the constraints on rural production, the scope for worthwhile
investments in rainfed crops and livestock production is limited.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
31.       In March 1977, Government informed an RMWA mission of its interest
in obtaining Bank Group assistance to expand an ongoing agricultural develop-
ment project in Dosso Province financed by the French Fonds d'Aide et de
Cooperation (FAC). RMWA participated in drawing up terms of reference for a
feasibility study, for which EAC financed a consultant team that completed
work in April 1978; the study proposed a broad rural development project
costing about US$50 million. Meanwhile, a Belgian aid mission which had
visited Dosso in mid-1977 proposed a much smaller project, concentrating on
wells, bottomland development, and feeder road studies. To reconcile the
differences between the two project proposals, Government decided in May 1978
that a supplementary feasibiliLty study be undertaken by two consultants, for
which the Bank Group agreed to provide financing of US$30,000 from the
Project Preparation Facility. This report was completed by end-October and an
appraisal mission visited Niger in November-December 1978. Negotiations for
the proposed credit were held in Washington from September 25 to 27,
1979 with a delegation led by the Planning Minister, His Excellency Annou
Mahamane. Annex III contains supplementary project data. The Staff Appraisal
Report No. 2493-NIR is being circulated separately to the Executive Directors.



- 10 -
Proiect Objectives
32.       The main objectives of the project are (a) to improve smallholders'
incomes through increased productivity in rainfed farming, bottomland develop-
ments and livestock activities by introducing intensive cultivation practices
through improved credit and input supply; (b) to improve agricultural exten-
sion services through training of extension workers and introduction of a
Training and Visit extension system; and (c) to strengthen the local
institutions through which the project would be implemented.
Project Area
33.       The project area (see Map 14214) comprises Dosso Province, an area
of about 31,000 km2. Located in the southwest of the country between Benin
and Nigeria, it includes five administrative districts: Benin, Dosso, Doutchi,
Gaya and Loga. The climate varies from sahelian in the north, where average
annual rainfall is 400 mm concentrated in a 100-day period, to sudanian in the
extreme south at Gaya with 850 mm/year over 130 days. Inter-annual variations
are also large. Other than the Niger River, there are no permanent water
courses in the project area. The cultivable area is estimated at 23,000 km2.
34.       The total population of the project area is about 700,000.  There
are five towns with more than 5,000 inhabitants, accounting for less than 10
percent of the population; the mass of the people live in 1,250 villages with
an average population of 500. Severe differences in population density
exist between the plateau and the ancient river valleys (dallols) with
density frequently exceeding 100/km2 in the latter. Primary schools, adult
functional literacy programs, medical dispensaries, village health worker
training programs, and cooperatives are concentrated in the small towns and
the more densely populated areas of the Province. The three main ethnic
groups are the Hausa, Djerma and Fulani. All three groups, but particularly
the Djerma and the Hausa, practice seasonal migration to the coastal countries.
Spot surveys suggest that 50 percent of economically-active men migrate, but
not until after the second weeding. The effect of this seasonal migration is
difficult to assess; however, given that the improved agricultural techniques
require only that the participating farmers shorten rather than abandon their
seasonal migration, the risk of farm labor shortage is limited.
The Existing Pilot Project
35.       Beginning with the 1975/76 season, FAC financed a pilot project
aimed at increasing yields of cowpeas, millet and groundnuts, and at expanding
the area under cotton cultivation. These objectives were to be reached
through improvement of the extension service, input supply through credit-in-
kind and strengthening of the existing government services. In its first two
years the project exceeded its objectives in terms of appreciably higher
yields on improved plots and impressive credit repayment rates, thereby
demonstrating a considerable demand for fertilizers and farm equipment.
However, due to delays in ordering and insufficient financing on the part of



- 11 -
Government, input demand has not been met. The actual project area, which
reached 16,000 ha for the 1976/77 season, has also declined in the last two
years to 8,600 ha due to an inappropriate land leasing arrangement which
allowed usufructuaries to reclaim their land before farmers could reap the
benefits of their investments. The project has therefore been redesigned to
promote adoption of the improved techniques on the farmers' own fields.
Description
36.       The broad objectives of the proposed project are in accord with
Government's policies of increasing agricultural production, and improving
farm incomes and the standard of living of the rural population. The project,
to be implemented over five years, aims at increasing production of cereals,
cowpeas, groundnuts, livestock, and bottomland crops !n ways that would
reverse the present decline in productivity. It woula include:
(a)  the introduction of improved farming practices
for 150,000 ha of rainfed cereals, cowpeas
and groundnuts and the introduction of animal
traction;
(b) the improvement of vaccination coverage, delivery
of drugs and feed supplements and animal husbandry
practices for beef cattle and work oxen;
(c) the construction of small-scale irrigation schemes
for 200 ha of bottomlands and, for dry-season cropping,
improvement of input supply to 3,500 ha of existing
bottomlands;
(d)  the introduction of a Training and Visit extension
system including construction of a Training Center
for extension staff;
(e) the strengthening of the farm input and implement
supply system; and
(f) applied research.
37.       Rainfed Farming.  OE all farmers to be reached by extension services
by year 5 of the project, about 30 percent are expected to adopt improved
techniques on their farms: project intervention would therefore improve
cultivation practices on 150,000 ha farmed by some 25,000 smallholders. Of
these, 16,700 farmers are expected to adopt improved manual cultivation
techniques on 76,000 ha and 8,200 farmers are expected to adopt animal trac-
tion techniques on an additional 70,000 ha. The proposed technology would
involve better seed bed preparation, the use of improved planting material,
increased planting density, appropriate fertilizer use, and timely thinning
and weeding. Although the introduction of draft animals is relatively new in
the area, there is substantial demand for agricultural equipment, particularly
carts. For soil preparation, seeding and weeding, donkey and oxen drawn



- 12 -
traction units will be provided. The incremental area to be improved under
the project through the employment of the above mentioned techniques would
reach 87,800 ha of cereals, 34,700 ha of cowpeas and 23,700 ha of groundnuts.
:38.      Livestock Development.  To improve vaccination coverage and access
to drugs and curative services, the project would provide for the Livestock
Department a veterinary post and 12 vaccination yards. The existing credit
scheme for steer fattening would be expanded by an additional 800 loans per
year and these animals, together with work oxen, would receive first priority
for antiparasitic drugs and feed supplement distribution. Assurances were
obtained that antiparasitic drugs and feed supplements would be sold at prices
sufficient to cover costs of purchase, delivery and final distribution, and
that proceeds from such sales would be put into a revolving fund to be managed
by the project (Section 3.05(a) of the Credit Agreement). In order to ensure
better animal health control at the main livestock market in the project area
and more hygienic slaughter facilities at the abattoir outside Dosso town, the
project would provide for fencing and equipping the market at Mokko, and for
expanding, covering and bringing piped water to the Dosso abattoir. Government
would provide the necessary financing for operation and maintenance of these
facilities (Section 3.05(b) of the Credit Agreement).
39.       Bottomland Development.  Dry-season cropping of vegetables, sugar
cane and root crops on 3,500 ha of bottomlands in the dallols would be in-
creased by introducing improved inputs. At 18 selected sites totalling 200
ha, existing small-scale irrigation would be improved with simple means. The
Rural Engineering Department to be established under the project would provide
farmers with advice on how to lay out their irrigation system and construct
and maintain wells, canals and structures. Improved irrigation of bottomlands
would be a pilot operation that would be monitored to provide data for an
extension under a possible follow-up project.
40.       Extension Service.  A Training and Visit system of organized,
closely supervised agricultural extension will be introduced to gradually
replace the extension service presently in operation. Existing extension
staff would be retrained to operate a system whereby mobile district agents
work with village extension workers who in turn work with groups of contact
farmers. The latter are chosen by their fellow villagers and have as their
main responsibility the training of their farmer groups. The contact farmers
also serve as a two-way channel of communication between their fellow villagers
and the village extension workers. Each agricultural district would have on
average six village extension workers and cover 48 villages. Each contact
farmer would work with, on average, eight other farmers, and each village
extension worker would service 576 farmers, a relatively small number for such
a system, yet necessary due to the large number of small villages. To better
facilitate the proposed structure of the Training and Visit System, assurances
were obtained that the boundaries of cooperatives would coincide with those of
agricultural districts, and that sub-districts would be established if farm
density justifies it (Section 3.08 of the Credit Agreement).



- 13 -
41.       By the fitth year of the project, 24 agricultural districts would
be fully operational ind 83,000 farmers would have access to extension advice.
The project will finance a four-wheel drive vehicle for each agricultural
district officer; the construction of and equipment for 24 rural extension
centers ard EL training center with facilities for 75 boarders for the train-
ing of existing extension staff, refresher courses and training of middle and
upper level staff i:. the Training and Visit System and enumerators for moni-
toring and evaluation work; and operating costs of vehicles and extension
facilities. A 40 na farm would be attached to the training center for prac-
tical training pur osels.
42.       Lnpt S_upply.  Input.s would be provided by the project through
the operation of a Farm Supplies Fund held with the CNCA (Section
3.01(c) of the Credit Agreement). The project would provide for the
purchase of four-wh.eel drive t:rucks for distribution of inputs to rural
cooperative centers where farmers could collect them, the construction
of warehouses and staff houses and improvements to existing rural
cooperative centers to complete the existing farm service center network
at the agricultual district level, and a new warehouse at Doutchi.
Seasonal inputs would be distributed against cash or credit in-kind, and
animal traction equipment, repair units and sprayers would be distributed
against cash or through medium-term credits (with 10 percent downpayment)
provided by CNCA. These loans would be repayable over four years and
bear interest at the prevailing rate for agricultural credits.  This
rate is currently 9.5 percent. Since annual inflation for the last
three years was over 12 percent and it is expected to remain at this
level over the next three years, there is therefore an indirect subsidy
element.
43.       Applied Research.  The project's rainfed farming activities are
based on a few simple and substantially proven techniques that could be
successfully applied with an effective extension service and adequate, timely,
input supply. There is still a need for more research to identify additional
improvements. Further, the fragile ecology of the more densely-populated
parts of the project area and possible problems arising from sustained use of
chemical fertilizers require that the natural environment, particularly soils,
be carefully monitored. An applied research unit would therefore be set up
concentrating on farming systems, fertilizer use, and soil and water conserva-
tion. Most of the research work would be carried out on farmers' fields.
Farming systems research would include variety and intercropping trials, the
use of animal-drawn implements on intercropped fields, and the introduction
of animal-drawn chisel plows in combination with minimum tillage practices.
Fertilizer research would focus on monitoring mineral deficiencies and possi-
ble remedies, and using rock phosphate in combination with other fertilizers.
A new technology for granulat:ing rock phosphate developed by the International
Fertilizer Development Center (IFDC) would be tested under field conditions.
Watershed management research would be designed, with the assistance of
consultants to devise simple systems of soil and water conservation in the
dallols.



- 14 -
Project Implementation
44.       The project would be executed through existing provincial agencies.
All proposed activities are, however, highly interdependent and successful
implementation requires that they become the responsibility of a single
Project Manager. Under the Minister of Rural Development and the Provincial
Governor, a Project Manager would be responsible for planning, managing and
supervising all project activities, including all project-financed staff. To
support him in this task, two sections would be attached to his office: (i)
the Commercial, Administrative and Financial Section (CAFS); and (ii) the
Technical Section (TS) responsible for monitoring and evaluation. For all
matters related to project execution the Provincial Officers for agriculture,
livestock, input supply (UNCC), credit supply (CNCA), rural engineering, and
applied research would report directly to the Project Manager. A provincial
Rural Engineering Department would be created under the project. The quali-
fications, experience and responsibilities of the Project Manager, Chief CAFS,
Chief TS, Provincial Agricultual Officer, Training Center Administrator,
Applied Research Officer, Rural Engineering Officer and Subject Matter
Specialists in training and extension and in agriculture would be satisfactory
to the Association. All staff employed in carrying out the Project shall be
initially appointed or employed for periods of at least three years. (Section
3.01 (b) of the Credit Agreement). Only the Provincial Agricultural Officer
occupies an existing position. Because Niger is generally short of trained
and experienced staff for implementation of agricultural projects, only the
Project Manager and possibly the Training Center Administrator would be
Nigeriens. The six remaining functions would need to be undertaken by
expatriates. These positions would be filled through international recruit-
ment with APMU assistance. Appointment of the Chief CAFS and the Subject
Matter Specialist in Training and Extension would be conditions of effec-
tiveness of the proposed Credit (Section 6.01 (c) of the Credit Agreement).
45.       Consultants would be recruited for:  (a) assisting the training and
extension specialist in starting up the Training Center; (b) assisting both
the agriculture specialist and the Applied Research Officer in setting up
applied research programs on farming systems focussing on crops and animal
traction; (c) assisting the Applied Research Officer in setting up programs
of fertilizer and soil conservation research on farmers' fields; (d) assist-
ing the chief TS in designing a monitoring and evaluation system that takes
account of the project's sociological implications; and (e) preparing a
possible follow-up project. The qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment of all consultants would be satisfactory to the
Association (Section 3.02 of the Credit Agreement).
Cost Estimates and Financing
46.       Total project costs for the five-year implementation period 1980-84
are estimated at CFAF 8.64 billion (US$39.3 million) with a foreign exchange
component of US$24.0 million. Government has indicated its intention to
exempt the project from all identifiable taxes and import duties. Base
cost estimates reflect prices in November 1979. Project costs include physical
contingencies of 10 percent on civil works and operating costs, and price



- 15 -
contingencies on both foreign and local costs amounting to 18 percent. The
project would provide for 27 man-years of technical assistance at a unit cost
of US$76,000, based on recent experience of the Bank's Agricultural Project
Management Unit (APMU), and 28 man-months of consultant services at a unit
all-inclusive cost of US$9,500. of which US$7,150 for fees and the remainder
comprising travel and living expenses.
47.       The proposed credit of US$20 million represents 51 percent of total
project costs. The French Fonds d'Aide et de Coop6ration (FAC) would
provide a grant of US$2.3 millLon, and Caisse Centrale de Cooperation
Economique (CCCE) a loan of US$4.5 million for 20 years including 5 years of
grace, with interest at 3.5 percent per annum. Fulfillment of all condi-
tions preceding initial disbursement of the FAC grant and CCCE loan would be a
condition of effectiveness of the IDA Credit (Section 6.01(a) of the Credit
Agreement). Total external financing would be US$26.o million, or 68 percent
of total costs, covering 100 percent of foreign exchange costs and 18 percent
of local costs. Government wolld contribute US$7.3 million which would
finance all incremental local staff, 21 percent of civil works, 25 percent of
vehicles and equipment and 71 percent of operating costs. The CNCA would
contribute US$1.1 million which would finance all loans for steer fattening.
Beneficiaries would contribute US$4.1 million, which would cover all costs of
oxen and 16 percent of incremental inputs.
Special Accounts
48.       To ensure the efficient and timely execution of the project, Govern-
ment will establish three separate revolving funds to prefinance project
activities as follows: (i) a Farm Supplies Fund will be established in the
National Agricultural Credit Bank (CNCA) with an opening line of credit of
CFAF 320 million. This Fund will be replenished thereafter with a further
line of credit of CFAF 254 million in 1981, the subsidies to be paid annually
by Government on agricultural inputs, the proceeds of cash sales of inputs and
implements, the down payments, repayments and charges on agricultural credits
and such additional funds provided by Government as and when necessary to
cover shortfalls due to defaults on loans and to price increases; (ii) project
operating costs will be prefinanced through a Special Project Account to be
held in the National Development Bank (BDRN). This account will be replen-
ished at the beginning of each fiscal year, by an amount sufficient to cover
the Government's contribution to the financing of the project for that year,
beginning with an initial deposit of CFAF 200 million; and (iii) project
investments will be prefinanced through lines of credit granted annually by
the National Treasury on the basis of budget forecasts, with an initial line
of credit of CFAF 400 million. Establishment of these revolving funds with
the initial deposit and lines of credit, would be a condition of effectiveness
of the IDA Credit (Section 6.01 (b) of the Credit Agreement).



- 16 -
Monitoring and Evaluation
49.       The lack of sound information on farming in the project area creates
a particular need for effective monitoring and evaluation to be carried out by
the Technical Section. This section would provide a dual service: to the
Project Manager as a data collection, analysis and advisory unit, and to
Government and other project financiers as a source of information for effec-
_ive project supervision and assessment of performance. The Section would
undertake a baseline survey in 1980 to provide precise information on farming
systems and pre-project productivity. Farming systems would be surveyed
throughout implementation, with priority given to crop yields in the more
densely-populated parts of the project area. The Section would also maintain
a central data bank of basic planning and progress information, and would also
keep a detailed record of management decisions and reasons for any departures
from original proposals. The Project Manager would introduce by June 30, 1980
a reporting system for the carrying out of the Project; by December 31, 1980,
procedures for monitoring the progress of the project; and by July 31 each
year he would submit for approval by Government and the Association his work
program and budget for the year beginning the next October 1 (Section 3.07
of the Credit Agreement).
Procurement
50.       Procurement of civil works and inputs amounting to approximately
US$22.0 million would be through international competitive bidding in accord-
ance with the Association guidelines in the case of contracts over US$100,000.
Competitive bidding in accordance with local procedures acceptable to the
Association would govern contracts between US$30,000 and US$100,000 (estimated
cost US$2.0 million). Contracts of less than US$30,000 would be purchased
directly from local competitive suppliers (estimated cost US$1.0 million).
For civil works contracts, local contractors would receive a 7.5 percent
preference, and domestically manufactured goods would be allowed a 15 percent
preference or the applicable import duty whichever is lower. The services
of internationally-recruited staff and consultants (estimated cost US$3.5
million) would be obtained following procedures acceptable to the Association.
For these items financed by CCCE, FAC and the Association on a pari passu
basis, procurement procedures in accordance with Association guidelines would
be employed. Vehicles and equipment amounting to US$2.8 million, would be
financed by FAC and CCCE according to their own regulations.
Disbursement
51.       The Association credit would be disbursed against:  40 percent
of total expenditures for civil works (US$1.9 million), 100 percent of
total expenditures for incremental inputs and implements (US$12.7 million),
and expatriate staff and consultants (US$1.37 million). An amount of up to
US$30,000 would be used to refund the advance under the Project Preparation
Facility. An amount of US$4.0 million would be unallocated. All disburse-
ments would be fully documented.



- 17 -
Accounting and Audit.Ll,
52.       Accounts iui LAie project would be kept under acceptable commercial
accounting practices by >'he project's Commercial, Financial and Administra-
tive Section.  Al. pIoject accounts and financia.i. statements would be audited
annually by indeper.(LenL ctuditors acceptable to the Association. Certified
copies of these flLiavJ.a! statements and the audit report would be submitted
to the AssociationL tut.itiit six months of the closing date of the financial year
(Sectioni 4..01 of ci, Uredit Agreement).
Financial .mplicat. 'r.b
53.       Tn addition to, its participation in the financing of project cost,
Government would i         ka) existing agricultural staff in the project
area, including th0t.. t.lebently financed under the seed farm project (USAID),
the existing Pilo L Proiect, and livestock fattening projects (FAC and FED) at
the termination of such projects, (b) all operating costs related to the work
of such staff (aboui OS4t million per year), and (c) subsidies on inputs and
implements which would itcrease from US$150,000 in 1979 to US$3.6 million
(US$2.7 million at consLant prices) in 1984 (Section 3.06 of the Credit
Agreement. There would be little increase in project-generated revenues
accruing to Government since, although cesses are levied on cowpeas and,
in normal times on groundnuts, Government price fixing has to take account of
competition from private traders. Government would therefore incur a net
deficit from project-Thduced expenditures and revenue averaging about US$2.6
million in current prices over the 5-year project implementation period.
Thereafter the Goverriment cash flow fluctuates and is positive in some years,
depending on inflows from medium-term loan repayments and outflows for inputs.
The averag, annual dOcftcit in years 11-20 would be about US$1.2 million.
These levels of net cxpeuditures do not represent a significant financial
burden in the light (f the resources, primarily from uranium, expected to be
available to Government.
Benefits
54.       By introducing improved techniques and making necessary inputs
readily available, .uUe projecit would increase production of cereals, cowpeas,
groundnuts, livestoc& anti bottomland crops in ways that would reverse the
present decline in pioductivity. Training, extension, input supply and credit
services would be made accessible to 80 percent of the 100,000 farm families
in the project area, of whom it is estimated that 25,000 would adopt the
recommended practices. In national terms, project incremental production
valued at 1985 border prices in 1979 terms would be worth US$21 million (up
from US$9.5 million) per year at full development, which would be reached in
1986; of this amount, cereals would constitute 45 percent, legumes and hay 43
percent, livestock 10 percent and bottomland crops 2 percent. Average family
income in the project area is presently US$840, of which about US$600 are
obtained from crops to be improved under this project. With the project,
income from these crops would increase to US$890 for adopters of improved
manual cultivation practices or to US$1,270 for adopters of animal traction
practices. As a result, average family income, including non-adopters, would
reach US$950 in 1979 prices. Economic rates of return are as follows:



- 18 -
rainfed farming (89 percent of project costs), 23 percent; livestock
development (9 percent of project costs), 40 percent; bottomland develop-
ment (2 percent of project costs), 41 percent; total project, 25 percent.
55.       Reversing the present decline in productivity would be achieved not
only by applying an annual average of 17,000 tons of fertilizer at full
development but also, and potentialy even more effectively, by promoting
through the Training and Visit system improved cultivation methods. Since, on
the other hand, the mineral deficiencies that are already showing up can be
expected to become more acute with more intensive land use, applied research
would pay particular attention to such problems.
Project Risks
56.       Improvement of rainfed farming in the Sahelian Zone has in recent
years shown mixed results. The effects of the severe drought in the early
1970s are still felt in that farmers have become very prudent with the appli-
cation of new techniques that sometimes give results only when rainfall is
above average. This has happened in areas where fertilizer use and animal
traction have been introduced more than 20 years ago, and where further
improvements are now limited by the slow progress of research in developing
new technology. In Dosso Province, however, present fertilizer consumption is
still very low at about 500 tons per year, and extension services and animal
traction have been introduced only recently. In this situation there is still
a real demand, generated by the impact of the Pilot Project, for fertilizers
and farm equipment. Projects in northern Nigeria starting from similarly low
production level have already shown that input demand can rise to the levels
expected for this project.
57.       The main risk is that the estimated rate of adoption of recommended
practices may not be attained due to poor implementation of the Training and
Visit system, and/or to poor organization of input delivery, and/or to inade-
quate financing of nonincremental inputs, and/or to possible farmer reluctance
to increase their financial risk by shifting from a traditionally extensive
system of cultivation to more intensive agriculture. However, agricultural
development in Dosso Province is at a preliminary stage and technical risks
are minimal since the recommended practices are simple and have been substan-
tially tested, and adopted in the existing Pilot Project by 16,000 farmers on
as many hectares. To minimize remaining risks, experienced practitioners
would be employed to manage the Training and Visit system, input delivery
would be managed by the project's own Commercial, Administrative and Financial
Section through a Farm Supplies Fund, and Government's contribution to nonin-
cremental input financing would be payable in advance into the same fund.
These measures apart, because inputs constitute about half of project costs, a
lower-than-anticipated adoption rate would entail significant cost savings.
Accordingly, analysis of crossover values shows that the adoption rate could
fall as much as one-third, from 146,000 ha to 96,000 ha, before the economic
rate of return to rainfed farming would fall to 10 percent. This finding can
be used to gauge the effects of other possible shortcomings; for urea on
cereals, for instance, which would not be applied unless fields were properly



- 19 -
weeded, the crossover value is 45 percent of the appraisal value - the cereal
area could fall from 88,000 ha to 40,000 ha or, in terms of urea, the volume
applied could fall from 6,700 tons to 3,000 tons. Other sensitivity tests
show that the project is quite insensitive to other possible adverse factors;
a catastrophic drought every five years, simulated by assuming zero incre-
mental benefits, would still yield an economic rate of return of about 9
percent.
PART V - LEGAL, INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
58.       The draft Development. Credit Agreement between the Republic of Niger
and the Association and the Recommendation of the committee provided for in
Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
59.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Conditions of effectiveness would be that (a) all conditions
precedent to initial disbursement of the CCCE loan and FAC grant had been
fulfilled; (b) Government had established the three revolving funds to
prefinance project activities with the initial deposit and lines of credit;
and (c) the Chief of the Commercial Administrative and Financial Section
and the Subject Matter SpecialiLst in Training and Extension had been appointed.
60.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART. VI - RECbOENDATION
61.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Development Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
November 28, 1979



_ 20 -
Annex I
TAELI 3A
NIGER - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET                    Page  1  of  6
REFURNCE GROUPS (ADJUSTD AVERAGES
NIGER                                              LA
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. RM.)                                                     MOST RECET ZSTTE)
TOTAL           1267.0                                                     SU1E        SAME AT HIGHER
MRICULTURL       180.0                                  MOST RECEUr     GEOGRIAHC    ICN0l          INCO10
1960  /     1970 /b ESTIDATZ JD       REION S   CR0o11 j         0 GROU L
GNP PER CAPITA (USL                    80.0        110.0     160.0            223.6       182.9       432.3
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRANS OP WOAL EQUIVALENT)        5.0        25.0       35.0            86.7        88.9        251.7
POPIJLATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTA1 POPULATION, MID-YEAR
(MILLIONS)                          3.1         4.0        4.9
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)  4.8          8.2        9.4             13.6       15.0         24.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. A.                          2.0         3.0        4.0             18.4       46.8         42.7
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND      17.0        22.0       27.0             53.6      254.1         95.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          43.8        44.5       43.0             -.4        43.6         44.9
15-64 YRS.                          53.0        52.6       52.2 /f         52.7        53.3        52.8
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    3.2         2.9        4.8  f           2.8        2.9          3.0
POPULATION GROWrH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               2.5         2.7        2.7              2.6        2.4          2.7
URBAN                               4.5         6.3        5.5              5.8        4.0          8.8
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      52.4        52.3       52.2             46.9       44.3         42.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      28.4         25.7      25.5             20.6       19.7         12.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.1         3.5        3.5              3.1        2.9          3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS. ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..           ..        ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..            ..        ..              2.5       14.6         14.2
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)              99.2        100.0      96.0            94.2        96.4        104.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OP
REQUIRE4ENTS)                    93.0        83.0       80.0             90.1       92.3        99.5
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           74.0        72.0       69.0            55.2        50.0        56.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PU'LSE         ..        24.0 LI   23.1              17.1       13.9         17.5
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE        ..           ..        ..               ..         ..          7.5
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    35.9         38.5       38.5            43.7        45.8        53.3
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                           200.0       162.0 La      ..            138.4      102.7         82.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ,,        20.0       27.0            22.4        26.4        31.1
URBAN                                ..        37.0       36.0            66.3        63.5        68.5
RURAL                                ..        19.0       26.0             10.4       14.1         18.2
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..         1.0        3.0            23.9        16.1         37.5
URBAN                                ..         10.0      30.0             70.3       65.9         69.5
RURAL                                .,           ..       1.0             14.2        3.4         25.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          71000.0 /h  58260.0   41060.0          21757.5    13432.7        9359.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON      7500.0 /b   7040.0    4970.0            3473.8     6983.3       2762.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            2200.0       1850.0    1200.0            645.4     1157.6        786.5
URBAN                                ..       350.0      160.0            172.9      183.3        278.4
RURAL                                ..      4250.0    3460.0            1292.6     1348.8       1358.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED          10.4 /I      34.7  I     ..             19.2       19.5         19.2
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                ..           ..        ..              4.9        5.2
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..              5.0        4.8
R ERAL                                .           ..        ..              4. 7       5.3
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                ..           ..        ..
URBAN                                 .           ..        ..               ..        1.8          2.3
RURAL                                ..           ..        ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                ..           ..        ..               ..       25.9         28.3
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..
RURAL                                ..           ..        ..               ..        8.7         10.3



- 2i -
Annex I
TABLE 3A
NIGZR - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA S5EET                            Page  2  of  6
lUEUCE  GROUPS (ADJIUSTED A    a
NIGER                            - MOST RECUT RSTZNATE)I1
SAME         SaU       InU  USM
MOST RECbKl       GEOGWRPEIC    INCOKl          0111
1960    /b 1970   b ESTIMATB /b          RIGIO0 Li   GROUP   / dI    jt
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENTI RATIOS
PRDLARY:      TOTAL                    5.0         14.0       17.0              52.1         62.9         75.5
FEMALE                  3.0           9.0       12.0              37.6        45.9          67.9
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                    0.3           1.0        2.0               8.0         14.4         17.7
FENALE                  0.1           1.0        1.0               5.0          8.8         12.9
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECONDARY)  4.0              3.0        2.2                7.2         6.6           7.4
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                              43.0 /h       39.0       41.0              43.2         38.5         34.3
SECONDARY                             17.0         20.0       21.0              22.8         19.8         23.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)            5.0            .          ..              20.3        36.7         63.7
CONSUtPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                             0.3          1.0         1.9               3.9         3.1          7.2
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                             1.0         36.0          .              40.1         31.1         71.1
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                                                       .               2.2          2.8         14.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                      0.3          0.5         0.5               3.9         6.0         16.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA                   0.2                           1.2         1.4           1.6
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)          770.0 /k   1900.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                       9.3          9.9       10.1              32.6        24.2          28.0
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                 97.0 /k      91.0                         73.3        60.7          54.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                     1.4          2.2
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                                              .              42 0         39.8         37.8
KALE                                    59.3         58.3       57.5              54.8         53.3         50.3
FEMALE                                                                            27.3         19.6         20.9
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                  1.1           1.0                          1.2         1.3          1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   23.0                                          25.7        20.3          19.5
HICHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  42.0                                          55.1        45.1          48.9
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.0                                           5.8         5.7           5.9
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   18.0                                          14.5        16.8          15.7
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOHE
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                                        133.0             108.8        88.5        155.9
RURAL                                                         63.0              74.1        71.9         97.9
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEI (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                                                          124 4       100.8        143.7
RURAL                                                         40.0              59.6        42.0         87 3
ESTIMATED POPULATION BEIOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                                         35.0              26.8        46.0         22.9
RURALJ                                                        35.0              47.6        48.0         36.7
Not available
N".t applicable.
NOTES
/a    Fhe adjisted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric mans, excluding the extreme
values of Che 1ndicator and the maot populated country in each group. Coverage of countries inng the
1ndicat.rs depends n availability of data and is not uniform.
b     Irinea other,ise noted, data for  t9tO refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 19?1; and for Moat Recent Estimate, between 1973 end 1976.
c    PEtrica South of Sahara;   /d  Low lncow' ($280 or less per capita, 1976);   le  Lower Middle Icome
($281-550 per capita.  1976);  7f  Age 1;--59 snd 60 years and over respectively;  LS  1972;  /h  1962;
L   1964;  L1  1966;  /k  Excludes labor force of Niamey city, nomad population and foreigners.
September 1978



- 22 -
Annex I
XEY TO COUIWTlIES 3T REC ION AND LYCCh CROVUPI
Page 3 of 6
I                    T   vv. 6i~~~ --- 7-l  __T5--
R.&itn/I--  Oroup                   L_  Mooo,                          LoN   Middl.                  I.t.o.di.. Kiddl.                      Upp-r liddl.             H igh 1F                Sf     V ..... .
O.gtcc/IncaO Oroop ~        ~             ~            IsP/                           In la..  l.,op../                                      ;     ig  Iho,                   01H  O POrrol8
8.tn  I                         iq          C rwlleNo .tgoi            Chno L Ibou t                                                   1   O.boc
8urundi                   11l              loot,,ap                   Ivory eoaao                             Rfunloo 
Conrorl AfriOaa  AP.   Noa_bi9u*           C_rptonA                   NaoPitio
Chad                     Nilar              Cope Verd.                Np_ibit
Coeer                    Rwmad.             Congo,  PIK. S1oh.All. 
Echtopi.                 StErr  LAon,       Eqoiorlal -t- in**                                                                         Ii
AFRIC  SOUTH           a-Sbl, The               Sm It              Ltb r.t
OF  4HARr             Goirpa                   T..,.aa            M1.rtat
0r0rE5-Bt.               T.qo                tglertA
ranyr                    gaad 1            SIhodeoja
L**pho                  S,par Volt.        5-o TpAv f. PrnImp.
M.dmg**tr               lair.              T*r g.l
Model ....    Z.1'.              :4"5~Sod.,
Sud
Sa.#il1.d
7Egypt                                    Morocco                    Algart                                   Bhrari                      1     Ir..i
NORTH Ar11 A           Y_tn A.r.                                                              2rd..                                    loan                        OrI
AD hIDDLEC                                                                                   T,aoiai Syrb,o A R                                                                                      orjHo
EAST                                                                                          Tuta P.b.no t     Ad rb
Ul r-d Ar- .ni
SOUTH ASiA            thuCd..                      ;tnP
bAft.   5t.               .5 La.4k 
, Indl-
C_bodi.                                   PWv Hebrides               Chton   Ip. of                           Flii                        koaerSc. n saro
l,doaaaia                                  Papa. 00ao . ff lo..      VilNO C    l-ndP  Po0..                        Kong                  n
T 1ASIA                Lao P.D II                                  Ph),i pKi oq, Rep. of                                                                          Vrench Poirnoo
Solloeo  WIoods                             Thailtod                  Noc.o
SVtot NH                                    Tong                       HlayaOa                                                             NOa CI  Ad.oI 
Id.ataro  sle,A            TruSt T rSitory of cb Pacific                                       Singapott
Hbiti ctlii 8itigua                                                                      Cuat..aia             Ar,g.otin                   BaSid--
el Salvado.r               li.., J--elc                            Barb.doa                    B:-od.
COOpAda                   ChAd.              OA.oio                 barbi                      CaO.al 700.
LATIN AMREICA                                                     C.a.d                      cobh               pteoragu              FrAnob Colon                MaOtiouo
AND CAOIRDREAPA                                                    bRoNd-rm                   Co..c  Ril.       Paraguay              C_Ndhloop*                  VennoonI.
St. VI...E.t              D-ab               par.                  M-h-dcba'nda  -ntillla      Virgin I.1...d  (U.S.)
liooalen Rap.   SC. Itloo.-Rai yl           l
iou.dor           St.  Ltol              Purtn ic
br Iloam,
TOoiidad    'oabgo_
T.tk.y                                   Cypru                      C. col tnd.
EUROPE                                                                                                                                Halt.                       ribraIcar
_P_rtugAl     3       p      atn
A.carala         Pi.nald                        Italy                Noray                   Lk.Lt.d Stat.a
IDAUSTRIALIZED         ...trLa           pr....                         lp.n                 South Africa
COIUNTESI              Be gi.           CGaeAny Fed. Rp. of             LUo.moura            sw.d-
Cao-da             aeiaond                       N-atarihoda         Sbvit.rl..d
D.-bok            Sr-Ala,d                       pa  Maa.,.d          Un.Ig-d RlDedin
Albapia           C.aan D_. R,?.              USSiX
CENTRALLY PLAIPED    Chin  P.R. of         er.  _m.  ap. of
ECONCHIES             Cub.                NoPII
Cra.h Inyk i..U     olaod
'a  tad or 1976 CaPP par capiP  t  t. 1976 US dollar..
47  12dO or  Pia PAr cpita
S281-1550 pr caPita.
d  S551-i135 p.r "pit..
S1136-?SYS p.r c2PitCa.P"
ft  .... 12O05 p_r c pita



-23--                                                                    Annex I-
DC~]Niirws O   SOCIL INDIATOREPage   4~ of   6
1det5-: Alrh-taiI, tI, dots are drewn rot, --.- Itc.. enrally u.dg..d th. most authorILtst-o And reliable. It should sien be noted th.t they msy net b inter-
netlensily rsahnhoc.us5 of 0,* mobk ci  tadardised dfeud   inns and concpts ...d by different countri.s In collecting the d.ts.  The date are,  onmetheless,
useful to describe o-ders nf magnitude, indicate trends, ned cha;ractmris. certain smajor differences between countriesa
The adluoted sro.p  veyeaX.. for e.nh indicator are popci.,tion--aighted g-cntric means, . ecdludig the extrem   -alve  of the indicator end the smoat
populated corntrf In each gr-np.  Coveraor or roontried among tho indicators d.p.ndu on av-ilehility of data and is not oniformo.  Due to lack of date,
Kr-, ron-rees, For capittl Surplus li)T Emporters end iedic.t.ra .,f aucec to -eter end ecerets di.pos.1, housing, intone distrib.tion and poverty are
simple pn,p,,lotIo-wiehted gemomerrI  men without the i-hlucite  of eatrem   ale.
LM   ARIA (thousand  q. .) e                                                                 oP-uistlos Par hospital bed - total, urban, sad rural - Population (total,
Total - Total aurface eras comprising land ares snd ialand waterm.                           urban, and rural) divided by their respective number of hospital beds
Asr-icultural - Moet recant estimlate of agricultural are  s ned temporarily                 available in public and private general and specialized hospital. and re-
or permanently for crepe, pastures, market and kitchen garden. or to                       habilitation centers.  Hlospitals are aetablishmenta permanently staffed by
Ie* fallow.                                                                                at least one physician.  Establiehmeots providing principally custodial
care are not included. Rural hospitals. however, include health end mmdi-
Giw Pn  CAPITA (055) - GiNP par capita estimates at current market price.,                    cal tenter. not permanently staffed by a physician (but by a mamical. em-
calculated by ease convePrsion method  a World Bank Atlas (1975-77 basis);                 sista.t,.-nuse, midwife, etc.) which offer in-patient accommedation end
1960, 1970. eod 1977 data,                                                                 provide a limited range of medical facilities.
Admissions per hospital bad - Total number of adnlsaions to or discharges
DIDGY CONSUMPTION PEt CAPITA - Annul tonumption of sommercial energy                          foes hospitals divided by the number of beds.
(real and lignite 0petrolsom, natural Sao end hydro-, nuclear and geo-
thermal electricity) is ki lograme of coal equivalent per capita.                     HOUSING
Average sloe of hosuehold (persons per household) - total, urban. and rural-
POPUIATION MAND VITAL STATISTICS                                                              A household consiste of a group of individuals who share living quartare
Total ecaulatio-n.  id-yeer (imlllome) - Ac of July 1; If not available,                     and their main meals.  A boarder or lodger may or may not be included in
average of tw  and-year estimates; 1960, 1970, sNd 1977 dote,                              the household for statistical purposes.  Statistical definitions of house-
Urbs. sopuletion (percent of total) - Ratio of urban to total peppula-                       hold vary.
tlsel different definitions of urban areas ma"  effect comparability                    Averass number of per-son  per room. - total. ucban. and rural -Average num~-
of datea  og countries,                                                                    her of persona  per room in all, urban, sod rural occupied convantiobal
Popgaltiondaensty.                                                                           dwellings, respect!-~ely.  Dwellings exclude non-permanent. structures and
per   7Ni       Ki-year population par equate kilammeter (100 hmctares)                     unoccupied parts.
of toital  re.                                                                          Access to electricit   (reto   wlings) - total, urban. end rural -
Per stq. km. agLriculture land - Computed as above for agricultural land                    Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quarters as percestage
only.                                                                                      of total, urban, snd rural dvellinge respectively.
Population age structure (percent) - Cbildcen (0-14 years), working-age
(15-64 yerar), and retired 165 yrear  and "ovr) as prcenotages of mid-                EDUCATION
year population.                                                                       Adluetod enrollment ratios,
Populatio. growth rate (percent) - total, and urban - Compound anossel                     Primary school - total. and femalea - Total and female enrllenot of all ages
growth races of total and urban mid-year populations for 1950-60,                          at the primary level as percentages of respectively primary school-age
1960-70. sad 1970-75.                                                                     populations; normally includes children aged 6-11 years but adjusted for
Crude birth rate (par thousand) - Annual live births pet thousand of                         dlifferent lengths of primary education; for countries Pith universal edo-
mid-yer population; te-ypear aritbmatic averages ~MIS in 1960 and                          ction enrollment may emceed 100 percent since  some, pupils are baloy or
1970 and five-year aweafge ending in 1975 foe met recast aetiamte.                         above the official school age.
Crude doeth rtar  (par cbagemsen.4  - Annual faiths per tbeusend of mdi-                   Ste...dary school - total, and fanuale - Computed a. above; secondary 6ducs-
year populationl rem-yman arithmetic avanagem ending In 1960 sang 1970                     tion requires at least four years of approved primary instruction; pro-
end five-year average ending in 1975 fot mast recast metimets.                             videe general vccatioaal. or teacher training instructions for pupils
Gross reproductiox rat. - Average sober ot desglitere a woan will beer                       usually of 12 to 17 yrear  of age; correspondence courses are generally
in her normal  eproduc:tiVe period if  bsh  experiaese  prosent age-                      excluded.
specific fertility rates;  eusully five-year average, ending In 1960,                   Vocational sorollsont (Percent of second.ry) - Vocational institutions 10-
1970, and 1975.                                                                            elude technical,* industrial, or other programs which operate independently
Famiiy elsanina - acceptors, annual (thousauds) - Annual number of                           or as departments of secondary institutions.
ecceptors of birth-control dievices under  usupicas of national family                 Pupil-teacher ratio - primary, end secondary - Total students enrolled in
pleoming program.                                                                         primary aod secondary levele divided by numbrer  of teachere in the corre-
P il   laing     at  (ecn  of married Wwan) - Percentage of                           sponding levels.
arrie-d neio  f  hil*d-(bear&riRng age (15-44 years) who use birth-control              Adult literacy rate (percent) - Literate adults (able to read and write) as
devices to all married wioo  in same, age group,                                          a percentage of total adult population aged 15 years and over.
ME  A D             UTIITIONi                                                            CONISUMPTION
1MflA....si.fS~utioape  capita (1970a100) - Iodex number of per                     Psascsener care (per thousand population) - P.asseger cars comprise meter cars
capita sNW.al production of all fond,ecoindities.                                       seating loee  than eight persons: sexcludes ambulances, hoarsenesnd military
Per capits oupply of calories (percent of requireAmenti) - Computed from                  vehicles.
sawagy equivalent of net food suppli7es available is coucotry per capita               Radio receivesr  (par thousand population) - All types of receivers for radio
per day.  Available supplied comprise domestic production, imiports less                broadcasts to general public per thousand of population; excludes unlicensed
emporrs. and changes in stock.  Net supplies exclude animal feed,  mends,               receivers In countrins and in years when regiatration of radio sets wee in
quamntities used in food processing, and loseas in distribution.  Re-                   effect; data for recent y-ear  nay not be comparable since mast countries
quirnaot  were estimated b:y PAC based on physiological needa for mar-                  abolished lictening.
mel activity and health considering environmantal temperature, body                    TV receivers (par thousand populetion) - TV receivers for broadcast to gcnsrd.
weights, age and sax distributions of population, end allowing 10 per-                    public per thousand populetion; excludes unlicensed TV receivers in coun-
cent for waste at household level.                                                        tries and in years when regiatration of TV nets was in affect.
Por capita aupply of proti  (scans pe.r.day) - Protein content of per                    Newsapr pric!rculation (per thousand population) - Shows th. average circula-
capita net supply of fo = per da.  Nt supply of food is defined  as                       tion  f"dIly genral interest newspaper', defined as a periodical publi-
above.  Rsi.iuremats for sL.i. countriesesetablisbed by USDA provide for                  cation devoted primarily to recording general new.  It is considered to
a  limue allowance of hi grams, of total protein par dsy and 20 graem                     be "daily" if it appears at least four tiose a weak.
of animal. end pules protein, of which ii  raPa should be sanial protein.              Cinema annual attendance per caipits per yost - Os...d on the number of tickets
These  tlsod.rds ate lower than these of 75 grams, of total protein end                   sold during the yeasr, including admissions to drive-in ciownas and mobile
23 gram  of animal protein is an average for the world. propoaed by                       units..
PAO in the Third World Food Survey.
Par capita Protein supply froa animal and pulse - Protein supply of food                EMPLOYMENT
derived from aonimals end pulnes in gras. per day.                                     Total labor force (thousainds) - Economically active parsons. including armed
Child (sa.s 1-4) nortality rate (per thousa.nd) - Annual deaths per thou.s-                  forces and unemployed but sexcluding housewives, student.. etc.   aDefn-
and in age group 1-4 years. to children in this age group.                                tions in various countrias are not comparable.
Pemale (Dercent) - Pemuale labor force as percentage of total labor fort..
IMTS                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AariouItur. (percent) - Labor force in farming, forestry, hunting sod fishing
Lif  taatnc          birth(val .2   Average number of yearo of life                          as percentage of total labor force.
reann  at: bith ; usualy five-year at7rverages andieg in 1960, 1970,                 Industry (percent) - Labor force in sining, conetruotivo. zasnfacturinug and
and 1975.                                                                                 electricity, water and g5 aso perctoerge of total labor force.
SPfrMNPti.t,y rate_(pa- thousandl - Annual dmaths of infasts NOW                         Participation rats (percent) - total,_male, and femle - Total, male. and
on   ea   f aeper thoueani live birhto.                                            female labor force .. percentages of their respective popoleloti..
Acces t  sal  weer (encnt e  peueien) - tatal. urban, e jrgr   -                 The.e sre  Life  sdj.ated participationrtsrelcig  p-e
Nlumber of pee9la (r l   rban1, sad  utral) with reessnebla sems cc                       structure of the population, dod long tine trend.
ma. waetr supply (ieal,$es treated surface watets or setrswesd bet                     Ec-n-ic d.p.ndan-y tatio - Rasi. of populeti.n under 15 and 65 and over to
uscomtmimeted water suc  en that from  prtotcted boreholes, aptgW,                        the labor force In age group of 15-64 years.
sstd cesictary wells) as percnteges of their respective popuiatimmee.
in am urban area a ps*hk  fountain or standpo.t located sot move                      INICOME DSOTRIBiITION
th-n 200 metrr-  from a heos  say ba considerd as hein  within ran-                    Percntage of petwart  ions (both in cash cod kind) --i-lvd by riohast 5
eotab~* e ..c.. of that hou.-   to rural arean remomemble access wai1d                    p.rcent, richest 20 percent. poornet 20 percet, and Poorest 40 percent
Imply that thc housewife ,'r oeber. of the, houeahold do not have to                      fI hocseholds.
a,-  dfI';-cy"-Lionatr -,t .,f the dao in fetching tb,. tmeily's
-c,v,   -4.od                                                                         POfVERTY TARiGET GROUPS
Aq-oos t_x-<tj d-y..ooa  ,~r~n   iyulctlpp_-  otal. -arbm.                               foiae    bout   oet   oon   ee   U)pe aia       ran and rural-
rurAl - Nuaber of people (total, urban, and -rrs) Perved by e..rata                         Ab.clot. Poverty Income lev1 Is that i.c-r  leve  below which s mdinial
di.p.-A  ..;--tceotse  of their  -sp-rtiw, poplealm.  fecrta                              n-iritions1lY ud.quste diet plu .. ....ti.1 co-food requirements Is nor
disposal soc inscludet~ c-,n  c;-tiom  and dL.poeei. with or witPowt                      fif-rdble.
tresmasac, of hnbman seraet  and weete-water by water-barnns a.eyt                     Eatinsted relativ    oet   noelvl(S   s   aia       ra   n   ua 
or the .at of pit pri.1igensd sil tar Lextallatlne.                                       isl.t b- pov..tty inc... leve  is thst incom  lee  less than one-third
Pocul,tlivo  car ghyyppgJgg 4 PpepsOtian dO-ide4  by  ."or of prac-IcImg                     pet c-pito  oeoa  iroon  of the coun.try.
phcoaoqulified five a -JIToa1 -choi at umiver.ity le-L.                          bsircd       1ulcichao   poverty inczolve   pocot    uban and rural-
..cczceprnraing    Po.rn - Popsl.ia-v  divided by smber at                          Percet ci Population (urban sand total) who ore othar "absolute poor" or
p-.ct',icn  male ad finiale gr-duateoie  pratical nsa. ad                                  ceutnpoor" whicheve  is grestt.r
Ec-nonic ocd Social Data Diviiaon
tE--oic AcolIy.i. ond P-olections D.p.rtnent



- 24 -
Annex 1
Page 5 of 6
COUNTRY DATA - NIGER
CNP PER CAPITA IN 1978: US$250
CROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1978                                              ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (7. CONSTANT 1972 PRICES)
USS Million         7.                                     1972 - 78
.r,? at Market PTi                     1,282          100.0                                        3.8
Gross Domestic Investment                525           25.4
Gross National Savings                   1S4           12.0
Current Account Balance                 - 84           -
Exports of Goods, NFS                    288            'Z-15                                      5.3
Imports of Goods, NES                    37°               9                                       8.2
OUTPtlT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1978
Value Added (Factor Costs)
US$ million       %
Agricu1ture           545       42.5
Mining -              155       12.1
Industry21             77        6.0
Services-2            505       39.4
TOTAL               F2         10.O.
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government
(CFAF billion)               % of GDP
1974/75   1977/78            1975      1978
Current Revenues               22.4       44.5             13.4      15.8
of which uranium revenue   ( 2.5)       (13.1)          ( 1.5)    ( 4.6)
Current Expenditures           17.5       30.4             10.5      10.8
Current Balance                 4.9       14.1              2.9       5.0
Capital Expenditure             1.9       14.1              1.1       5.0
External Assistance              .
Overall Balance              + 3.0         0                1.8        0
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES                                                                                       /3
1971     1972      1973      1974     1975      1976      1977      1978-
(CFAF billion at end-of year)
Money and Quasi Money                  12.1      12.9      15.5     20.3      22.3      29.2     37.6      46.5
Bank credit to Public Sector           -2.3      -3.5     -3.4      -7.2    -11.5    -12.-3    -16.4    -10.2
Bank credit to Private Sector           9.7      10.7      12.5     21.0      28.5      28.6     32.7      38.7
PERCENTAGES OR INDEX NUMBERS
General Price Index (1970 =100)       104.2    114.4    127,8    132.1    144.1    178.1    219.2    250.0
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index                      .        9.8      11.7      3.4       9.1      23.6     23.0      11.4
9ank credit to Public Sector             .         .         .
Bank credit to Private Sector            .       10.3      16.8     68.0      35.7       0.4     14.3      18.4
i'  Staff estimates.
Not available.
Not applicable.
1/  Mostly uranium nining.
2/  Including Government and duties and taxes on imports.
3/  As of May, 1978.
February 5, 1979



- 25 -
Annex I
Page 6 of 6
COU:"RY DATA - NIGER
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
(in millions of current US$)
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS +                     1975*      1978 *          MERCHANDISE EXPORTS-:/ (Annual Average: 1975-78)
Exports of Goods, NFS                    167.8       288.2                            US$ Million                2
Imports of Goods, NFS                    226.5       369.6
Resource Cap (deficit=.-)                -58.7       -81.4           livestock           29.2                   16.8
Uranium            117.1                  67.4
Tnterest Pavments (net)                  -10.7       -15.0           Groundnuts           8.2                   4.7
Workers  Remittances                     -18.7       -25.0           All other           19.3                   11.1
Other Factor Payments (net)                3.                         TOTAL             173.8                  100.0
Net Transfers                             77.1        36.3
Balance on Current Accounts                8.0      - 85.2           EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1976
Direct Foreign Investment (net)           15.8        38 4           Public Debt, incl. guaranteed            284.0
Net MLT Borrowings                        17.0        30.0           Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Total outstanding and                    135.1
Disbursements                      (18 8)       ( *)            disbursed
Repayment                          ( 1.8)       C.)
1/                                                       DEBT SERVICE RATIO  FOR 1976
Other items-                             -19.8  
Change in Reserves (end year)              5.0      -16.8            Public Debt, incl  guaranteed
Foreign Reserves (end year)               51.4       87.6            Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Fuel and Related Materials.                                          Total outstanding and disbursed           5,47
7. of imports                        12.8       15.0            IBRD/IDA LENDING. December 31. 1978
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                     Outstanding and disbursed                 34.6
Undisbursed                               43.3
1971:   US$1.00 = CFAF 277. 03                                   Outstanding incl. undisbursed              77.90
1972>,  US$1.00    C 5FAF 252.21
1973:   uS$1 00 = CFAF 222.70
1974:   US$1.00 =  CFAF 240 50
1975:   US$1.00    CPAF 214.32
1976:   US$1.00 =  CFAF 245.00
1977:   US$1.00 =  CFAF 245 00
1978:   US$1.00 = CFAF 220.00
1/ Including errors and ommissions.
2/ Recorded exports only.
staff estimates.
not av-ilable.
not applicable.
February 5,1979



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 5 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NIGER
A.   STATEMENT OF IDA CREDITS (as at October 31, 1979)
Credit                                                                US$ million
Number   Year   Borrower               Purpose                Amount (less cancellation) /1
IDA      Undisbursed
Seven credits fully disbursed                                  20.0
441     1973   Republic of Niger   Drought Relief              2.0          0.2
608     1975   Republic of Niger   Maradi Rural
Development           10.7          2.3
612     1976   Republic of Niger   Niger Third Highway   15.6               4.4
634     1976   Republic of Niger   Telecommunications
Project                5.2          3.3
800     1978   Republic of Niger   Forestry Project            4.5          3.6
809     1978   Republic of Niger   Employment Creation
Project                5.0          4.8
851     1978   Republic of Niger   Irrigation                 15.0         15.0
885     1979   Republic of Niger   Livestock                  12.0         12.0
886 /2  1979   Republic of Niger   Feeder Roads               10.0         10.0
Total                                               100.0         55.6
of which has been repaid                            0.2
Total now outstanding and held by IDA                99.8
Total undisbursed                                                 55.6
/1   Prior to exchange adjustment.
t2   Signed but not effective.
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as at October 31, 1979)
Nil.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 5 pages
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Credit 441 - Drought Relief Project, US$2.0 Million; Credit of
December 7, 1973; Effectiveness Date: May 7, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
This credit aimed at helping the population in drought-affected areas
to reestablish their self-sufficiency through redevelopment and improvement oF
their farms and herds. The project, which comprised seven sub-projects
(training scheme, construction of rural warehouses, spot repairs of a feeder
road, engineering studies of an irrigation project, construction of erosion
control facilities, protectiorL of gum tree and construction and operation of
calf feeding units is completed, but the final disbursement request has not
yet been submitted.
Credit 608 - Maradi Rural Development Project; US$10.7 Million;
Credit of February 6, 1976; Effectiveness Date:
October 8, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
This project includes provision of production packages to farmers
in 15 Associations Locales de Cooperatives; strengthening of cooperative in-
stitutions, expansion of training programs, study of optimum means to develop
the irrigation potential of the Goulbi de Maradi, construction of 80 km
of roads, planting of 500 ha of fuelwood plantations and improvement of
livestock services. The feeder roads program has been fully carried out. The
small fuelwood plantation component was terminated after two years in view
of the apparent tack of motivation among the farmers. The remaining project
components are progressing satisfactorily but the irrigation component was
scaled down to only 110 ha due to initial delays in carrying out the feasibility
study.
Credit 612 - Third Highway Project; US$15.6 Million; Credit of March 5,
1976; Effectiveness Date: January 31, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
This project includes: (a) a four-year program of periodic mainten-
ance, including procurement of equipment and training of specialized public
work staff, (b) construction and improvement of the Zinder-Nigerian border
road (113 km) and of the Maradi-Nigerian border road (40 km) and (c) consulting
services for supervision of road construction and a survey of the domestic
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report problems
which are being encountered, and the action taken to remedy them. They
should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that they do not
purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and weaknesses in
project execution.



-2 .q-
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 5 pages
construction industry,  Construction of the Maradi-Nigerian border road was
completed ahead of schedule and the Zinder-Nigerian border road is expected to
be compleced short'.-  After a successful training program and equipment
procurement, the four field brigades started maintenance work last April. The
study of the domestic construction industry is currently underway.
Credit 634 - Telecommunications Project; US$5.2 Million; Credit of
June 11, 1976; Effectiveness Date: November 9, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
This project includes installation of automatic switching equipment
with cable and subscriber distribution networks; provision of trunk switching
equipment, three VHF links and one HF radio link, overhead line and carrier
equipment; civil works, miscellaneous equipment, vehicles and tools and
services of engineering and financial consultants. Procurement is completed
and the main contracts have been approved by the Association. The project is
experiencing a 24 percent cost overrun that the Government has agreed to
finance on its own budgetary resources. Progress has been made in carrying
out the institution building component of the project.
Credit 800 - Forestry Project; US$4.5 million; Credit of June 7, 1978;
Effectiveness Date: February 7, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981
This project will assist Government in its efforts to establish 400
ha of pilot irrigated plantations and 700 ha of pilot rainfed tree plantations;
improve the rural forestry activities of the Forestry Department; finance a
training program in extension services; provide assistance to research and
a workshop maintenance unit. The Project Management Unit created within the
Forestry Department to assist with coordinating and monitoring project activi-
ties is now fully operational and project implementation is progressing
satisfactorily. About 300 ha of rainfed tree plantations were established
this year, and preliminary work was carried out for the establishment of about
200 ha of irrigated tree plantations during the next campaign.
Credit 809 - Industrial and Artisan Sector Employment Creation Project;
US$5.0 million; Credit of June 7, 1978; Effectiveness Date:
February 7, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
This project aims at assisting Government in the promotion of more
labor intensive employment creation in Niger's industrial and artisan sectors
while strengthening the sector's institutional infrastructure, by providing
a line of credit, training and technical assistance to BDRN, including the
development of a bank management training program of the Ecole Nationale
d'Administration, financial and technical assistance for creation of OPEN, the
new agency created under the project to provide technical assistance and
training for local enterpreneurs, and by assisting the Artisans Center to



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 5 pages
improve the productivity and employment of artisans affiliated with the
Center. Project implementation is progressing satisfactorily except for the
Artisan Center component which has experienced considerable start-up delays.
Credit 851 - Irrigation Project; US$15.0 Million; Credit of February 15,
1979: Effectiveness Date: October 12, 1979; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983
The project aims to assist the Government in expanding cereal and
vegetable production along the Niger River through development of a 1,550 ha
polder; providing agricultural development services on neighbouring irrigation
schemes (1,215 ha) and dryland farming plots (9,000 ha); and in creating the
necessary institutional framework for the implementation of its irrigation
development program through establishment of a national agency (ONAHA) which
would integrate and strengthen the activities of construction and management
of the irrigation schemes. The project will also finance the preparation of a
feasibility study for a nearby polder, as well as the services of a financial
coordinator to be attached to the Ministry of Rural Development to assist in
accounting and financial management of the various IDA-financed agricultural
projects in Niger. Due to initial delays in credit signing and in the award
of contracts for equipment and engineering services, construction of the
irrigation works will only start in March 1980. Project activities in 1979
included construction of buildings and recruitment and training of staff.
Credit 885 - Livestock Prolect; US$12.0 Million; Credit of April 27,
- 1979; Effectiveness Date: October 12, 1979; Closing
Date: March 31, 1985
A combination of health and productivity services will be available
to herd owners in the pastoral and cropping zones. An innovative approach
will be taken by establishing Associations of Pastoralists, legally recognized
cooperative entities based on existing social groups. Members of these
Associations will have access to a greater range of health services, new
forms of credit for backgroundLing and breeding, improvements to existing
wells and extension of watering points and advice on range management.
In addition to the goals of increased livestock productivity and greater
participation of herders in management of animals, water and pasture re-
sources, the project will provide assistance to the Livestock Department to
develop competence in delivery of productivity services. The project manage-
ment unit (PMU) has been established and project implementation is just
getting underway.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 5 pages
Credit 886 - Feeder Road Prolect; US$10 Million: Credit of April 27
1979: Projected Effectiveness Date: February 15, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The project will improve 1,000 km of feeder roads which support
Government's agricultural program and create an appropriate structure for the
execution of comprehensive feeder road programs. The project will finance
highway construction equipment and spare parts; labor, materials and supplies
for the improvement program; offices for and technical assistance to the newly
created Feeder Road Technical Section to aid in implementing and monitoring
the improvement program and in training technicians, mechanics, equipment
operators and training officers. Final draft tender and contract documents
for equipment procurement and proposals for technical assistance have been
reviewed by the Association. Notification of contracts is expected shortly
and equipment delivery is scheduled to be completed by mid-1980.



31 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2 pages
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare the project: 2 years
(b) Agency that prepared the project: Consultants/Gov't/RMWA
(c) Date of the first presentation to the Bank: March 1977
Date of the first Bank mission to consider the project:
March 1977
(d)  Date of departure of Appraisal Mission:  November 9, 1978
(e) Date of completion of Negotiations: September 27, 1979
(f) Planned date of Effectiveness: March 31, 1980
Section II - Special Bank Implemenation Actions
None.
Section III - Special Conditions
(a) Antiparasitic drugs and feed supplements would be sold at prices
sufficient to cover costs of purchase, delivery and final dis-
tribution, and proc,seds from such sales would be put into a
revolving fund to be managed by the project (para. 38);
(b) the qualifications, experience responsibilities and terms
and conditions of employment of key personnel and all con-
sultants would be satisfactory to the Association (paras.
44 and 45);
(c)  the Project Manager would introduce by June 30, 1980 a reporting
system for the carrying out of the project; by December 31,
1980, procedures for monitoring the progress of the project;
and by July 31 each year he would submit for approval by Government
and the Association, his work program and budget for the
year beginning the next October 1 (para. 49);
(d) in addition to its participation in the financing of the project,
Govenment would finance (a) existing agricultural staff in
projects ongoing in the area, (b) all operating costs related
to the work of such staff and (c) subsidies on inputs (para. 53);



32 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2 pages
(e)  as cor. ;. s of effectiveness
(i)    'lI conditions precedent to the initial disbursement of
l.. E:<_( grant and CCCE loan for the project will have been
fulfilled (para. 47);
(ii)   ^^-ve-rt-nt will establish the three revolving funds
required to prefinance inputs, implements and other
project activities, with the initial deposit and lines of
credit (para. 48); and
(iii) the Chief of the Commercial, Administrative and Financial
Section and the Subject Matter Specialist in Trainintg
and Extension will have been appointed (para. 44).



I BRD1415
20                                                     -         30                                                               40                                                                                                                                 MAY 1979
C                                                I 5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N     
14-    ~</N,..,                              e147
A ~~~~~~~~,                                                                                           tt                                                                                    EXISTI~NIGER
4~~~~~~~~  V        t.          Ny.,...~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,(S                                                                                                                diisivI.ivctfie
D  iG N lOUT                                                                                 Administurativ District Offices
)  '?                                  /..et'              11                a                   c.                                5    In~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~put WVarehouses
oIi2i  1I;A        -1P~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   L.yr                                                                   A ~~~~~~~~~Veterinary Facilities with Permanent Staff
fj~~9h..,~~~0  Fa wslj  !jJIP  ocre7WG   *-~~~~~~~~~~Qh1!                                           U~    Young Farmers Training Cotter
41    - *gifRIti~~~~~~ Oxtraoa/0; ~~~~~~                               A     Seed Farmm
,V1141'  fj                                   tr                                                                Animai Impinment Assembly Unrits
1Iltttjff~~~~~fflff~~~~$flftttjktHDfJ  I  I  ~ ~  ~       ~       ~       ~      ~     ~          Small Irrigation Schemes
PROPOSED:
* Training Center
o    Farm Service Centers
A     Veterinary Post
,  a                                                     D   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Bottom Land Denelopmcnts
130                                                               BtNC4Q                   $O           /Tsu                      ero           #                                                                      1    Abactaoir and Market Imprc,emrents                              130-
*    ~~~~~~~~~~, ~~~4o uAgricultural District
AgrO z it        ' f                  vw    ;lttfllffttl Agra-ecofogicaf Zones (Farm Model Zones)
or   ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~%t;f           >,/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                        -T~~~~~ar Roads
I                                        ,fr\                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~         ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AORCULlURAL  IMYEuRDIF
a      Q'I I                                  t                    7DISTRIClTS                                          _MLE ME NTATION                 Laterite Roads
Za~~~~~og(~~~~~~~~.,\ ~~~~~~ ~PY' 3                                            .....Feeder Roads I mprovement Pirg,rnm
CE TE   1i                                                                                                     Y                  ' Escarpments
z  ~ ~   ~           ~           ~          ~          ~          feas~~~~~~~~~5    111111111~~~~~~~~~~~~~IIII                DLy~ s                                         Admiunistradive District Bounidnrias
Fatme    ~ ~ ~   ~     ~ ~ ?Proincial Boundaries
(tact   (e~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~ ~-                                                              I-tnernational Boar,daries
-bw                                                                                                              --.,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LIBYA
A LOGE  R I A   ~ N
-12-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-I                                                                                                                                             12 .,- 
M2  t   A   L  Ij
K LOMTP                                                                    N       I     C       E      R
V 0 L T A  B    N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/0
Tho map ha- hens pre.paed br the War/ 6unko atoff -uulai-ey for tue Iaonec
d9ee                      ~~~~~~of tue -nder- ON tn report tO WhicOil joi  1tt,augd. ThOr deaio--taon- used and the ,CA
qv~~~e    /                 huwr~~b.dar,v ahocor otgo map dv vat,-plf*. - the p~,t rpf'nh  Worry Ba-h          K                                                              o,
offdhiatno. -y jdgmet on the ea oau  of-ay tertroreo   nesmn
30                                                                                             acc~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~eiat.n.. uPfa-h boo-dove            UPPER                                '...



