Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF053855 BUR 
 
Global Environment Facility 
Trust Fund Grant Agreement 
 
(Sahel Integrated Lowland Ecosystem Management Project) 
 
between 
 
BURKINA FASO 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
acting as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility 
 
Dated July 14, 2004 
 
Page  2
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF053855 BUR 
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated July 14, 2004, between BURKINA FASO 
 
(the Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) acting as an implementing agency of the Global Environment 
Facility (GEF) in respect of grant funds provided to the GEF Trust Fund by certain members 
of the Bank as participants of the GEF. 
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter from the Recipient, dated  
April 22, 2004, endorsing a program designed to improve the productivity and sustainability 
of rural resources in selected sub-watersheds (the Program), and declarin
g
the Recipient’s 
commitment to the execution of such program;  
(B) 
the Recipient has requested that the Bank support the Recipient’s execution 
of this Program through a series of grants over a period of approximately 15 years to be 
utilized by the Recipient in the implementation of the Program; 
(C)  
the Bank, pursuant to Resolution No. 91-5 of March 14, 1991 of the 
Executive Directors of the Bank, established the GEF to assist in the protection of the global 
environment and promote thereby environmentally sound and sustainable economic 
development; 
(D) 
following the restructuring of the GEF, such arrangements continued in 
place on the basis set forth in Resolution No. 94-2 of May 24, 1994, of the Executive 
Directors of the Bank which, 
inter alia
,
established the GEF Trust Fund and appointed the 
Bank as trustee of the GEF Trust Fund (Resolution No. 94-2); 
(E) 
 the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of the 
project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested assistance 
from the resources of the GEF Trust Fund for funding the Project, and said request having 
been approved in accordance with the provisions of the Instrument for the Establishment of 
the Restructured Global Environment Facility approved under Resolution No. 94-2;  
(F) 
the Recipient has obtained from the International Development Association 
financing towards the Baseline Project (as hereinafter defined) pursuant to the Development  
Credit  Agreement No. 3436 BUR of June 7, 2001; and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing, to extend 
the GEF Trust Fund Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement. 
Page  3
-
2
-
NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01 (a) The following provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to 
Loan and Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans of the Bank, dated May 30, 
1995 (as amended through October 6, 1999), with the modifications set forth in 
paragraph (b) of this Section (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement: 
(i) Article 
I; 
(ii) 
Sections 2.01 (2), (3), (4), (5), (6), (7), (8), (14), (15), (16), (18) and 
(21), 2.02 and 2.03; 
(iii) Section 
3.01; 
(iv) 
Sections 4.01 and 4.06; 
(v) Article 
V; 
(vi) 
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (c), (e), (f), (i) and (p), 6.03, 6.04 and 6.06; 
(vii) 
Section 8.01 (b); 
(viii) 
Sections 9.01 (a) and (c), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09; 
(ix) 
Sections 10.01, 10.03 and 10.04;  
(x) 
Article XI; and 
(xi) 
Sections 12.01 (c), 12.03 and 12.04. 
(vii) 
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows: 
(i) 
the term “Bank”, wherever used in the General Conditions, other 
than in Sections 2.01 (6), 5.01 (a) and 6.02 (f) thereof means the 
Bank acting as an implementing agency of the GEF, except that in 
Section 6.02, the term “Bank” shall also include the Bank acting in 
its own capacity; 
(ii) 
the term “Borrower”, wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the Recipient; 
Page  4
-
3
-
(iii) 
the term “Loan Agreement”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means this Agreement; 
(iv) 
the term “Loan” and “loan”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the GEF Trust Fund Grant; 
(v) 
the term “Loan Account”, wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account; 
(vi) 
a new subparagraph is added after subparagraph (o) in Section 6.02 
of the General Conditions, as follows: “an extraordinary situation 
shall have arisen in which any further disbursement under the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant would exceed the resources available for 
disbursement from the GEF.”; and 
(vii) 
Paragraph (c) of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions is modified 
to read as follows: 
“(c)  
Not later than six months before the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the 
Recipient and the Bank, the Recipient shall prepare and 
furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Recipient shall reasonably request, on the 
execution of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived 
and to be derived from it, the performance by the Recipient 
and the Bank of their respective obligations under the Grant 
Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the 
Grant.” 
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to this 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms 
have the following meanings: 
(a) 
“Baseline Project” means the Community-Based Rural Development 
Project, the Development Credit Agreement No. 3436 BUR of June 7, 2001, between the 
Recipient and the Association;  
(b)  
“Beneficiary” means an entity (including a village, group of villages, or a 
province) which meets the eligibility criteria specified in the Project Implementation Manual 
(as hereinafter defined), and to which or for whose benefit a Subgrant (as hereinafter 
defined) is made, or proposed to be made, for a Subproject under Part B of the Project; 
(c) “CFAF” 
means 
Franc de la Communauté Financière Africaine
,
the 
currency of the Recipient; 
Page  5
-
4
-
(d) 
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, works and 
consultants’ services referred to in Section 2.02 (a) of this Agreement; 
 
(e) 
“Environmental and Social Management Framework” or “ESMF” means the 
framework adopted by the Recipient on August 15, 2003, describing the environmental and 
social planning, review, approval, mitigation, monitoring, training, technical assistance, and 
institutional measures under the Project, referred to in Paragraph 9 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement; 
(f) 
 “Financial Monitoring  Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(g) 
“Fiscal Year” means the Recipient’s fiscal year commencing on January 1 
and ending on the following December 31; 
(h) 
“Integrated Ecosystem Management” or “IEM” means a comprehensive 
cross-sectoral and participatory approach to natural resource management planning and 
implementation on an ecosystem scale to achieve multiple and cross-cutting local, national 
and global benefits; 
(i) 
 “Local Investment Fund” means the fund referred to in Part B of the 
Project; 
(j) 
 “Midterm Review” means the midterm review referred to in paragraph 8 of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(k) 
 “PCU” means the Recipient’s Project Coordination Unit for the Project 
referred to in paragraph 5 of Schedule 4 to the Development Credit Agreement for the 
Baseline Project, signed between the Recipient and the International Development  
Association on June 7, 2001;  
 
(l) 
“Process Framework” or “PF” means the mechanism referred to in 
Paragraph 9 of  Schedule 4 to this Agreement and adopted by the Recipient on  
August 15, 2003, through which populations living in and around the areas affected by the 
Project shall participate in determining the restrictions to access to natural resources, the 
assessment of the impact of any such restrictions,  the determination of remedial measures to 
redress those impacts on segments of the local population,  and the resolution of any 
grievances, as well as the definition and implementation of a monitoring program to assess 
the adequacy of any remedial measure; 
(m) 
“Project Account” means the account referred to in Section 3.04 (a) of this 
Agreement; 
(n) 
 “Project Implementation Manual” means the manual of procedures and 
supporting handbooks for the Baseline Project, including: (i) the Administrative and 
Financial Procedures Manual; (ii) the Technical Manuals (guidelines for specific types of 
infrastructure investments); (iii) the Monitoring and Evaluation Manual; (iv) the Local 
Page  6
-
5
-
Investment Fund (LIF) Manual; and (v) the Environmental and Social Management 
Framework developed as revised to take into account the specificities of this Project, 
referred in paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(o)  
“Project Steering Committee” means the committee to be established 
pursuant to Section 6.01 (a), referred in paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, and 
also referred to in paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to the Development Credit Agreement for the 
Baseline Project;  
(p) 
“Project Technical and Scientific Advisory Network” means the network to 
be established pursuant to paragraph 3 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(q) 
 “Project Year” means the 12-month period beginning from the Effective 
Date and ending 12 months thereafter, and each successive 12-month period thereafter; 
(r) 
“Resettlement Policy Framework” or “RPF” means the framework dated  
July 30, 2003, outlining the modalities for land acquisition, resettlement and rehabilitation 
under the Project, and referred to in Paragraph 9 of  Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(s) 
 “Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) (i) of 
this Agreement; 
(t) 
 “Subgrant” means any of the subgrants referred to in Part B of the Project; 
(u) 
“Subgrant Agreement” means any of the agreements referred to in 
paragraph 7 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(v) 
 “Subproject” means any activity or group of activities to be carried out 
under Part B of the Project, financed or proposed to be financed through a Subgrant 
extended under Part B of the Project; and 
(w) 
 “90-Day Advance Account” means any of the advance accounts referred to 
in Section 2.02 (b) (ii) of this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
The GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the GEF Trust Fund Grant in an amount 
of four million five hundred thousand Dollars ($4,500,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant may be withdrawn from 
the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement for: (i) expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect 
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant; and (ii) amounts paid (or, if the Bank shall so 
Page  7
-
6
-
agree, to be paid) on account of withdrawals made under Subgrants in respect of the 
reasonable costs of goods, works and services required for Subgrants to be carried out under 
Part B of the Project, and in respect of which the withdrawal from the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Account is requested. 
(b) 
The Recipient may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
CFAF: (i) a special deposit account; and (ii) two 90-Day Advance Accounts in provinces (as 
the Recipient and the Bank shall agree upon), all said accounts in commercial banks on 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-
off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account and each 
respective 90-Day Advance Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2009, or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later date. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate  administrative, 
financial, engineering, technical and environmental practices and with due regard to 
ecological and environmental factors, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section and 
except as the Recipient and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall carry out the 
Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, 
works and consultants
’
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement. 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Recipient shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the 
Bank not later than six months before the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed 
for this purpose between the Recipient and the Bank, a plan for the future operation of the 
Project; and 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Recipient on said plan. 
Page  8
-
7
-
Section 3.04. Without any limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Recipient shall: 
(a) 
open, and thereafter maintain until the completion of the Project, a Project 
Account in CFAF in the Recipient’s Treasury (the Project Account), on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank; 
(b) 
deposit into the Project Account an initial deposit equivalent to 
CFAF 20,000,000 representing the Recipient’s contribution to the cost of the Project for the 
first six months of Project implementation, and every six months after the Initial Deposit, 
deposit into the Project Account such amounts as are estimated to be required for the 
ensuing six-months period as shall be agreed upon between the Recipient and the Bank; and 
(c) 
ensure that the amounts deposited into the Project Account in accordance 
with paragraph (b) of this Section shall be used exclusively for expenditures under the 
Project not otherwise financed from the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Conditions
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts,  and prepare financial statements in accordance with 
consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the 
operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
(b) The 
Recipient 
shall: 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each Fiscal Year (or other period agreed to by the Bank) 
audited, in accordance with consistently applied auditing standards 
acceptable to the Bank, by independent auditors, acceptable to the 
Bank; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, (or such other 
period agreed to by the Bank), (A) certified copies of the financial 
statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for such year 
(or other period agreed to by the Bank), as so audited, and (B) an 
opinion on such statements by said auditors, in scope and detail 
satisfactory to the Bank; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such records 
and accounts, and the audit of such financial statements, and 
concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
Page  9
-
8
-
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant Account were made on the basis of reports referred to in Part A.5 of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement (Report-based Disbursements) or on the basis of statements of 
expenditure, the Recipient shall: 
(i) 
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the audit 
report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(ii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iii) 
ensure that such reports and statement of expenditures are included 
in the audit  for each Fiscal Year  (or other period agreed to by the 
Bank), referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section. 
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the Recipient’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in paragraph 8 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement,  the Recipient shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank a Financial Monitoring Report, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank, which: 
(i) 
 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Grant, and explains variances 
between the actual and planned uses of such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and explains 
variances between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and 
(iii)  
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the end 
of the period covered by said report. 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after the 
end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period from the 
incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first calendar 
quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after each 
subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar quarter. 
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Bank 
Page  10
-
9
-
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional event is specified, namely, that a situation shall have arisen which shall make it 
improbable that the Program or a significant part thereof will be carried out. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effectiveness; Termination 
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as conditions to the effectiveness of 
the GEF Trust Fund Grant within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General 
Conditions:  
(a)  
the Recipient has: (i) opened the Project Account; and (ii) paid the Initial 
Deposit into the Project Account;
 
(b) 
the Recipient has adopted the  Project Implementation Manual in form and 
in substance satisfactory to the Bank, including the procurement plan for the first eighteen 
months of the Project; 
(c)  
the Project Steering Committee has adopted the work program for the first 
year of the Project Implementation; 
(d) 
the Recipient has recruited the independent auditors referred to in  
Section 4.01 (b) (i) of this Agreement, under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement; 
 
(e) 
the Recipient has recruited the accountant for the PCU, under terms and 
conditions acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement; 
 
(f) 
the Recipient has adapted the financial management system (manual and 
software) to the Project specificities in a manner acceptable to the Bank;  
(g) 
the Recipient has nominated the Project coordinator within the PCU; and  
 
(h) 
the Recipient has submitted to the Bank terms of reference, acceptable to the 
Bank, for collecting the data necessary to measure the impact of the Project. 
Section 6.02. The date 90 days after the date of this Agreement is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
Section 6.03. This Agreement shall continue in effect until the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant has been fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled their 
obligations hereunder. 
ARTICLE VII 
Page  11
-
10
-
Representatives of the Recipient; Addresses  
Section 7.01. The Ministry of the Recipient at the time responsible for finance and 
budget is designated as representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of 
the General Conditions. 
Section 7.02 The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 
of the General Conditions: 
For the Recipient: 
Ministère des Finances et du Budget 
 
03
BP 7008 
 
Ouagadougou 03 
 
Burkina Faso 
 
Cable address:   
     Telex: 
     
      Facsimile: 
 
SEGEGOUV 
5555 
(226) 31 27 15 or 
 
(226) 31 54 09 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address: 
Telex: 
 
INTBAFRAD 
248423 (MCI)Washington, D.C.   64145 
(MCI) 
Page  12
-
11
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the 
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
BURKINA FASO 
 
By /s/ 
Tertius 
Zongo 
Authorized Representative 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT as an implementing agency of the Global 
Environment Facility 
 
By 
 /s/ A. David Craig 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  13
-
12
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
A.
General 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the GEF Trust Fund Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the GEF Trust Fund Grant to 
each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each 
Category: 
Category
Amount of the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant 
Allocated  
(Expressed in 
Dollars 
)
%
of
Expenditures 
to be Financed
(1) Vehicles and equipment 
100,000 
100% of foreign expenditures 
and 80% of local 
expenditures 
(2)  Consultants’ Services   
and Audits 
 
800,000 
100% of expenditures relating 
to foreign individual 
consultants; 
80% of expenditures relating 
to local individual consultants;   
and   
80% of expenditures relating 
to local and foreign firms 
(3) Training and Workshops 
400,000 
100% 
(4) Subgrants under Part B 
of the Project 
2,000,000 
100% of the amount 
disbursed 
(5) Operating Costs 
800,000 
80% 
(6) Unallocated 
400,000 
_________ 
 
TOTAL 4,500,000 
======== 
 
Page  14
-
13
-
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule, the terms: 
(a) 
“foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any country 
other than that of the Recipient for goods or services supplied from the territory of any 
country other than that of the Recipient;  
(b) 
“local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the Recipient or 
for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Recipient; provided, however, that if 
the currency of the Recipient is also that of another country from the territory of which 
goods or services are supplied, expenditures in such currency for such goods or services 
shall be deemed to be “foreign expenditures”;  
(c) 
“training and workshops” includes scholarships stipendiums, purchase of 
training materials, rental of training facilities, health insurance for travel abroad, per diem 
and travel costs. 
(d) 
“operating costs” means the incremental operating costs arising under the 
Project on account of maintenance of vehicles, fuel, equipment, office supplies, utilities, 
consumables, office rent, travel, per diem and allowances, travel and accommodation, and 
reasonable bank charges related to the operation of the Special Account, but excluding 
salaries of the Recipient’s civil servants; 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made 
in respect of: 
(a) 
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and  
(b)  
expenditures under Category (4) for any Subgrant unless such Subgrant has 
been approved by the Bank in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of 
paragraphs 6, 7 and 9 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, and the eligibility criteria and terms 
and conditions set forth in the Project Implementation Manual. 
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account to be 
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for: (i) works under contracting costing less 
then $500,000 equivalents each; (ii) goods under contracts costing less than $250,000 
equivalent each; (iii) employment of consulting firms under contracts costing less than 
$100,000 equivalent each; (iv) employment of individual consultants under contracts costing 
less than $50,000 equivalent each; and (v) Subgrants, training, studies and operating costs, 
all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient. 
5. 
The Recipient may request withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account to 
be made on the basis of reports to be submitted to the Bank in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank, such reports to include the FMR and any other information as the 
Bank shall specify by notice to the  Recipient. In the case of the first such request submitted 
to the Bank before any withdrawal has been made from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account, 
the Recipient shall submit to the Bank only a statement with the projected sources and 
Page  15
-
14
-
applications of funds for the Project for the six-month period following the date of such 
request. 
B.
Special Account
1. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account has 
been opened, withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account of amounts to be 
deposited into the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
if the Recipient is not making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and  
 
(b) 
if the Recipient is making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.  
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account and the 90-Day Advance Accounts shall be 
made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures. For each payment made out of the Special 
Account and the 90-Day Advance Accounts, the Recipient shall, at such time as the Bank 
shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing 
that such payment was made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.1 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not be 
required to make further deposits into the Special Account:  
 
(a) 
   if the Bank, at any time, is not satisfied that the reports referred to in  
Part A. 5 of this Schedule 1 adequately provide the information required for Report-based 
Disbursements;  
 
(b) 
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals for payment 
of Eligible Expenditures should be made by the Recipient directly from the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant Account; or 
 
(c) 
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period of 
time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to 
be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of: (A) the records 
and accounts for the Special Account or any of the 90-Day Advance Accounts; or (B) the 
records and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were Report-
based Disbursements or were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, as the case 
may be.  
4. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Part B.1 of this Schedule if, at any time, the Bank shall 
have notified the Recipient of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the 
Recipient to make withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account pursuant to  
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Bank shall determine, in 
its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account may be made and what 
Page  16
-
15
-
procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall notify the Recipient of its 
determination. 
5. 
(a) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account and any of the 90-Day Advance Account was made for an expenditure which is not 
an Eligible Expenditure, or was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the 
Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, provide such additional evidence as 
the Bank may request, or deposit into the Special Account or any of the 90-Day Advance 
Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into 
the Special Account shall be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made 
such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account or any of the 90-Day Advance Account will not be required to cover 
payments for Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following such 
determination, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank 
such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account and the 90-Day Advance Account.  
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to subparagraph (a), (b) or (c) of this 
paragraph 6 shall be credited to the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account for subsequent 
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Development Credit 
Agreement. 
6. 
90-Day Advance Accounts 
(a)  
The Recipient shall withdraw from the Special Account and deposit into 
each 90-Day Advance Account sufficient funds to facilitate implementation of the Project, 
provided that the Recipient shall at no time cause the amount held in any 90-Day Advance 
Account to exceed the equivalent of $100,000
 
each; 
(b) 
payments out of 90-Day Advance Accounts shall only be made for eligible 
expenditures in respect of Categories (1) to (4) set forth in the table in paragraph A.1 of this 
Schedule; 
(c) 
any withdrawal from any 90-Day Advance Account must be justified to the 
Recipient by the same documentation and other evidence regarding eligible expenditures 
provided for under paragraph B.2 of this Schedule; and 
(d) 
if the Bank or the Recipient shall have determined at any time that any 
amount outstanding on any 90-Day Advance Account will not be required to cover further 
payments for eligible expenditures, the relevant implementing agency shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank or the Recipient, refund to the relevant Special Account such 
outstanding amount. 
Page  17
-
16
-
Page  18
-
17
-
Annex A 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are Not 
Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Annex, the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount 
equivalent to CFAF 300,000,000 to be withdrawn from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account 
and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule, provided, 
however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be 
limited to an amount equivalent to CFAF 200,000,000 until the aggregate amount of 
withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed $1,000,000.  
2. 
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish 
the Special Account shall be made as follows:  
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish to 
the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts 
which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of each such 
request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall have 
requested.  
 
(b) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall 
specify.  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall furnish to the Bank 
the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.2 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On 
the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the 
GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the 
Recipient shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for Eligible Expenditures. Each such 
deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories. 
3. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account, 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit minus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by 
Page  19
-
18
-
notice to the Recipient.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent 
that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the 
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for 
Eligible Expenditures. 
Page  20
-
19
-
Annex B 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are 
Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
Withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account shall be deposited by the 
Bank into the Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank 
from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.  
2. 
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Grant, the Bank 
shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and 
deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so 
requested; and (b) the amount which the Bank has determined, based on the reports referred 
to in Part A.5 of this Schedule 1 applicable to such withdrawal application accompanying 
said application, is required to be deposited in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during 
the six-month period following the date of such reports. 
Page  21
-
20
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
 
The objective of the Project is to strengthen the capacity of rural communities to 
undertake an integrated management of their ecosystems, so as to reverse the degradation of 
their natural resource base, and thereby alleviate, in a sustainable manner, poverty and 
vulnerability. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as 
the Recipient and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives: 
Part A
:
Local Capacity Building 
Strengthening the technical and organizational capacity of rural communities and 
groups of communities to plan, implement and monitor IEM Subprojects, through the 
provision of technical advisory services, training, and the acquisition of equipment, as set 
forth in the Project Implementation Manual. 
Part B
:
Local Investment Fund/Subgrants 
Establishment of a local investment fund to provide Subgrants to Beneficiaries for 
the carrying out of IEM Subprojects, including, 
inter alia:
 (a) promotion of zero-tillage and 
conservation agriculture in lowlands and adjacent uplands; (b) testing and dissemination of 
innovative technologies for land rehabilitation; (c) testing and dissemination of innovative 
agro-sylvo-pastoral management practices; (d) support to biodiversity promoting enterprises 
(medicinal plants or lowland aquaculture); (e) rehabilitation and biodiversity conservation of 
lowland areas with specific cultural functions; (f) protection of river banks against livestock 
damage; (g) creation of arboreta and the protection of sacred woods; (h) the identification 
and improvement of wildlife routes; (i) the stabilization of the banks of fishing waters; (j) 
soil and water conservation works; and (k) reforestation and forest management. 
Part C:
Institutional Capacity Building 
Strengthening the capacity of national, regional and provincial entities and 
institutions to incorporate an integrated ecosystem management approach in their 
development planning processes through the provision of technical advisory services, 
training, workshops, equipment and the financing of incremental operating costs. 
Part D
:
Building Partnerships for Sustainable IEM Financing
Building the capacity at the national and local level to mobilize national and 
international funds to address environmental and resource management issues of local, 
regional and potentially global significance, through the provision of technical advisory 
services, training, workshops, equipment, and the financing of incremental operating costs.  
Part E
:
Administration, Monitoring and Evaluation
Page  22
-
21
-
Support to the Project Coordination Unit of the Baseline Project for the 
management, monitoring and evaluation related to the implementation of the Project through 
the provision of technical support services, financing of incremental operating costs, 
vehicles, equipment, and provision of training to said unit. 
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2009. 
Page  23
-
22
-
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A
:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of 
the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 
1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule. 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more each. 
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
(a) 
Works estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 
3.4 of the Guidelines. 
(b) 
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 
3.4 of the Guidelines. 
2. 
International or National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $35,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the 
Guidelines. Where such goods are not available, they may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.  Solicitations will be issued in writing to at least 
three reputable suppliers. 
Page  24
-
23
-
3. 
Procurement from UN Agencies
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured 
by Inter-Agency Purchase and Service Organization of the United Nations or United 
Nations’ Children’s Fund, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.9 of the 
Guidelines. 
4. Community 
Participation
Goods and works required for Part B of the Project shall be procured in accordance 
with procedures acceptable to the Bank.   
5. 
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $35,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured 
under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from 
three (3) qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation 
shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required 
completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant drawings, 
where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price 
quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources to complete the 
contract successfully.
 
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for 
its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of 
said paragraph 1. 
2. Prior 
Review
With respect to each contract for goods and works estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $250,000 or more, and $500,000 or more, respectively, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
 
Page  25
-
24
-
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Sections I and IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by World 
Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997, 
January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 thereto, 
Appendix 2 thereto and the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule. 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based 
selection of consultants. 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph. The 
shortlist of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per 
contract may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. Least-cost 
Selection
Services for financial and technical audits estimated to cost less than $50,000 
equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for architectural design, civil works supervision, and preparation of bidding 
documents estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
Page  26
-
25
-
3. 
Single Source Selection
Local community support services which are estimated to cost less than $5,000 
equivalent per contract may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
4. Individual 
Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines (including seminar and small studies) shall be procured under 
contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 
5.1 through 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed plan 
for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to: (i) each contract for the employment of: (A) consulting 
firms estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, and (B) individual consultants 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more; (ii) each contract for services to be 
procured using single-source selection procedures; (iii) consulting services for critical 
assignment, as determined by the Bank; and (iv) amendments to each contract for consulting 
services raising the estimated cost above the prior threshold amounts in this 
 
subparagraph (a), the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
Page  27
-
26
-
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Implementation Program
 
1. Project 
Implementation 
Manual 
(a) 
The Recipient shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a Project 
Implementation Manual in a form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.  
(b) 
The Recipient shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Project 
Implementation Manual, and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, shall not amend, 
abrogate or waive any provision of the Project Implementation Manual, if such amendment, 
abrogation or waiver may, in the opinion of the Bank, materially or adversely affect the 
carrying out of the Project. 
2. 
Project Steering Committee
(a)  
The Project Steering Committee shall be responsible for guiding the 
Project’s implementation and reviewing and approving the annual work programs and 
budgets. 
(b)  
The Recipient shall maintain the Project Steering Committee in a form and 
with functions and resources satisfactory to the Bank. 
3.  
Project Technical and Scientific Advisory Network
(a) 
The Recipient shall, within six months after the Effective Date, establish and 
thereafter maintain, until the completion of the Project, the Project Technical and Scientific 
Advisory Network,  in a form and with functions and resources satisfactory to the Bank. 
 (b)  
The Project Technical Advisory Network shall be responsible for providing 
periodic scientific and technical guidance during Project implementation. 
4. 
Project Coordination Unit 
(a)  
The Recipient shall maintain the PCU in a form and with functions and 
resources satisfactory to the Bank.  The Recipient shall recruit and assign to the PCU the 
following personnel with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank: (i) a Project 
coordinator; and (ii) an accountant. 
(b)  
The PCU shall be responsible for the responsible for the day-to-day 
implementation of the Project, including, 
inter alia
:
(a) manage the work program at the 
national level; (b) manage the donors contributions to the Project; (c) carry out procurement; 
(d) provide technical support to the provincial teams for each region; 
 
(e) organize workshops at the national level and regional level in support of the Project’s 
objectives; and (e) monitor and evaluate the implementation of the work program and its 
impact.   
Page  28
-
27
-
5. 
Ministerial and Provincial Procurement Commissions
The Recipient, in order to facilitate procurement under the Project, shall maintain 
the Ministerial and Provincial Procurement Commissions established under the Baseline 
Project in a form and with functions and resources satisfactory to the Bank. 
6. 
Eligibility Criteria for Subgrants
Without limitation on the provisions of paragraph 1 (b) above, no Subgrant shall be 
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Grant unless the PCU shall have determined, 
on the basis of an appraisal conducted in accordance with the guidelines set forth in the 
Project Implementation Manual, that the Subgrant satisfies the eligibility criteria specified in 
more detail in the Project Implementation Manual, which shall include the following: 
(a) 
the Subgrant shall be for IEM activities included in the sub-watershed plan 
developed and adopted in accordance with the guidelines set forth in the Project 
Implementation Manual; 
(b) 
the Subgrant shall be implemented by a duly represented Beneficiary; 
(c) 
the Subgrant shall be economically, financially, and technically viable in 
accordance with the standards specified in the Project Implementation Manual; 
(d) 
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Beneficiary shall provide not 
less than 20% of the estimated costs of the Subgrant in the form of cash, materials, labor, or 
other services; and 
(e) 
the Subgrant shall be in compliance with the standards set forth in the 
applicable laws of the Recipient relating to health, safety, and environmental protection. 
7. 
Terms and Conditions of Subgrants made under the Local Investment Fund
For purposes of funding IEM activities included in the sub-watershed plan, the 
Recipient shall enter into Subgrant Agreements with the Beneficiaries under terms and 
conditions described in the Project Implementation Manual and satisfactory to the Bank, 
which shall include the following: 
(a) 
the Beneficiaries carry out, operate, and manage the Subgrants for which the 
Subgrant is made with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, 
financial, managerial and environmental standards and practices; 
(b) 
the Beneficiaries maintain adequate records for each Subgrant; 
(c) 
the Beneficiaries ensure that all goods, works and  services to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Subgrant are procured at a reasonable price, account being taken also of 
other relevant factors such as: (i) time of delivery and efficiency and reliability of the goods 
Page  29
-
28
-
and availability of maintenance facilities and spare parts therefore; and (ii) in the case of 
services, the quality of such services and the competence of the parties rendering such services; 
(d) 
the Beneficiaries use the goods and services to be financed out of the 
proceeds of a Subgrant exclusively in the carrying out of the Subproject; 
(e) 
the Recipient reserves the right to inspect, by itself or jointly with 
representatives of the Bank, if the Bank shall so request, any goods, works, plants and 
construction included in the Subgrant, the operation thereof, and any relevant records and 
documents; 
 (f) 
the Beneficiaries provide all such information as the Bank or the Recipient 
shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the administration, operations and 
financial condition of the Beneficiaries and to the benefits to be derived from the Subgrant; 
(g) 
the Recipient  causes technical and financial audits to be carried out for the 
investments made under the watershed plan of the Beneficiaries.  These audits are to be carried 
out on a regular basis at a frequency detailed in the annual work programs and are meant to 
verify the technical quality of investments made and the appropriateness of financial 
management procedures at the level of the Beneficiaries;  and 
(h) 
the Recipient suspends or terminates the right of the Beneficiaries to the use 
of the proceeds of the Subgrant upon failure by such Beneficiaries to perform its obligations 
under the Subgrant Agreement. 
8. 
Annual and Midterm Review
(a) 
The Recipient shall furnish to the Bank for its review and comments: 
(i) 
not later than November 30 of each year, commencing on 
November 30, 2004, or such later date as the Bank may agree, until 
the completion of the Project, the draft work program with detailed 
indicators and calendar, and the related procurement plan and 
budget for the next Fiscal Year; and 
(ii) 
not later than March 31 of each year, commencing on 
March 31, 2005, or such later date as the Bank may agree, until the 
completion of the Project, an annual report setting forth, 
inter alia
,
(A) a summary of the results of the monitoring and evaluation 
activities performed pursuant to subparagraph (a) of this paragraph, 
and (B) progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project, 
including an analysis of any divergence between planned and actual 
outcomes. 
(b) 
(i) 
By April 30 of each year, commencing April 30, 2005, or such later 
date as the Bank may agree, the Recipient and the Bank shall carry 
out an annual review of the Project (the Annual Review); such 
Page  30
-
29
-
Annual Review shall cover the progress achieved in the execution of 
the Project, including, 
inter alia
,
the proposed work program and 
related budgets to be carried out during the following year. 
(ii) 
Following the said Annual Review, the Recipient shall carry out the 
said work programs in accordance with the modalities and 
procedures approved by the Bank and in accordance with the Project 
Implementation Manual. 
(c) 
By March 31, 2007, or such later date as the Recipient and the Bank shall 
agree upon, the Recipient and the Bank shall carry out a Midterm Review.   
(i) 
The Recipient shall take all necessary actions to ensure the 
participation of Donors, NGOs, and Beneficiaries in this Midterm 
Review.  The Midterm Review shall cover the progress achieved in 
the implementation of the Project, and 
(ii) 
the Recipient shall prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to 
the Bank, and furnish to the Bank, on or about December 31, 2004,
 
a
report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation 
activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the 
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the 
period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period 
following such date. 
9. 
Environmental and Social Management Framework, Process Framework and 
Resettlement Policy Framework 
(a) 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall:  
carry out or cause the Project to be carried in accordance with the environmental, social and 
resettlement guidelines, rules and procedures defined in the ESMF, PF and RPF (including 
the preparation and implementation of the appropriate resettlement plans for compensation, 
resettlement and rehabilitation, in accordance with the RPF, said plans to be in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Bank); and  
(ii) 
not amend or waive, or permit to be amended or waived, the ESMF, 
PF or RPF, or any provisions thereof, in a manner which, in the 
opinion of the Bank may materially and adversely affect the 
implementation of the Project. 
 
(b) 
The Recipient shall ensure that: (a) all measures necessary for the carrying 
out of the ESMF, PF and RPF are taken in a timely manner; and (b) progress reports referred 
to in Paragraph 8 of this schedule shall include adequate information on monitoring of the 
measures defined in the ESMF, PF and RPF. 
 
Page  31
-
30
-
Page  32
-
31
-
SCHEDULE 5 
Performance Indicators 
For the purposes of this Agreement, the performance indicators to be used for the 
Project shall include the following, said indicators being subject to modifications by 
agreement between the Recipient and the Bank: 
1. 
Positive trend in an aggregate index of plant and insect diversity, soil organic 
content, grass and tree biomass in three out of four Project sites in 5 years; 
2. 
Positive trend in an aggregate index measuring comprehension and adoption of IEM 
approach by targeted communities at all Project sites in 5 years; 
3. 
Number of technologies and innovative IEM mechanisms adopted by Project site 
communities equals 2 at each Project site in 5 years; 
4. 
Number of functional inter-village councils for sub-watershed management issues, 
as measured by point system defined in the PIM equals 4 in 5 years; 
5. 
Degree of completion for the sub-watershed IEM plan as measured by point system  
defined in PIM equals 18 for the 4 Project sites; and 
6. 
Number of new global partnership supporting IEM or carbon sequestration activities 
equals 2 in 5 years. 
 
