                                              Document of
                                          The World Bank

                                      FOROFFICIAL USEONLY

                                                                              ReportNo: 28796-BUR




                                PROJECTAPPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                                 ONA

                                   PROPOSEDGRANT FROMTHE
                         GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY TRUST FUND

                               INTHEAMOUNT OFUS$4.5 MILLION

                                                TO THE

                                GOVERNMENTOF BURKINA FASO

                                               FORTHE

                 SAHEL INTEGRATED LOWLAND ECOSYSTEMMANAGEMENT
                             INSUPPORTOFTHEFIRSTPHASEOF THE
            NATIONALPROGRAMFORDECENTRALIZEDRURAL DEVELOPMENT

                                             May26, 2004




Environmentallyand Socially Sustainable DevelopmentIV
Country Department15
Africa Region




This documenthas a restricteddistributionandmay be usedby recipients only inthe performance oftheir
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                       (Exchange Rate Effective March 22,2004)
                          Currency Unit = CFA Franc (CFAF)
                                    535 CFAF =US$1
                                  US$0.00187= lCFAF


                                      FISCALYEAR
                                 January 1-- December 31

                        ABBREVIATIONSAND ACRONYMS

4PL       4daptable ProgramLoan
2AS       Zountry Assistance Strategy
:AS       Comitd d 'Action Spdcifque (Special Action Committee)
ClBRD     Zommunity-Based Rural Development (PNGTZ)
X T P     Cadre de concertation technique provincial (Provincial Technical Coordination Committee)
ZDD       Community-Driven Development
CFAF      Franc de la Communautd Financibre Africaine (West African Franc)
CCIV      Cadre de Concertation Inter-Villageoise (Inter-village Sub-watershed Management Committee)
CPAT      Commission Provinciale de llmknagement du Territoire(Provincial Commission for Land
          Admistration)
CVGT      Commission Villageoisede Gestion du Terroir (Village LandManagement Committee)
CIVGT     Commission Inter- Villageoisede Gestion de Terroir (Inter-Village Land Management
          Committee)
CONEDD    Conseil Nationalpour I'Environnement et le Ddveloppement Durable (National Council for the
          Environment and Sustainable Development)
D ~ A T   Direction Gdndrale de lldministration Territoriale(General Directorate for Land
          Administration)
DGE       Direction Gdndralede I'Environnement (General Directorate for the Environment)
DGIRH     Direction Gdndrale de l'lnventaire des Ressources Hydrauliques (General Directorate for Water
          Inventories)
DRED      Direction Rdgionale d'Economie et de Ddveloppement (Regional Office of the Ministry o f
          Economy and Development)
ESMF      Environmental and Social Management Framework
EU        EuropeanUnion
FA0       Food and Agriculture Organization
GOBF      Government o fBurkina Faso
IDA       International Development Association
IEM       Integrated Ecosystem Management
IFAD      International Fundfor Agricultural Development
INERA     Institut National de I'Environnement et des Recherches Agricoles (National Institute o f
          Environmental and Agricultural Research)
LIF       Local Investment Fund
LPDRD     Lettre de Politique de Ddveloppement Rural Decentralisd (Policy Letter for Decentralized Rural
          Development)
MAHRH     MinistGre de llgriculture, Hydruulique et RessourcesHalieutiques (Ministryo f Agriculture,
          Water and Fisheries)
MAT       MinistGre de lldministration Territoriale (Ministryo f LandManagement)
M&E       Monitoring and Evaluation
NCS       National Steering Committee
NEAP      National Environmental Action Plan
NGO       Non-Governmental Organization
NRM       Natural Resource Management

                                                               FOROFFICIAL USEONLY




     PAGEN     Partnership for ImprovedManagement ofNatural Ecosystems
     PAGIS     Plan d'Action pour la Gestion et Investissement du Sol (National Soil Fertility Action Plan)
     PAN/LCD   Plan d'Action Nationalpour la Lutte Contre la Dtsertification (National Action Planfor the Fight
               Against Desertification)
     PCU       Project Coordination Unit(Coordination Nationale du Projet)
     PCT       Provincial Coordination Team
     P I M     Project Implemetation Manual
     PNGTZ     Deuxibme Programme National de Gestion des Terroirs
     PNDRD     Programme National de Dtveloppement Rural De'centralisk (National Program for Decentralized
               Rural Development)
     PPP       Pilot Pastoral Perimeters Program
     PRSP      Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
     PSB       Programme Sahel Burkinabt (Multidonor funded local development programinSahel region)
     STAN       Scientific and Technical Advisory Network
     TOD        Textes d'orientation sur la Dkcentralisation (Decentralization Laws)
     UNDP      UnitedNations Development Program




                                     Vice President:     Callisto E.Madavo
                                  Country Director:      A. DavidCraig
                                   Sector Manager:       Mary A. Barton-Dock
                                Task Team Leader:        Jane C. Hopkins




This document hasa restricteddistributionandmay be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. I t s contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without World Bank authorization.


                                           BURKINAFASO
               SAHEL INTEGRATEDLOWLANDECOSYSTEMMANAGEMENT


                                             CONTENTS




A. ProgramPurpose andProject Development Objective                                      Page

   1. Programpurpose and programphasing                                                   3
   2. Project development objective                                                       4
   3. Key performance indicators                                                          4

B. Strategic Context

   1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project
   2. Main sector issues and Government strategy
   3. Sector issuesto be addressedby the project and strategic choices
   4. Programdescriptionand performance triggers for subsequent loans

C. Program and Project Description Summary

   1:Project components                                                                    9
   2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                       12
   3. Benefits and target population                                                      12
   4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                       14

D. ProjectRationale

   1. Project altematives considered and reasonsfor rejection                             15
   2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies       16
   3. Lessons leamed and reflected in the project design                                  18
   4. Indications ofborrower and recipient commitment and ownership                       20
   5. Value added o f Bank and Global support inthis project                              20

E. Summary Project Analysis

   1. Economic                                                                            20
   2. Financial                                                                           21
   3. Technical                                                                           22
   4. Institutional                                                                       23
   5. Environmental                                                                       24
   6. Social                                                                              25
   7. SafeguardPolicies                                                                   26

F. Sustainability and Risks

   1. Sustainability                                                27
   2. Criticalrisks                                                 27
   3. Possible controversial aspects                                29


G. Main Conditions

   1. Effectiveness Condition                                       29
   2. Other                                                         29

H. Readinessfor Implementation                                      30

I.CompliancewithBankPolicies                                        30



Annexes

Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                     31
Annex 2: DetailedProject Description                                36
Annex 3: EstimatedProject Costs                                     45
Annex 4: Incremental Cost Analysis                                  46
Annex 5:   Financial Summary                                        58
Annex 6: (A) Procurement Arrangements                               59
           (B)Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements    65
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                68
Annex 8:   Documents inthe Project File                             69
Annex 9: Statement o f Loans and Credits                            70
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                       71
Annex 11: STAP Roster Technical Review                              73




MAP@)
IBRD33301

                                                 BURKINA FASO
                                 Sahel IntegratedLowlandEcosystemManagement
                                       Project Appraisal Document
                                              Africa RegionalOffice
                                                     AFTS4

Date: May 26, 2004                                       Team Leader: Jane C. Hopkins
Sector Manager: Mary A. Barton-Dock                      Sector(s): General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector
Country Director: A. DavidCraig                          (100%)
Project ID: PO70871                                      Theme(s): Environmentalpolicies and institutions (P),
Focal Area: M Multi-focal area
                 -                                       Biodiversity (P), Other environment and naturalresources
                                                         management(S)




                                                         Commitment         Closing  I
                          %      US$ m         US$ m         Date
4PL 1                    91.6       0.41         4.91    0510112004        1213112009 Governmentof Burkina Faso
   Loan/                           (IDA-
   Credit                         funded
                                 baseline
                                  project                                 1
                                                                          ~


                                 provides
                                 19.11 in
           I                 Ifinancing -
                                Annex4)
                       II    I
APL2
   Creditl I1    7.50  I 90.0I      0.83   II     8.33    0510112009       1213112014 Governmentof Burkina Faso
   Loan/      (subject
              to GEF

APL3       I approval) I
                 8.00    90.0I       0.89  I      8.89    05101/2014       12131/2019 Governmentof Burkina Faso




                                                                                      I -
 [ ]Loan          [ ]Credit     [XI Grant      [ ]Guarantee        1 1    ither:
For LoanslCreditslOthers:
Amount (US$m): 4.5

BORROWEWRECIPIENT                                                           0.26   I         0.00    1         0.26
LOCAL COMMUNITIES                                                                                              0.15
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY                                     II          3.69             o'oo
                                                                                             0.81    1I        4.50
Total:                                                                      4.11   I         0.81              4.9 I

                                                       TER AND FISHERIES
DeuxiemeProgrammeNationalde Gestiondes Terroirs (PNGT2)
Address: BP 1487OUAGADOUGOU01BURKINAFASO




                                                  - 2 -

A. Program Purpose and Project Development Objective
1. Programpurposeandprogramphasing:
Burkina Faso is among the ten least developed countries in the world, with agriculture and livestock
accounting for 32% o f GDP, 92% o f labor force and 60% o f exports. Industry accounts for 28% o f GDP
and 3% o f labor force and i s largely based on agriculture.      Livelihoods are linked to environmental
resources through wood harvesting for firewood and as a buildingmaterial. Wood represents 96% o f the
domestic energy consumed, and the annual loss o f wooded surfaces is 10,000 ha per year. Other losses o f
biodiversity occur through bush fires, unsustainable herding practices (cutting branches and bushes) and
unsustainable farming practices. Water erosion from short, heavy rains causes soil degradation, which,
added to persistent drought, increases desertification. About 87% o f the population is engaged in
subsistence agriculture and nomadic stock keeping, generally marked by low productivity. The proportion
o f the population living below the poverty line is 45%, most o f which are rural poor, who are increasingly
dependent on a declining naturalresourcebase.

Burkina Faso has developed a number o f long-term national strategies and action plans to address these
issues. These include, inter alia, the National Environment Action Plan, the National Strategy and Action
Plan for Biological Diversity, the National Desertification Mitigation Action Plan, the National Soil
Fertility Management Strategy and Action Plan, and the National Framework for Climate Change
Mitigation. A common denominator in all o f these plans is that they can only be effectively implemented
through decentralized institutions and grass-roots activities that are demand-driven and managed by local
communities. The Sahel Integrated Lowland Ecosystem Management (SILEM) program is designed to
complement Burkina Faso's National Community-Based Rural Development (CBRD) program (the
baseline Project) by introducing a landscape dimension and an Integrated Ecosystem Management (EM)
approach to local development planning. It will thus assist the Government in effectively implementing
national actionplans aimed at arresting and reversing natural resource degradation.

The purpose o f SILEM i s the sustainable improvement in the productive capacity o f rural resources
(natural, physical, human and financial) in selected sub-watersheds. It aims at providing local governments
and rural communities with adequate capacity and incentives for IEM as a means o f improving the natural
resource base, thereby reducing poverty and vulnerability. It will do so by providing `ear-marked' GEF
finds within the baseline Project to: (i)   provide rural communities with greater incentives to request and
implement sound environmental management and conservation sub-projects; and (ii)       assist the Government
inestablishing adequatedecentralized watershed management and environmental protection institutions.

The program focuses specifically on lowlands due to their unique physical and socio-economic
characteristics. Because o f their water-retention capacity, lowlands are a `premium' in the semi-arid
environment o f Burkina Faso. They are used intensively for multiple purposes by a variety o f users
resulting in degradation with negative implications for neighboring `upland' areas. By developing and
promoting IEMplanning and management tools at the sub-watershed level, SILEM aims to reduce pressure
 on fragile lowland ecosystems, which are vital resources for maintaining biodiversity and combating
 desertification indryland regions o f Africa.

 SILEM is designed as afifteen-year program, financed in three consecutive five-year project phases to
 provide incremental support to each o f the three phases o f the baseline Project. The first phase o f the
 SILEM will focus on developing the local and institutional capacity necessary for applying an IEM
 approach. It will develop the instruments and test program components/instruments with communities
 living inselected watersheds o f four provinces. The second phase will c o n f m and consolidate results from
 the first phase while extending the program to additionalprovinces. The thirdphasewill replicate the model



                                                      - 3 -

nationwide.

2. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The project development objective is to improve the resource management practices in targeted
sub-watersheds through an integrated ecosystemmanagement approach.

3. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The performance o f the SILEM will be assessed through changes in the following indicators, some
compared with non-intervention areas, over the life o f the project. The linkages with specific
component-related objectives are shown inthe project design summary inAnnex 1.

The following indicators will be common to all three phasesof the Program, as the second and thirdphases
are mainly designed to scale-up geographically the activities of the first phase:

    e    Positive trends in soil organic content, plant and insect diversity index and grass/treebiomass;
    0    Rate o f adoption of IEMpractices andnew sustainable farming technologies;
    e    Capacity improvement of inter-village councils for sub-watershedmanagement issues;
    0    Degree and quality ofthe planningprocess leadingto sub-watershedmanagement plan;
    e    Success rate inIEM subproject implementation;
    e    Number o f new global partnership supporting IEMor carbon sequestration activities;
    e    Degree of efficiency o f the impact monitoring system.

B. Strategic Context
1.Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goalsupported bythe project: (see Annex 1)
Documentnumber: 25458-BUR Date of latestCAS discussion:3/12/2003 (CAS Progress Report)

This Project supports the rural poverty reduction objectives of the Government's Poverty Reduction
Strategy Paper (PRSP) and the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) by increasing the productivity
of rural assets (labor and land) through the conservation and sustainable use of natural resources. The last
full CAS (11/3/2000) identifies SILEM as a 15-year GEF-financed APL to enhance environmental
objectives o f the national Community-Based Rural Development Program by incorporating an IEM
approach in local development planning and by developing capacity at all levels to support such an
approach.

la. Global Operational strategyh'rogram objective addressed by the project:
BurkinaFaso has ratified the Biodiversity Convention (1992) and the Desertification Convention (1996).

The global objective o f the Project is the sustainable conservation ofbiological and agricultural diversity
and the rehabilitation of soil andwater resources intargeted watersheds. Overall this will lead to decreased
rates o f desertification, increased carbon storage capacity, decreasedenvironment and social vulnerability
to climate change, and improved food security and income earning potential for rural households




                                                       - 4 -

The programwill achieve this objective by providing GEF funds within the baseline Project to: (i)  provide
rural communities with greater incentives to include environmental and conservation sub-projects intheir
local development plans; and (ii) assist the Government inestablishing decentralized institutions to support
anIEMapproach to local development planning.The needto involve local communities inresourceand
ecosystem management is clearly reflectedinthe national environmental action plans and strategies o f
Burkina Faso, as well as in decisions from the Convention to Combat Desertification (UNCCD), the
Biodiversity Convention (CBD) and the UNFramework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC). This
program falls under GEF OP12 by addressing the focal areas ofbiodiversity and land degradation. Itwill
also develop the IEMtools which, when scaled up, will have a positive impact on internationalwaters and
climate change. The design o f SILEM i s consistent with the objectives, priorities andguidance provided by
the conventions and GEF.

2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Burkina Faso, a semi arid country subject to low and variable rainfalls is one o f the most vulnerable to
global warming. Land degradation and desertification are the main environmental issues facing the rural
economy, and have resulted in decreased soil fertility, the loss o f genetic (biological and agricultural)
diversity, severe declines in arable lands, decreased agricultural productivity, and deforestation. About 20
percent of arable lands have been lost during the past three decades, and yields have declined between 50
and 100percent. The variability ofagricultural output has also increased, thereby increasingthe economic
vulnerability o f the poor.

The government has developed specific strategies and action plans to deal with these issues, which include:
the National Environment Action Plan (NEAP), the National Soil Fertility Management Strategy and
Action Plan (1999), the National Desertification Action Plan (1999), the National Biodiversity Strategy
(2001.) and the National Biodiversity Monograph (1999), .the National Program for Land Management
(1984, 1996), the National Village Forestry Program (1992), and the National Rural Forestry Program
(2004). The focus and proposed actions of key strategies are listedinthe box below.

A common denominator in all of these plans is that they can only be effectively implemented through
decentralized institutions and grass-roots activities that are demand-driven and managed by local
communities. The recent Lettre de Politique de Ddveloppement Rural Ddcentralist (LPDRD), endorsed
by the Government of Burkina Faso (GOBF) and supported by its development partners, confirms and
embodies the fundamental principles that decentralization and participation are pillars o f sustainable
 development. To achieve these goals, the baseline Project: (i)strengthens the capacity o f villages and local
 Governments to prioritize, plan, implement, and maintain community-based investments; (ii)          provides
 decentralized funding for demand-driven and community-managed rural projects; and (iii)supports
 decentralization.




                                                     - 5 -

        Box 1: Priority Domains and Actions of NationalEnvironmental Strategies



                        The NationalDesertificationMitigation ActionPlan(PANLCD)

 Priority domains o f this action plan include:
      e    sustainable natural resourcesmanagement (NRM)
           improvement o f the living conditions of the rural and semi-urban population
      e    creation of an enabling environment (policy, legal, and institutional)
      e    development o fNRh4 competence
      e    scientific and technical cooperation
      e    strengthening the economic power and negotiation capacities of vulnerable groups
  e   encourageprocesso f participatory, decentralized planning

                        The NationalStrategy and ActionPlanfor BiologicalDiversity

  Proposed actions for the conservation o f biological diversity are:
      e    increasethe participation o f local communities inconservation
      e    develop agro-sylvo-pastoralism
      e    improve the organizational capacity and literacy rate o f communities to better take into
           considerationconservation activities
      e    intensify the search, inventory and collection of varieties o f agricultural and forestry species for
           their conservation
           promote political and administrative decentralization
           preserve fragile or threatened ecosystemso fpronouncedglobal and national interest
           strengthen the land management and land use planning process
           put inplace a framework for prevention o f biodiversity related risks
I.    e


     '                        The National Soil Fertility ManagementAction Plan

  The main actions proposed are:
      e     increasedinvestment in the production o f agro-minerals (rock phosphate, lime)
      e     facilitate the processing o f industrial and urban wastes into organic fertilizers
      e     facilitate the transformation o f crop wastes and residues into organic fertilizers
            promote the participatory development of technologies adaptedto various agro-ecological and
            economic conditions;
            extension o f adapted technological packagestowards various social groups


                       The National Action Plan for the Conventionon Climate Change


  The mainactions proposed are:
       e    create an enabling institutional framework
       e    promote the rational management o f natural resources (agricultural, pastoral, forest, water)
       e    promote rational management o f energy resources
       e    develop and improve the national capacity to address climate change issues
       e    improve cooperation at sub-regional, regional and international levels




                                                                - 6 -

3. Sector issuesto be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The main sector issue to be addressed by SILEM is the deterioration o f the natural resource base o f the
Burkina rural economy, in particular land degradation and desertification. By focusing initially on
lowlands, where moisture availability is highest and least variable, SILEM aims to assist the poor to first
stabilize its most reliable resource base. SILEM will assist the government with the implementation o f the
above-listed strategies and action plans (AP). Inparticular it will contribute to the following objectives:

    Strengthen the landmanagement and landuse planningprocess (Biodiversity AP);
    Promote the participatory development o f technologies adapted to various agro-ecological and
    economic conditions (Soil Fertility AP);
    Intensify the search, inventory and collection o f agricultural and forestry species for their conservation
    (Biodiversity AP);
    Increase the participation o f local communities inconservation activities with particular attentionto
    women as users o f biological resourcesand as transfer agents o f knowledge to the youth (Biodiversity
    AP);
    Extensiono f innovative technological packages (Soil fertility AP);
    Create an enabling policy, legal, and institutional environment (Desertification AP); and
    Develop capacity (Desertification AP).

SILEM will also assist the government in achieving its decentralization goals. By adding a landscape
dimension to the baseline Project, the social/institutional capital necessaryfor effective decentralization will
be built across communities as well as within communities, since villages will need to undertake joint
planning actions with neighboring villages to address common sub-watersheddegradation and management
issues.


4. Program description and performance triggers for subsequent loans:
4.1 Program Description

Descnution o f the IDA-financed baselinepromam: Communitv Based-Rural Development Promam

The Community-Based Rural Development (CBRD) Program is a fifteen-year program financed with an
Adaptable Program Loan (APL) consisting of three five-year phases. The first phase o f the program is
financed by IDA (USs66.7 million), the InternationalFundfor Agricultural Development (UStS9.5 million),
the Embassy o f Denmark and the UnitedNations Development Program (UNDP). The program i s focused
on reducing poverty and promoting sustainable development by empowering local communities                 -  both
 administratively and economically - to manage their own development process. Specifically, it aims to
build(i)   local-level capacity to manage local development efforts; and (ii)institutional capacity to support
 Burkina Faso's decentralization process. The phases will be flexible in order to adapt to the country's
 decentralization choices, the pace of resulting institutional reforms, and the need to harmonize various
 approaches.

 The first phase o f the CBRD (baseline Project) has five components: (i)local capacity building geared
 towards strengthening the capacity of villages to plan, implement, operate and maintain investments; (ii)      a
 local investment h d with two windows, one that channels resources directly to rural communities on a
 matching grant basis, and another for larger investments identified by rural communities and implemented
 by provinces; (iii) institutional capacity building to train, equip, and operate field teams and activities in
 support o f decentralization; (iv) a landtenure security pilot operation; (v) program management and M&E.



                                                       - 7 -

Inthe first phase, the project will liaise closely with other donor-funded programs, inorder to harmonize
approaches and arrive at a single national community-based rural development policy by the end o f year
five.

Phase I(2001-2006) will develop the capacity o f rural inhabitants, and facilitate the emergence o f rural
municipalities (communes rurales). To that effect, it will couple capacity buildingwith a local investment
fund to enable communities to leam by doing. The baseline Project will also clarify the role o f rural
municipal institutions, the transfer of responsibilities to rural municipalities, fiscal decentralization, and
participatory and decentralized management of village and municipal assets. Phase I1(2006-20 10) will
build upon the achievements o f Phase Iand expand the Program to national coverage. Duringthis phase,
the CBRD program itself will be part o f a national program that will reach all villages, either individually
or grouped together. Phase I11will consolidate what has beenachieved andprepare an exit strategy.

Description o f the GEF-financed companion program: Sahel Integrated Lowlands Ecosystem Manapement
Program

The Sahel Integrated Lowlands Ecosystem Management Program (SILEM) is designed as aji'een-year
program, financed in three consecutivefive-year project phases to provide incremental support to each of
the three phases of the baseline CBRD program. It is a program focused on reducing poverty and
promoting sustainable development by reversing the degradation o f the natural resource base on which the
livelihood o f the rural population depends. It will do so within the baseline CBRD program through the
introduction o f an integrated approach to ecosystem management. Integrated ecosystem management
provides a comprehensive cross-sectoral and participatory approach to natural resource management
planning on an ecosystem scale to achieve multiple and cross-cutting benefits local, national and global
benefits.

SILEM will initially concentrate on lowland areas of selected sub-watersheds in view of their multiple
functions as sub-components o f larger local, national and international ecosystems. These areas are known
to include native species traditionally used as fodder, food, household energy, construction material and
medicinal and veterinary care. Accordingly, they are relatively rich in biodiversity andhave a highcarbon
storage capacity. SILEM will selectively intervene in some adjacent uplands to stabilize the lowland
ecosystems.

The selection o f lowlands as entry points is based on: (a) their relatively high potential for stable and
increased agricultural productivity related to moisture availability and more favorable soil conditions, (b)
their crucial role as dry season water and fodder providers for local and migrating human populations,
livestock and wildlife; (c) the inclusion m d o r proximity o f particularly valued and less common natural
habitats such as gallery forest, sacred forests, nature reserves and wetlands; and (d) the role o f many
lowlands as water collection sources for international waters.

SILEM will become effective around the time o f the mid-term review o f the baseline Project. Although
initially intended to be more closely phased with the baseline Project, the time lag provides an important
advantage in that the baseline institutions are in place at village and province levels, and the mechanisms
for channeling investment funds to local level have beenworked out. This will allow for a more rapid and
focused start-up for SILEM. The first phase o f SILEM will be a phase o f leaming and capacity building
inIEManda landscapeapproach at the localand regional levels. Pilot IEMinvestment activities will also
take place during the first phase in the sub-watersheds o f three to four ago-ecologically diverse provinces
(about 120 villages). Consolidation o f experience is expected to take place during the second phase with
expansion to additional provinces and sub-watersheds. Phase 3 will consist o f a rapid expansion to include


                                                      - 8 -

watersheds and villages using lessonslearned during the first two phases.

4.2 PerformanceTriggers for SubsequentLoans

From Phase 1 to Phase 2

The following performance indicators are proposed for moving from Phase 1to Phase2:

0    Positive trend inan aggregateindex o f plant and insect diversity, soil organic content, grass and tree
     biomass inthree out o f four Project sites in5 years;
0    Positive trend inan aggregate index measuring comprehension and adoption o fIEMapproachby
     targeted communities at all Project sites in5 years;
0    Numbero ftechnologies andinnovative IEMmechanismsadoptedbyProject site communities equals 2
     at each Project site in5 years;
0    Numbero f functional inter-village councils for sub-watershedmanagement issues, as measuredby
     point systemdefined inthe Project ImplementationManual (PIM) equals 4 in5 years;
0    Degree o f completion for the sub-watershedIEMplan as measuredby point system index definedinthe
     PIM equals 18 for the 4 Project sites;
0    Number ofnew global partnerships supporting IEMor carbon sequestration activities equals 2 in5
     years.

Similar triggers will be set for moving from Phase 2 to Phase 3.

C. Program and Project Description Summary
1. Project components(see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed costbreakdown):

Using an IEM approach, SILEM will establish participatory systems for sustainable development and
management o f selected sub-watersheds inthree to four pilot provinces and will buildthe national and local
capacity to support andreplicate the experience nationwide. Inthe first phase, the Program will support an
integrated approach towards the rehabilitation of degraded lowland ecosystems in the provinces o f Soum,
Sanmatenga, Kourittenga, and Kompienga. Soum province is in the Sahelian zone with a large number o f
animals and strong competition        for the use o f    lowland areas by pastoralists and agriculturalists.
Sanmatenga is in the northem Sudanian zone and is transected by the NalambC river. It is an area with a
mix o f agricultural and pastoral activities and lowlands rich in biodiversity. Kourittenga is also in the
northern Sudanian zone, with a very high population density and a highly degraded resource base due to
agricultural pressures. Kompienga is a province with a number o f important protected areas and high
degree o f biological diversity.

Key criteria inthe choice o fthe initialprovinces were: (a) agro-ecological andsocio-economic diversity; (b)
the national and global importance of the province's watersheds and biodiversity; (c) the presence o f the
baseline Project in the province and (d) the degree o f landand other resource degradation. Sub-watersheds
have been identified in each province based on their importance and potential. Final selection will occur
 during project implementation using both top-down criteria (e.g. scientific studies and Geographic
 Information System (GIS) data coupled with administrative input related to priorities/plans) and bottom-up
 criteria (e.g. community resource mapping, community development plans, and community willingness).

 The project will be implemented through five components,




                                                      - 9 -

 2. Local Investment Fundfor IEM Sub-projects           2.24       45.6     0.00        0.0     2.08      46.2
 3. Institutional Capacity Building for IEM              0.44       9.0     0.00        0.0     0.38        8.4
 4. Building Partnerships for Sustainable IEM            0.19       3.9     0.00        0.0     0.17        3.8
 Financing
 5. Project Coordination,Administration, M&E             0.92      18.7     0.00        0.0      0.84     18.7
,6. Physicalcontingencies                                0.00       0.0     0.00                 0.00       0.0
                                                                                     ~  0.0 I
 7. Pricecontingencies                                   0.00       0.0     0.00        0.0      0.00       0.0
                                Total Project Costs      4.91     100.0     0.00        0.0      4.50    100.0
                         Total Financing Required        4.91     100.0     0.00        0.0      4.50     100.0


 Component 1:LocalCapacityBuildingfor IntegratedEcosystemManagement

 The objective o f this component i s to strengthen the technical and organizational capacity o f rural
 communities and municipalities to plan, implement and monitor IEM activities. Activities fmanced under
 this component will include awarenessbuildingandtraining on IEMconcepts, land/water use planning, and
 environmental issues. This component will also support the development o f watershed management
 committees, which may eventually evolve into associations or foundations with legal recognition. Project
 staff and service providers will assist communities and watershed management committees in developing
 watershed management plans and integrating these plans into village-level local development plans. They
 will Fain community groups and watershed associations in the use o f various IEM tools (such as GIS
 maps) to visualize their natural resource base and understand the linkages and cause-effect impacts o f
 altemative resource use scenarios. The IEM approach will promote more ecologically sound local
 development plans and will assist the baseline Project in decentralization by encouraging villages sharing a
 common watershed to work together to arrive at a common sustainable development plan.

 Component2: Local InvestmentFundfor IEMSub-projects

 The SILEM Local Investment Fund will have two windows: one for financing village and inter-village
 (watershed management committee) sub-projects (< US$ 35,000) and a special window (> US$35,000 -
 US$150,000) to provide provinces with resources to undertake larger investments.

 Village and inter-village window

 In addition to the baseline Project envelope of $3-5 per capita per year, SILEM will provide funds (about
 US$2,000 per village per year) earmarked for IEM activities included in the overall sub-watershed
 management plan and incorporated in the development plans o f individual villages. IEM activities could
 include sub-projects that are investment oriented (rehabilitation o f lowland sacred forest), economic
 incentive oriented (reducing the risk o f adopting new technologies by providing start-up funds), or learning
 and innovation oriented (dissemination o f IEMtechnologies). Eligible activities would include:

 e    promoting zero-tillage and conservation agriculture in lowlands and adjacent uplands
 e    testing and dissemination o f innovative technologies for landrehabilitation
 e    testing anddissemination ofinnovative agro-sylvo-pastoral management practices



                                                      -10-

0    supporting emergence andstrengthening o f enterprisespromoting biodiversity (medicinal plants or
     lowlandaquaculture)
0    rehabilitating and conserving biodiversity of lowland areas with specific cultural functions
0    protectingriver banks against livestock damage
0    creating arboreta and the protectiono f sacredwoods
0    identifyingand improvement ofwildlife routes
0    stabilizing o f the banks o f fishing waters
0    establishing a local system for monitoring fishing activities

Provincial window

SILEM will supplement the provincial window o f the baseline Project with an earmarked fimd to provide
incremental funds for larger scale investments (about US$lOO,OOO per sub-watershed per year).

Component3. InstitutionalCapacityBuildingfor IntegratedEcosystemManagement

SILEM will support institutional capacity buildingfor the creation o f an adequate policy environment. It
will support civil society groups and decentralized government institutions that can contribute to policy
dialogues to provide incentives for adoption o f IEM practices. The Project will also build institutional
capacity for effective participation o f Burkina Faso in global environmental conventions and negotiations.
The Project will provide organizations with institutional capacity, including training (information,
negotiation and conflict resolution), equipment, and incremental operating costs. The main partners to
receive such support will be the national structures responsible for monitoring and coordinating the
international environmental conventions. Others will be local govemments, producer organizations, private
sector associations, and NGOs.

With respect to policy dialogue capacity, SILEM will regularly support environmental policy fora for
dialogue between IEM stakeholders, including Government, NGOs, producers, the Commissions
 Villageoises de Gestion des Terroirs (CVGTs), the Commissions Inter-Villageoises de Gestion des
Terroirs (CIVGTs), the Cadres de concertation techniques provinciaux (CCTPs) and the private sector.
Policy issues to be addressed by the forum could include issues related to: (i)land tenure security; (ii)
improved access to fertilizers, (iii)crop-livestock integration and (iv) incentives for time-lagged EM
benefits.

This component would also provide incremental hnding for specific studies required to develop
participatory economic development plans integrating IEM concems. Examples o f such studies might
include surveys o f species, land-water use studies, or environmentalbusinessdevelopment plans.

 Component4. Buildingpartnershipsfor sustainableIEMfinancing

 The objective of this component is to build the capacity to mobilize national and international funds to
 address environmental and resource management issues o f local, regional and potentially global
 significance.

 The component will (i)assist and train CVGTs, watershed management committees, and community
 leaders in the mobilization o f funds for environmental protection and local development, (ii)provide
 training to central and local govemments to enable them to engage in global financial resource mobilization
 and environmental negotiations, (iii)initiate contacts between the communities and environmental
 managementpartners (e.g. private sector, NGOs, northem hemisphere cities, bilateral donor agencies), and


                                                     -11  -

(iv) assistthe parties inreachingmutually beneficial contractual arrangements.

This component will also explore (i)    opportunities for partnerships offered by the Kyoto Protocol and the
Convention on Climate Change, and partnership through the carbon trade markets (twinning, etc.); and (ii)
mechanisms for supporting altemative sustainable financing mechanisms such as a desertification
mitigation fund.

Component5. ProgramCoordination, Administration andMonitoringiEvaluation

SILEM will provide incremental funding to the baseline Project coordination unit and the provincial teams
to support the cost o f project implementation. SILEM will also provide incremental funding to adapt the
M&Eand impact assessment systems ofthe baseline Project to the addedrequirements ofthe SILEM, with
a particular emphasis on strengthening the environmental and natural resource components o f the M&E
system of the baseline Project. The combined monitoring and impact evaluation system (baseline Project
and SILEM) will have the following components: (i)an intemal project M&E system, (ii)           a participatory
indigenous M&E system, and (iii)      an impact evaluation system that relies on scientific data collection and
evaluation.

Indicators for assessing the physical effects o f IEM on land quality, soil fertility, biodiversity, carbon
sequestration and protection o f intemational waters will be developed and measured periodically with the
assistanceo f research centers, universities, and laboratories.

Initial baseline data were collected during SILEM project preparation with the census and characterization
o f all lowlands and the construction o f a GIS database. The information in the database will be further
improved during the first year o f implementation to ensure that it contains all necessary information needed
to unaertake the monitoringandevaluation o f the project.

The SILEM may also finance, on a pilot basis, the development o f a natural resources account in
collaboration with the statistical departments o f the Ministries ofplanning, agriculture, environment and the
economy.

2. Key policy and institutionalreformssupported by the project:
Reforms supported by both the baseline Project and the SILEM include: (i)      improved collaboration among
Ministries to facilitate sustainable resource management o f natural and productive ecosystems, (ii)
harmonization o f sectoral legislation and policy (e.g. land tenure issues), (iii)development o f a strategic
approach to identify priority watersheds; and (iv) in collaboration with the baseline Project, develop
decentralized and participatory systems for the preparation o f watershed management plans.

3. Benefitsand target population:
The general benefits o f SILEM can be categorized in the same three broad categories as those o f the
baseline CBRD program:

0    Impact on living conditions. The Program will have a direct impact on rural incomes through
     productive investments, such as the development o f bottomlands, and an indirect impact through the
     spillover or stimulative effect o f such investments on the local economy.         Increased productivity
     resultingfrom soil fertility interventions will leadto increased incomes andimproved food security.

0    Impact on natural resources. Better management o f natural resources for long-term sustainable use is


                                                       - 1 2 -

    a fimdamental aspect o f the Program.         Improved soil fertility, more abundant vegetation cover,
    reclaiming bare land, slowing down erosion, and increasedbiodiversity will be the mainresults.

0   Impact on local capacity and the institutional environment.             Strengthened capacity o f broadly
    representative village organizations and watershed management committees is a prerequisite to the
    efficient execution o f the Program, the equitable distribution o f its benefits and the sustainability o f its
    results. The Program will play an essential coordination role at the village, province and national
    levels, integrating the interventions o f a large number o f actors across a broad range of sectors and
     sub-sectors.

In addition, by contributing to the sustainable management of lowland ecosystems and by developing
ecosystem management tools, SILEM will provide the following ecological, social, economic and
institutional benefits at the global, regional, and project site levels:

     Combinations of conservation tillage, rock bunds, zai, mulching, cover crops, agro-forestry, and
     organic and mineral manures have proved to be cost-effective land recuperation techniques. Adoption
     o f these practices will arrest, and over time reverse, land degradation, leading to improved soil fertility
     and resource productivity. Over a fifteen-year period it is estimated that 40-50% o f degraded lands in
     the project areas could be recovered.

     Biodiversity benefits o f the program will arise from the recovery o f degraded ecosystems. Lowland soil
     fertility is also expected to increase through improved water management, drainage, soil
     de-compaction, and improved management o f animal manures. In addition, the program will promote
     small-scale aquaculture, combinations o f cropping and fishinglaquaculture, and increase flooded
     surfaces inlowlands to increasethe number o f fish species and o f other aquatic animals.

     The project will decrease institutional barriers to IEM, and in particular to conservation o f biological
     diversity in natural habitats (lowland gallery forests, forest relics, sacred forests, reservoirs o f
     medicinal plants and woods, pastures or cultivated lands).

     Carbon sequestration benefits will arise from the increased storage capacity in forests, crops and
     biomass, as well as through an increase inthe organic matter content o f soils (from 0.60% to 1.5% on
     average). Crop intensification as a result o f improved soil fertility will allow longer fallow periods, and
     consequently greater carbon sequestration.

     Internationalwaters are also expected to.benefit from the program wherever the Volta and Niger rivers
     and their tributaries are present.

The direct beneficiaries for the first phase o f SILEM will be the rural population living inthe vicinity o f the
selected watersheds in the targeted provinces      - some 120 villages and 12,000 households. However, the
tools and approaches developed in the first phase will benefit many more provinces, villages and
households during the second and third phases o f the program.

4. Institutionaland implementationarrangements:
Institutional arrangements:

Oversight: At the national level, SILEM will be under the responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture,
Water and Fisheries and implementedby the CBRD Program.

Steering: A National Steering Committee (NSC) chaired by the General Secretary o f the Ministry o f
Agriculture, Water and Fisheries was established to guide and monitor the implementation o f the baseline
Project. The same Steering Committee will monitor the implementation of SILEM. The NSC meets
annually to (i) analyse the project results consolidated in annual reports, (ii)analyze, discuss and adopt the
annual work program and budget, (iii)advise the project team on the conformity o f results, annual
programs and strategies with national policies and experiences.

Advisory Body: A Scientific and Technical Advisory Network (STAN) will be established to provide
scientific and technical guidance on SILEM implementation. It will include IEM specialists and partners
from national research institutes, universities, government, NGOs and private operators.

Imdementation arrangements:

Project Management and Administration: SILEM will be implemented through the existing structures o f
the baseline Project, which is the CBRD. At the national level, day-to-day management will rest with the
national project coordination unit (PCU) and at the provincial level with the provincial coordination teams
(PCT). The main responsibilities o f the PCU are to: (i)  manage the work program at the national level; (ii)
ensure that funds from Government and donors are made available to the beneficiaries in a timely manner
and in accordance with the signed agreements with each donor, including GEF (as well as national and
intemational private sector donors and northern hemisphere community partners); (iii)          provide technical
support to the provincial coordination teams; (iv) organize workshops at the national and regional levels in
support o f the project objectives; (v) monitor and evaluate the implementationo f the work program and its
impact, and report results to various stakeholders; (vi) undertake or contract out environmental and social
impact assessments o f sub-projects; and (vii) provide required information on project implementation and
impact to Government andthe different donors.

At the provincial level, the baseline Project has 18 PCTs covering 26 o f the country's 45 provinces. The
PCTs in the provinces targeted for SILEM intervention will be reinforced with the addition o f a team
member specializing in integrated ecosystem management and will supervise the implementation of the
integrated baseline Project/SILEM work program. The responsibilities o f the provincial teams are to (i)
assist the CCTP in the coordination o f the differentactivities at the provincial level; (ii) provide support to
the CCTP in its review o f village and sub-watershed development plans; (iii) into contracts with, and
                                                                                  enter
 supervise, service providers hired by the Project to execute specific activities (e.g. training o f beneficiaries,
participatory needs assessments, project proposal formulation, support to the execution o f communities'
 annual investment plans, technical and financial audits, etc.); and (iv) implement the monitoring and
 evaluation systemat the provinciallevel.

Project Monitoring: Under the baseline Project, input, output and outcome data are collected at the
 community levelby the beneficiaries themselves and they are receiving training from the baseline Project to
 effectively carry out this task. The data collected by the beneficiaries is computerized, analyzed and
 aggregated by the provincial teams and made available to the CCTP and the Direction Regionale de
 I'Economie et Developpement (DRED). At this level, the information is used to (i)review the work


                                                      -14-

program (supervision needs, audits, approval o f new investment budgets, etc...), (ii)
                                                                                     improve coordination
between development projects, NGOs andpublic agencies, and (iiii)    monitor development impact. A copy
o f the report is provided to the beneficiaries for information and feedback. After initial compilation and
analysis by the PCT, the data is forwarded to the monitoring and evaluation staff at the PCU to be further
aggregated and analyzed at the national level. The findings will be used in the progress report and the
national and regional workshops. In additional, to this participatory monitoring system, the M&Eunit o f
the PCU contracts with outside experts for baseline environmental, institutional and household
socio-economic studies and impact analysis. SILEM will draw on the procedures and baselines already in
place, add specific biodiversity related indicators not included in the baseline Project's system, and
strengthen the environmental impact analyses in the areas specific to SILEM's intervention (e.g. land
degradation, soil fertility, biodiversity).

Operational Manuals: The Project ImplementationManual(PIM) of the baseline Project guidesday-to-day
project implementation and has been adapted to guide the implementation o f SILEM. The PIM consists of
the following detailed manuals: (i) Administrative and Financial Procedures Manual, (ii)the Technical
                                      the
Manuals (guidelines for specific types o f infrastructure investments), (iii)
                                                                            the Monitoring and Evaluation
Manual, (iv) the Local Investment Fund(LIF) Manual, and (v) the Environmental and Social Management
Framework. Any further revisions will be carried out during project implementation on the basis o f field
experience, and as mutually agreedbetween the borrower and IDA.

D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered andreasons for rejection:
Regional program

The project was originally intendedas a regionalprogram coveringNiger, Burkina Faso, Mali and Senegal.
However, difficulties in obtaining agreement from all four countries suggestedthat a regional program was
likely to face serious implementation difficulties. It was thus decided to focus on developing national
programs instead.

Independent prowam

An independent, or stand-alone, GEF OP12 program was also considered. However, given the similarity
with the baseline Project in the Community Driven Development (CDD) approach that the Program is
planning to use, and given the limited financial resources available, it became clear that SILEM would
achieve much greater impact by buildingon the baseline Project, andproviding mainly incremental support
to IEMactivities.

Combined SILEM-PAGEN program

The possibility o f combining this program with the Burkina Faso Partnership for Improved Management of
Natural Ecosystems (PAGEN) was also considered. This would have led to a GEF project focusing on
areas both within protected natural habitats, as in PAGEN, and outside o f protected habitats, where
communities interact more actively with natural ecosystems. However it became clear that different sets of
tools and institutions would be needed to handle both aspects in a single program, and that the resulting
program would be complex and difficult to implement. It also became clear that community-driven IEM
activities would have much greater impact if combined with decentralization and community-driven
capacity building within the baseline Project.



                                                     - 1 5 -

2. Major related projects financed by the Bankand/or other developmentagencies (completed,
ongoingand planned).
                                                                          Latest Supervision
             Sector Issue                           Project            [Bank inancelRatings
                                                                           -f:IPSRI  lrojectsonly)
                                                                       mplementation  Development
Bank-financed                                                          Progress(IP)  Objective (DO)

Rural DevelopmentIAgriculture          - Community-Based Rural              S              S
                                       Development (CBRD) Program
                                       or PNGT2 (ongoing)
                                       - PrivateIrrigation Project,         S              S
                                       DIPAC (ongoing)
                                       - SecondNational  Agricultural       S              U
                                       Services Development Project,
                                       PNDSA I1(ongoing)
                                       EnvironmentalManagement              S              S
                                       Project, PNGT1(completed)
 Environment/                          - Partnership for Natural            S              S
 Natural Resourc s Management          Ecosystem Management
                                       Program, PAGEN (on-going)
                                       - PilotCommunity-Based               S              S
                                       Natural Resources & Wildlife
                                       Management Project,
                                       -GEPRENAF     (completed)
                                         Wood EnergyManagement              S               S
                                       Project, RPTES (completed)




 Other development agencies
 AFDRFEM                               - LocalDevelopment    Projects
 French Cooperation                    -(ongoing)
                                         Conservation UnitsSupport
                                       Project (CUSP) & ARLY
                                       National Park Support
                                       -(completed)assistance
                                         Technical             for
                                       wildlife conservation units (by

 IFAD(International Fundfor            -SCAC)and
                                         Soil     Water
 Agricultural Development)             ConservatiodAgro-Forestry I
                                       and I1
                                       - Central Mossi Plateau
                                       Sustainable Lowland
                                       Management Project
                                       - Local  Development Project in
                                       Eastern Burkina Faso


                                                 - 16-

                                - South    West Rural
                                Development Project
                                - RuralMicro-enterprise
                                Support Project
U(European Union                -- International
                                   Support to decentralization
                                                  Project for W
                                National Parks with Niger and
                                Benin, ECOPAS
IDA (Canada)                    Pilot Environmental/
                                DesertificationFund(ongoing)
wiss Cooperation                - RuralEquipment       Fund
                                (FEER-1comp1eted;FEERd
                                planned)
butch Cooperation               - Burkina     Sahel Program, PSB
                                -(completed)
                                   Ago-ecology & Local
                                Development Program in
                                Zoundweogo province (LDPZ)
                                - Local    Development Projects ii
                                Boulkiemdk, Sang&         and

IANIDA                          -Sanmatenga
                                   Local Development/NRM
                                projects: Burkina Sahel
                                Program (PSB), PGRN-SY;
                                PGRN-K; PDR Boulgou
JNDPIGEF                        - Nazinga      Game Ranch Suppoi
                                 Project (completed) & Support
                                 to W NationalPark peripheral
                                  -activitiesMargins
                                              (on-going)
                                    Desert            Program
                                  (regional environmentrNRM
                                  research, ICRISAT-based)
                                  - Indigenous   Knowledge
                                  Initiative Support Project
?A0                               - Support   to Forestry, Wildlife
                                  and Fisheries Reforms (needs
                                  additional financing)
4fDB (African Development Bank)   - Forest   Management Projects
                                  inComoe-Leraba
                                  - IntegratedEcosystem
                                  Management o f Centre-Ouest
                                  -Forests  (identified)
                                     Bazega & Kadiogo Rural
                                  Project (on-going)
GTZ                                - Training  Program for Locally
                                   ElectedOfficials (ongoing)
                                   - Local  Development/ Burkina
                                   Sahel Program (PSB)



                                              - 1 7 -

                                           - Sustainable Agriculture
                                           Project inEasternBurkinaFaso
                                           (planned)
                                           - Gonse  Forest Support Project
 PlDO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory),S (Satisfactory),U (Unsatisfactory),HU (HighlyUnsatisfactory)

Coordination with other partners andproiects

An essential characteristic o f this program is the creation of a collaborative framework for all relevant
activities. Therefore strategic partnerships ensuring co-financing, cooperation, and complementary actions
to facilitate the implementation o f all ongoing programs, especially with those aimed at combating
desertification, are key. Ongoing or planned initiatives of relevance in the Sahelian zone o f Burkina Faso
are:

    The National Community-Based Rural Development (CBRD) Program, which is the baseline program
    o f SILEM, as described above.

    The GEF-supported Natural Ecosystems Management Program (PAGEN) which builds on the CBRD
    Program and the Burkina Sahel Program (PSB) and supports natural resource management within
    natural habitats o f the Sahel Partial Reserve (Northern Burkina) and wildlife areas in south-westem
    Burkina. Its focus is on biodiversity conservation and sustainable, locally controlled natural resource
    management (rangeland, water). SILEM will complement these activities by helpingrural communities
    undertake IEM practices to protect the conservation areas. Activity comparison between the two
    projects is described intable 3 o f Annex 4.

    The PSB, supported by Germany, the Netherlands, Denmark and UNDP, is an anti-desertification
    program and works closely with the Comitd permanent Inter-&tats de Lutte contre la Sdcheresse au
    Sahel (CILSS). It i s the only initiative currently involved inthis area. The participatory management
    o f natural resources by different groups is one o f the main objectives and it has achieved success in
    some areas. Conflict management, community consultation, linking agro-pastoralists and pastoralists
    and the creation of local, self-managed investment funds are crucial to the project. CONEDD is
    currently collaborating with GTZ to implementthe German contributionto the PSB.

    The LWDP multi-country research program "Desert Margins Program" (DMP) in BurkinaFaso, Mali,
     Senegal, Niger, Botswana, Kenya, Namibia, South Africa and Zimbabwe, financed by GEF, USAID,
     the World Bank and France, and coordinated by the International Crops Research Institute for the
     Semi-Arid Tropics (ICRISAT)      and CILSS, i s a research or technology development program which
     will collaborate with the project to provide desertification mitigation technologies, knowledge and
     training.

     Burkina Faso is the only African country with an AIJ (Activities ImplementedJointly) project underthe
     Climate Change Convention with support from the World Bank, Norway and Denmark. Components
     are community based forest management (300,000 hectares in 6 years), solar technologies promotion
     and improvement o f carbon sequestration.

3. Lessons learnedand reflectedin the project design:
The project design is basedon various lessonsthat are also reflectedinthe baseline Project. These include:



                                                     - 18 -

Communitv-Driven Development

Lessons from past experiences in IEMclearly indicate that natural resources are most efficiently managed
when communities are entirely involved inthe decision-making andcontrol processes. This supports the
needfor the CDD approach and for a substantial investment in capacity buildingto enable communities,
and inparticular the poor, to participate inboth processes. The baseline Project and SILEM take into
account the five critical factors that characterize successful CDD projects: (i)      good local organizational
capacity and community groups; (ii)      the appropriate fit o f technology to community capacity; (iii)  effective
outreach strategies; (iv) client responsive agencies; and (v) enabling policies and government commitment.


The need for beneficiaries' participation inthe identification, planning, implementation andco-financing o f
sub-projects, andthe needto adjust the level and the nature o f co-financing, are well known and have been
taken into account inthe design ofboththe baseline Project and SILEM.

Integrated obiectives and ecosystem management

The integration o f crop and livestock husbandry inlowland ecosystems will draw from experiences such as
the Pilot Pastoral Perimeters (PPP) Program in Chad and Senegal which established that proper use o f
rangelands, with rules set up by the community, can improve the rangeland and the relationship among
pastors, farmers and traders. The needto address land tenure security issues within an IEMapproach has
been taken into consideration by drawing on the land tenure security pilot o f the baseline Project.

The need for longterm commitment and financial sustainability is reflectedinthe programmatic approach
taken, as well as inthe financial sustainability component of the Project that will encourage sustainable
finantingpartnerships betweenthe rural communities and external partners.

Inbuildingon thebaseline CBRD program, andbypayingparticular attention to IEMaction plansandto
communities within the peripheries o f important habitatdwatersheds, the Project also complies with the
recommendations o f the Bank's Quality Assurance Group (QAG) for the baseline Project: (i)            the needto
integrate biodiversity into the broader national development agenda; and (ii)       the need to focus on methods
for addressing socio-economic pressures inzones where populations are dependenton natural habitats.

Institutional sustainabiliv and accountability

Along with the baseline Project, SILEM buildson national institutions as a key for sustainability. In
particular it builds on the local decentralized structures such as the DREDat the regional level, the CCTP
at the provincial level, andthe CVGT and other IEMsub-committees at the village and inter-village level
level. The support to the decentralization process and the land tenure security activities implementedunder
the baseline Project provide a solid basis for institutional sustainability o f SILEM. The Program also
attempts to establish financial sustainability by focusing on south-north partnerships and other sustainable
IEMfinancing mechanisms.

Along with the baseline Project, SILEM builds on the lessonthat all efforts at devolving authority to the
 local level will fail unless local institutions are sufficiently representative o f the local population. The
 participatory planning process, which leads to the local development plans, andthe local democratic
 governance buildingprocess that go into the establishment andmaintenance o f the CVGT and
 sub-watershedmanagement committees, are expected to provide the required levels o frepresentation and
 accountability.


                                                         -19-

Technology fit

A main lessoninagricultural technology development andtransfer is that individuals will not adopt a
technology unless it fits their environmental, intellectual and socioeconomic capacities, and provides them
with substantially greater benefits and lower risks. It is also known that hightime discount rates o f
medium to long-term benefits from IEMtend to lower the adoption rate of related technologies, unless
compensations and rewards are usedto provide sufficient adoption incentives. The localinvestment fund
and capacity buildingcomponents of the Project take these factors into consideration by providing
incentives for technology adoption andby assisting rural communities, interest groups andthe government
inthe identificationandimplementation ofneededreformsto encourageanIEMapproach.

4. Indications of borrowerand recipientcommitment and ownership:
The Government's concem for landand environmental degradation issues is demonstrated by the numerous
strategies and action plans mentioned earlier (NEAP, the desertification mitigation action plan
(PAN-LCD), the soil fertility management strategy andaction plan (PAGIFS), and the national biodiversity
strategy). Burkina Faso has also ratified all international conventions related to the Program, such as the
Biodiversity convention (September 1993), the Climate Change Convention (September, 1993), and the
Convention to Combat Desertification (January 1996). Other conventions ratified include the Migratory
Species (Bonn) Convention and the Ramsar Convention on Wetlands.

SILEM has been endorsed by the General Directorate o f the Environment (Direction Gtntrale de
I'Environnement, DGE), the institution that housesthe focal points of all the abovementioned international
conventions. Operations funded by the Bank and other donors also demonstrate the commitment o f the
Government to environmental conservation.

The commitment o f the Government to the decentralization dynamic and local empowerment is evidenced
from the numerous local development projects endorsed and co-financed by the Government.

5. Value added of Bank and Global support in this project:
Compared to other donors, the Bank and GEF are in a unique position to provide Burkina Faso with
long-term financing, programmatic financing and nationwide support.           Such support supplements the
bilateral donors' interventions that are scattered, in limited geographical areas, across the country. This
nationwide and long-term support provides the Government with a unique instrument to better coordinate,
monitor and manage all IEMinterventions.

The fact that this project supplements a national community-driven rural development program provides
GEF with a unique opportunity to tackle local and global environmental degradation issues at their root
causes by providing support to communities to stop and reverse environmental degradation. By supporting
only the incremental costs o f interventions, above the costs covered by the baseline Project, GEF i s also
able to help communities address such issues inthe most cost-effective way.

 E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessmentsare inthe project file, see Annex 8)
 1. Economic(seeAnnex 4):




                                                      - 20 -

0 Costbenefit          NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
0 Costeffectiveness
0 IncrementalCost
0 Other(specify)
Like the baseline Project, SILEM does not lend itself to classic quantitative cost-benefit analysis because
on one hand, the expected capacity building benefits have undetermined life expectancies and cannot be
quantified in monetary terms. On the other hand, the demand-driven nature of investments also leaves the
specific investments that will be made under the Project undetermined. Not enough is known about
investment attitudes o f the rural communities to attempt a simulation exercise. However, it is possible to
demonstrate in qualitative terms that economic and social retums are likely from the capacity building and
LIFcomponents.

Benefits and Cost-effectiveness of Capacity Building: The capacity building component is most lgely to
generate substantial economic benefits. Decentralization, land use planning and human capacity building
will improve the economic decision makingprocess. The promotion o f IEM decision making is also likely
to increase the public economic benefits o f the Project. Returns to human capacity buildingare significant,
especially when there is an adequateenabling environment. The review o f GEF-related activities inBurkina
Faso, carried out during project preparation, suggests that the short-term effect o f capacity building on
productivity ranges from 12 to 30 percent increase in crop yields (Ouadba et al., 2001). Given that the
capacity buildingbenefits are likely to accrue for many years beyond the life o f the project, they will most
likely offset costs, with significant rates o f retums.

Benefits and Cost-Effectiveness of Local Investments: The LIF will generate numerous investments that
cannot be precisely predetermined given the demand-driven nature o f the project. Consequently, no classic
ex-ante cost-benefit analysis can be applied in this case. However, many eligible types o f investments are
prede'termined and are known to generate significant economic benefits. Previous experience suggests that
rural communities usually select projects with very high rates o f retums and low risks, and manage them
muchmore efficiently than project management units.

As indicated inthe Project Appraisal Document o f the baseline Project, research shows positive net returns
to natural resource management investments, in particular land restoration. For example, the net value o f
techniques such as composting, windbreaks or rock bunds is about US$700per hectare. Research by the
National Agricultural and Environmental Research Institute (MERA) in the Bazega area o f Burkina Faso
indicates an increase in sorghum yields o f 85 kg/ha using erosion control techniques, an increase o f 362
kgka using organic fertilizer andcomposting techniques, and an increaseo f 824 k o a usinga combination
o f the two techniques. The review o f GEF related projects carried out in preparation o f this project
similarlyindicates yield increasesup to 35 percent from soil water conservation techniques without manure
and yield increases up to 100 percent with manure (Ouadba et al, 2001). Conservation tillage techniques to
be promoted under the Project are known to have significantly positive impacts on yields and to
significantly reduce labor costs.

Estimates o f growth multipliers for Burkina Faso suggest that each dollar o f additional income generatedin
the agricultural sector will generate an additional US$1.90 o f income in the local economy through the
 impact o f spendingon local goods andservices (Delgado, Hopkins andKelly, 1998).

 2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)




                                                       -21-

The economic activities that the project will generate are expected to be sufficiently profitable so as to
result in increased capital accumulation at the farm level and particularly for the poor. This is expected to
substantially improve the financial capacity of rural communities to maintain the investments made under
the project and to expand investment activities beyond the lowlands.

A financial soundness analysis will be undertaken for all investments identified by the communities, so as
to maximize chances o f financial success. The capacity o f the private and/or public sectors to sustain
recurrent costs of planned investments will receive special attention. Provisions will be made to ensure the
operation, maintenance and renewal o f those investments. Emphasis will be put on cost-minimization
measures and on anticipating additional funding requirementsto ensure investment sustainability.

Fiscal Impact:
The long-term objective i s for rural municipalities to be able to raise their own fiscal resources from
increased local economic activity and consumption, thereby contributing to the funding o f their local
development plans and reducing the need for fiscal transfers from the central Government.                In the
short-to-medium term, fiscal transfers from the central Government will be needed to cover what the
beneficiary contribution cannot. It must be recognized that the long-term capacity-building needs of the
rural communities o f Burkina Faso will require considerable support, and that such support will need to
come largely from the outside, including support to cover the operating costs o f the Program and
intermediaries.    Such operating costs are part o f the investment required to build institutional, and
ultimately fiscal, sustainability. The IEM investments financed under SILEM such as gallery forests,
biodiversity conservation, lands restoration will increase the income earning potential o f the rural
population and possibly lead to new opportunities (e.g. eco-tourism) that could eventually generate fiscal
revenues for the local governments.

The incremental cost analysis is provided inAnnex 4.

3. Technical:
A key technical issue is to ensure that complex IEM planning and projects are well understood by rural
communities and local governments, so as to trigger the right mix o f investments. This issue is tackled as
follows:

    The Scientific and Technical Advisory Network (STAN) will play a key role in ensuring the technical
     quality o f Project activities and Project resources will be available to periodically call on national and
     internationals experts to conduct external evaluations or provide specific expertise.

     The DGE, which houses all the GEF focal points for Burkina Faso, will assist the PCU in matters
     related to technical training for service providers, NGOs, and communities (e.g. identifying
     environmental issues, drafting IEM-based land & water use plans, supervision o f works).

     The Project will undertake a wide dissemination oftechnical issues for the benefit ofrural communities
     andpolicymakers.

     Government technical institutions, regional research centers and universities will submit proposals for
     applied research on behalf o f local governments, often in collaboration with international experts or
     centersof excellence.

     Technical manuals have been designed for small scale IEMinvestments, with specification of technical



                                                      - 22 -

    standards andnorms, and will be made available to all contractors.

0   Protocols will be established between the PCU and technical departments o f line ministries for the
    necessary technical expertise to assist the Project with the design and supervision o f sub-projects as
    needed.

0   Independent technical audits will be conducted periodically, basedon requests from communities, local
    governments or the PCU.

0   Communities may use a portion o f the resources allocated by the LIF to recruit technical expertise to
    assist inthe design, supervision andreception o f works.

4. Institutional:


4.1 Executing agencies:
SILEM will be under the responsibility o f the Ministry o f Agriculture, Water and Fisheries (Ministdre de
I'Agriculture, de I'Hydraulique, et des Ressources Haliautiques, MAHRH) and implemented by the
National CBRD Program. The MAHRHhas a great deal o f experience with local development andnatural
resource management projects and has the capacity necessary to provide oversight, supervision and
monitoring o f project implementation. A Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) between the PCU and
DGEof the Ministryo f the Environment (Ministdre de I'Environnement et de la Cadre de Vie) will ensure
adequatetechnical oversight inspecific areas that do not fall under the competence o f the MAHRH.

In addition, capacity building may be necessary within certain directorates of the MAHRH (e.g. the
Direhion Gknkrale de I'Inventaires des Ressources Hydrauliques (DGIRH) and the Direction Gknkrale
de I'Hydraulique Agricoles (DGHA)) as well as with other Ministerial partners (e.g. the Direction
Gknkrale de I'Amknagement du Territoireo f the Ministry o f Land Administration and Decentralization) in
IEMapproachesto development planningandpolicy issuesrelatedto the adoption ofIEMtechnologies.
4.2 Project management:
As previously mentioned, SILEM will be implemented through the existing structures of the baseline
Project. At the national level, day-to-day management will rest with the national PCU and at the provincial
level with the PCT. The baseline Project has been effective since December 2001. It has an excellent
National Coordinator, highly competent Provincial Coordinators, and a proven track record o f high-quality
project implementation (as evidenced during various supervision missions and documented in the Project
 Status Reports). There will be a SILEM focal point within the PCU to assist the National Coordinator in
implementingSILEM inaccordancewith rules and procedures o f GEF.
4.3 Procurement issues:
National procurement will be handled by the PCU procurement specialist and local procurement will be
handled by the communities (CVGT) assisted by the baseline Project's provincial teams and the provincial
procurement commissions. Training is being provided under the baseline Project on a continual basis.
4.4 Financial management issues:
 Financial management will be handledby the PCU financial manager and, where appropriate, the regional
 accounting offices set up under the baseline Project. The main financial management issue will be to track
 the incremental fhds provided by SILEM for disbursement, audit and reporting purposes. The project
 currently has multiple funding partners (IFAD, DANIDA, UNDP) and the financial management system's


                                                    - 23 -

ability to satisfactorily account for its multiple funding sources has been evaluated through several external
audits and Bank missions. The risk is considered low.
5. Environmental:                            Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues andtheir treatment emergingfrom this analysis.
The base-Project has a category `B' rating. In fblfillment of the World Bank Environmental Assessment
guidelines OP/BP/GP 4.01, and in conformity with the recently adopted national environmental impact
assessment legislation, the borrower prepared an environmental and social assessment during the
preparation o f the baseline Project. This report was prepared in consultation with a number o f NGOs
working on environmental and natural resource management issues in Burkina Faso. It has been available
publicly since July 1999.

The SILEM Project is classified as a category B project. It will fund the incremental cost o f activities and
investments to protect and promote sustainable management o f natural resources o f local and potentially
global importance in the ecosystems o f four sub-watersheds in Burkina Faso. Although the project is
designed to have mainly positive environmental and social impacts, an Environmental and Social
Management Framework (ESMF) has been prepared to provide a guidelines for screening projects and
identifyingmitigation measureswhen necessary.
5.2 What are the main features o f the EMP and are they adequate?
The ESMF proposes a screening process for sub-project EAs which will be carried out by the Directorate
of the Environment according to national regulations.         At the national level, a staff member will be
appointed within the PCU to monitor environmental and social issues. At the provincial level, one member
of the provincial team will be appointed to provide technical backstopping on all aspects o f SILEM
including environmental and social mitigation. These team memberswill be trained inthe Project's ESMF
and Resettlement Policy Framework procedures in order to support the CVGTs to identify and promote
sustainable practices for land management, land tenure, land acquisition and involuntary resettlement; and
conflict resolution. An annual environmental and social performance audit, will be carried out by an
independentconsultant. The SILEM provincial team member will encourage CVGTs to develop strategic
approaches to environmental sustainability in their communities and inter-village committees. At a more
practical level, the details o f the ESMF will be integrated into the sub-project cycle. The ESMF has been
cleared by the Bank`s safeguard team.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
                      Date o f receipt of final draft: August 18, 2003



5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage o f (a) environmental screening and (b) draR EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment managementplan? Describe mechanisms
o f consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
The ESMF is designed to include aprocess o f consultation with stakeholders that assesses each sub-project
 as it is proposed for financing.       The implementation o f SILEM is consultative in nature, with the
 sub-projects themselves, and the environmental requirements for each one, arrived at in a participatory
 way. It is therefore implicit that stakeholders will be consulted adequately for the entirety o f the project.

 Inthe case ofan ESMF, it is impractical to launch a consultationphaseprior to project implementation, as
 the exact activities are not known, however the ESMF study included a two-week mission to Burkina Faso.
 The mission consisted of field visits to four provinces, and met with government organizations,

stakeholders, NGOs and other persons, and includedthe review of existing documentation.

SILEM implementation follows the procedures that have been adopted by the national decentralized rural
development policy of Burkina Faso, the LPDRD, which supports decentralization and participatory local
development. SILEM will also support the ongoing participatorydevelopment process that is being canied
out under Burkina Faso's poverty reduction and rural development strategies.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluatethe impact o f the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results o f the EMP?
Given that objectives of the Project are environmental in nature, the M&E system and impact evaluation
studies all include environmentalindicators. The evolution o f the following environmental indicators will be
closely monitored as a proxy to ecosystem health: soil organic content, plant and insect diversity, and grass
and tree biomass. This information is supplemented by, and cross analyzed with, macro-level information
provided by the baseline Project environmental monitoring system (e.g national database of land use,
national monitoring o f biomass production, etc.).
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
A social and institutional assessment was carried out as part of the base-Project preparation, with the goal
o f understanding the social dynamics at the household, local institution, and community levels and
maximizingthe impact on the poor andmarginalized groups. Lessons and conclusions were integrated into
the baseline Project design as well as SILEM:

0   Institutional Development: There is no conflict between the institutions promoted by the CBRD and
    SILEM        programs (e.g. the CVGT, watershed management committees)                   and traditional
    community-level organizations. On the contrary, traditional structures will find formalization in the
    CVGT. Very importantly, the assessment shows that "communities" o f villages exist, tied together by
    social, cultural, kinship, religious and market relationships, encouraging villages to work together
    around common objectives, such as improved watershed management.

0    Vulnerable Groups: One o f the critical issues in bringing the entire community together to select,
    finance, and implement subprojects is to ensure an equitable and representative decision-making
    process. Since most BurkinabC cultural groups are very stratified     --organized around ethnicity, age,
    kinship, andgender    -- participatory planningwillbe usedto ensure that vulnerable groups (e.g. women,
    herders, youth) are fully included in the decision-making process, that village-level committees include
    representation from vulnerable groups, and that land tenure pilot operations enhance land access and
    security for vulnerable groups.

In addition, a Resettlement Policy Framework and a Process Framework were prepared during SILEM
project preparations and will provide the framework for assessing and monitoring the social impact of
project activities and investments.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
The base-Project and SILEM were both designed to be participatory at all levels, particularly at the
community level. Established participatory needs assessment techniques will be applied to involve the
maximumnumber o f beneficiaries in sub-project selection.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society

organizations?
NGOs intervene during project implementation as service providers andassistthe communities with
training, with the design o f their local development plans (including landuse planning), and during the
implementation o f their sub-projects.
6.4 What institutional arrangementshave beenprovidedto ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
The relevant institutionalarrangementsare: the representation of all social groups inthe village land
management committees, the local safeguardscreening system for sub-projects and the M&E system.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance interms o f social development outcomes?
Both the M&E system and the impact evaluation studies, track institutional development issues at the
community level (including an analysis of the participation of, and impact on, different societal groups)
and a socio-economic survey, financed by the baseline Project, will provide some indication of the
distribution o f benefits at the household level.

7. Safeguard Policies:



                                4, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)




                      OP4.37 BP4




7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguardpolicies.

Provisions made to ensure compliance with applicable safeguardpolicies are as follows:

Environmental Assessment: The Environmental and Social Management Framework (ESMF), which i s
 used for CDD projects that are comprised o f numerous, small and not hlly specified sub-projects,
 examined the project's potential negative and positive impacts andrecommended measures to address them,
 inline with BP/GP/OP 4.01 (andas discussedinsection 5 above).

Involuntary Resettlement: The Project will not involve any activities that displace people involuntarily,
 however it may restrict people's access to resources within protected areas, therefore a ProcessFramework
 was prepared. A Resettlement Policy Framework was also prepared to protect populations who might be
 affected by land acquisition.

F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Institutional sustainability is the main objective of the first phase o f the baseline Program and o f the
SILEM.      Considerable resources will therefore be directed to institutional strengthening. At the
sub-projectlcommunity level, sustainability depends on the degree to which beneficiaries have ownership
over their local development and sub-watershedmanagement plans. This sense o f ownership is an essential
goal o f the participatory process. The contribution required from beneficiaries to finance their local
development (reflecting IEMpriorities) helps achieve this sense of ownership. Where essential andfeasible,
community contribution for recurrent maintenance will be a condition o f sub-project funding.

The program intends to ensure sustainability through local capacity building. Farmers will be trained in
IEM technologies such as soil and water management and improved agro-sylvo-pastoral practices.
Furthermore, an adequate enabling environment will be maintained by strengthening the capacity o f
governance bodies to negotiate policy reforms with government.

SILEM also emphasizes financial sustainability by strengthening the capacity o f rural communities to
establish financing partnerships with the international private sector and with governments o f the northern
hemisphere.

la. Replicability:
The first phase o f the SILEM program will focus on developing the tools and institutional capacity for
integrated ecosystem management and it will test this approach in four sub-watersheds. The lessons,
capacity and tools from the first phase would be usedto scale up the results to other sub-watersheds inthe
country duringthe second andthirdphases to achive the intendednational and global impacts.


2. CriticalRisks (reflecting the failure o f critical assumptions found inthe fourth column o f Annex 1):
                    Risk                           Risk Rating                Risk MitigationMeasure
 From Outputsto Objective
 Government commitment to decentralized                 M          3wnership of the Programby the Government is
 decision-making and resource transfer to                          nigh (preparation by Nationalteam; highlevel
 rural communities and their grouping                              SteeringCommittee with representatives o f all
 (future rural municipalities) is not                              major ministriesinvolved)
 sustained
                                                        N          Years o f experience onNRMinBurkinaFaso
 Naturalresources degradationproves not                            show that communities are very aware o fthe
 to be a high-priority concern for the                             constraints imposed on their production systems
 communities andtherfore buy-infor the                             andusually respond well to landplanning and
 sub-watershedapproach and engagement                              new technologies. The project intends to
 inIEMactivities is compromised                                    emphasizecommunicationand discussion to
                                                                   ensure that the proposals and plans that emerge
                                                                   are well owned by the communities.
 From Componentsto Outputs
 Government does not maintain its support               S          The Government policy for decentralized rural
 to decentralized rural development                                development was r e a f f i e d inits recently
                                                                   approved rural development strategy.
                                                                   Decentralization is an irreversibletrend in


                                                      - 27 -

                                                      Burkina. Implementation of the baseline CBRD
                                                      program shows that while the Government is
                                                      slow inthe reformprocess, this has never
                                                      resulted inwithdrawing a right already secured
                                                      by local communities andhas never prevented
                                                      successful implementationof community-based
                                                      local development.

Fundsavailability for sub-projects are        N       Fundswillbemobilizedwith similar
delayed thereby preventing their timeliness           mechanisms as the baseline Project.
or implementation                                      :xperiences so far indicates that the flow o f
                                                       esources from the Special Account to the
                                                       IO-daysaccount and then to the sub-project is
                                                       luite efficient. A monitoring systemis inplace
                                                        D  measure the time between each steps o f the
                                                       irocess.

Non availability o fquality service           M        1trainingprogramfor serviceprovidersis
providers and enterprises in sufficient                ncluded incommunity-based land
number                                                  nanagemenVloca1development approach. A
                                                        'oster o f competent service providers was
                                                        :ompiled as part o f the preparation to assess
                                                        wailability o f skills required.

Regionalandprovincialservices do not           S        EM,requires landplanningandthenmultiple
share'the project vision and approach and               nterventions from many sectors. Not all
do not demonstrate a sufficient level o f               .egional or provincialservices fully share the
commitment to its results                               iational vision o f their Government not do their
                                                        a l l have the skills, or commitment, to engage in
                                                        igreedplans and new technologies. The project
                                                        hough its communication strategy, its
                                                        Jarticipatory process and training will attempt
                                                        :o engagethese partners to the extent possible.
I                                                       The CPAT will also serve as mediator when
                                                        difficulties inimplementationo f new plans or
                                                        rules are raised by a sector.

 Phase 2 o f the baseline CBRD program         N        The baseline Project is progressing well toward
 either does not materialize or follows                 its triggers and is now a well established
 Phase 1with a time gap which prevents                  "institution" with multipledonors. It i s also
 SILEM from the benefit o f the                         flexible enough to accommodate changes inthe
 administrative support o f the baseline                direction andpace o f reforms. Should Phase 2
 program                                                of the baseline CBRD program not proceed,
                                                        SILEM will recruit a Financial administrator
                                                        who will supplement andcomplement the
                                                        SILEM team already comprising a Coordinator,
                                                        an accountant and four field officers.
 Overall Risk Rating                            M       The approach proposedunder the Programhas


                                              - 28 -

                                                                  beentested successfully inAfrica ingeneral and
                                                                  inBurkinainparticular, andpresents relatively
                                                                  low risks. Notwithstanding, the scale o f
                                                                  implementation envisagedwill be a challenge.
Risk Rating- H (High Risk),S (SubstantialRisk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligib1eor Low Risk)


3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
SILEM builds on the baseline Project, which was prepared through a highly participatory process,
involving a wide range o f local stakeholders. It i s being implementedin a satisfactory manner and appears
to enjoy broad support across all sectors o f the Government and civil society. The risk o f controversial
aspects has thus been greatly reduced. The Project's monitoring and evaluation system, focusing on
socio-economic andenvironmental impacts, will be instnmentalindefusingany unforeseen issues.

G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
The following conditions will be conditions o f effectiveness of the GEF grant:

    (a) the Recipient has (i) opened the Project Account; and (ii) the Initial Deposit into the Project
                                                                     paid
    Account;

    (b) the Recipient has adopted the ProjectImplementationManual inform and insubstance satisfactory
    to the Bank, including the procurement plan for the first eighteenmonths o fthe Project;

    (c) the Project Steering Committee has adopted the work program for the first year o f the Project
    Implementation;

    (d) the Recipienthas recruitedthe independent auditors underterms and conditions acceptableto the
    Bank;

    (e) the Recipient has recruitedthe accountant for the PCU, under terms and conditions acceptable to
    the Bank;

    ( f ) the Recipient has adapted the financial management system (manual and software) to the Project
    specificities in a manner acceptable to the Bank;

    (g) the Recipient has nominatedthe Project focal point within the PCU; and

    (h) the Recipient has submittedto the Bank terms ofreference, acceptableto the Bank, for collecting
    the data necessary to measurethe impact o fthe Project.

 2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
    The Recipient shall, within six months after the Effectiveness Date, establish andthereafter maintain,
    until the completion ofthe Project, the ProjectTechnical andScientific Advisory Network, ina form
    and with functions and resources satisfactory to the Bank.




                                                      - 29 -

H. Readinessfor Implementation
0 1.a)Theengineeringdesigndocumentsfor thefirst year'sactivitiesarecompleteandreadyforthestart
         o f project implementation.
El1.b)Notapplicable.

Ixi2. Theprocurement documents for the first year's activities are complete andready for the start of
       project implementation.
[XI 3. The Project ImplementationPlanhas beenappraisedand found to be realistic and of satisfactory
       quality.
i?4. Thefollowingitemsarelackingandarediscussedunderloanconditions (SectionG):



I. Compliancewith Bank Policies
!Xl1.Thisproject complies withall applicable Bankpolicies.
i?2. Thefollowingexceptions toBankpoliciesarerecommendedforapproval. Theprojectcomplies with
       all other applicable Bank policies.




                          kzL-7
                       / .
                                                                                Country Director




                                                  - 30 -

                                          Annex 1: Project Design Summary
                  BURKINA FASO: Sahel Integrated Lowland Ecosystem Management
                                          KeyIndicators
                                                Performance             D
  Hierarchy of Objectives
Sector-related CAS Goal:          Sector Indicators:                    ;ector/ country reports:
Reduce poverty and improve the      0    Incidence o frural poverty      0 Poverty profile               0  Political stability
livingconditions and productive          Human development               0 Annual UNDP report            0  Successful development and
?otential of the rural population        indicators                      0 Regular Country Monitoring       implementation of requisite
                                                                                                             sector strategies


Program Purpose:                  End-of-Program Indicators:            'rogram reports:               (from Purpose to Goal)
Sustainable improvement inthe     P.l. Percentageimprovement in            Baseline impact evaluation  Burkinaterritorial, land tenure
?reductive capacity of rural                                             0
                                  vegetation diversity index *: (a)        studies                     and administrative policies as
resources (natural, physical,     >O in 5 years; (b) 2 in 10years;                                     well as the sectoral strategies
human, & financial) in selected   *(c)Index
                                        5 in 15 years                    0 Scientific monitoringreports continue to place communities
mb-watersheds                              used: Shannon Werner as                                      and private land owners
                                  measured in Skm-spaced quadrates       0 Project implementation       center-stage inthe management
Program Phasing:                  wositioned on transect intersecting
                                  each micro-basin                         reports                      of natural ressources

Phase 1: Initiation and pilot
testing of local IEM capacity     P.2. Percentageimprovement in
building and of local/regional    invertebrate diversity index*: (a)
[EMinvestments in 3-4 sub-        >O in 5 years,( b) 2 in 10 years,
watershed                         *(c)Index
                                        5 in 15 years
                                           used: Shannon Werner

Phase 2: Confirmation and         measured in same quadrates (data
                                  collection method tbd)
implementation o f IEM local
capacity building and investment  P.3. Percentageincrease in soil
mechanisms in x additional        organic content *: (a) >O in5
sub-watersheds                    years; (b) 2 in 10years; (c) 5 in
                                  *15Measured
                                        years
Phase 3: Consolidation and                      along transect; classic
expansion of local IEM capacity   soil organic content measurement
building and local investment     method
mechanisms
                                  P.4. Percentageincrease in
                                  biomass*: (1) grass (a) 5 in 5
                                  years; (b) 15 in 10years; (c) 25
                                  in 15years; (2) woody (a) >O in
                                  5 years; (b) 5 in 10years; (c) 10
                                  in 15 years
                                  * Measured    along same transect in
                                  specific biomass measurement
                                  quadrates

iEF Operational Program:          htcome I Impact
                                  ndicators:
)P12- IntegratedEcosystem         1.1.Percentageimprovementin       0Baseline impactevaluation  XLEM benefitsfrom a second
lanagement                        ,egetationdiversityindex >O in 5   studies                    .ndthird phasethat enables its
                                  rears                                                         :arlyoutcome to be strengthened
)P13 - Conservationand                                              0Scientificmonitoringreports Indbuilt upon
ustainableUse of Biological       1.2. Percentageimprovementin
)iversityImportantto              nvertebratediversityindex>O in    0 Projectimplementation
igriculture.                       i years                            reports

                                  1.3. Percentageincrease in soil
'he globalobjectiveof the         irganic content >O in 5 years
'roject is the sustainable
onservationofbiological&          1.4. Percentageincreasein
gricultural diversityandthe       biomass(1) grass: 5 in 5 years;
:habilitation ofsoil andwater      2) woody: >o in 5 years
esourcesintargetedwatersheds.

herallthis will leadto
.ecreasedrates of desertification,
ncreasedcarbonstorage
apacity, decreased
nvironmentaland social
ulnerability to climatechange,
ndimprovedfood security and
ncomeeamingpotentialfor rural
iouseholds.




jlobal Objective:                  3utcome I Impact                'roject reports:              (from Objective to Purpose:
                                    ndicators:
Project Development                1.5. YOincreasein index          0 Baseline environmental
lbjective)                         neasuringcomprehensionand          impact studies
                                    doptionofIEMapproachby
mprovedresource management         argetedcommunities = X           0 Project implementation
xactices intargeted                ' index defined as  ....           reports
iub-watershedsthrough an                                                                         improvement
ntegratedecosystem                 1.6. Numberof technologies and   0 lndependentevaluationat
nanagementapproach                 nnovativeIEMmechanisms             Projectend
                                   .dopted*by targeted
                                    ommunities ineachtargeted
                                   'rovince = 2
                                   'Adopted implies that lofarmer
                                    ire using it in >SO% of their
                                    txploitation

                                                                           lata CollectionStrategy
 Hierarchyof Objectives                                                                                   CriticalAssumptions
3utput from each                  Output Indicators:                       roject reports:               rom Outputs to Objective)
Zomponent:
1-LocalCapacity Building in       R1.l. Degreeof functionalityof              Localdevelopment plans     atural resourcesdegradationis
[EM                               :heCCIV, as measuredby point                PASBV                      relativelyhigh-priorityconcems
                                  system=9 per Provinceor 36                  Minutesof CCSBV meeting    r the communitiesto buy-in the
Localcommunitiesandrural          iltogether                               0  ProvincialPCUReports       ib watershed approach and
nunicipalitiesinthe pilot sites   * Includes  2 representatives of each    0  CVGT annual activities and igage in IEMactivities
lave the knowledgeand             village of the sub-watershed (2pts).        budgetreports
:ompetency required to plan,      neet once per semester (Zpts). has
mplement, andmonitorIEM           peviewed & approved thepreliminary
                                  rub-watershed plan (2pts). has proven
activities                        'ts capacityfor implementation of the
                                  rub-watershed plan and arbitration oj
                                  :onjlicts (Zpts), review and approves
                                  *heannual investment plan (2pt)


1- Local InvestmentFund for       R2.1. Numberof IEM                        0 ProvincialPCUreports       one identified
[EM                               investments (micro-projects)              0 CVGT annualactivities and
                                  Bnancedandentirely                          budgetreports
The communitiesandprovincial      implementedineachprovince=                0 Serviceprovidersactivity
institutionsinthe pilot sites use 35 (year 3) & 120 (year 5)                  reports
the local investment fund                                                   0 Resultsofbeneficiaries
:ffectively in the implementation R.2.2. % of completed IEM                   assessments
3 f the IEMplanfor the            investments(micro-projects)                 ProjectM&E reports
rehabilitation& sustainable       receivingapositiveevaluation:
managementofthe                   a) participatoryreview = 75 ;b)
sub-watershed                     by projectreview=60

3- Institu(iona1Capacity          R3.1. Degreeofcompletionfor               0 ProvincialPCUreports       lone identified
Building in IEM                   the sub-watershedIEMplanas                0 PGT&PASBV
                                  measuredby point system = 18                Minutesof CCSBV &
The local andcentralinstitutions for the 4 Provinces*                         CPAT meetings
responsiblefor sustainable        * Local  developmentplans coherent
resource managementhavean         together (Ipt): sub-watershed plan
understandingofthe 1EM            designed (Ipt); validated by CCIV
approach andthe capacityto        (Ipt); adopted by CPAT (Ipt)

assist localcommunitiesin
developing andimplementing
the sub-watershedIEMplan

4- Global partnerships and        R4.1. Numberofnew initiatives             0 PCU reports                Jone identified
SustainableFinancing for          developedeventhoughnot all                0 Proposaldocuments
promising IEM initiatives with funded = 5                                   0 Partnershipagreements or
local and global environmental                                                financingagreements
benefits                          R4.2. Numberof sub-watershed
                                  IEMplansand/or micro-projects
The national capacityto mobilize financiallysupported by global
global financial opportunities/   partnerships= 2
mechanisms for IEM initiatives
with localandglobal
environmental benefitsis
improved

5- Program Coordination,          R5.1. Degreeofefficacyof                  0  ProvincialPCUreports      qone identified
 Monitoring and Evaluation        impactmonitoringsystem, as                   PCU annualreports
                                  measuredby point system=20                0  Impactmonitoringreports
A well functioninginformation     per provinceor 80 overall.


                                                                      - 33 -

ystem inplace and effectively   *Data collection& analysis
ised for project management and procedure designedand adoptedfor
or monitoring and evaluating theeach of the 4 indicator (4pl), Baseline
roject                          data collected inyear I on all 4
                                indicators (4pt). data collection each
                                year (IRptper indicatorper year 2,
                                3 &4), data collection in year 5 (4pi),
                                Final reports with analysis of impaci
                                (4PO




                                                                   - 34-

                                 Key Performance
  Hierarchvof Objectives            Indicators
'roject Components I         nputs: (budgetfor each     Project reports:           :fromComponents to
iub-components:              :omponent)                                            3utputs)
                             US$,OOO,OOO)    % o ftotal Provincial Central PCU and 3ovemment maintainsits
                                                        CVGT annual activities and ;upport to decentralizedrural
-Local Capacity Building in       1.12            22.8  budget reports             bvelopment
EM

,- Local Investment Fund for   2.24            45.6     Annual Investment Plans    Funds are timely and
EM                                                      Contracts & conventions    :ffectively available

                                                                                   Availability o f quality service
                                                                                   providers and enterprises in
                                                                                   sufficient number


1- Institutional Capacity      0.44             9.0     Annual work program &      Regional and provincial
hildingin IEM                                           report                     services share the project
                                                                                   vision and approach and
                                                                                   demonstrate a sufficient level
                                                                                   o f commitment to its results
I-GlobalPartnerships and        0.19            3.9     Annual work program &
iustainable Financingof                                 report
womisingIEMinitiatives

i- ProgramCoordination,         0.92           18.7     Annual work program,       Phase 2 o f CBRDP follows
klonitoringand Evaluation                                Annual Procurement Plan   phase 1without time gap
                                                         Annual Reports            thereby enabling SILEMto
                                                         FMR                       benefit from uninterrupted
                                                         Audits                    administrative support o f
                                                                                   CBRDP




                                                     - 35 -

                                Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
              BURKINA FASO: Sahel Integrated Lowland Ecosystem Management

A. Introduction

The Sahel Integrated Lowland Ecosystem Management (SILEM) Project is designed to complement the
National Community-Based Rural Development (CBRD) Project (hereafter called the baseline Project).
The GEF would fimd the piloting o f integrated ecosystem and watershed based approaches to land
management and local development.

The baseline Project is the first phase o f the National Program for Decentralized Rural Development      - a
15-year APL in support of Burkina Faso's rural decentralization and poverty reduction agenda. The
project, a community-driven development operation with local investment funds managed directly by rural
communities, became effective inDecember 2001. It intervenes in26 o f the country's 45 provinces, and is
expected to cover 2,000 o f the country's 8,000 villages, by the end o f the first phase. All provinces and
villages in the country are expected to be covered by the NPDRD by the end o f the second phase o f
baseline Project.

The baseline Project is implementedthrough the following five components: (i) capacity building;(ii)
                                                                                  local
local investment fund; (iii) institutional capacity building; (iv) land tenure security pilot and (v) program
coordination, monitoring and evaluation.

SILEM was designed with the baseline Project components in mind and thus the components are largely
complimentary. The main difference has to do with the pilot components. The baseline Project fimds a
landtenure pilot activity (results of which will be applied to the SILEM) for which there is no complement
under the SILEM, while SILEM funds a pilot activity focused on partnerships for sustainable financing for
environmental restoration and management, for which there is no complement under the baseline Project.

B.DetailedDescriptionof ProjectComponents

By Component:

Project Component I-Local Capacity Building for Integrated Ecosystem Management US$1.03 million
                                                                                        -

This component consists o f promotional and training activities, directed at rural communities and their
organizations, including both structured programs and on-the-job training in the form o f technical support
for a wide range o f community activities. The specific objective o f the component is to strengthen the
technical and organizational capacity o f the rural population so that they can execute the activities
envisaged under the program.

 SILEM will provide incremental support, in its interventionzones:

0    to disseminate the project objectives and explain the modalities for participation ;
0    to introduce, on the basis o f Integrated Ecosystem Management (IEM) concepts, landwater use
     planningtools ;and
0    to introduce environmental issues o f national concern and solutions proposed inthe national
     environmental strategies andaction plans.




                                                      - 36 -

This component will also provide organizational and technical support for the emergence o f effective
watershed management committees (Cadre de Concertation intervillageois, CCIV) with membership from
all o f the Village Land Management Committees (Commissions Villageoise de Gestion du Terroir,
CVGTs) in the sub-watershed. The primary responsibilities o f the CCIV would be to: (i)      review, validate
and adopt the proposed watershed managementplan; (ii)         approve the annual work program and report on
annual progress; (iii) arbitrate inthe case o f conflicts regarding agreed upon resource use mles/regulations.


The project will train community groups and members o f the CVGT in the use of various IEM tools,
including GIS based maps, to visualize their natural resource base and understand the linkages and
cause-effect impacts o f altemative use scenarios/development plans. The EM approach will add a new
dimension to the baseline Project by introducing a landscape approach and promoting ecologically sound
local development plans. In addition, the SILEM will assist the baseline Project in its decentralization
goals by strengthening the capacity o f villages sharing a sub-watershed, to work together to develop a
common environmentally sustainable development plan.             The SILEM will pilot the approach in its
intervention sites (three to four provinces, four sub-watershedsand about 120villages).

The local development plano f each community is defined following a participatory diagnostic animated by
project funded facilitators in individual communities. As part o f the diagnostic, communities identify their
development constraints and, inthe case of the SILEMpilot sites, integrated ecosystem issues are presented
andtaken into account. The constraints facing the communities are translated into investmentactivities and
subsequentlyprioritized intheir local development plan andtheir Annual Investment Plan (AIP).

In the case of the baseline Project, the local development plans and AIPs are directly submitted to the
CCTP for verification against policies, existing plans and ongoing activities fimded from other sources, and
apprdval (see also Box 1).

Inthe case of the SILEM, the local development plans are translated by a cartographer into a development
plan for the entire sub-watershed. Prior to submission to the CCIV for review, validation and adoption,
this consolidated planis reviewed by a technical/scientific team (contractual staff) to ensure that the plan is
technically coherent (no negative externalities), reflects sub-watershed priorities and addresses concems
relatedto IEMpriorities.

Once reviewedby the technicallscientific committee, the consolidated plan is submittedto the CCIV, where
it is discussedwith the help o f facilitators who will guide the CCIV membersthrough the concerns notedby
the technicaVscientific review committee.        The CCIV proposes amendments to the individual local
development plans where necessary. The representative o f the concemed community on the CCIV then
needs to discuss these changes with the CVGT. The CVGT amends their local development planand AIP
subsequent to the discussions. Where necessary facilitators will work with the CCIV members and the
CVGT to achieve consensual solutions.

The revised plans are re-submittedfor validation to the CCIV. Once validated, the local development plan
and AIPs for the entire sub-watershed are submitted to the CCTP/CPAT for validation. At this stage both
baseline Project LIF and SILEM LIF follow the same procedures. Following approval by the CCTP, a
contract is signed between the CVGT and the provincial team, detailing the activities and responsibilities
 and once the counterpart contribution is mobilized, funds are released to the CVGT account.




                                                       - 37 -

    Box 1: Complimentarity of baseline Project and SILEMin LIFProject Selection


      Each SILEM village will be eligible for funding from both the SILEM and CBRD LIF. The CBRD
      envelope is $5 per capitdper year, while the SILEM envelope is estimated at $2500 per village year
      for IEM activities. Each village therefore knows the amount available for annual investment
      planning from the baselineProjectand the SILEM. The amounts are indicative and may be changed
      basedon implementationexperience.

      Normal scenario: Under the baseline Project, the activity or activitiesto be includedin the AIP is the
      first group of activities on the list o f constraints identified during the participatory diagnostic
      culminating in the local development plan that can be funded from the available envelope. With the
      addition of the SILEM LIF, two scenarios are possible. A communityhas identified the needfor IEM
      relatedactivities to be financed from the baseline Project LIF as part of the participatory diagnostic.
      Inthis case the SILEM LIF would support lower priority IEM activitiesidentified by the community,
      with a preference to those activities that can enhance the utility of the basic IEM investment for local
      and global environment, up to the limit of both envelopes.

      Assuming for instance that the proposed basic IEM investmentunder the baseline envelope is a set o f
      contour bounds in the village, the additional investment needed for applying conservation tillage or
      zero tillage inthe fields treated with contour bounds (such as cover crops seeds, live fencing, etc.) on
      individual farms, would be eligible for inclusion inthe AIP to be fundedby the SILEM envelope, the
      remainingportion being coveredby beneficiary contributions.

       Inthe secondcase, the communityhas selectedas its highestpriority aset of non-IEM activities (e.g.
      waterhole or health post). In this case, the CBRDP FIL will fund the regular community priorities.
     * The  SILEM envelope will be used to fund the highest priority IEM project of the AIP, no matter
       where it is located in the priority ranking order, provided that it carries some potential local and
       global environment benefit.

       Combinationof Funds: Alternatively, where the envelope available under the baseline Project cannot
       by itself fund any IEM activity identified as an important constraint to development.           In this
       particular case, the envelopes may be combined to ensure that the high priority IEM activity can be
       includedinthe AIP.



Project Component2-Local Investment Fund for IEM Sub-projects US$2.08 million
                                                                         -
This component will provide resources to communities to implement their development plans based on
identifiedpriorities and clear eligibility criteria. These resources are channeled through a local investment
fimd with two windows: one for financing village and inter-village investments, and another for financing
critical provincial-level infrastructure benefiting a large number o f villages.

The villageher-village window will provide resources to villages in the form o f a matching grant for
financing their AIP derived from their local development plans. Investments selectedby villagers andtheir
representativescover a variety o f sectors but they will be subject to a negative list. After a simple check by
the operational unit for procedural regularity and by the Provincial Technical Coordination Committee (
Cadre de Concertation Technique Provincial, CCTP) for conformity with sectoral policies (e.g. school
and health center planningmaps), and confirmation of the availability of the beneficiary contribution (cash
or in-kind),the fhds will be disbursedinto an account ina local fmancial institution opened inthe name of

the CVGT. None of the matching grants for individual sub-projects will exceed US$35,000, as national
procurement guidelines do not allow community procurement for higheramounts.

Inthe case o f the provincialwindow, larger scale sub-projects (between US$35,000 andUS$150,000) are
selected on the basis o f priority needs expressed in a number of local development plans. Selection o f
sub-projects will be conducted by the CCTP on the basis o f transparent criteria, inopen meetings to which
are invited representatives o f beneficiary groups. Sub-project implementation is delegated to the provincial
coordination o f the baseline Project on behalf o f the province. Once the province becomes an effectively
decentralized entity with sufficient capacity, it will take over sub-project management itself. In general
these types o f sub-projects will cost from US$35,000-150,000.

The SILEM Local Investment Fund supplements these two windows as follows: one for financing village
managed sub-projects (< US$ 35,000) and a special window (> US$35,000 - US$ 150,000) to provide
provinces with resources to undertake larger investments identified in the context o f the sub-watershed
management plans. Approval procedures and release o f funds o f SILEM funded activities will be the same
as for those funded under the baseline Project.

Village managed sub-projects

In addition to the CBRD envelope of $5 per capita and per year, SILEM will provide earmarked funds
(about US$ 2,000 per villlage per year) for sub-projects reflecting IEM priorities included in the AIP and
the watershed management plan. The IEM activities funded by the LIF could include both micro-projects
that are investment oriented (rehabilitation o f lowland sacred `forest'), economic incentive oriented (e.g.
reducing the risk o f adopting new technologies by providing start-up funds for IEM income generation
activities with communal benefits), or learning and innovation oriented (demonstration anddissemination o f
innovative IEMtechnologies). Eligible activities include:

    0    promotion o f zero-tillage and conservation agriculture inlowlands andadjacent uplands
    0    testing and dissemination ofinnovative technologies for landrehabilitation
    0    testing and dissemination of innovative agro-sylvo-pastoral management practices
    0    support to innovative bio-diversity promoting enterprises(such as medicinal plant production or
         lowlandaqua-culture)
    0    rehabilitation and biodiversity conservation o f lowlandareas with specific cultural functions
    0    protection o f river banks against livestock damage
    0    creation o f arboreta and the protection o f sacredwoods
    0    the identification andimprovement ofwildlife routes
    0    the stabilizationo f the banks o f fishing waters
    0    establishing a local system for monitoring fishing activities

 Provincial window

 SILEM will supplement the provincial window o f the baseline Project with an earmarked fund o f
 US$lOO,OOO per province and per year to provide incremental funds for larger scale investments identified
 inthe watershedmanagement plans.

 Project Component3-Institutional Capacity Building for Integrated Ecosystem Management US$0.38-
 million

 The objective of this component is to strengthen the capacity o f national and local institutions (public and


                                                       - 39 -

private) to assist communities intheir efforts to plan, implement andmanage their development efforts.

Under the baseline Project, this component supports the cost o f training, equipping and operating the field
teams (largely on a contract basis) and other service providers with whom the baseline Project has signed
agreements (protocols with Government technical services ; contracts with NGOs and consulting firms,
etc.). It also includes the cost o f activities in support o f rural decentralization at the local, provincial and
national levels (strengthening institutional, human and financial capacities; piloting the implementation o f
fiscal and financial decentralization; other studies andtraining).

The incremental activities supported under the SILEM would focus on assisting, and buildingcapacities o f
provincial, regional, and national institutions (public and private) to integrate IEM approaches in their
development plans. It will also buildthe capacity o f these institutions to assist communities inplanningand
implementing their micro and sub-watershed management plans.            Public sector institutional partners will
include:

         The Provincial Technical Coordination Committee (Cadre de Concertation Technique Provincial,
         CCTP) is a committee o f the Provincial Commission for Land Adminstation (Commission
         Provincial de 1'Amknagement du Territoire,CPAT) focused on rural development issues. Its role
         i s to ensure the coordination and harmonization o f rural development activities at the provincial
         level.   It is also made up of representatives from government, civil society, NGOs, local
         associations and development projects active inthe province.

         The Regional Directorates for Economic Affairs and Development (Directions Rkgionales de
         I'Economie et du Dtveloppement, DRED) o f the Ministry o f Economy and Development are the
         decentralized units responsible for (i)regional development planning, (ii)coordinating and
         harmonizing development initiatives at the regional and provincial levels, (iii)capitalizing on
         regional and provincial data and statistics; and (iv) maintaining the secretariat for meetings o f the
         Regional Commissions for Land Administration (Commissions rkgionales d 'amknagement du
         Territoire,CRAT), the CPAT and the CCTP.

         The General Directorate for Land Administration (Direction Gdnkrale de I 'Amknagement du
         Territoire, DGAT) o f the Ministry o f Land Administration and Decentralizationis responsible for
         (i)pilotingand coordinatingthe development of master plans for national and regional land
         management; (ii)monitoring the implementation of the land management master plan at the
         national level; and (iii) development o f technical proposals for decision makers in the domain o f
         landmanagement

         The General Directorate for the Inventory of Water Resources (Direction Gdnkrale de 1'Inventaire
         des Ressources Hydrauliques, DGIRH) o f the Ministry of Agriculture, Water, and Fisheries i s
         responsible for (i) monitoring potential and existing water resources and (ii)developing strategies
         for water management and exploitation

         The General Directorate for the Environment (Direction Gknkrale de 1'Environnement, DGE) is
         responsible for (i)elaborating the overall environmental policy for the country ;(ii)      monitoringthe
          application of environmental policies, and (iii)managing and monitoring the application o f the
          international environmental conventions

          The National Council for the Environment and Sustainable Development (Conseil Nationalpour
          I'Environnement et le ddveloppement durable, CONEDD) is a national forum for exchange
          between the government, civil society and development partners on the vision and overall strategic
          orientations vis a vis sustainable development.

The Project will also build the institutional capacity necessary to improve the effectiveness o f Burkina
Faso's participation in global environmental conventions and negotiations.          The interlocutor for such
support would be the national agency charged with this responsibility. At the time o f project appraisal this
was the General Directorate for the Environment (Direction GCnCrale de YEnvironnement, DGE).

SILEM will support provincial, regional and national regional policy forums (depending on the issues
raised by communities) among the various actors        --CVGT, watershed management committees, CCTP,
DRED, NGOs, producers organizations, and the private sector         -- to discuss key issues affecting IEM o f
resources. These forums will contribute to the dialogue necessary to strengthen the incentives needed for
adoption and utilization o f optimal IEM practices. More specifically, they will identify constraints to the
adoption o f IEM and propose necessary solutions (including policy reforms) and action plans. Issues
addressed by the forum could include inter alia land tenure security in lowlands, improved access to
fertilizers, crop-livestock integration, etc.

This component will also fund province-specific studies requiredto develop aparticipatory economic
development plan integrating IEMapproaches that account for altemative resource uses and supporting a
variety o f economic actors. Examples of such studies might include surveys and inventories of species,
land-water use studies, or markeVenvironmenta1business development plans

Project Component -Building partnerships for sustainable IEM financing US$0.17 million
                                                                            -
The objective ofthis component is to build the capacity at national andlocal levels to mobilize national and
intemational funds to address environmental and resource management issues o f local, regional and
potentially global significance.

This component does not have an equivalent inthe baseline Project. The component will (i) andtrain
                                                                                                 assist
CVGTs, watershed management committees, and community leaders with respect to the mobilization o f
national and intemational fimds for environmental protection and local development, (ii)        provide training
andtools to central andlocal governments andpolicy makers to enable themto effectively engageinglobal
financial resource mobilization and in global environmental negotiations, (iii)    initiate and support contacts
between the communities and potential environmental management and business partners (e.g. local and
intemational private sectors, NGOs, northem hemisphere cities, bilateral donor agencies), and (iv) assist
the parties reachmutuallybeneficial contractual arrangements.

This component will also explore (i)    opportunities for partnerships offered by the Kyoto Protocol and in
general the Convention on Climate Change, inparticular partnership opportunities offered by the emerging
carbon trade markets and other mechanisms (twinning, etc.) that rural communities and natural resource
management institutions in Burkina Faso could benefit from; and (ii)     mechanisms for supporting altemative
sustainable financing mechanisms such as a desertification mitigation fund.

Project Component 5-Program Coordination, Administration and MonitoringlEvaluation US$0.84 million
                                                                                             -
The national Project Coordination Unit (PCU) o f the baseline Project will be responsible for coordinating
all activities under the program, in particular for providing funding to beneficiaries within the established



                                                      - 4 1-

deadlines, monitoring and evaluating the program at the national level, managing studies and the provision
of services, and drawing lessons from the various national experiments in decentralized and participatory
rural development.

Monitoring and evaluation is an important activity and an integrated system o f management and monitoring
for Project implementation (real-time monitoring o f physical and financial execution, technical and
financial audits) as well as a system for monitoring and evaluating its impact (reference studies on the
initial situation, impact studies, and support missions) has been set-up and is being refined. The M&E
system has the following components: (i) internal project M&E system to assess implementation
                                                 an
progress and track basic performance indicators, (ii)a participatory indigenous M&E system, to allow
beneficiaries to track implementation and performance, and (iii)   an impact evaluation system that relies on
baseline, scientifically collecteddata with follow-up collection at the mid-termandend points o f eachphase
o f the program.

SILEM will provide funding to the PCU and the provincial coordination teams to support the incremental
cost o f SILEM project implementation.      The SILEM project will also provide incremental support to the
baseline Project's M&E and impact assessment system, with a particular emphasis on strengthening its
environmentaYnatura1 resource component. In particular, emphasis will be placed on the collection o f
information to assess changes in ecosystem management patterns on a local and national level for land
restoration, biodiversity, carbon sequestrationand protection o f international waters.

Indicators for assessingor estimating the physical effects and impact o f the changes inIEMon land quality
(soil fertility), biodiversity, carbon sequestration and protection o f international waters will be developed
andmeasuredperiodically with the assistance of technical and scientific service providers (researchcenters,
universities, laboratories).

Initial baseline data were collected during SILEM project preparation with the census and characterization
o f all lowlands and the construction o f a GIS database for all lowland ecosystems in the country. The
information inthe databasewill be fiuther improved duringthe first year o f implementation to ensure that it
contains all necessary infomation needed to undertake the monitoring and evaluation o f the project as
described above.

The SILEM may also support, on a pilot basis, the development o f a national natural resources account by
 financing the design o f such accounting system by the indicated national technical competencies and in
collaboration with the national statistical departments o f the ministries responsible for planning,
 agriculture, environment, andthe economy.

 C.ImplementationProcedures

 During project preparation, sub-watershedsllowlands were identified and characterized, including an
 assessment o f their potential contributions to poverty reduction and to GEF focal areas. A national
 lowland digitized database (GIS format) is being developed by the National Agricultural ResearchInstitute
 (INERA) and the Geographic Institute of Burkina Faso (IGB).

 Lowlands that have the potential for contributing significantly to local and global environment and to
 poverty reduction are identified at the provincial level by the PCU in collaboration with technical agencies
 (including DGE) based on the information in the GIS data base and other secondary information. Potential
 interventionsites are thus selected for the frrst phase.



                                                      -42-

Information is disseminated about national and global environment and natural resource management
strategies and action plans. CONEDD and DGE will coordinate the development o f the training and
information modules. Workshops are organized for project staff, service providers and policy makers to
know and understand the strategies and action plans. Radio, television awareness programs are produced
as well as theatrical shows and booklets in local languages.

Service providers at the provincial level are trained to help communities exploit the GIS maps o f their
temtory for integrated ecosystemmanagement (IEM) planning, to provide the environment information and
data to communities, and to work with them to make the best use o f such information during participatory
diagnosis.

Prior to participatory diagnosis, local governments, communities and their CVGTs are informed about their
lowland IEM potential and what IEM assistance i s available to them under the SILEM. This includes
information on capacity building and investment possibilities. The participatory diagnosis takes place in
SILEM villages with service providers assisting communities in using the GIS data base to design their
local development plans including IEWland and water use plans. Communities decide on their local
development plans, which include their choices o f IEWenvironment capacity building activities and
investments.

Village and small scale inter-village subprojects are managed by the communities while capacity building
activities for several communities, larger-scale projects, studies and action research are managed by the
PCU and the provincial project teams, all usingservice providers to assist them as needed.

D.Project Organization

Project Coordination and Management

As with all projects operating in Burkina Faso, an inter-ministerial steering committee was established for
the baseline Project. The same committee will oversee SILEM. The role o f this committee is to review
project progress and review and approve annual work programs and budgets. The approved work program
and associatedbudgets and procurement plans will be submittedto IDA for non-objection after approvalby
the Steering Committee.

 Day to day management o f the project rests with the PCU. The PCU's main responsibilities are to: manage
 the work program at the national level, manage the donors contributions to the project in accordance with
 the signedagreements with each donor, ensure that hndsare made available to the beneficiaries ina timely
 manner, carry out procurement, provide technical and logistical support to the provincial teams, and
 monitor and evaluate the implementation o f the work program and its impact. In addition, the PCU will
 organize workshops at the national level and regional level in support of the national coordination
 framework. At the regional level these workshops will be organized inbroad collaborationwith DRED.

 At the provincial level, CCTPs have beenestablished. These Committees include representatives from the
 provincial level o f Government, donors andNGOs active inthe zone, andbeneficiaries. They are be chaired
 by the Provincial High Commissioner.         The mandate of the CCTPs include the coordination and
 supervision o f donor and Government funded activities at the provincial level and ensuring that these
 activities properly respond to the development priorities for each province. The baseline Project provides
 operating support and basic equipment to enable the CCTPs to carry out their mandate in all provinces
 where the project or other donors, that have agreed to a common approach to community development,
 intervene. SILEM will provide incremental support for specific IEM-related issues.


                                                     - 43 -

 The baseline Project has established provincial project coordination teams in 19 provinces. These teams
 cover the 26 provinces where the Project intervenes directly and consist o f 2-4 professional staff plus 1-2
 support staff. The primary responsibility of these teams is to (i)support the CCTP in its review o f
 villageher-village or province level development plans, (ii)  enter into contracts with and supervise service
 providers that have been hired by the project to execute specific activities (training o f beneficiaries, assist
 beneficiaries in the identification, proposal formulation and execution o f the sub-projects, and in the
 identification and proposal formulation o f provincial levelhb-watershed level projects), and (iii)
 implement the monitoring and evaluation system. Once a sufficient number o f service providers has been
 trained ineach province, the size project provincial teams will be reviewed. SILEM implementationwill be
 done by the provincial teams o f the baseline Project in the provinces where SILEM intervenes with any
 additional expertise needed are hiredon a contractual basis.

 Information Flows

 All information flows intwo directions inorder to avoid that the provider of information feels disconnected
 from the user. All sub-project execution and impact data are collected at the community level by the
 beneficiaries themselves. Inorder to do so, they will receive training from the project. The data collected
 by the beneficiaries is first analyzed and aggregated by the provincial teams and made available to the
'members o f the CCTP and the DREP.        At this level, the information is used to plan the work program
 (supervision, approval o f new investment budgets, etc.), improve coordination between development
 projects, NGOs andpublic agencies, and monitor development impact. A copy o f the report is provided to
 the beneficiaries for information and feedback. After initial compilation and analysis by the provincial
 team, the data is aggregated and hrther analyzed at the national level by the monitoring and evaluation
 staff at the PCU and included inregular progress reports.




                                                      - 44 -

                                             Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
             BURKINA FASO: Sahel Integrated Lowland Ecosystem Management

                                                                                                                                                  Total
                                                                                                                                             US $million
Local Capacity Building for IntegratedEcosystemManagement                                             0.94                  0.18                      1.12
LocalInvestmentFund for IEM Sub-projects                                                              2.02                  0.22                     2.24
Institutional Capacity Building for IntegratedEcosystem                                               0.27                  0.17                     0.44
Management
Building partnershipsfor sustainable IEM financing                                                    0.07                  0.12                     0.19
ProgramCoordination, Administration and Monitoring!                                                   0.81                  0.11                      0.92
Evaluation
Total Baseline Cost                                                                                   4.11                  0.80                     4.9 1
 Physical Contingencies                                                                               0.00                  0.00                      0.00
 Price Contingencies                                                                                  0.00                  0.00                      0.00
                                          Total Proiect Costs1                                        4.11                  0.80                      4.91
                                   Total Financing Required                                           4.11                  0.80                      4.91

                                                                                                    Local               Foreign                    Total
                           Project Cost By Category                                              US $million          US $million             US $million
Goods                                                                                                   0.07                     0.09                     0.16
Consulting Services                                                                                     0.76                     0.20                     0.96
Training                                                                                                0.35                     0.17                     0.52
LIF'sub-projects                                                                                        2.02                     0.22                     2.24
Operating Costs                                                                                         0.91                     0.12                      1.03
                                                          Total ProjectCosts1                           4.11                      0.80                    4.91
                                                 Total Financing Required                               4.11                      0.80                    4.91

  I
    Identifiable taxes and duties are 0.26 (US$m)and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 4.65 (US%m). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 96.69% of
  total project cost net o f taxes.




                                                                      -45-

                             Annex 4: Incremental Cost Analysis
       BURKINA FASO: Sahel Integrated Lowland Ecosystem Management

The aim o f the GEF incremental cost analysis is to define the value o f incremental benefits to the
project accruing to GEF financing. This is done by first defining the baseline situation (without GEF
support), then by considering the alternative (with GEF support). This methodology is consistent with
GEF operational policy, in which the requested GEF funds would only be used to finance the
incremental costs. Inthe case of SILEM, the benefits o f complementing the IDA-funded CBRDP with
the GEF-funded SILEM will be improved natural resource management through the development and
implementation o f community-based local development plans reflecting integrated ecosystem
management priorities.

Environmental SituationinBurkina Faso

InBurkina Faso, as in most other West African countries, a decline in annual rainfall during the last
three decades, overexploitation o f the natural resources, increasing populations and decreasing
agricultural productivity, have causeda serious decline in overall productivity and biodiversity leading
to land degradation, desertification, fragmentation, loss of globally valued natural habitats,
biodiversity, and carbon storage capacity while threatening the condition o f important international
waters (see Table 1below).

The continuing uncontrolled expansion o f unsustainable extensive cropping practices is considered the
most important human-induced threat to the natural resources in the country, endangering natural
rangelands, highly valued natural habitats (forests and wetlands) and surface waters.

In view of the high dependency of the rural population in Burkina Faso on cropping, livestock and
natural products for their primary needs, and in the context o f the high-riskagricultural circumstances
involved (water scarcity, erratic climate, poor soils and high occurrence o f agricultural pests and
diseases) the integrated management o f cropping systems, livestock systems, natural habitats and
surface water resources is crucial.

Furthermore, regionally, the application o f integrated ecosystem management (IEM) in West Africa i s
of crucial importance to both sustainable regional rural development and the maintenance of global
environmental assets.

BaselineScenario

The baseline scenario - the IDA-financed CBRD Project without the GEF-financed SILEM - aims to
assist the Government in empowering the provincial and local communities to implement their own
development process and to support poverty reduction and sustainable rural development. This project
 is one o f the components of the National Decentralized Rural Development Program (Programme
National de Diveloppement Rural DCcentralisd - PNDRD). To achieve its goal, the CBRD Project
will implementthe following components:

    0    Local capacity building: Organizing villages and strengthening their capacity to plan,
         implement, operate and maintain investments.

    0    Local Investment Fund (LIF):Establishment o f a local investment fund with two windows,



                                                -46-

             one that channels resources directly to rural communities on a matching grant basisto finance
             demand-driven socio-economic and productive investments, and another window for larger
             investments identifiedby rural communities and implemented by provinces.

             Institutional capacity building: Supporting the rural decentralization process on local,
             provincial and national levels, while training, equippingand operating the field teams and other
             service providers with whom the CBRDP has signed agreements.

      0      Land tenure securitypilot: A pilot study in six test sites representing the principal systems o f
             landuse and ownership will be developed to improve landtenure security andaccess for all
-            users and solve problems.

      0      Program coordination, administration and M&E: This component includes three
             sub-components: (i)     support for the coordination office/forum o f the overall PNDRD, (ii)
             support for the coordination and management o f the IDA-supported Project and(iii)                  support
             for the program andproject monitoring and evaluation.

  Table 1:Linkagesbetweenglobal environmentalissues,the environmentalsituation in
  Burkina Faso (threatsand rootcauses), and GEF-supportedactivities under SILEM

  Environmental           Linkages with              Threats
  Situation and               Global                                                                      Activities
 Impact on Rural          Environmental     i
  Development                  Issues
                                                                    I                            I
Overallland&            Widespreadland        Unsustainable              Declinein annual         SILEM aims to
water degradation      degradationincluding cropping, spreading         rainfall                  complementthe
involving              desertification        from the lowlands,         Populationgrowth         CBRDP by the
desertification, a      Degradationof         at the expense of the      Lack of awareness,       followingtype of
decline and            globally valued        other fhctions of         capacity & coordination activities:
fragmentationof        naturalhabitats        these lowlands: (1)       betweenvarious              Local& national
naturalhabitats,       threatening            highpotentialfor          stakeholdersregarding     awarenessraising&
overalldeclinein       biodiversityand        increased                 the benefits to rural     capacitybuildingof
productivity&          internationalwaters    agricultural             ,developmentof             rural communities
diversityof natural    (e.g. Volta river)     productivity; (2) role    integratedmanagement      relatingto benefitsof
resourcesleading       accompaniedby loss     as dry seasonwater        ofthe lowland             integratedecosystem
to decreases inthe     ofcarbonstorage        andfodder providers       ecosystem                 takingthe lowlandsas
amount, the            capacity               (3) inclusionandor         Lack of financial        entrypoint.
diversity& the                                proximity ofhighly        resourcesto allow for       Provideadditional
stability of the                              valuednatural             integrated                financialresourcesto
supply of water,                              habitats.                 intensificationof the     the communityfunds
fodder, food,                                                           agriculturalpractices in (FIL) establishedby
householdenergy,                                                        the lowlands.             CBRDPto promote
construction                                                             Unfavorable              integratedlowland
material, medicinal                                                     environmental&            ecosystem management.
& veterinary                                                            agriculturalinstitutional
products                                                                &legislative setting to     Raiseawareness,build
representingthe                                                         allow for integrated      capacity &and support
primaryresource                                                         intensifiedmanagement     policy reformsof local,
baseof the rural                                                        o f the lowland           regional& national
population&                                                             resources.                govemmental,non-profil
directly affecting                                                        Poorlycompetitive       andcommercial
the poorestof the                                                       agriculture               organizationsto
poor.                                                                     Limited altematives      facilitate integrated
                                                                        for ruraldevelopment      lowlandecosystem



                                                         - 47 -

                                                               Poor or unequal access management.
                                                              to inputs & resources
                                                               Increasing knowledge /
                                                              technology gaps

Based on the experience o f the PGNTl        - a community-based natural resource management (NRM)
project, on which the design o f CBRD Project was based - in the short run, only a relatively small
proportion o f the community-driven projects would be expected to address environmental issues.
Those NRMactivities being proposed will most likely focus on the short-term recovery or maintenance
o f the areas under cultivation as sources for cash (e.g. cotton) and food crop production. Although the
attention given by the CBRD Project to land tenure security may significantly increasethe local interest
inlonger term management of boththe areas under cultivation andthe communally exploited landand
water resources, without further capacity building,policy reform and financial resources, no particular
attention will be given to environmental and rural development concerns o f more national and
intemational interest. Policy reform will have to enable integrated management of local natural
resources as part o f larger ecosystems such as the maintenance o f the condition o f rivers as a whole,
corridors for transhumant livestock and wildlife and highly valued natural habitat.

Furthermore, without SILEM, during the scaling up o f the intervention sites o f CBRD to 2000 villages
during the first phase, no explicit priority would be given to locations where integrated management o f
the natural resources will be of particular national andor intemational environmental interest. As a
result, under the baseline scenario, the natural resources.management activities will tend to be o f short
term and locally fragmented interest, failing to support national andor international sustainability o f
long-term rural development inWest Africa as a whole.

GEFAlternative Scenario

The global environmental objective o f the GEF altemative scenario i.e. the IDA-financed CBRD
complemented by the GEF-financed SILEM - is to empower rural populations to apply integrated
lowland ecosystem management in order to halt land and water degradation while generating multiple
global environmental benefits. Integrated lowland ecosystem management is defined for this program
as natural resourcemanagement o f the lower positionedand most humidlands inview o f their multiple
functions as sub-components o f larger local, national and intemational ecosystems. The following four
major interacting functions of the lowlands indicate their keystone role in the functioning o f larger
ecosystems and justify their selection as entry points to support overall IEM within the context o f a
broader national rural development program:

     0    The relatively highpotential for stable and increased agricultural productivity related to the
          moisture availability and most favorable soil conditions,

     0    The crucial role as dry seasonwater and fodder providers for local andmigrating human
          populations, livestock and wildlife,

     0    The inclusion andor proximity o f highlyvalued and less common natural habitats such as
          gallery forest, sacred forests, nature reservesand wetlands.

     0    The role of many lowlands as water collection sources for international waters

As related to the highly valued habitats, these are known to include a significant portion of the native



                                                   -48-

species traditionally used as sources for fodder, food, household energy, construction material and
medicinal and veterinary care. Accordingly, they are relatively rich inbiodiversity while they also have
a relatively highcarbon storage capacity.

Presently, however, the maintenance o f these major four hctions of the lowlands within the temtory
o f Burkina Faso is increasingly threatened by uncontrolled expansion o f unsustainable extensive
cropping systems from the arable lowlands towards the more fragile uplands and the margins o f (semi-)
permanent surface waters. This situation not only negatively affects the sustainability o f the cropping
systems themselves - through the use o f shorter fallow periods and cultivation o f marginal lands -but
also increases the pressure on the remaining non-cultivated areas.         These areas cover relatively
common natural rangelands and the scarcer highly valued natural habitats - which in turn reduces the
availability of dry season water and fodder and the integrity of the highly valued natural habitats. In
short, uncontrolled expansion of unsustainable extensive cropping generally goes at the expense of the
interests o f the croppers themselves but also o f pastoralists, hunters, fishermen, wood collectors,
gatherers o f native food andmedicinal and veterinary species and environmental conservationists.

In view of this situation, the program aims to empower the rural population to reverse this trend by
enabling them to apply integrated lowland ecosystem management to simultaneously (i)        intensify the
cropping system, (ii)maintain and/or recover the dry season water and fodder resources and (iii)
preserve the highly valued natural habitats. Pro-active attention would be given to integrated lowlands
ecosystem management plans that foster financial sustainability and social equity.

The expectation is that once sound management o f the lowlands ecosystem is in place - accompanied
by a decentralized and modified natural resources tenure policy - the resulting decentralized
environmental govemance and the additional income generating resources developed through the
dEF-Altemative will allow further community investment in the vaster but ecologically and socially
less complex upland areas.,

To make the most effective use of the limitedGEF resources, the activities during the first phase will
be confined to four sub-watersheds. The geographic selection of these sites is inprogress and is based
on (i)  the magnitude o f land and water degradation, including desertification, (ii)the proximity and
importance o f highly valued natural habitats and (iii)
                                                      the proximity o f intemationalwater. Proximity to
intervention areas o f another BanWGEF co-financed project (PAGEN) will be part of the selection
criteria as well. The maps below indicate the pre-identifiedgeographic areas o f interest inthree o f the
four provinces.

Over the 15-year lifetime o f SILEM, land and water degradation is expected to be significantly reduced
while many local and national highly valued habitats will have been preserved.                Both these
achievements will be accompanied by the preservation o f globally valued biodiversity, carbon storage
capacity and the improved condition o f intemational waters. For example, highly valued natural
habitats benefiting from SILEM (besides sites in proximity of PAGEN intervention zones) are: the
"W' park across the borders of Benin, Burkina Faso and Niger and multiple micro natural habitats
scattered across rural areas throughout the country. Regarding the maintenance o f the condition o f
intemational waters, both the Niger andthe Volta river basins will profit.

The root causes behind the continuing expansion o f unsustainable extensive cropping practices at the
expense o fthe multiplehctions o f ecosystems as a whole are:

    0    The increasing food demands from continuing population growth combined with unfavorable


                                               - 49 -

      rainfall patterns during the last three decades reducing the productivity o f the Sahelian
       agro-ecosystems;

  0    The lack o f awareness and knowledge o f all stakeholders involved o f the importance o f
       integrated lowland ecosystem management to support ecologically sustainable rural
       development;

  0    The existence o f an unfavorable institutional and policy framework to enable and foster
       integrated lowlandecosystemmanagement;

  0    The lack o f financial resources to support all stakeholders in supporting andor implementing
       integrated lowlandecosystemmanagement.

Seeking to remove the root causes for uncontrolled expansion o f the cultivated areas, SILEM will
complement the CBDRP as follows:

  0    Local Capacity Building: Limitedto about 120 lowland intervention sites in 3 to 4 provinces,
       several types o f activities will be complemented: (i)incorporated in the awareness raising
       activities o f baseline CBRD Project, SILEM will discuss the characteristics o f integrated
       lowlands ecosystem management, the various types of stakeholders involved, and the linkages
       with the existing national environmental and rural development policies and action plans; (ii)
       SILEM will provide the communities with relevant national and international agro-ecological
       data and technical assistance to develop a natural resources use map o f their territory which
       will enable the design of IEM activities representingthe components o f IEM and which could
       be integrated inthe local development plans; (iii)   like the CBRD Project, SILEM will support
       the strengthening and emergence o f community-based organizations,               "extra-ordinary
       governance bodies", when these would facilitate the implementationo f relevant IEMactivities.
       SILEM would support such organizations also in relevant activities taking place outside the
       SILEM intervention sites. (iv) SILEM will provide training in the technical implementationo f
       integrated lowlands ecosystem practices through service providers. (v) SILEM will support
       study tours by community members inside and outside the country to exchange knowledge and
       experiences relating to IEM, (vi) SILEM will assist in the establishment o f longer term
       financial IEMpartnerships with national and international stakeholders and (vii) unlikeCBRD,
        SILEM will also support the establishment or strengthening o f commercial activities if their
        activities would contribute to the achievement o f the SILEMobjectives.

  0    Local Investment Fund (FIL): For the 120 intervention sites o f SILEM, the GEF resources
        will provide targeted funding o f about (US$ 2,000 per village pre year) to the CBRD budget o f
        US$ 3-5 per capita per year. As in CBRD, there will be two windows, one for financing
        village and inter-village IEMsub-projects and one for sub-watershed level projects. Aiming to
        preserve the major functions o f the lowlands as parts of larger ecosystems, the GEF will
        co-finance sub-projects selected on the basis o f a natural resources use map and plan which
        reflects the objectives o f integrated lowlands ecosystem management. These sub-projects may
        be undertaken at the level of (i)the cultivated areas, (ii)the non-cultivated areas, covering
        natural rangelands and highly valued habitats and (iii)  surface waters. Table 2 gives examples
        o f eligible activities. Through its financial contribution, the GEF will enable the LIF to
        demand significantly reducedcommunity-required contribution for such activities.

 Table 2: Partiallisting of activities eligible for GEF co-financing through SILEM

   vlanagementof CultivatedLands            Limit extensionof areaunder cultivation
                                            Take marginal landsunder cultivationwith annual crops out ofproduction
                                          andor recoverthrough introductionof perennialandor leguminousspecies
                                          to recover soil fertility andwater retentionandifpossibleincreasefodder
                                          production.
                                            Diversify cropping system throughthe introductionofnativenatural
                                          rangelandsspeciesof particularhuman, animalandor anti-erosive use.
                                            Allocateportionof cultivatedlandto productionof fodder, with either
                                          native, introduced, mixedleguminousor perennialspecies
                                            Maintaindiversityin traditionalcrop species(longcycle)
                                            (Re)introducetraditionalandbiologicallysoundtechnologiesto improve
                                          soil fertility, water retentioncapacityof soils andpest control.
                                            Applied researchactivities to test various relevanttechnologies.
   aanagement of Non-cultivatedLands        Preventexmnsionof cultivationof marginallandswith annualcrops.
                                                                                     -
   'coveringthe more common natural         Protectareas with highly valuednatural habitatsagainstcultivation and
   .angelandsand the highly valued        other potentially damagingactivitiessuch as uncontrolledbushfires andor
   iabitatssuch as gallery forest, nature over exploitationthrougheither grazing, hunting, wood collectionand
   .eserves, sacredforests andwetlands.)  non-woodplant product gathering.
                                            Establishor recoverlinkagesbetweenfragmentedpartsof highly valued
                                           natural habitats .
                                            Allocate,maintainandrespectcomdors for seasonallymigratinglivestock
                                           andwildlife
                                            Apply controlledbushfiremanagement
                                            Protectandor recover severelydegradedlands.
                                            Install anti-erosivemeasuresonmoderatelydegradedlands
                                             Protectandor recoverdecliningnativeplantand animal species within
                                           boththe more commonandthe highly valuednaturalhabitats.
                                             Controlgrazing, hunting, wood collectionandnon-woodplantproduct
                                           gathering.
                                             Makeinventoryof native speciesofparticularhumanandor animaluse
                                           -such as food, fodder, medicinal, veterinary, constructionmaterialand
                                           householdenergy-andthose ofuse as bamers against wind andor water
                                           erosion, while indicatingthose ofwhichthe productivityis declining.
                                             Identificationandprotectionandor recoveryof decliningnative plant
                                           speciesandor habitatsor portionsof the community rangelands of particula
                                           human, animal or anti-erosiveuse.
                                             Appraisalof degree of importanceof these native species inthe identified
                                           uses for humans andor animals.
   Managementof Surface Waters               Maintenanceandor recovery of riparianvegetation.
                                             Identificationprotectionandrecoveryof decliningnativeplant species an(
                                           habitatsor portionsof riparianvegetation of particular human,animal or
                                           anti-erosiveuse.
                                             Allocation, maintenanceanddemarcationoflivestockwateringareas.
                                           I Controlfishingpractices.
                                                             ~~
                                             Controlcommunity-basedwater flow alteration activities.                 I


0 Institutional Capacity Building and Reform: In addition to CBRD's support to the
  decentralization process, SILEM will (i) awareness among development practitioners of
                                                raise
  the characteristics of integrated lowlands ecosystem management, the various types o f
  stakeholders involved, and the linkages with the national environmental and rural development
  policies; (ii)nationally disseminate knowledge and experiences of communities with IEM
  through radio, TV and publications; (iii)     organize biannual stakeholder roundtable discussions
  to identify policy constraints and to propose policy reforms; (iv) train relevant service
  providers in the transfer of technical knowledge regarding the implementation of integrated

        lowlands management activities, (v) promote policy reform to improve local access to organic
        and mineral fertilizers and to intensify the integration o f livestock and cropping systems; (vi)
        support incentives for adoption of IEM technologies with time-lagged benefits such as
        agro-forestry; (vii) assist relevant national landand water use planning units in the formulation
        o f natural resources management policies, (viii) train relevant policy task forces and
        community-based organizations to prevent andresolve natural resourcesuse conflicts, and (ix)
        promote and assist the development o f fiscal tools to enable local governments to mobilize
        resourcesto finance IEMactivities.

   e    Buildingpartnerships for sustainableIEMfinancing: The objective is to buildthe capacity to
        mobilize national and intemational funds to address environmental and resource management
         issues o f local, regional and potentially global significance. The component will (i) assist and
        train CVGTs, watershed associations, and community leaders in the mobilization o f funds for
        environmental protection and local development, (ii)provide training to central and local
        governments to enable them to engage in global financial resource mobilization and
         environmental negotiations, (iii)initiate contacts between the communities and environmental
        management partners (e.g. private sector, NGOs, northem hemisphere cities, bilateral donor
         agencies), and (iv) assist the parties in reaching mutually beneficial contractual arrangements.
         This component will also explore (i)opportunities for partnerships offered by the Kyoto
         Protocol and the Convention on Climate Change, and partnership through the carbon trade
         markets (twinning, etc.); and (ii)  mechanisms for supporting alternative sustainable financing
         mechanisms such as a desertification mitigation fund.

   e     Program Coordination: Apart from integratingthe monitoring of the implementationprogress
         o f SILEM into the existing CBRD Project management structure, SILEM will strengthen the
 ' .     following three M&E activities: (i)a community-based M&E system to evaluate the local
         implementation progress and environmental and socio-economic impact, (ii)      a scientific M&E
         system to assess the impact o f the project on local, national and intemational environmental
         and socio-economic parameters with the condition o f the lowland ecosystems as entry point
         and (iii)an extemal M&E system involving national and international experts under the
         supervision o f DGEto provide external assistance.

As such, the GEF-financed SILEM activities will enable the baseline Project to scale up its objectives
to empower rural populations to take charge o f their own medium to long term development by
safeguarding the ecological and socio-economic development o f the sub-region as a whole. Inreturn,
SILEM will profit from integration with CBRDP through its nationwide and multi-sectoral approach
towards rural development, providing the rural population with the basic needs requiredto allow for an
interest inlonger term andnational and intemational development issues.

The close collaboration of the management of SILEM with PAGEN, WAFEM, a similar
community-based project inNiger, and ALWI will strengthen the global environment partnershipinthe
region. Table 3 provides a detailed comparison o f the activities of IDA and GEF funded Bank
operations inBurkina Faso.




                                                  - 52 -

    Table 3. Matrix ComparingActivitiesFinancedunder RelatedWorld Bank Programs


 Community BasedRural Development                        SahelIntegratedLowland              Partnershipfor Natural Ecosystem
            Program(CBRDP)      -                   EcosystemManagementProgram               ManagementProgram(PAGEN)           -
             Base-line Program                      (SILEM)    -BlendedGEF     program             Stand aloneGEF program
 Fundingand Focus                                                                         I

 Donors: IDA, IFAD Danida                          Donors: GEF, IDA
                                                                                            Donor:GEF
 Focus:DecentralizationSupport, Local             Focus: Multi-focal (desertification,    I m:
                                                                                                    Biodiversity, OP1
 Empowerment& CapacityBuilding,                    landrestoration,biodiversity,
  Socio-EconomicInfrastructure for Local           agro-biodiversity, climate change)
  Development                                      OP12,OP13
  InterventionZone

  Nationwide:2000villages (of 8000) in             Nationwide: 4 provinces(of45),4          Nationwide:4 wildlife
  Phase 1                                          sub-watershedsandabout 120villages       conservationzones (natural
                                                   in Phase 1                               wildlife habitatsofficially
                                                                                            protectedby the Government)and
                                                                                            the villages surroundingthem
  Capacity Building
                                                   IntegratedEcosystemManagement
  Generalcapacitybuilding relatedto                (IEM) capacity buildingfor rural         Capacitybuilding of forestry agentsand
  govemanceandcommunity                            communities, public & privateservice     peripheral communitiesof officially
  empowerment(e.g. literacytraining,               providers, & nationalinstitutionsat      protectednaturalwildlife in the
  financialmanagement andprocurement)              central& local levelssupporting          Conservation of these protectedareas
                                                   sustainable resource management
I.                                                 initiatives

  Localcauacitvbuilding activities:                Localcauacitvbuildingactivities:          Localcapacitybuildineactivities:

  Communicationof programobjectives               Integratedecosystemmanagement              Technical assistanceto conservators and
andestablishmentof representativevillage ilanningwith communities, usingGIS                concessionaires
councils(CVGT)                               latabase                                        Trainingof staff, partnersservice
  CVGT training programs(e.g. literacy,           Support to community organizationsor     providers, villagers, AGEREF associations
financialandorganizationalmanagement,        :lubsfor globalenvironmentprotection          vis ivis conservationofprotectedareas
HIV/AIDS awareness)                          ictivities (desertificationmitigation,          Diagnostics andstudies for each
  Technical supportto community              nedicinalplantsconservation,crop              protectedarea
organizationsto plan and implementlocal ,peciesandwildlife conservation,etc.);               Support for preparingand implementing
developmentplans                                                                           managementplans

   Institutionalcauacitv building activities:     Institutionalcauacitvbuildingactivities: I Institutionalcauacitvbuilding activities:

  Trainingof field operators/service             1Creationof IEMenablingenvironment          Support to decentralizedmanagement
providers                                        withthe IEMPolicyForumto proposeand entities of protected areas (forestry
                                                 mplementpolicy reformsin areas of (i)     department)
  Support to Governmentadministrative            andtenure security, (ii)access to           Supportto projectscientificand steering
decentralizationinstitutionsat provincial,       'ertilizers& crop-livestockintegration,    committees
regional andnationallevels                       iii) incentives for time-laggedIEM          Establishanti-poachingunit in DGEF
                                             )enefits, (iv) support national landand        (Water andForestryDirectorate);
                                             Mater managementpolicy formulation              Training andawareness of DGEF staff
                                                                                             Studiesandworkshops for legalreform:
                                               1  IEMinformation,educationand               (e.g. reformof the ForestryCode)
                                                 :ommunicationfor: (i) disseminationof       Support for nationalinformationsystem
                                                 iationalenvironment/IEMstrategies and      on conservation
                                                 ictionplans, (ii)preservationand
                                                 iisseminationof indigenousknowledgeon
I                                                mvironment and IEM, (iii) dissemination


                                                             - 53 -

                                          idtransferof IEMtechnology
                                          [formation(research results), (iv)
                                          ipacitybuildingfor IEMpolicy dialogue
                                          id for naturalresourceconflict
                                          reventionandresolution;

                                          Sustainable IEMEnvironment financing
                                          ipacitybuilding with: (i)South-North
                                          !M financingpartnershipskills building
                                          idsupportto facilitationoffice (ii)
                                          zvelopment of localIEM/ Environment
                                          nancingmechanisms
Local Investment Fund&IF)

The LIF hasbothvillage andprovincial        The LIF has bothvillageandprovincial       No project-specific LIF - communitiesin
windows to finance investments              windows to finance IEMinvestments          projectareashaveaccess to the LIF
identifiedby communitiesintheir local        identifiedby communitiesintheir local     under the Base-lineCBRDprogramto
developmentplans. Eligible                  developmentplansandat the provincial       finance eligibleactivities intheir local
investmentsinclude:                          levelsthrough aggregationof local         developmentplans
      Soilandwater conservation              developmentplansor through
    investments                              independentanalysis. LIFprovides
      Reforestation,forest management        initial financialsupportto supplemental
    investments                              publicandprivategood-investmentsto
      Structural investmentsfor              increase local andglobalenvironmental
    improvinganimal husbandry(e.g.           benefitsandsustainability of CBRD
    parc de vaccination)                     programs' public goodinvestments,
      Structural investmentsfor              e.g.:
    improvingagriculturalproduction               Investmentsin IEMplanningtools
    (e.g. grainstorage facilities)              (maps, etc.)
      Water supply infrastructure                 Investmentsto encourage
      Feederroadimprovement                     conservationagricultureand
    investments(e.g. culverts, repairs)         zero-tillageto improveland
      Social andeconomic infrastructure         restoration(live fencing to protect
    (e.g. localgrain storage facilities,        no-till fields, seeds of cover crops,
    localpharmacy,healthclinic, school)         no-tilltools andequipmentand
      Renewable energy initiatives              training, etc.);
      Nutrition andhealtheducation                Investmentsto enhance
      AIDS/HIV preventionand                    agro-biodiversity
    mitigationactivities                          Investmentsto enhancethreatened
      Support for expansionof networkof         medicinalplants
    decentralizedfinancialinstitutions            Investmentsto protect threatened
      Demand-driven trainingandaction           livestock,fish and aquatic animals
    research                                    diversificationor domestication
                                                  Investmentsto rehabilitateand
                                                protectnon-officiallyprotected
                                                naturalhabitats
                                                  Action researchto identify / test
                                                innovativesolutionsto / technologier
                                                for local watershedrehabilitationan(
                                                management
 Land Tenure Security Pilot

 Pilot landtenure security operationin      40 landtenure relatedactivities included    No landtenure security activities
 six test sites representingprincipal      .s there i s apilot alreadyongoing.
 systems of landuse and ownership
 problems.
 Mechanismsfor landtenuresecurity in
 all areas (uplands, lowlands, forests,
 rivers)to be developed



                                                        - 5 4 -

    Project Coordination, Admin., M&E

    The project has a ProjectSteering         The projectsteeringcommitteeof the          The Projecthasits own (i) National
    CommitteeandaPCU. Project Monitoring Base-lineprojectwill also provideguidancesteering Committeeand (ii)          Scientific and
    andEvaluationinclude:                     for SILEM. Inadditionthe SILEM will         Technical Advisory Council
      real-timemonitoringofphysicaland        haveascientific andtechnical advisory
    financialexecutionofthe Project           network. SILEM will sharethe same           The Project has its own Coordinationand
      technical andfinancial auditsof the     implementationandmanagementstructure managementstmcture,with one PMUper
    Project                                   (PCU) SILEM will provideincremental protectedarea
      M&E of economic, environmentaland       Supportfor the Base-lineproject's M&E
    institutionalimpact of the program        system. Inaddition, the environmental
                                              impactevaluationsystemofthe Base-line
                                              projectwill be expandedto captureproject
                                              specific indicators

    Incremental Cost Analysis

    The incremental cost of the first phase o f SILEM is estimatedbasedon the following reasoning:

    The "Baseline Scenario": AGusting Baseline Costs to Reflect Number of Sites Covered SILEM's
    intervention sites relating to community-based local development plans are limited to only 120 sites
    [villages) o f the 2,000 sites o f CBRDP, for the first Dhase o f the pro-iectonly; i.e. only 5%. Therefore,
    only 5% o f the costs budgeted for the components "local capacity building" and "local investment
    fund" under CBRDP is considered, while 100%is taken for the activities that are entirely ofinterest to
    SILEM's objectives (e.g. "Institutional Capacity Building"). For "Project Coordination" an estimated
    15% is taken based on the coverage o f all type o f activities. As for "Physical and Price Contingencies''
    only the proportion of the total resulting from the approach described above regarding the former
    Bomponentsis taken, i.e. 31%.

    The "GEF Alternative Scenario": By component, the total o f the amounts considered under the
    "Baseline Scenario" andthe budgeted GEF-financing are presented inTable 4.




             Component                 cost             cost                   Domestic and Global Benefits
                                     Category          US%M
 1. LocalCapacityBuilding          Baseline              0.27    Increasedcapacity of communities to design and
                                                                 implement naturalresources managementactivities
                                                                 primarily of mediumto longterm localenvironmental
                                                                 anddevelopment interestwith some global benefits,
                                                                 mostlyinthe area of haltinglanddegradationand
                                                                 desertification.
                                  GEF Alternative        1.30    Increasedcapacityof communitiesto design and
                                                                 implementintegratedlowlandecosystemmanagementof
                                                                 long-termlocal, nationalandglobal environmentaland
                                                                 developmentinterest. The globalenvironmental
                                                                 benefitswill involve: (i) haltinglanddegradationand
                                                                 desertification, (ii) preservingbiodiversity,(iii)
                                                                 preservingcarbon storage capacity and(iv) maintaining
                                                                 the conditionof internationalwaters.
                                  Increment              1.03
,.Local Investment Fund(LIF)      Baseline               1.69    A limited number of IEMmicro-investmentsplanned
                                                                 andimplemented, mostlyof mediumto longterm local

                                 I                 I             Ienvironmentalbenefits   with some global benefits (see    I

                                                           - 55 -

                                                          above).
                              GEFAlternative     3.77     A significant number of IEMmicro-investmentplanned
                                                          andimplementedbasedon an"integrated lowland
                                                          ecosystemmanagementplan" and generatinglocal,
                                                          national andglobalenvironmentalbenefits (see above).
                              Increment          2.08
3. InstitutionalCapacity      Baseline           12.73    Institutionalcapacitystrengthenedandpoliciesreformed
    Building                                              to support andencouragelocalcommunitiesto
                                                          implementIEMactivities, mostlyof mediumto
                                                          long-termlocal environmentalanddevelopmentinterest
                                                          with some globalbenefits(see above).
                              GEF Alternative    13.11    Institutionalcapacity strengthenedandpoliciesreformed
                                                          to support andencourage localcommunitiesto
                                                          implementIEMreflecting"integrated lowland
                                                          ecosystemmanagement" generatinglonger term local,
                                                          national andglobal environmentaland development
                                                          benefits(see above).
                               Increment         0.38
4.A. LandTenure Security Pilot Baseline          3. I O   Landtenure policiesdevelopedto create mediumto
                                                          long-termcommitmentto IEM, mainlyfocusingonlocal
                                                          environmentalissues andstakeholderswith some global
                                                                                                           -
                                                          environmentalbenefits(see above)
                               GEFAlternative    3.10     This component has no equivalentunder the SILEM.
                                                          The SILEM will benefit from the lessonslearnedby
                                                          adjustingits approachbasedon the various experiences.   ,
                               Increment         0.00
4.B. Building partnershipsfor  Baseline          0.00     This componenthas no equivalentunder the CBRD.
sustainableIEMfinancing                                   The CBRDwill benefit from the lessonslearnedby
                                                          adjustingits approach basedon the various experiences.
                               GEFAlternative    0.17     The objective is to buildthe capacityto mobilize
                                                          nationalandinternationalfunds to address
                                                          environmentalandresource managementissues oflocal,
                                                          regionalandpotentiallyglobalsignificance.
                               Increment         0.17
5. Project Coordination,                         0.82      Efficient andcapable staff inplaceto implement,
]Administration,M&E           IBaseline                    manage andevaluate the project,of whichthe numberof
                                                           IEMactivitieswill be limited andmostlyofmediumto
                                                           long-termlocalinterest associatedwith some global
                                                           environmentalbenefits(&e above).
                                                 1.66      Efficient andcapable staffin place to implement,
                                                           manage andevaluate the projects, ofwhich the number
                                                           of IEMactivitieswill be of significantlong-term, local,
                                                           national and globalbenefit(see above). The evaluation
                                                           ofthe projects environmentalimpact will be assistedby
                                                           relevantcommunity-basedand scientific institutional
                                                           monitoringand evaluationactivities.

                                               I 0.84
 6. Physicalcontingencies      Baseline          0.25
                               GEF Alternative   0.25
                               Increment         0.00
 7. PriceContingencies         Baseline           1.66
                               GEFAlternative     1.66
                               Increment         0.00
 TOTALS                        Baseline          19.52
                               GEF Alternative   25.02




                                                    - 56 -

The incremental cost o f US$M4.50 on a total cost of US$M25.02 under the GEF Alternative
represents 18%. This incremental cost should be viewed conservatively, since many o f the activities
under "local capacity building" and the "local investment h d " by the nature o f supporting "IEM' are
designed to have a much larger geographic reach than just the intervention sites. Furthermore, the
direct interaction with the CBRD baseline program will certainly have a spin off effect towards the
overall project's approach to support the development of community-based local development plans in
other sites.




                                                - 57 -

                                       Annex 5: Financial Summary
               BURKINA FASO: Sahel Integrated Lowland Ecosystem Management
                                                Years Ending




ITotal                         Year1      I  year2      1  Year3      I  Year4    I   Year5    I   Year6    I   Year 7
      Financing
 Required
 Project Costs
   investment Costs                 0.8            0.8           0.9          0.8           0.7          0.0       0.0
  Recurrent Costs                   0.2            0.2           0.2          0.2           0.1          0.0        0.0
 Total Project Costs                                             1.1                        0.8          0.0        0.0
                                     1.o
                                     1.o           1.o                        1.o
 Total Financing                                   1.o           1.1          1.o           0.8          0.0        0.0
 Financing
    IBRDllDA                        0.0            0.0           0.0          0.0           0.0         0.0         0.0
    Government                      0.1            0.1           0.1          0.1           0.1         0.0         0.0
        Central                     0.0            0.0           0.0          0.0           0.0         0.0         0.0
        Provincial                  0.0            0.0           0.0          0.0           0.0         0.0         0.0
    Co-financiers                   0.0            0.0           0.0          0.0           0.0         0.0         0.0
 User FeeslBeneficiaries            0.0            0.0           0.0          0.0           0.0         0.0         0.0
 Other: GEF                          0.9           0.9           1.o          0.9           0.7         0.0         0.0
 Total Project Financing             1.o           1.o           1.1          1.o           0.8          0.0        0.0
 Mainashmptions:
    Beneficiaries make a contribution to project costs through their in-kindcontribution to beneficiary executed
    micro-projects. The annualized contribution does not show up because of rounding as it is about
    US$20-30,000.




                                                        - 58 -

                             Annex 6(A): Procurement Arrangements
          BURKINA FASO: Sahel Integrated Lowland Ecosystem Management

Procurement

  General context

  The last Country Procurement Assessment Review (CPAR) on Burkha Faso was carried out in
  November 1999 and published in November 2000. A CPAR update is scheduled to take place in
  FYO5.The government has undertaken reform o f the system o f procedures g o v e w g public
  procurement to improve its efficiency and transparency. As part o f the reform Decree No
  2003/0269/PRES/PM/MFB o f May 27, 2003 regulating public procurement was adopted. This was
  supplemented by three ministerial decrees concerning: (i)     the nature and the number o f administrative
  documents to be produced by bidders (ii)    conditions and threshold for procurement and (iii)regulations
  for biddingevaluation, conflict resolution and reception commissions.

   Guidelines

  Civil Works and Goods financed by the GEF grant will be procured in accordance with the Bank's
  Guidelines under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995 revised in January and August 1996,
  September 1997, and January 1999), and Bank Standard Bidding Documents, and Standard Evaluation
  Report will be usedfor ICB.

  Consultant Services contracts financed by the GEF grant will be procuredin accordance with the Bank's
  Guidelines for the Selection of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (January 1997 revised in
  September 1997, January 1999, and May 2002). The World Bank's Standard Request for Proposal
  (SRFP), as developed by the Bank, will be used for requesting proposals and for selection and
  appointment o f consultants. The Bank's Sample form o f Evaluation Report will also be used for the
  Selection o f Consultants.

   Advertising

  A General Procurement Notice (GPN) will be prepared and published in the United Nations
  Development Business (UNDB) and in the national press listing all works, goods and consulting
   services contracts to obtain expressions o f interest from national and international parties. The GPN
   will be updated annually for those contracts still outstanding. Specific Procurement Notices (SPNs) and
   expressions o f interest for large contracts for consulting services (above US$100,000) will be published
   inthe UNDBwith sufficient time allowed to respondbefore making the short list.

   CapacityAssessment and ProposedProcurement Arrangements

   With respect to this project, the main concerns relate to the capacity of the Ministerial Procurement
   Commission (Commission Ministkrielle dyttribution des Marchks) to respond in a timely manner to
   project needs. The LIF o f the SILEM is expected to generate small number (about 20) o f additional
   procurement review requests for the whole project life. The workload will thus be manageable at the
   central and provincial level. The existing central and provincial procurement staff have sufficient
   competency to handle the supplementary procurement due to SILEM activities. The existing Provincial
   Procurement Commissions (Commissions Provinciales dxttribution des Marchis) are handling all


                                                      - 59 -

procurement under the LIF. Training has been provided for all the commission members. There is,
however, a need to repeat the training to maintain quality.

At the community level, the simplifiedprocurement procedures included inthe Project Implementation
Manual have beentestedunder the baseline Project since 2001 and communities have gained substantial
experience in simplified procurement and accounting. The SILEM will thus benefit from this existing
capacity built by the baseline Project.

Procurement o f all goods, works and services, other than those related to LIF sub-projects executed by
the communities will be the responsibility o f the PCU. This unit has staff that is fully familiar with
IDA'Sprocurement procedures and its procurement performance has been satisfactory throughout the
last post procurement review and rated average risk. No increase in staffing i s needed for SILEM
implementation since the procurement staff at the PCU comprises three persons and the SILEM is
implemented in only four provinces where the baseline Project has already established provincial teams
and executed activities. The appraisal mission concluded that performance o f PCU procurement staff
was satisfactory and that sufficient safeguards are in place to ensure transparency and efficiency.
Procurement filing is satisfactory.     Contract execution tracking needs to be improved to ensure
appropriate follow-up and completion o f activities within the allotted time.

Procurement for village-managed sub-projects under the LIF will be executed by the CVGT using
procedures described above and detailed in the Project Implementation Manual. Capacity building
support has been provided by the communities to help them manage sub-projects. Based on periodic
assessments additional training is provided to address weaknesses identified.

Beneficiaries have already managed the funds well and were fully implied in all stages o f
implementationo f the baseline Project. Continued assistance inthe selection o f engineers to design and
supervise civil works where no standard plans exist. This lesson has been incorporated into the design
o f the Project. In addition, care will be taken to avoid overloading beneficiaries   -- the investment
program will proceed at a pace consistent with the implementationcapacity o f the beneficiaries.

ProcurementPlan

The PCU has submitted a Procurement Plan for the first year of the project implementation. The plan
has been agreed between the Borrower and the Project Team on April 23, 2004 and is for the
procurement o f goods and the selection o f consultant services. The Procurement Plan will be updatedin
agreement with the Project Team at least annually or as required to reflect the actual project
implementationneeds andimprovements in institutional capacity.

The provincial level will submit its procurement plan to the PCU, which will consolidate these and
submit to IDA approval.

Procurementmethods

Civil Works. No civil works have been identifiedduringproject preparation.

 Goods (US$0.16million, including contingencies). The grant will finance the procurement o f vehicles,
motorcycles, office equipment (including computers), and field equipment. To the extent practicable,
goods will be lumped into lots estimated to cost US$lOO,OOO or more and will be procured under ICB
procedures. Goods that cannot be easily lumped into lots of US$lOO,OOO or more for a variety o f


                                                 - 60 -

reasons (timing, specificity, etc.), but are expected to cost more than US$35,000 can be procuredusing
NCB procedures. Procurement for readily available off-the-shelf goods and/or standard commodities
that cannot be grouped in lots o f sufficient size, will be procuredthrough prudent local shopping, on the
basis o f a comparison o f quotations from at least three reputable suppliers.        Goods may also be
procuredfrom UNagencies (UNICEF or IAPSO) provided each contract does not exceedUS$lOO,OOO                .

Consultant Services, Training and Audits (US$I.48 million, including contingencies). Consulting
services financed by IDA will be for: (i)    studies, financial management support, financial and technical
audits; and (ii)  technical matters (monitoring and evaluation, environmental impact, technical assistance
to communities, etc.) and training (skills gap analysis, skills development and training of staff and local
communities).

Consultant services will normally be procured through the selection o f short-listed firms on the basis o f
Quality and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS), except where noted below. All consultant assignments
estimated to cost the equivalent o f US$lOO,OOO or more would seek an expression o f interest through an
advertisement in at least one national newspaper with wide circulation, in Development Business
(UNDB). Inaddition, all such consultingassignmentswillbe listed in the annual GPN.

The following other methods will also apply. For audits (financial) and other services of a standard
nature, the Least Cost Selection (LCS) method will be used. Consulting services estimated to cost less
than US$50,000 per contract will be based on the consultant's qualifications (CQ).             Services for
seminars and small studies, which can be delivered by individuals and do not need teamwork or back-up
support services, will be selected through comparison o f qualifications among individual consultants
expressing interest in the assignment or approacheddirectly basedon their experience.

Sh'ort-lists o f consultants for contracts estimated to cost less than US$lOO,OOO each may be comprised
entirely o f national consultants, provided at least three qualified firms are locally available at
competitive costs. However, ifforeign f m s have expressedan interest for those contracts, they will not
be excluded from consideration.

Single Source Selection (SSS) will only be used under exceptional circumstances for the selection o f
services for simple tasks not expected to cost more than US$5,000 or for local community support
services, suchas technical assistance and training.

 Services for tasks, such as the organization o f seminars and small studies, that are generally of low-cost
 (generally less than US$20,000) and do not require the use o f support systems shall be procured under
 contracts awarded to individual consultants.

 The training program is geared towards the strengthening o f the managerial and technical capacities of
 the Project's implementing agency, its partners, and CVGTs. The Project's training program will be
 reviewed annually and will be subject to IDA'Sprior review and approval, as will be all participation in
 workshops and seminars.

 Local Investment Fund Sub-projects (US$2.24 million). The LIF has two windows. Firstly, the
 provincial level sub-projects (US$1.53 million) range in size from US$35,000 to US$150,000 and are
 executed for the beneficiary communities by the Project. The content o f these sub-projects are demand
 driven and can therefore not be predicted with any accuracy. For these sub-projects, the regular
 procurement procedures for goods and consultant services described above apply.               Civil works
 sub-projects identified on the basis o f participatory diagnostics with the communities will follow NCB


                                                    - 61 -

procedures under the Guidelines.

Inorder to increase efficiency, only provincial level executed sub-projects over US$lOO,OOO will be
subject to an ex-ante review by the PCU.

Secondly, the village and inter-village level sub-projects (valued at less than US$35,000) and are
executed by the CVGT.       Individual sub-projects will be o f limited size (80 percent less than US$SOO
each), widely dispersed, and co-financed by beneficiaries using varying combinations o f in-kind and
cash contributions.     The bidding documents and contracts used for this category will follow
procurement and disbursement procedures as presented in the "Guidelines for Simplified Procurement
and Disbursement for Community-Based Investments" and detailed in the Project Implementation
Manual. During the Project appraisal, the Government agreed that its own procurement procedures
would not apply to LIF sub-projects executed by the CVGTs.

Prior Review. All goods contracts estimated to cost US$250,000 or more will be subject to IDA'S
prior review o f bidding documents, including draft contracts and technical specifications prior to
inviting bids and bid evaluation prior to contract award. Prior Bank review will also be required for
contracts for consulting services valued at US$lOO,OOO or more for firms and US$SO,OOO or more for
individuals. In these cases, the draft Request for Proposals and the shortlist o f consultants must be
cleared with IDA prior to inviting proposals from the short-listed consultants.           In addition, the
evaluation o f the technical proposals must be cleared with IDA before the financial proposals o f the
qualifying firms are opened.

The terms o f reference for consulting assignments and training, single source recruitment, and
assignments o f a critical nature as determinedby IDA, as well as amendmentsto contracts raising them
above the above mentioned prior review thresholds, will be subject to IDA prior review regardless o f
contract amount. All the procedures inAppendix 1 o f the Consultant Guidelines will apply.

Post Review. All contracts not subject to the thresholds listed in the preceding paragraph will be
subject to an ex-post review. Once a year a procurement staff will accompany a supervision mission
and conduct a post review o f a sample o f contracts not subject to prior review. The Borrower will
maintain all documents related to procurement below the prior review threshold for such an ex-post
review andfor a review by project auditors for up to one year after project completion. The Project will
hire engineers to perform technical audits of a random sample of sub-projects. The technical audit will
focus on quality of execution and adequacy o f procurement procedures followed. The results o f the
technical audit will be included inthe annual reports.

Manuals. A Project Implementation Manual exists. It consists o f a main manual with reference to
manuals for specific procedures (e.g., Administrative and Financial Procedures, Local Investment Fund
Procedures, Monitoring and Evaluation). These manuals will be used as for the SILEM project. Those
documents will be reviewed indetail during the forcoming midterm review o f the PNGT2. The manuals
clearly detail; (i)
                  eligibility criteria; (ii)
                                          procedures for calling for bids, selection o f contractors, service
providers and vendors, and contract award; (iii)supervision procedures; (iv) financial management and
disbursementprocedures; and (v) procedures for receptionand handingover of completed works.

For the procurement of goods and works executed at the village sub-project level, the Bank's
standard documents that have been simplified and included in the PNGT2 Project
ImplementationManual will apply.

Procurementmethods (Table A)


                           Table A: Project Costs by ProcurementArrangements
                                            (US$ millionequivalent)




''Figures inparentheses are the amounts to be financedby the Bank Grant. All costs include contingencies.
  Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services o f
  codtracted staff o f the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating
  costs related to (i)managing the project, and (ii)
                                                   re-lending project funds to local government units.

Priorreviewthresholds (Table B)

                 Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'

                                    Contract Value                                           Contracts Subject to
                                      Threshold                                                   Prior Review
                                   (US$thousands)                                                 (US$ millions)
                                                                                                                    ~
                                 US$500,000 and above                                      (Prior review thresholdis
                                US$35,00 US$500,00
                                           -                            NCB                        US$500,000)
                                 Less than US$35,000           Small works procedures               US$O.OO

2. Goods                                                                                   (Prior review thresholdis
                                                                                                   US$250,000)
                                 US$250,000 or above                     ICB     ,                  US$O.OO
                               US$35,000 US$lOO,OOO
                                           -                            NCB
                                 Less than US$35,000            Other (local shopping)
 3. Services (including                                                                    (Prior review thresholdis
 training and workshops)                                                                   JS$ 100,000 for firms and
                                                                                           US$50,000 for individual
                                                                                                   consultants)

                                 US$lOO,OOO and above            QCBS (international                US$0.30
                                                                  advertisedshortlist)
                               US$50,000 US$lOO,OOO
                                           -                            QCBS                        US$0.28
                                                                (intemationalhational
                                                                       shortlist)
                                  Less than US$50,000           QBS (for LIF related
I                                                             technical services/LCS (for
                                                                financial andtechnical
                                                                        audits)
                                  Less than US$20,000            Individualconsultant
                                  Less than US$35,000          Direct contracting, local
 Operating Costs                                                    shopping, etc.
15. LIF (sub-projects            US$500,000 and below                    NCB                           0.00
 over US$35,000)
 6. LIF (sub-projects             Less than US$35,000        Smallworks proceduresanc                  0.00
 under US$35,000)                                                   local shopping

                Total value of contracts subject to prior review: US$0.58
                           Overall Procurement Risk Assessment:            Average
       Frequencyof procurement supervisionmissionsproposed: One every 12 months
                                                                           (includes special procurementsupervisionfor
                                                                           post-reviewlaudits)


 "Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult "Assessment of Agency's Capacity to Implement
  Procurement" and contact the Regional ProcurementAdviser for guidance.




                                                      - 64 -

             Annex 6(B): Financial Managementand DisbursementArrangements
             BURKINA FASO: Sahel IntegratedLowland Ecosystem Management

FinancialManaPement
1. Summary ofthe FinancialManagementAssessment
A financial management assessment of the CBRD project was carried out by a World Bank accredited
financial management specialist (FMS). The objectives o f the assessment were to determine whether the
project has in place an adequate financial management system as required under Bank guidelines and to
recommend Financial Management (FM) arrangements for the mitigation of the fiduciary risk. The
recommendations following the assessment are detailed inthe time bound actionplan (table D below). This
action plan shows the steps, responsibilities and deadlines for the different actions and confirms the
adequacy o f arrangements for inclusion o f the SILEM within the financial management framework o f the
CBRD.
The financial management o f the project is the responsibility of the PCU o f the CBRD. The related duties
o f the PCU cover budget and cash management, accounting, internal control, financial reporting, staff
management and extemal audit preparation. The system to carry out these responsibilities is in place and
will be reinforced prior to grant effectiveness based on the agreed action plan. The recruitment o f an
accountant and an external auditor and the adaptation o f the FM computerized system (manual and
software) will be conditions o f effectiveness.

2. Audit Arrangements

Accounting and Auditing
            -


As the project will be implemented by CBRD, its existing financial management system including its
administrative and financial manual will be adapted to take into account the requirements for the GEF
Grant. Adaptation of the administrative and financial manual and related software will be conditions o f
effectiveness. The financial management capacity assessment, has shown that the CBRD project (i)       is able
to maintain project accounts in accordance with International Accounting Standards (IAS) to reflect their
operations and financial positions and (ii)has had all its accounts audited by an extemal and independent
audit firm with terms o f reference acceptable to the Bank. The same audit firm as retained by the CBRD
will audit the project. As the contract for the present audit firm for CBRD is nearing its end, CBRD will
seek a new audit fm. Hiring of the firm will be a condition o f effectiveness. The new contract can be
renewed on annual basis up to a maximum o f three years provided performance o f the auditor is judged
satisfactory. Assurances will be sought at negotiations that the auditor's report, including the opinion on
the annual financial statements and the Management Letter, will be submitted to the Bank no later than
June 30 o f each year.

To ensure proper accountability o f funds managed by beneficiaries, technical and financial audits will be
carried out on a sample basis. These audits would focus on the technical execution o f the works (technical
quality and progress), systems to ensure appropriate maintenance, and that basic information is available
to track the use o f the funds (receipts, contracts, comparison o f priceshids, etc.). Where funds are
inappropriately utilized, the Project will cease supporting activities until all fimds have been accounted for.
Incaseswhere fraud is suspected, local authorities will be notified.

The following assurances were received during negotiations: (i)adherence to standard clauses related to
appropriate financial management (keeping o f separate accounts by source of funds, maintenance o f


                                                    - 65 -

information, implementation o f annual audits); and (ii) oversight on the use o f funds at the village level,
with an actionplanto combat fraud inthe project implementationmanual.

MonitoringandReaorting

The World Bank has introduced Financial Management Reports (FMRs) in World Bank Group financed or
administered projects. These FMRs are generated from sound financial management, procurement, and
output monitoring systems put in place. Where appropriate, if these systems are in place and found to be
performing satisfactorily, disbursements may be made on the basis o f agreed quarterly Financial
Management Reports (FMR) rather than on the basis o f individual invoices or statements o f expenditure.
CBRD financial management has been found to be satisfactory subject to the implementation o f the action
plan given in Table C above. In addition, it has been agreed that as o f June 30, 2004, FMRs will be
submitted to the Bank on a one-year trial basis, alongside regular replenishment requests.              Upon
satisfactory evaluation o f the trial, FMRs would be used for disbursement purposes for both the IDA
Credit supporting the CBRD and the GEF grant supporting the SILEM. For reporting purposes, it has
been agreed that Example 1 o f Annex A inthe FMR document for Borrower's use (dated November 2002),
will be used.

N o later than November 30 o f each year, the PCU will submit to the Steering Committee, with a copy to
the Bank, the proposed Annual Work Programs and Financial Report. The report format will detail
activities, associatedunit costs and an implementationtimetable. It will also include monitorable progress
indicators for each proposed activity. In addition, the PCU will produce quarterly progress reports
showing budgeted and actual expenditures, source o f funds used, statements o f progress achieved on the
basis o f the agreedupon indicators and the (revised) objectives and financial reports for the forthcoming six
months.

3. DisbursementArrangements

 Allocation of grant proceeds(Table C)
The grant of US$4.5 million is distributedover the various disbursementcategories as presentedinTable C
below.

                                 Table C: Allocation of Grant Proceeds

            Expenditure Category              Amount in US$million               Financing Percentage
 1.Vehicles and equipment                               0.10             100% o f foreign expenditures and 80%
                                                                                  o f local expenditures
 2. Consulting services and audits                      0.81            100%o f foreign expenditures and 80% of
                                                                                     local expenditures
 3. Training and workshops                              0.53                    100% o f amounts disbursed
 4. Sub-grants for IEM sub-projects                     2.00                    100% o f amounts disbursed
 5. Operating costs                                     0.60                                80%
 6. Unallocated                                         0.46

 Total Project Costs with Bank                          4.50
 Financing

 Total                                                  4.50



                                                    - 66 -

Use of statementsof expenditures(SOEs):

Disbursements for all expenditures should be made against full documentation, except for: (i)consulting
firms under contracts in an amount equivalent or inferior to US$lOO,OOO; (ii) works and individual
                                                                                goods,
consultants under contracts in an amount equivalent or inferior to US$50,000; (iii)     as well as training,
studies and operating costs. All supporting documentation for SOEs will be retained at a suitable location
andbe readily accessible for review byperiodic Bank supervision missions andexternal auditors.


 Special account:
To facilitate project implementation and reduce the volume o f withdrawal applications, the Government
will open a Special Account (SA) inFCFA ina commercial bank on terms and conditions acceptableto the
Bank for GEF's share of eligible expenditures. The authorized allocation will be FCFA 150 million
representing about four months o f eligible expenditures. The special account will be used for all payments
inferior to twenty percent o f the deposited amount andreplenishmentapplications will be submitted at least
once a month. Further deposits into the Special Account will be made against withdrawal applications
supported by appropriate documents.

90-day advance accounts. To expedite project implementation andpermit disbursements at project sites
as well as facilitate the participation o f the beneficiary communities, two 90-day advance accounts will be
authorized at the decentralized accounting centers o f CBRD that cover the intervention areas o f SILEM.
The PCUwill make these advancesout of the Special Account to meet eligibleexpenditures for a period o f
90-days basedon an average o f four months o f expenditures. The advance accounts will be opened inlocal
commercial banks to ensure smooth and timely transfer o f h d s from the accounting center to these
locations. Advances will be replenishedon the basis o f supporting documentation.

 Counterpart Funds, Project Account. The PCU will open a project account in a financial institution,
 acceptable to the Bank, in which Government's counterpart contribution will be deposited. The initial
 deposit will be in the amount o f CFAF 23 million, which is equivalent to 6 months o f expenditures.
 Replenishments would be done on a semi-annual basis on the basis o f forecasts included inthe annual work
 programs and semi-annual progress reports. The establishment o f this account and the first deposit into it
 will be a condition o f effectiveness.




                                                       - 67 -

                                Annex 7: Project ProcessingSchedule
           BURKINA FASO: Sahel Integrated Lowland Ecosystem Management


 Project Schedule                                             Planned                           Actual

/Timetaken to prepare the project (months)                                                    48
IFirstBank mission (identification)              II        24                      II         06/26/2000      II
                                                       ~~                                                   ~


Appraisal mission departure                                                                   04114l2004
 Negotiations                                                                                 0412812004

/PlannedDate of Effectiveness                    I                                 I          09/3012004      I

Prepared by:
The project has been preparedby a multi-disciplinary Government team assistedby consultants. Members
of this team included staff o f the PNGT2 and technical ministries. It was supervised by the Director
General for Development Cooperation o f the Ministry o f Economy and Finance.

Preparationassistance:
GEF PDF-B US$340,000

IBank Name
       staff who worked on the project included:
                                                           SDecialitv
 Jane C. Hopkins                          Agricultural Economist, TTL
 EmmanuelNikiema                          Natural Resource Management Specialist, co-TTL
 Yvei-Coffi Prudencio                     Soil Fertility Specialist
 DirkPrevoo                               Operations Officer
 Jean-Michel Pavy                         Ecologist, Biodiversity Specialist
 IbrahimNebie                             Agricultural Services Special.ist
 Virginie Vaselopulos                     Task Team Assistant
 Gwladys Nadine Isabelle Kantiebo         Task Team Assistant
 Aguiratou Sawadogo                       Procurement Specialist
 MamadouYaro                              Financial Management Specialist
 Wolfgang Chadab                          Disbursement Officer
 Pascale Dubois                           Legal Counsel
 Monica Sawyer                            Legal Consultant




                                                    - 68 -

                             Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
          BURKINA FASO: Sahel Integrated Lowland Ecosystem Management


A. ProjectImplementationPian
   Manuel de mise en Deuvre du PNGT2, July 2000 (updated in2003)
   Manuel des procedures FIL duPNGT2, July2000 (updated in2003)
   Manuel des procedures administratives et financibres duPNGT2, July 1999 (updated in2003)
   Manuel de concertationet de capitalisation du PNGT2, July 1999 (updated in 2003)
   Manuel de suivi-evaluation du PNGT2, April 2000 (updated in 2002)
   Final Report  - Systeme de Suivi-Evaluation du Project SILEM en Complement de Celui du PNGT2
   (Sawadogo, Seraphine, May 2003)
0  Environmental andSocial Management Framework, May 2003
0  Resettlement Policy Framework andResettlement Process Framework, May 2003

B. Bank Staff Assessments

0  Aide-mkmoire de la mission de prkparation du SILEM (PrudencioMikiema, August 2000)
0  Aide-mkmoire de la mission de prkparation du SILEM (PrudencioMikiema, December 2001)
0  Aide-mkmoire de la mission de prkparation du SILEM (PrudencioMikiema, October 2002)
0   Aide-mkmoire de la mission de supervision du PNGT2 (HopkinsMikiema, March 2003)
0   Aide-mkmoire de la mission de prkparation et concertation sur la cadre logique du SILEM
    (HopkinsMikiema, July 2003)
0   Aide-mCmoire de la mission de prkparation et concertation sur les tableaux de couts du SILEM
    (NikiemaPrevoo, September 2003)

C. Other
    Memorandum des travaux de groupe thematique SILEM         -- Annexede l'aide-memoire de lamission de
    supervision du PNGT2, March 2004
0   Inventairedes Bas-Fonds et Plaines du Sahel, du Plateau Central et de 1'Est du BurkinaFaso :
    Resultats & Analyse - Rapport Final (INERA, December 2002)
e   North-South Sustainable Financing Partnership Altematives for Local Development and Natural
    Resource Management    - The  Case of the Sahel Countries: Senegal, Mali, Burkina Faso, Niger -
    Rapport Final (Lewis, Chantal ;September 2002)
0   Inventaire de 1'Agrobiodiversitk auNiveaudes Ecosystems de Bas-Fonds et Plaines du Sahel, du
    Plateau Central ,de 1'Est et de 1'Ouest Burkinabk - Rapport Final (Zongo, Jean-Didier ;April 2002)
0   Etat des Lieux et PotentialitCs dans les Activitks relevant des Domaines du FEMau BurkinaFaso -
    Rapport Final (Ouadba, Jean-Marie, et. al. ;October 2001)

*Including electronic files

                                        Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
                    BURKINA FASO: Sahel Integrated Lowland Ecosystem Management
                                                           29-Apr-2004
                                                                                                                     Differencebetween expected
                                                                                                                              and actual
                                                                OriginalAmount in US$ Millions                             disbursements'
Project ID  FY    Purpose                                   IBRD        IDA                  GEF    Cancel.  Undisb.       Orlg   FrmRev'd
PO85230     2004 B?- STATCAP                                   0.00      10.00                 0.00     0.00      9.85       0.00       0.00
PO71443     2003 BF COMPETITIVENESS8 ENTERPRISEOEV             0.00     25.20                  0.00     0.00     31.44       -0.40      0.00
PO74030     2003 BF.TRANSPORTSECTORPROJECT                     0.00     49.50                  0.00     0.00     92.98       9.56       0.00
PO76159     2003 AFTKL BF Dev. LearningCanter. LIL             0.00      2.30                  0.00     0.00      2.34        1.22      0.00
PO52400     2002 BF:PARTNERSHIP FOR NATURALECOSYSTEM           0.00      0.00                  7.50     0.00      6.89        1.98      0.00
PO00309     2002 Basic Educ. Sector                            0.00     32.60                  0.00     0.00     31.45        7.65      0.00
PO71433     2002 HIV/AIDSDisaster Response                     0.00     22.00                  0.00     0.00     13.27       -0.46      -3.06
PO35673     2001 BF:COMMUNITY-BASE0RURALDEVELOPMENT            0.00     66.70                  0.00     0.00     53.76      -19.44      -1.44
PO00306     2001 OUAGADOUGOUWATER SUPPLYPROJECT                0.00      70.00                 0.00     0.00     67.76       15.25      0.00
PO50886     1999 BurkinaFas0:PRIVATE IRRIGATION                0.00       5.20                 0.00     0.00      0.30        0.49      0.00
PO00296     1998 Burkina Faso:AG SERVICESI1                    0.00     41.30                  0.00     0.00      9.13        9.29      0.09
PO00283     1997 MININGCAPACITY BUlL                           0.00      21.40                 0.00     0.00      4.01        5.38      2.88
PO00304     1997 Post-PrimaryEducation                         0.00      26.00                 0.00     0.00      2.71        4.12       4.16
PO00297     1995 URBANENV                                      0.00      37.00                 0.00     0.00     15.51       -6.37      -6.43

                                                    Total:    0.00      409.20               7.50       0.00     341.41      28.27      -3.81




                                                          BURKMA FASO
                                                         STATEMENTOF IFC's
                                                      HeldandDisbursedPortfolio
                                                            Mar 2004
                                                                 -
                                                       InMillions US Dollars


                                                                             Committed                                 Disbursed
                                                                         IFC                                       IFC
     FY Approval              Company                            Loan      Equity     Quasi       Partic    Loan      Equity      Quasi      Partic
     1998                     AEF STCBF                           0.27        0.00      0.00       0.00     0.27        0.00        0.00      0.00
                                      Total Portfolio:            0.27        0.00       0.00      0.00       0.27       0.00        0.00      0.00



                                                                      Approvals PendingCommitment
     FY Approval              Company                                Loan       Equity         Quasi       Partic


                              Total PendingCommitment:               0.00         0.00          0.00        0.00

                                                    Annex IO: Country at a Glance
                BURKINA FASO: Sahel Integrated Lowland EcosystemManagement
                                                                                  Sub-
POVERTYand SOCIAL                                                Burkina       Saharan       Low-
                                                                     Faso        Africa   Income
2002
Population,mid-year (miiiions)                                        1I.8          688      2,495                        Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Atias method, US$)                                    220           450        430
GNI (Atias method, US$billions)                                        2.6          306      1,072
Average annual growth, 1996-02
Population(%J                                                          2.4          2.4         1.9
Laborforce (%)                                                         2.0          2.5        2.3         GNI                                       Gross
                                                                                                                                                   primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1996-02)                                                      capita                              enrollment
Poverty (% ofpopulaflonbelownationalpovertyline)                       45
Urbanpopulation (% of fofaipopuiafion)                                 17            33         30
Lifeexpectancyat birth(yaars)                                          43            46         59
infantmortality (par 1,000live births)                                103           105         81
Childmalnutrition (% ofchiidm under5)                                  34                                         Access to improvedwater source          I
Access to an improvedwater source (% ofpopulation)                     42            58         76
Illiteracy (% ofpopulation age 15+)                                    74            37         37
Grossprimaryenrollment I%ofschooi-agepopulafion)                       44            86         95                  -Burkina        Faso
    Male                                                               52            92        103                       - Low-incomegroup
    Female                                                             37            80         87

KEY ECONOMICRATIOSand LONG-TERMTRENDS
                                                          1982       1992          2001      2002
                                                                                                            Economlcratlos'
GDP (US$ billions)                                          I.6        2.0          2.5         2.8
Gross domestic investmentlGDP                             20.2        21.I 25.4                26.0
Exports of goodsand serviceslGDP                            9.2       10.1          10.1       10.2                             Trade

Gross domestic savingsiGDP                                 -3.9        7.0          9.6        10.8
Gross nationalsavingsiGDP                                             14.9          12.6       13.6                               T
CurrentaccountbalanceiGDP                                 -18.1       -9.3         -13.4      -12.9
Interes4paymentdGDP                                         0.5        0.7          0.5         0.6
Total debWGDP                                             22.6        52.1         59.9
Totaldebtserviceiexports                                    6.7        7.4          18.1
Presentvalue of debWGDP                                                            28.8
Presentvalue of debtlexports                                                      235.1                                       Indebtedness
                                           1982-92 1992-02           2001          2002    2002 6
                                                                                                -0
(averageannualgrowth)                                                                                                         BurkinaFaso
GDP                                            3.4          4.5        5.6           5.6                  l          --
GDP percapita                                  0.9          2.0        3.1           3.1                                      Low-income group
                                                                                                          I



STRUCTUREof the ECONOMY
                                                          1982       1992          2001       2002          Growthof Investmentand GDP (%)
(% of GDPJ
Agriculture                                                32.1       33.5          38.2       37.6         BOT

Industry                                                   20.9       22.2          20.7       20.4         40
    Manufacturing                                          15.5       15.7          14.7       14.5         20
Services                                                   47.0       44.3          41.1       41.9           0
Privateconsumption                                         88.3       77.2          76.6       74.5        -20
General governmentconsumption                              15.6       15.8          13.8       14.7
Importsof goods and sewices                                33.4       24.2          25.9       25.4       I             -GDI             -O-GDP


                                                       1982-92 1992-02             2001       2002        1Growthof
(averageannualgrowth)                                                                                                   exportsand Imports(%)              1
Agriculture                                                 3.7        3.4           7.0        4.6       I s o T                                          I
Industry                                                    2.9        4.8           3.3        7.6        40
    Manufacturing                                            1.6       5.7           3.3        7.6
Services                                                    3.8        4.6           4.6        5.9         20

Privateconsumption                                          3.1        3.2           3.6        5.3          0

General government consumption                              2.2        1.0           2.5        2.5        -20
Grossdomestic investment                                    6.6        9.9          10.5       10.8
 Importsof goods and services                               3.4        2.3           1.o       13.4

* The diamonds show four key indicatorsin the Wunrry (in bold) comparedwith itsincome-groupaverage If data are missing. the diamondwill be incomplete.




                                                                               -71   -

                                                                                                                   Burkina Faso

PRICESand GOVERNMENTFINANCE
                                             1982      1992       2001     2002     1 Inflation (%)
Domesticprices                                                                                                                         1
(% changeJ
Consumer prices                                 3.9     -5.9        4.9      2.0
ImplicitGDP deflator                            9.0     -1.8        4.8      2.9
Governmentfinance
(% of GDP, includes currentgrants)
Current revenue                                         13.2       14.0     15.3
Currentbudget balance                                    1.4        2.1      2.5    r1                                                 I
Overallsurplusideficit                                  -7.7      -11.0    -11.5                -GDP      deflator    ' O ' C P I


TRADE
                                             1982      I992       2001     2002
(US$ millionsf                                                                        Exportandimport lavals(US$ mlll.)
Total exports (fob)                                     238         221     254      750 T
 conon                                                   94         128     141
 Livestockproducts                                        33         42      55
 Manufactures
Total imports(cia                                       516         510     577
 Food                                                     90         73      82
 Fuelana energy                                           53         93     108
 Capitalgoods                                            131        165     186
Exportprice index (1995=100J                              48        105      96              96   97   ea     9s      00      01

Import price index (1995=100J                             54        126      118                m~xporto        mlmports
Termsof trade (1995=100)                                  88         83      81

BALANCE of PAYMENTS
                                             1982      1992        2001    2002                                      ~



(US$ millions)                                                                        Currentaccountbalanceto GDP(%)
Exportsof goods and services                    175      302        251      288
Importsof goods andservices                    534       724        658      734
Resource balance                              -359      -422       -407     -446
Net income                                      -10      -12         -5       -2
Net cuFrenttransfers                             89      248         79       82
                                                                                         I
Current account balance                       -281      -186       -333     -366
Financingitems (net)                           280      247         328      389
Changes in net reserves                           0      -61          5      -23      20
                                                                                      l5

Memo:
Reserves includinggold (US$millions)
Conversion rate {DEC,localiUS$J              328.6     396.6      733.0    697.0

EXTERNALDEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
                                             1982      1992        2001    2002      I
(US$millions)                                                                          Composltlonof 2001debt(US$ mill.)               1
Total debtoutstandingand disbursed              352    1,040      1,490
  IBRD                                            0        0          0                                  G: 4
  IDA                                            95      364        636                              F 3

Total debtservice                                20       33         55
  IBRD                                            0        0          0
  IDA                                             2        5         12                                                        B 636
Composition of net resourceflows
  Officialgrants                                 97      204        207
  Officialcreditors                              45      128        113
  Privatecreditors                               21        0          0
  Foreigndirect investment                        2        3         26
  Portfolioequity                                 0        0          0                                          C 117                  I
World Bankprogram
  Commitments                                    92      117        204                A IBRD
                                                                                         -                                  E Bilateral
  Disbursements                                  12       50         71                B           D Other multilateral
                                                                                                    -                       F Private
  Principalrepayments                             2        2          7                C IMF
                                                                                         .-IDA                              G Short-term
                                                                                                                              .--
  Netflows                                       11       48         65
  Interest payments                               1        3          5
  Net transfers                                  10       45         60

mote: Inls tam was proauceafrom tne ueveiopmeni tconomics centralaataaase.

                     Additional Annex 11:STAP Roster Technical Review
           BURKINA FASO: Sahel Integrated LowlandEcosystem Management

STAP Review

Project Number:          PO70871
country:                 Burkina Faso
Project Name:            Sahel Integrated LowlandEcosystem Management
STAP Reviewer:           Dr.J. MichaelHalderman, Independent Consultant, Berkeley, California
Date:                    March 10, 2002

Kev Issues

1)Scientific and technical soundness ofthe project

The proposed project, Sahel Integrated Lowland Ecosystem Management (SILEM), has been thoroughly
andwell designed following appropriate technical and scientific principles. SILEM (also referred to inthis
STAP review as the "project") aims to contribute to sustainable mitigation and alleviation o f rural poverty
in Burkina Faso by improving the natural resource base. It will provide at local and national levels a
combination o f skills, knowledge and investment resources to carry out integrated lowland ecosystem
management to achieve local andglobal environmental benefits.

SILEM will complement the "baseline" Community-Based Rural Development Project (CBRDP, credit
agreement signed in June 2001). The CBRDP is a follow up to the Environmental Management Project
(Propamme National de Gestion des Terroirs project), a community-based land management approach to
natural resource management (IEM). CBRDP is part o f the National Program for Decentralized Rural
Development o f Burkina Faso (PNDRD), a major national program aimed at implementing the Poverty
Reduction Strategy Paper. SILEM will be "fully blended" into CBRDP, although the GEF funds will be
tracked separately for accounting and reporting purposes. The activities o f SILEM will be fully integrated
into CBRDP and support its five components: (1) local capacity building, (2) local investment fund, (3)
institutional capacity building,(4) land tenure security pilot, and (5) program coordination.

Technical and scientific aspects relating to integrated ecosystem management (IEM) in selected lowland
sites o f Burkina Faso are sound. The (a) choice o f IEMas the basis o f the approach underthis project and
(b) the blending o f SILEM into the CBRDP inorder to achieve local and global environmental benefits are
particularly appropriate. The integrated projects place heavy emphasis on a community-driven development
(CDD) approach. This reflects the accurate recognition that decentralized, participatory approaches to
rural development, poverty alleviation and natural resource management are far more effective and
sustainable than other approaches. In view o f the inter-linkingo f the IEM and CDD elements, and other
aspectsdiscussedbelow, the project fits well under GEF's Operational Program # 12.

2) Identification of the global environmental benefits and/or drawbacks of the project

Burkina Faso is in the early stages o f what might become a "revolution" in the management o f natural
resources. There i s reportedly strong commitment from the Government and widespread support from the
donor community to bring about major changes in IEM aimed at overcoming difficult environmental
challenges while simultaneously reducingpoverty on a sustainable basis.




                                                     - 73 -

The SILEM project is intendedto continue for 15 years (2002 - 2017) in three phases: (1) four years to
test components and instruments, (2) five years to confirm and consolidate, (3) six years o f expansion.
Duringthe first phase, the project will primarilysupport an integrated approach aimed at the rehabilitation
o f degraded lowland ecosystems in six "Sahel desert margin" northern provinces. Duringphases two and
three, the project will scale up and replicate activities in other provinces o f the country, particularly in
areas with natural habitats o f global importance. SILEM will complement the CBRDP in an effort to
achieve considerably greater local, national, regional and global environmental benefits than the CBRDP
alone could achieve. The US$ 4.5 million currently requested from GEF for the "GEF Alternative" is for
the first phase.

SILEM will focus on promoting integrated ecosystem management in carefully selected lowland sites (100
in the first phase, 200 in the second phase, 300 in the third phase) to remove pressure on these fragile
lowland ecosystems. The project aims to achieve the following objectives related to global environmental
benefits: (a) build capacity for sound IEM planning and management to achieve both developmental and
environmental goals; (b) reduce and reverse land degradation and desertification; (c) better conserve
biodiversity (agro-biodiversity in particular) at ecosystem, species and genetic levels; (d) increase carbon
storage capacity and reduce greenhouse gas emissions; (e) reduce, and to some extent reverse, the
deterioration o f international waters (Volta and Comoe rivers and tributaries).

3) Project fit within the context of GEF goals, operational strategies, programme priorities and
relevant conventions

The SILEM project fits well with the criteria listed above. This GEF-funded project incorporates the
principles, and i s directed towards achieving the potential benefits, o f Integrated Ecosystem Management
described in Operational Program # 12. Both social and economic factors are integrated into ecosystem
management. Project activities at all levels are intended to be flexible and to incorporate lessons learned
into project management. The Adaptable Program Loan (APL) instrument of the baseline CBRDP permits
flexible, long term funding. The designs of both SILEM and CBRDP already incorporate lessons learned
from the Programme National de Gestion des Terroirs project, the predecessor o f CBRDP, a good sign.
Participatory approaches are at the heart of these fully blended projects. The GEF-funded project aims to
develop an enabling policy environment, strengthen relevant institutions, and make investments based on
the principles o f integrated ecosystem management. The SILEM project also fits well with Operational
Program # 13, Conservation and Sustainable Use o f Biological Diversity Important to Agriculture. The
SILEM project addresses, and promotes synergies between, the GEF focal areas o f land degradation,
biodiversity conservation, climate change and international waters. The project accords with the UN
Convention to Combat Desertification (CCD), the Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD), and the UN
Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC).

4) Regional context

Several West African countries confront similar inter-related problems related to m a l poverty and
degraded natural resources. At one point, it was intended that there be a regional program combining
World Bank and GEF resources covering Burkina Faso, Mali, Niger and Senegal. Difficulties encountered
during efforts to set up this regional project suggested that there could be significant implementation
problems. It was therefore decided to develop national projects, with the possibility o f some regional
coordination. This reviewer supports the decision to develop national projects in order to eliminate the
likelihood o f implementation problems with a regional program. In addition, separate national projects
allow (even encourage) experimentation with somewhat different approaches to achieve similar
developmental and environmental objectives. The present set up could foster healthy competition between


                                                    - 74 -

the projects. Effectiveexchange of information and experiencebetween the projects should be encouraged,
with mechanisms established to facilitate this exchange.

5) Replicability of the project

The project design has many well thought out and innovative elements. IfSILEM successfully implements
its proposed activities, there would be considerable scope to replicate the approach in other parts o f
Burkina Faso, as well as in nearby countries with similar ecological and socioeconomic conditions. The
project will carry out M&E activities that should provide information and analyses useful to replicating
successful activities. There will be: (a) an internal M&E system shared with the CBRDP, (b) and
"indigenous IEM M&E system" for use by rural communities themselves, and (c) a scientific M&E system
with sustainable process indicators for assessing changes in ecosystem management patterns on a local or
national level, (d) a pilot national natural resources accounting system. The project will also support an
Environmental and Social Impact Assessment office within the Project Coordination Unit. Every 2-3 years
there is to be external M&E activity by a team o f national and international experts. The project's M&E
systemwill include basic tools to assess whether the identifiedmitigation measures have been implemented
and are effective. Given the above factors, it would be useful if the project would develop a strategy to
replicate its most successful activities by providing information useful to others interested in following its
lead.

6) Anticipated Effectiveness and Sustainability of the project

The project has many well considered elements specifically aimed at achieving sustainability. The crucial
importance o f capacity building in regard to achieving sustainability is discussed under point 11 below.
The project's Capacity Buildingcomponent includes innovative efforts to achieve financial sustainability
through "financing partnerships" between rural communities and external public and private sector
partners. The Local Investment Funds component is limitedto about 100 villages (about 05% o f the 2000
villages targeted by CBRDP) during the first phase, a necessary step in focusing project activity. The
investments aim at reviving and protecting village lowland ecosystems to allow for sustainable land use
intensificationin limitedareas and to achieve other environmental objectives. The project will also support
applied IEM studies and IEM research-development or operational research at provincial and regional
levels. The project's third component is aimed at institutional capacity building at local, provincial and
national levels. (SILEWCBRDP deliberately work with and buildon national institutions at various levels
in their efforts to achieve project success and sustainability.)    SILEM will support the creation o f an
enabling environment, including the establishment o f an IEM Policy Forum. The project will also address
the crucial issue o f landtenure security inthe lowlands, including helpingthe poor to gain access to reliable
 land conflict resolution mechanisms.

 Project designers are clearly aware of a number o f risks that may be encountered during implementation,
 and these risks are presented inthe project document. This reviewer was thinkingo f these very issues as he
 read the report. The designers seem more confident about their risk mitigation measures than is this
 reviewer, perhaps reflecting the differences in roles o f designers and reviewers. Decentralization is one
 example. The document explicitly states that the success o f SILEM depends on the successful achievement
 o f the political and administrative decentralization process, and the first risk deals with this issue. The
 risks here may be underestimated. Effective devolution o f the responsibility for IEM to local govemments
 and communities will be necessary for CBRDPEILEM to function as planned and to achieve
 sustainability. Decentralization and devolution can be complicated and difficult processes, and problems
 could significantly impede project performance. The condition that the required legal text be issuedbefore
 negotiations is appropriate.

                                                     - 75 -

In regard to community-driven development, three key points should be kept in mind (a) highly skilled,
well trained individuals are needed at the interface with local communities, (b) efforts should be taken to
identify early on communities with real (if latent) potential to successfully carry out community-based
activities, (c) elite capture at all levels is a real possibility. The project designers seem aware o f these
points, but there i s a risk that what is planned as a community based approach to IEM I IEM could be
subverted into a top down exercise. The need for highquality service providers is critical. In addition, the
rural communities in Burkina Faso are highly stratified (see number 10 below), and achieving effective
participation by the poor and women may not be easy. If not already done, it would be useful to develop
well tailored criteria and procedures to enable communities to target the poor and women for project
purposes, and to establish effective control mechanisms to ensure that these activities are carried out.

Secondarv Issues

7) Linkages to other focal areas

The SILEM project is multi-focal, covering land degradation, biodiversity conservation, climate change and
international waters.

8) Linkages to other programmes and action plans

The GEF-financed SILEM project will be fully integrated into the IDA-fundedbaseline project, the
Community-Based Rural Development Project. The CBRDP is part o f and supports the National Program
for Decentralized Rural Development in Burkina Faso (PNDRD) which implements the Government's
decentralized rural development strategy. The PNDRD is coordinated by the National Forumthat aims to
eval~ateand harmonize experiences and approaches to decentralized rural development inthe country. It is
intended that there be a gradual transfer o f PNDRD coordination responsibilities to the regional
directorates for studies and planning (DREPs). The CCTPs will be the PNDRD's coordination entities at
the provincial level. The CBRDP and SILEM will support the regional and provincial entities.

Several sectoral strategies and action plans have been developed in Burkina Faso, but they have not yet
been operationalized and implemented at local levels. SILEM will contribute to the implementation o f
existing IEM and IEM strategies and action plans, including the National Environment Action Plan,
National Soil Fertility Management Strategy and Action Plan (the Government's top priority action plan
for the agriculture sector), National Desertification Action Plan and the NationalBiodiversity Strategy.

The two blended projects, SILEM and CBRDP, will have linkages to the National Natural Ecosystem
Management Program (PAGEN or PRONAGEM, both acronyms are used in the documents) currently
being prepared that focuses on wildlife biodiversity conservation inside specific, officially protected natural
wildlife habitats. Several other development programs with potential linkages are listed in the project
 documents, including the Netherlands and DANIDA funded Local Development / Burkina Sahel Program
 (PSB).

 9) Other beneficial or damaging environmentaleffects

 The rationale for GEF to fund the SILEM is that the project would focus its resources on achieving
 significant local, national, regional and global environmental objectives. In the absence o f the SILEM
project, the baseline IDA-hded CBRDP would achieve only limited environmental objectives.                  As
 explained in this STAP review, this rationale is sound. No damaging environmental effects have been

identified.

10) Stakeholder involvement

The project will affect andfor be influenced by a wide variety of actors, many o f them involved in the
country's "revolution" in the management o f natural resources. The stakeholders (existingand proposed)
include: the joint SILEWCBRDP Project Coordination Unit, the Ministry o f Agriculture I Programme
National De Gestion Des Terroirs, the National Program for Decentralized Rural Development (PNDRD),
the National Forum that coordinates the PNDRD, the National Environmental Management Council
(CONAGESE), Government officials involved with the action plans mentioned under point 8 above, the
National Natural Ecosystem Management Program, bi-laterals funding CBRDP and their programs,
regional directorates for studies and planning (DREPs), provincial PNDRD coordination entities (CCTPs),
NGOs, producers organizations, South-North financing partnerships and Finance Facilitation Office,
Comites Villageois de Gestion de Terroir (CVGTs), Comites Inter-Villageois de Gestion de Terroirs
(CIVGTs), Comites d'Action Specifique (CASs), community-based organizations (CBOs), environmental
pressure groups, andfederations o f IEMcommittees.

There are also the 100 local communities (in the first phase) that are highly stratified by caste, gender,
kinship and age. Given the large number of govemment and other organizations, officials, technical
experts, consultants and others involved in SILEM and CBRDP, it may be quite a challenge to achieve
genuine participation on the part o f stratified rural communities, especially by the poor andby women.

Significantly, the project will support a Policy Forum every year, or every second year, at the national or
regional level. This Policy Forum will be a round table discussion between representatives of EM
stakeholders to identifyIEMpolicy constraints andto propose necessary policy reforms. Consensus policy
actiod plans will be issued each year, or every second year, and their implementationwill be monitored by
elected policy task forces or by specific civil society pressuregroups.

11)Capacity building

SILEM I CBRDP fully recognize and emphasize the need for capacity building at various levels for the
projects to achieve their objectives, particularly in regard to sustainability. SILEM will support (27% o f
total GEF funds) capacity building in: (1) integrated ecosystem management / land use planning capacity,
including the construction o f a GIS data base and piloting the use o f GIS tools in its intervention sites; (2)
 support to "extraordinary IEM governance bodies" (as needed) at local, regional and national levels to
promote environmental protection at all levels; (3) educating policy makers and the general public (rural
communities in particular) on environmental issues and solutions through awareness raising and
 dissemination of IEM action plans, and community exchange o f experience and knowledge (including IEM
 conflict resolution and social peace keeping); (4) sustainable IEM financing (including South-North
 financing partnerships and a Finance Facilitation Office) and local IEM financing mechanisms.              The
 project intends to build capacity to create an enabling environment that will facilitate the adoption and
 sustainability o f appropriate IEMpractices. This includes assisting rural communities, interest groups and
 the government with the identification and implementationo f neededpolicy instruments andreforms.

 The project has abroad, sound approach to capacity building.As the project progresses, however, it will be
 necessary to carefully assess the relevance, quality and impact o f the training and other capacity building
 efforts to ensure their effectiveness and to make adjustments where necessary.

 12) Innovativenessof the project


                                                       - 77 -

The Sahel Integrated Lowland Ecosystem Management project is a particularly innovative and promising
effort aimed at overcoming serious environmental problems in m a l Burkina Faso. SILEM represents a
carefully designed approach to effectively promote integrated ecosystem management in specific lowland
sites in order to achieve local, national, regional and global environmental benefits. This project will fully
blend GEF financing into the baseline project funded by IDA, bi-lateral donors, local stakeholders and the
Government o f Burkina Faso. The integrated projects will promote community-driven development in
attempts to achieve their environmental objectives, promote sustainable development and reduce poverty.
This creative and comprehensive approach is fully consistent with the principles and goals of the GEF's
Operational Program # 12,

Responseto STAP Roster Technical Review

The STAP review was largely positive, highlighting the solid design, technical soundness, innovative
approach, and complementarities with the baseline project (the CBRDP) for achieving local and global
environmental benefits.

The principal concerns raised by the reviewer had to do with (1) implementation risks (in particular,
blockages in the decentralization process) and (2) ensuring adequate stakeholder involvement in highly
stratified rural communities and avoiding elite capture o f the project. The baseline project acknowledges
and addresses both o f these risks.

With respect to decentralization, the risk to the first phase o f the SILEM project is low. In 1998,
responsibility for the management of non-protected resources was devolved to local communities with the
adoption by the Council o f Ministers o f the TOD (Textes d'orientation sur la Dicentralisation). The
main' objective o f the baseline project (CBRDP) is to assist the government in operationalizing this legal
document by empowering local communities through the transfer o f investment funds andby providing the
capacity building necessary to manage those funds and execute their own development (and resource
management) strategy. Triggers for the second phase of the baseline project are mostly linkedto progress
on the decentralization agenda. Legal texts allowing the transfer o f resources to locally representative
bodies (the CVGT and CIVGT) already exist -- they were a condition o f negotiations for the CPDRP.

In terms of stakeholder involvement and elite capture, there was substantial national involvement in the
preparation o f both the baseline project and the SILEM, at all levels (community, province, national
govemment) and from public, private and NGO sectors. The legal text related to the creation o f the CVGT
and CIVGT explicit stipulates the manner in which representatives must be selected and the overall
composition of the committee. The diagnostic tools used by the CBRDP staff are participatory and all
private service providers working with the project will be trained in the use o f those tools. This does not,
of course, ensure participation, nor eliminate the possibility o f elite capture. However, a rigorous
qualitative and quantitative M&E system was designed for the baseline project.                It includes (i)
participatory, community managed modules as well as (ii)statistical in-depth household and community
survey modules and (iii)scientific plot / ecosystem level data collection modules. These modules are
designed to track indicators o f environmental, household welfare and institutional change and should
(along with regular supervision) allow us to avoid elite capture and ensureparticipation.




                                                     - 78 -

