RP1 75
August 2003
Government of Burkina Faso
- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ -
Resettlement Policy Framework:
Community-Based Rural Development
August 2003
Environmental Resources Management
1001 Connecticut Avenue, NW Suite 1115
Washington, DC 20036
Telephone 202 466 9090
Facsimile 202 466 9191
http://www.erm.com
ERMD



Government of Burkina Faso
Resettlement Policy Framework:
Community-Based Rural Development
May 2003
Reference 0002038
Prepared by: Rachel Cardone, Tania N. Mansour, and Tuya
Altangerel
For and on behalf of
Environmental Resources Management
Approved by: Kurt Lonsway
Signed:          /I
Position:     Technical Direc or_          _   _    _    _
Date: 8 May 2003
This report has been prepared by Environmental Resources
Management the trading name of Environmental Resources
Management Limited, with all reasonable skill, care and diligence
within the terms of the Contract with the client, incorporating our
General Terms and Condibons of Business and taking account of the
resources devoted to it by agreement with the client
We disclaim any responsibility to the client and others in respect of
any matters outside the scope of the above.
This report is confidental to the client and we accept no responsibility
of whatsoever nature to third parties to whom this report, or any part
thereof, is made known. Any such party relies on the report at their
own risk.
In line with our company environmental policy me purchase paper for
our documents only from ISO 14001 certified or EMAS verified
manufacturers. This includes paper with the Nordic Environmental
Label.



CONTENTS
I          INTRODUCTION                                               1
1.1        BACKGROUND TO THE PROJECT                                  1
1.1.1      National Programfor Decentralized Rural Development         1
1.1.2      The Sahel Integrated Lowland Ecosystem Management project  2
1.1.3      Implementation                                              3
1.2        COMMUNITY DRIVEN DEVELOPMENT INITIATIVE                     4
1.3        SCOPE OF LAND ACQUISITION AND RESETTLEMENT UNDER CBRDP/SILEM  7
1.4        DEVELOPMENT OF A RESETTLEMENT POLICY FRAMEWORK              8
1.5        KEY DEFINITIONS                                             8
2          POLICY PRINCIPLES AND OBJECTIVES GOVERNING RESETTLEMENT
PLANNING                                                   11
2.1        PRINCIPLES OFRESETTLEMENT PLANNING                        11
2.1.1      Objectives of the Resettlement Policy Framework            11
2.1.2      General Principles                                         12
3          DESCRIPTION OF THE PROCESS FOR PREPARING AND APPROVING
RESETTLEMENT PLANS                                        15
3.1        INTRODUCTION                                               15
3.2        IDENTIFICATION AND SCREENING OF MICRO-PROJECTS             16
3.2.1      Screeningfor Involuntary Resettlement                      16
Baseline Study and Socio-economic Data                    17
3.2.3      Preparation of a Resettlement Action Plan                  17
3.3        REVIEW OF RESETTLEMENT ACTION PLANS                        18
3.4        SAFEGUARD COMPLIANCE                                       19
3.4.1       Capacity Building                                         19
4          LIKELY CATEGORIES OF PROJECT AFFECTED PERSONS              20
4.1        IDENTIFICATION OF PRoJEcT AFFECTED PERSONS                 20
5          ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA FOR DEFINING VARIOUS CATEGORIES
OF PAPS                                                   23
5.1        CRITERIA FOR PAP ELIGIBILITY                               23
6          LEGAL AND REGULATORY FRAMEWORK FOR RESETTLEMENT            24
6.1        INTRODUCTION                                               24
6.2        LAND TENURE AND OWNERSHIP                                 24
6.2.1      Public Property                                            25



6.3        LAND TENURE UNDER CusToMARYRIGHTS                           26
6.3.1      Traditional tenure regime                                   26
6.3.2      Traditional Categories of Land                              26
6.3.3      Land OccupationforMicro-projects                            28
7          RESETTLEMENT ENTITLEMENT POLICY                             29
7.1        LEGAL BASIS FOR RESETTLEMENT ENTiTLEMENT                    29
7.2        LAND OCCUPATION FOR SUB-PROJECTS                            29
7.3        ENTITLEMENTS RELATING TO VARIOUS CATEGORIES OF IMPACTS      29
7.3.1      Methods of valuing affected assets                          29
7.3.2      Compensation payments and related considerations            30
7.4        COMPENSATION PROCESS                                        31
7.4.2      Community Compensation Payments                             32
8          INSTITUTIONAL MECHANISMS AND ORGANISATIONAL
PROCEDURES FOR DELIVERY OF ENTITLEMENTS                     37
8.1        PROJECT CO-ORDINATION AND MANAGEMENT                        37
8.1.1      National Level                                              37
8.1.2      Decentralized Administration                                38
9          DESCRIPTION OF THE IMPLEMENTATION PROCESS AND
ARRANGEMENTS                                                44
9.1        IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE                                     44
9.1.1      Preparation and Review of RAPs during Project Implementation  44
9.2        CONSULTATIONS AND INFORMATION DISCLOSURE                    44
9.3        MECHANISMS FOR GRIEVANCE REDRESS                            45
9.4        BUDGETAND SOURCE OF FUNDING                                 45
9.5        SUPER VISION MONITORING AND EVALUATION                      46



INTRODUCTION
BACKGROUND TO THE PROJECT
National Program for Decentralized Rural Development
The Government of Burkina Faso (GOBF) received financing from the IDA,
effective in December 2001 to support its Community Based Rural Development
Project (CBRDP), which is a community-driven development program with local
investment funds managed by communities and targeted to reduce poverty and
promote sustainable development in rural areas. The program aims to be
implemented in Burkina Faso's 45 provinces over a period of 15 years, in three
five-year phases. The program's objective is to support poverty reduction and
promote sustainable development in rural Burkina Faso through strengthened
local governance and community empowerment, with a focus on marginalized
groups. The CBRDP aims to be implemented within a decentralized rural
development framework, and shall more specifically (a) support implementation
of demand-driven micro-projects, and (b) conduct local capacity-building efforts.
The CBRDP's long-term vision is one of participatory and representative local
governments and institutions planning and managing their own development
programs, and mobilizing the necessary resources through increased local
revenues and government fiscal transfers. To achieve these goals, the program
shall:
(i)   Strengthen capacity of villages and local governments to prioritise,
plan, implement, and maintain community-based investments;
(ii)  Provide decentralized funding for demand-driven and community-
managed rural infrastructure and services; and
(iii) Support Burkina Faso's ongoing decentralization and PRSP processes.
Phase I of the CBRDP (2001-2005) will initiate the process, develop the capacity of
rural areas to manage their own development in a sustainable, equitable and
productive manner, and facilitate the emergence of rural municipalities or groups
of municipalities. To that effect, it will couple capacity building activities and a
demand-driven local investment fund to enable communities to learn by doing.
Phase II (2006-2010) will build upon and expand the achievements of Phase I and
scale up the program to a national level. Phase III (2010-2015) will consolidate
what has been achieved and prepare an exit strategy.
The baseline project (CBRDP) has the following five components:
i.  Build and reinforce local capacity building;
ii.  Provide local investment funds;
iii. Build and reinforce institutional capacity building,
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT               GOVERNMENT OF BURKINA FASO
1



iv.   Introduce a land tenure security pilot project; and
v.    Strengthen and provide program coordination and monitoring and
evaluation functions.
These components have overlapping timeframes for implementation.
Box 1.1        Land Tenure Security Pilot Project
The objective of this component in CBRDP is to improve land tenure security and access for all
users, particularly the poor. It is expected to (i) foster equity and social peace, (ii) encourage
investment and agricultural productivity, (iii) enhance the preservation and rehabilitation of
natural resources, it will define and propose on the basis of field experiences an institutional,
legal, technical and methodological framework for stable and equitable land tenure in rural
areas. The pilot will be carried out in six test sites representative of land use and ownership
problems associated with them. It will experiment with methodologies for recording and
securing user rights, initiating the formalization of customary systems, resolving conflicts and
demarcating land units. The process is expected to be demand-driven and participatory.
The Sahel Integrated Lowland Ecosystem Management (SILEM) project will not undertake any
specific land tenure security pilot by itself. However, it will provide resources to advise and
support communities of SILEM villages in their voluntary efforts to resolve land tenure issues
or conflicts by providing them with facilitators, and by encouraging full participation of all
stakeholders or social groups in the consultation processes, so as to efficiently improve and
implement the endogenous conflict resolution mechanisms.
Source: SILEM Project Appraisal Document, July 8, 2002.
1.1.2          The Sahel Integrated Lowland Ecosystem Management project
The Sahel Integrated Lowland Ecosystem Management (SILEM) project, funded
through the GEF financing window, is designed to provide supplemental support
to the CBRDP. SILEM will provide incremental support for environmental and
natural resource management related activities under each of these five
components as listed above, in each of the Program's three phases.
SILEM's basic development objective is to strengthen the capacity of rural
communities to undertake an integrated management of their ecosystems, so as to
help reduce, mitigate and reverse to some extent the degradation of their natural
resource base, and thereby alleviate, in a sustainable manner, poverty and
vulnerability. In particular, SILEM will generate multiple and interconnected
environmental benefits such as:
(a) Building capacity for sound, sustainable integrated ecosystem
management planning (IEM) and implementation at local, regional and
national levels;
(b) Reduce, mitigate, and reverse land degradation and desertification with
adequate and innovative soil and water management technologies in
lowlands as a means for improving the productivity and sustainability of
plant and animal production systems, and for protecting natural habitats
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                         GOVERNMENT OF BURKINA FASO
2



of local and global importance; and
(c) Strengthen the natural resource base and decrease vulnerability to climate
change (drought and other stress factors) by improving conservation and
maintaining (agro-) biodiversity at ecosystem, species and genetic level.
1.1.3         Implementation
CBRDP/SILEM's (hereafter the Project) implementation follows the course that is
being adopted by the overall national community-driven development (CDD)
program of Burkina Faso, called the National Programfor Decentralised Rural
Development, or PNDRD. The PNDRD aims to build capacity for and support
decentralisation throughout Burkina Faso's 8,000 villages by the year 2010. The
PNDRP will also support the ongoing participatory development process being
carried out under Burkina Faso's Poverty Reduction Strategy and Rural
Development Strategy (PRSP).(')
In the first phase (2001-2006), CBRDP plans to intervene in 26 provinces with a
target of 2,000 villages. SILEM plans to intervene in its first phase (2003-2006) in
only 100 villages to initiate and demonstrate IEM activities.
In the second phase (2006-2010), CBRDP will intervene in an additional 2,000
villages, with an ultimate goal to cover all 8,000 of Burkina Faso's villages in the
third phase, while SILEM will intervene in an additional 200 villages in the
second phase, but no more than 600 villages by the end of the third phase.
SILEM's goal is to initiate, consolidate, and confirm IEM demonstration activities
for replication throughout the country to be initiated - and funded - by
communities themselves.
Both CBRDP and SILEM are administered, and finances are channelled through,
the Project Coordination Unit (PCU), which works at the national, regional,
provincial, and community levels. Table 1.1 illustrates the CBRDP's roles and
responsibilities at the national, regional, provincial, and village levels.
Table 1.1     CBRDP Administration
Unit                      Responsibility
National Level
CNCPDR                    * Assures harmonisation of the different steps taken through
decentralisation
Steering Committee        * Comprised of representatives of relevant Ministries and civil
society, approves and supervises programs of activities
Project Coordination Unit  * Provides daily program management
Regionial Level
(1)Source: Burkina Faso PRSP. Internet: http://www.inif.org/external/NP/prsp/2000/bfa/01/index.htmn,
ENVIRONNMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                    GOVERNMENT OF BURKINA FASO
3



Unit                         Responsibility
Regional Office for         * Five committees are in place to collaborate with the CCTPs to
Accountability_               channel funding for CVGT/CIVGT development plans (PGTs)
Provincial Level
Provincial Technical        * Provides Provincial coordination to the CBRDP through direct
Coordination Committee        intervention with villages
(CCTP)                      * Provides indirect intervention in areas that are impacted by
CBRDP activities
* Ensures control over projects to ensure that benefits accrue at the
provincial level
* Provides quality assurance over which projects get funded
through CVGT/CIVGTs
* Ensures quality assurance at a provincial level to avoid
duplication of efforts
Provincial Project Coordination * Support the CCTP in provincial coordination with the CBRDP
Units (PRCU) (2)              and intervention with villages
* Provide technical support to villages in communitv driven
development
* Assist in the identification and screening of micro-projects under
the CBRDP
* Responsible for reviewing micro-project applications for
technical and financial feasibility
Local Level
Village/Inter-Village Land  * Community-based organizations that devise community
Management Committee          development plans and receive funding through the CBRDP for
(CVGT/CIVGT)                  micro-projects.
* Responsible for sub-project execution.
1.2            COMMUNITY DRIVEN DEVELOPMENT INITIATIVE
The first component under Phlase 1 of the Project aims to provide financial support
to rural community development by co-financing socio-economic micro-projects
proposed by villages or groups of villages themselves, as determined by their
Village Land Management Conunittee, hereafter CVGT, or, if the projects are
proposed by more than one board, through their Inter-Village Management
Board, hereafter CIVGT.
The Project will co-finance any socio-economic collective micro-projects such as
social infrastructure (schools, rural roads, health posts, markets, etc.) and natural
resource management activities, as long as they are not included in the negative
list and meet the eligibility criteria set out in the Program Implementation
Manual, as is detailed in Figure 1.1.
(2) Also referred to provincial operational units (Equipes Op6rationnelles, EO) in the CBRDP PAD.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                           GOVERNMENT OF BURKINA FASO
4



Figure 1.1      Eligible categories of sub-projects
The non-exhaustive list of possible (eligible) projects at base of the investments provided in the
evaluation manual consist of the following activities: I) activities relative to natural resource
management 11) socio-economic infrastructure 111) agricultural infrastructure "rural areas" IV)
training activities of communities V) activities which contribute to the battle against HIV/AIDS,
etc.
*   In orderfor projects to be considered, they must correspond to thefollowinlg essential
criteria:
*   The activihy derivesfrom joint analysis and/or PG;
*   Eligible projects must have involved several comnmunity members or a group at the time
of the request;
*   The concerned project and its investment plan must be achievable within1 a 12-monthi
period;
* Eligible projects must satisfr budget criteria;
*   The project should not be a financial investment of other investors; however, it is possible
that the requestedfiunds are complementany tofinances allotted in another scope of the
work,
* For projects withlin1 the scope of educational infrastructure and healthcare, the micro-
project mulst conform to the guidelinzes of the appropriate Ministny (e.g., health,
education, etc.)
* Projects within the scope of productive infrastructurefor "rural municipalities" should be
the objective of afinancial assessment study, except in the case where the RTF provides
elements that conform to thefeasibilihy of the project.
The negative list is provided in Figure 1.2.
After a participatory assessment of their needs, villages will prepare Local
Management Plans (PGT) prioritizing their needs based on village-level decision-
making processes. This will include an Annual Investment Plan (AIP) that maps
out the community's financial commitment and anticipated external sources of
funding, including the CBRDP. If the priorities identified are within the bounds
of acceptable investments as determined by the Project, then steps towards
signing a contract between the Project and the CVGT/CIVGT may be taken to
implement the micro-project.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                             GOVERNMENT OF BURKINA FASO
5



Figure 1.2     Negative List of Activities and Projects Ineligiblefor Investment
* Religiouts infrastructuire (places of worship);
* Administrative buildings (except butildinigsfor htealthz and prinany educationt personnel);
*   lIstallationt anid equipmnentfor sports and leisure activities;
*   Secondary education antd unitiversihy institutions;
* Hospital ceniters;
* Materitiy centers;
*   Projects wh1ichi htave ani environmental impact suchi as in thte case where thie mitigation
activities are diffictult to administer by the beneficiaries or cost more thtanl 10% of the total
investment.
*  Activities already proposed throughi other sources offinancing or already registered in thie
regional or niational public development programs through whichi the finanices were acquired;
*   Income generatinig activities (shea butter press, boutiques, small businiess, etc.);
*   Purchiasinig of iechanical mlaterials (trucks, tractors, etc.);
* Production or purclhasinig of tobacco and drugs;
* Renovation of public bars or pubs.
Source: Burkina Faso Ministry ofAgriculture. March 2002. PNGT2 Manuel d'Execution. Page 19-20.
The CVGT/CIVGT is responsible for executing sub-projects, and may recruit
contractors and workers for this purpose, as well as independent outside
technical experts for project supervision. The Project provides contract
management support at the national level through service providers contracted
for this purpose and through the technical services offered by the Provincial
Technical Coordination Committees, or CCTPs and Provincial Project
Coordination Units.
Financing for the Project will be determined using an estimate of US$3-5 per
person per year for the CBRDP, and an additional US$24 per person for SILEM.
This is in addition to contributions from the villages themselves, which will be
about 20% of the total project cost (in kind and/or cash) for basic infrastructure
sub-projects, and up to 50% or higher for productive investments. The average
investment is expected to be less than US$ 10,000 (but must be less than US
$30,000). This amount may vary based on the capacity of the CVGT/CIVGT to
effectively use available resources. Villages will be encouraged by their governing
CCTP to collaborate on the basis of common goals in order to make more effective
use of pooled resources, where applicable. A special window (>US$30,000 - <
US$ 150,000) can be made available to provide the provinces with resources to
undertake lager structural works under CBRDP and large-scale
NRM/ Environment studies under SILEM.
The CBRDP is designed to be flexible in order that villages learn through hands-
on experience about municipal management, and experiment with what works in
their own communities. At the same time, oversight is provided at the provincial
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGENIENT                         GOVERNMENT OF BURKINA FASO
6



level, which interacts directly with the CVGT/CIVGTs, and at the national level
through their coordinating role.
Table 1.2     CBRDP Stepsfrom Inception to Implemnentation
Step     Description
Step 1: A  CVGT/CIVGT prioritizes development needs and identifies an AIP that includes
community contributions, projected user fees (where applicable) and expected Project
funding over a five-year period.
Step 1: B  Project preparation by the CVGT/CIVGT includes an environmental and social
screening to determine whether the proposed project will result in potential impacts
and require a further impact assessment, and submits these to the PRCU for review.
Step 2   CCTP provides a simple review of the project preparation/screening materials to check
for procedural regularity and conformity with sectoral policies. PRCU may make
recommendations or require further analysis, turning the process back to the CVGT. If
the PRCU approves the project, proceed to Step 3.
Step 3   Upon approval by the PRCU, the CVGT/CIVGT makes a deposit of its beneficiary
contribution (1-2% of micro-project value) to their local investment fund, and a contract
for the AIP is signed between the Project and the CVGT/CIVGT.
Step 4    Upon signature of the contract, Project funds are transferred into a local financial
institution account that is opened in the name of the CVGT/CIVGT for
implementation.
1.3            SCOPE OF LAND ACQUISITION AND RESETTLEMENT UNDER CBRDP/SILEM
Although the Government officially owns all of the land in Burkina Faso,
traditional rights are acknowledged. In practice, for community-driven demand
projects, land is acquired on an ad-hoc basis for each project within each
community or group of communities. Participation and institutional consultation
are increasingly integrated into community development in Burkina Faso,
particularly in villages, which have benefited from the consultative approaches
used at the village level by programs such as the PRSP process.(3)
CBRDP/SILEM-supported infrastructure micro-projects - primarily
improvements to existing villages and provincial roads, irrigation and water
control, wells and schools - are small in scale and are generally expected to cause
little or no significant adverse impacts. Nonetheless, past community driven
development (CDD) experience shows that such activities sometimes result in
loss of land or loss of access to productive and other resources, particularly in the
case of new physical works or changes in the situation of existing infrastructure.
(3)Burkina Faso Ministry of Economy and Development, and the Ministry of Budget and Finance. 2001. Burkina Faso Poverty
Reduction Strategy Paper Progress Report. Intemet: http://poverty.worldbank.org/files/Burkina Faso_PRSP.ProgRep.pdf
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                          GOVERNMENT OF BURKINA FASO
7



1.4          DEVELOPMENT OFA RESETTLEMENT POLICY FRAMEWORK
The following is a Policy Framewvorkfor Compensation, Resettlement and Rehabilitation
of Project Affected Persons (hereafter RPF) developed to address the potential land
acquisition, displacement and involuntary resettlement of individuals and
communities which may be induced by possible community demand for
construction and/or rehabilitation of micro-projects such as roads, bridges,
buildings, structures, water supply and sanitation facilities, and other civil work
through the CBRDP/SILEM Project.
The Resettlement Policy Framewvork was prepared by the consultants, Environmenital
Resources Management Ltd (ERM) with funding through a GEF grant, working
closely with the Task Team Leader and Task Team in Washington DC and with
the National Project Coordination team in Ouagadougou.
The objective of this RPF is to identify and set forth principles and procedures to
be followed in order to compensate people who may be negatively affected by the
Project so as to ensure that they will be assisted to improve, or at least restore
their living standards, income and/or production capacity levels to pre-Project
levels. This framework is being prepared in parallel with two other documents:
*  an Environmental and Social Management Frame7work (ESMF), which provides
the appropriate tools and mechanisms to screen micro-projects for potential
social and environmental impacts and recommends programs for training and
capacity building; and
*  a Process Frame7vork which is developed to address the potential negative
social impacts the CBRDP/SILEM Project may have on access to resources as
a result of micro-projects operating in classified areas.
Micro-project screening measures proposed under the RPF will ensure that no
major land acquisition or resettlement related impacts occur.
As indicated in the OP 4.12 (par 29), "for each subproject included in a project that
may involve resettlement, the Bank requires that a satisfactory resettlement plan or an
abbreviated resettlement plan that is consistent With the provisions of the policy
framewvork be submitted to the Bankfor approval before the subproject is acceptedfor Bank
financing. "
Thus, for any micro-projects requiring acquisition of land or other assets,
mitigation measures under an Abbreviated RAP shall be provided consistent with
this framework.
1.5          KEY DEFINITIONS
The terms used in this document are defined as follows:
ENVIRON,MENTAL RESOURCFS MANAGEMENT                  GOVERNMENTOFBURKINA FASO
8



Compensation means payment in cash or in kind of the replacement value of the
acquired property, or the replacement value of lost resources as a result of a
micro-project.
Community Affected Person (CAP) a distinction is made between
persons/families who are impacted as a result of a micro-project, and
communities who are impacted as a result of a larger land-strategy, as is
proposed through SILEM.
Dislocation Allowance is a form of compensation provided to eligible persons
who are displaced from their dwelling, whether they are landowners or tenants,
and who require a transition allowance, paid by the project. Dislocation
allowances may be graduated to reflect differences in income levels, and are
generally determined according to a schedule set at the national level by the
implementing agency.
Displacement refers to the removal of people from their land, homes, farms, etc.
as a result of a project's activities. Displacement occurs during the involuntary
taking of lands which results in:
(i)   relocation or loss of shelter;
(ii)  loss of assets or access to assets; or
(iii)  loss of income sources or means of livelihood, whether or not the
affected persons must move to another location.
Displacement can also result from involuntary restriction or access to legally
designated parks and protected areas resulting in adverse impacts on the
livelihoods of PAPs.
Land Acquisition is the process whereby a person is compelled by a public
agency to alienate all or part of the land s/he owns or possesses, to the ownership
and possession of that agency, for public purpose in return for a consideration.
Micro-project means any micro-project to be financed under the CBRDP/SILEM.
Policy Framework refers to the present document which is the overall Policy
Frarme7vorkfor Compensation, Resettlemenit and Rehabilitation of Project Affected
Persons for the CBRDP/SILEM. The Policy Framework describes the process and
methods for carrying out resettlement under the Project, including compensation,
relocation, and rehabilitation of persons affected by the Project.
Project Affected Person (PAP) includes any person or persons who, on account of
the execution of the Project, or any of its components or micro-projects or parts
thereof, would have their:
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                 GOVERNMENT OF BURKINA FAso
9



(i)   right, title, or interest in any house, land (including residential,
agricultural, forest and grazing land) or any other fixed or
moveable asset acquired or possessed, in full or in part,
permanently or temporarily; or
(ii)  business, occupation, work, place of residence or habitat adversely
affected; or
(iii)  standard of living adversely affected.
Project Affected Fanily (PAF) consists of all members of an extended family
operating as a single economic unit, regardless of the number of households, who
are adversely affected by a project or any of its components. For resettlement
purposes, PAPs shall be dealt with as members of Project Affected Families
(PAFs).
Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) means the resettlement action plans prepared
for specific micro-projects.
Rehabilitation means the compensatory measures provided under the RPF other
than payment of the replacement value of acquired property.
Relocation means the physical relocation of PAFs from their pre-project place of
residence.
Replacement cost is the method of valuation of assets that helps determine the
amount sufficient to replace lost assets and cover transaction costs. In applying
this method of valuation, depreciation of structures and assets should not be
taken into account. For losses that cannot easily be valued or compensated for in
monetary terms (e.g., access to public services, customers, and suppliers; or to
fishing, grazing, or forest areas), attempts are made to establish access to
equivalent and culturally acceptable resources and earning opportunities. Where
domestic law does not meet the standard of compensation at full replacement
cost, compensation under domestic law is supplemented by additional measures
necessary to meet the replacement cost standard.
Replacement Value means the value determined to be fair compensation for
productive land based on its productive potential, the replacement cost of houses
and structures (current fair market price of building materials and labor without
depreciation), and the market value of residential land, crops, trees, or a
percentage thereof, and other commodities.
Resettlement means all the measures taken to mitigate any and all adverse
impacts of the Project on PAP's/PAF's property and/or livelihoods, including
compensation, relocation (where relevant), and rehabilitation.
Resettlement Action Plans (RAP) means the detailed resettlement action plans
prepared for specific micro-projects.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                 GOVERNMENT OF BURKINA FASO
10



2           POLICY PRINCIPLES AND OBJECTIVES GOVERNING RESETTLEMENT
PLANNING
2.1         PRINCIPLES OFRESETTLEMENTPLANNING
Issues related to land tenure and involuntary resettlement are highly sensitive in
community development and if not addressed adequately and early in a program
or project design can easily become a source of conflict for individuals and
communities, and give rise to severe economic, social and environmental risks.
This is particularly true in developing countries such as Burkina Faso.
Poor planning can result in negative impacts in the following areas:
*  Loss of productive systems and/or assets/or income sources, leading to
increased poverty and loss of economic base;
*  Reduced availability of resources due to in-migration leads to increased
competition, and potential for environmental degradation; and
*  Cultural identity, traditional authority and community empowerment
thwarted by "progress", leading to disaffection and social breakdown.
By developing a resettlement framework, appropriate mechanisms can be put in
place to avoid these impacts during the process of development, and mitigate
potential impacts should they occur.
2.1.1       Objectives of the Resettlement Policy Framework
This RPF further incorporates the principles outlined in the World Bank's
Operational Policy (OP) 4.12 for Involuntary Resettlement, and the laws of
Burkina Faso, specifically but not limited to Lawu No. 014/96/ADP (1996), agrarian
and land reorganization in Burkina Faso.
The principles and resettlement measures under the policy shall apply to all
micro-projects funded under the Project, whether or not the scale and complexity
of the resettlement issues requires preparation of a Resettlement Action Plan
(RAP).
A Resettlenment Policy Franme7ork, as defined under the, OP 4.12, is developed in lieu
of a RAP when it is highly unlikely that impacts can be identified prior to micro-
project appraisal. This is usually the case with social development funds and
community driven development programs, in which micro-projects have not been
identified at the early stages of project preparation.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT               GOVERNNIENT OF BURKINA FASO
11



The goal of the resettlement policy is to: "improve, or at least, restore, incomes
and standards of living for project affected persons."(4)
The resettlement policy shall apply to all displaced persons, whether by physical
displacement or loss of livelihood, regardless of the total number affected, the
severity of the impact and whether or not they have legal title to the land. As
guided by the World Bank's Operational Policy 4.20 for Indigenous People, the
resettlement policy should pay particular attention to the needs of vulnerable
groups among those displaced, especially those below the poverty line, the
landless, the elderly, women and children, indigenous groups and ethnic
minorities or other displaced persons who may not be adequately protected
through Burkina Faso's land compensation legislation.
As village-level investments are generally relatively small in scale, the number of
persons to be adversely affected by land acquisition is likely to be minimal.
Accordingly, planning and reporting requirements are kept as simple and
straightforward as possible.
2.1.2        General Principles
The general principles for the framework can be summarized as follows:
a) Resettlement and land acquisition shall be minimized as much as possible.
Where land acquisition is unavoidable, the project shall be designed to
minimize adverse impacts on the poorest segments of the population (e.g.
those holding less than 1 ha).
b) PAP/PAFs shall be compensated, relocated and rehabilitated, if required, so
as to improve their standard of living, income earning capacity and
production capacity, or at least to restore them to pre-Project levels.
c) All PAP/PAFs residing in or cultivating land, or having rights over resources
within the affected area as of the date of the census survey are entitled to
compensation for their losses and/or income rehabilitation. Lack of legal
rights or title to the asset(s) taken for the Project shall not bar the PAP/PAFs
from receiving compensation, rehabilitation and relocation measures to
achieve the objectives set forth under (b) listed above.
d) Means of resettlement, or compensatory mechanisms for successful
resettlement, refers to everything involved in the process and planning for
resettlement. This may include, but is not excluded to: compensation at full
replacement cost for houses and other structures; agricultural land of equal
productive capacity; replacement of residential land of at least of equal size
and not less than 200 sq. m.; dislocation allowance and transition subsidies;
(4) World Bank. 2002. Resettlement and Rehabilitation Guidebook. Washington DC.
ENVIRONMiENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                  GOVERNMENT OF BURKINA FASO
12



full compensation for crops, trees and other similar agricultural products at
market value; other assets; and appropriate rehabilitation measures to
compensate for loss of livelihood.
e) PAP/PAFs forced to relocate due to their places of residence being acquired
shall be provided full assistance for transportation and re-establishment of
their home and shall be provided a dislocation allowance, in addition to
provision of residential land and the replacement cost of their home, set at
market value, not including depreciation.
f) Replacement residential and agricultural land shall be as close in nature as
possible to the land that was lost, and acceptable to the PAP/PAF.
g) Where the total amount of agricultural land acquired from a PAP does not
exceed the threshold of 20% for those with holdings more than 1 ha, or 10% of
land for those with holdings less than 1 ha, cash compensation may be paid in
lieu of land-for-land compensation provided that:
i.  The PAP/PAF receives full replacement value for the land and all assets
on it, without any deductions for depreciation;
ii.  The PAP/PAF stands to benefit directly from the Project through an
increase in income which shall off-set the loss of land, such that net
production after Project completion is equal to, or greater than, pre-
Project production; and
iii.  Prior agreement has been reached on acquisition of land through a
negotiated settlement at a rate acceptable to the PAP or all members of
the PAF, at replacement value.
h) Above the thresholds set forth in (g) above, land-for-land is the preferred
option. Land-for-land may be substituted by cash above the threshold
provided that:
i.  Suitable land is not available in the proximity of the Project area;
ii.  PAPs/PAFs willingly accept cash compensation for land, and are paid as
set forth in (g) above; and
iii. Cash compensation is accompanied by appropriate rehabilitation
measures that together with Project benefits results in restoration of
PAP/PAF incomes to at least pre-Project levels.
i) The resettlement transition period shall be minimized. In general, land-for-
land compensation shall be provided to the PAP/ PAF, and rehabilitation
measures shall be completed prior to the expected start-up date of works in
the respective micro projects. In rare cases, cash compensation may be
provided in exchange for land. In these rare cases, the PAF shall be consulted,
and must be in agreement with regards to how to use the cash compensation,
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                GOVERNMENT OF BURKINA FASO
13



in order to demonstrate that they will not soon be homeless or without
revenue in the future.
j) A micro-project shall have the willing endorsement of PAPs/PAFs. To this
end, PAPs/PAFs shall be informed about the potential impacts of a
designated project and shall be engaged in discussions regarding their
preferences and implementation arrangements. Further, PAPs/PAFs shall be
informed of methods and procedures for pursuing grievances at any time,
whether or not the PAPs/PAFs has endorsed the Project.
k) Should resettlement occur as a result of the Project, the pre-Project level of
community services and access to resources shall be maintained or improved.
1) Any acquisition of, or restriction on access to resources owned or managed by
PAPs/PAFs as common property shall be mitigated by arrangements
ensuring access of those PAPs/PAFs to equivalent resources on a continuing
basis.
m) Financial and physical resources for resettlement and rehabilitation shall be
made available when and as required.
n) Resettlement programs shall include adequate institutional arrangements to
ensure effective and timely design, planning and implementation of
resettlement and rehabilitation measures.
o) Adequate arrangements for effective and timely internal and external
monitoring shall be made on implementation of all resettlement measures.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                GOVERNMENT OF BURKINA FASO
14



3             DESCRIPTION OF THE PROCESS FOR PREPARING AND APPRO ViNG
RESETTLEMENT PLANS
3.1           INTRODUCTION
Resettlement planning shaLI be mainstreamed into the CBRDP/SILEM design so
as to ensure that all development activities are appropriately screened for
potential impacts. The steps for resettlement planning are illustrated in Figure 3.1.
As indicated in the OP 4.12, for all subprojects included in a project, the Bank
requires that a satisfactory RAP or abbreviated RAP that is consistent with the
RPF be submitted to the Bank for approval prior to Bank financing. However, the
OP 4.12 (para. 30) also suggests that
"For certain projects, subproject abbreviated RAPs may be approved by the project
implementing agency or a responsible government agency orfinancial intermediary
without prior Bank reviezw, if that agency has demonstrated adequate institutional
capacity to review resettlement plans and ensure their consistency with this policyj In all
cases, implementation of the resettlement plans is subect to ex post review by the Bank."
Fig1ure 3.1   Resettlement Planning Process for Micro-Projects
i No impact (no involuntary
resettlernent will ocScreenin
| Minimal lmpact
r---------------___ - - -i---- 
Process Framewvork Applicable with    Preparation of an RAP
RAP, A-RAP, and EIA            or Abbreviated RAP and/or EIA
I plementormg  of MAP
I 



3.2           IDENTIFICATION AND SCREENING OF MICRO-PROJECTS
Micro-project screening is used to identify the types and nature of potential
impacts related to the activities proposed under the Project and to provide
adequate measures to address the impacts. Screening for resettlement issues shall
be part of the environmental and social screening, as is detailed in Chapter 6 of the
Environmental and Social Management Franmework (ESMF). Measures to address
resettlement shall ensure that PAPs are:
a) Informed about their options and rights pertaining to resettlement;
b) Included in the consultation process and given the opportunity to participate
in the selection of technically and economically feasible alternatives; and
c) Provided prompt and effective compensation at full replacement cost for
losses of assets and access attributable to the micro-project(s).
3.2.1          Screeningfor Involuntary Resettlement
Micro-project screening will be incorporated into the micro-project application
form that CVGT/CIVGTs must submit as part of their local development plan
(PGT) to the PRCU and CCTP. The goal is to identify and consider resettlement
issues as early as possible. The general guidelines to determine whether a
resettlement plan is required are as follows:
*   For micro-projects that are determined to result in minor impacts, defined
under the OP 4.12, when "the affected people are not physically displaced and
less than 10% of their productive assets are lost", then an abbreviated RAP is
required.
* For projects that may result in more significant impacts, i.e., physical
displacement of people, and more than 10% of their productive assets are
lost, then a RAP will be prepared.(5)
* For projects not anticipated to result in displacement, and where loss of
assets are anticipated to be negligible, then this information shall also be
indicated in the micro-project application form along with a request to
waive the requirement for an Abbreviated RAP. The PRCU, with CCTP
support if necessary, shall determine in these cases whether an
Abbreviated RAP is required for project approval.
(5) Under the OP 4.12, an abbreviated RAP is required for projects where impacts on the entire displaced population are minor,
or fewer than 200 people are displaced. However, under the PNDP activities, it is highly unlikely that resettlement will occur;
hence, in most cases, it is anticipated that an abbreviated RAP rather than a RAP will be required under the program.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                        GOVERNMENTOF BURKINA FASO
16



3.2.2          Baseline Study and Socio-economic Data
An important aspect of preparing a RAP is to collect baseline data within the
project targeted areas to assess potentially affected populations/communities.
This is to be accomplished as part of the screening process. The micro-project
application form shall require an identification of PAPs/PAFs on the individual
and household levels, with special attention to vulnerable groups (women,
children, the elderly, female-headed households, ethnic minorities, etc.).
Baseline data for micro-project RAPs will include: number of persons; number,
type, and area of the houses to be affected; number, category and area of
residential plots and agricultural land to be affected; and productive assets to be
affected as a percentage of total productive assets.
3.2.3          Preparation of a Resettlement Action Plan
A RAP or Abbreviated RAP (as required) shall be prepared for micro-projects that
have been determined to result in negative impacts. When a RAP or an
Abbreviated RAP is required, communities shall submit completed studies along
with their RAPs micro-project application to the PRCUs for approval.
Detailed guidelines for preparing a RAP and an abbreviated RAP are available
one the World Bank's website and in the World Bank's Resettlement and
Rehabilitation Guidebook. As has been discussed, it is anticipated that the
impacts of the CBRDP will be minimal, and an abbreviated RAP is more likely to
be used. The basic elements of an abbreviated RAP are provided in Box 3.1. (6)
Box 3.1        Basic Elements of an abbreviated RAP
Description of the micro-project
- Potential impacts of the micro-project
Relevantfindings of the socio-economic survey
- Legal and institutionalframtieworkfor resettlement
- Eligibilih} criteria for compensation
System of Valuation and compensation of losses
-   Resettlement measures (timelines, systemss)
e Site selectiont, site preparation and relocatiot
-   Environmenttal protection and management
Commnuniht participation in decision making
e   Integration with host populations
e Grievance procedures
-   Institutionzal arrangenmentsfor implemenitationt
Implementation schedule, including a detailed budget and source offunding
-   Arrangements for monitoring and evaluation
(6) Detailed guidelines to preparation of a Socio-economic Baseline Survey and Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) are available on
the World Bank website, http://essd.worldbank.org/sdv/guidebook/generic/gindex.htm and in the World Bank's
Resettlement and Rehabilitation Guidebook, 2002.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                         GOVERNMENT OF BURKINA FASO
17



3.3          REVIEW OF RESETTLEMENTACTION PLANS
As has been discussed, the PRCU is responsible for reviewing and approving the
development plans approved by CVGTs/CIVGTs. The CCTP shall provide a
review of mnicro-project eligibility for funding based on field appraisals, which
includes results of the environmental and social screening used. In turn, the
CCTPs shall be monitored through random and periodic assessment of reviews
by the National PCU.
It is anticipated that not all CVGTs/CIVGTs will have the institutional capacity to
prepare the required studies and plans; nor is it necessarily in the best interests of
the project for communities to prepare their own studies, given potential conflicts
of interest. Thus, where capacity exists, the Project will enter into contracts with
private providers (firms), NGOs or Government technical services to provide the
needed services.
EIAs and RAPs developed for micro-projects will also be reviewed to ensure
compliance with the Bank's safeguard policies. The safeguard criteria for micro-
project approval is described in Box 3.2.
Box 3.2       Safeguard Criteria for Micro-Project Approval
o  The micro-project has undergone an environmental and social screening in
compliance with the relevant World Bank safeguard policies (OP 4.01, OP
4.12), and in line with the processes identified in the ESMF.
o  An Environmental Impact Assessment and socio-economic baseline study
have been carried out for projects with potential environmental and social
impacts.
u  An Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) or abbreviated RAP has been prepared
for micro-projects with potential land acquisition or displacement of people.
o  The need for land acquisition and legal title to land used for micro-projects
has been determined, along with identification of necessary measures to
address these, including an implementation strategy.
3  The proposed micro-project should ensure that land acquired/required is not
(a) in disputed areas, (b) cultural property, (c) negatively affecting indigenous
peoples, and (d) is not in natural habitats or protected areas.
Although each Provincial Coordination Unit (PRCU) will review micro-
applications independently and at the provincial level, each PRCU must also take
into consideration the cumulative impacts of the micro-projects as a whole. The
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                    GOVERNMENT OF BURKINA FASO
18



Project's support for cooperation between and amongst communities to pursue
common development goals may help to mitigate cumulative impacts. Further,
the development of AlPs, which are based on a five-year local management plan
(PGT) should serve to highlight potential problems well in advance. (7) Still, the
PRCU must be diligent in this regard, and work with the Project at the national
level to address these potential impacts.
After clearance from the World Bank and later the PRCU, the compensation,
resettlement and rehabilitation activities of the RAP will be satisfactorily
completed and verified by the communities before funds can be disbursed for the
micro-project.
3.4          SAFEGUARD COMPLIANCE
For quality assurance, it is recommended that RAPs prepared for micro-project
during the first year be furnished to the World Bank, as well as the PCU, for
review to ensure that the RAPs produced initially are in line with the OP 4.12.
Gaps in quality shall be addressed through training at the provincial (CCTP) level
for relevant service providers and reviewers, funded by the project as part of the
technical support budget. Subsequent RAPs prepared throughout the rest of the
project can then be reviewed by the PRCUs, with an annual independent review
process led by the PCU. At this point, World Bank clearance will not be necessary.
3.4.1        Capacity Building
Capacity building shall be integrated into micro-project preparation at the
community level through technical assistance (e.g., training) that will allow
communities to conduct an initial screening of their own micro-project proposals
for environmental and social issues. This training will be incorporated into the
CVGT/CIVGT training program budget, which is a sub-component of the
CBRDP/SILEM Program. This sub-component is centred on the organizational,
management, and technical skills required for CVGT/CTVGTs and their
subcommittees to successfully plan, implement, and maintain village level
investments. The PCU and PRCUs will also receive training in micro-project
review.
All training will include capacity to develop mitigation measures to address
environmental and social impacts and to monitor performance. Capacity building
will be targeted at decentralized levels (village, province, region, national), in line
with Burkina Faso's PNDRP, to ensure that resettlement planning is
mainstreamed throughout public administration, specifically as it relates to the
Project, providing a linkage with the development of rural municipalities as a key
project goal. This is described in detail in Chapter 6 of the Environmental and Social
Management Framewvork.
(7) The PRCU contracts the services of local private firms to assist villages in preparing their AIP and PGT.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                GOVERNMENT OF BURKINA FASO
19



4             LIKELY CATEGORIES OF PROJECT AFFECTED PERSONS
4.1          IDENTIFICATION OF PROJECTAFFECTED PERSONS
One of the critical issues in bringing the entire community together to select,
finance, and implement subprojects is how to ensure an equitable and
representative decision-making process. Vulnerable groups are a priority to the
Project, as they most often lack the coping mechanisms to deal with a sudden loss
of resources, or with displacement. Hence, vulnerable groups are to be
mainstreamed through their inclusion in village level committees (CAS) as part of
the CVGT/CIVGTs, especially in the selection, financing, and implementation of
micro-projects. It should be noted that different villages have different
characteristics, and vulnerable groups will vary from village to village and region
to region, although a common characteristic relates to poverty levels and the
strength of coping mechanisms.
As part of the micro-screening process, Project Affected Persons must be
identified. At this stage, identification of vulnerable individuals/groups is also
required, along with the mechanism/indicators by which they are identified (e.g.,
land tenure, socio-economic status, gender, etc.). A sample format of this is
provided in Chiapter 6 of the ESMF.
Project Affected Persons (PAPs) are defined as "persons affected by land
acquisition, relocation, or loss of incomes associated with (a) acquisition of land
or other assets, and (b) restriction of access to legally designated parks and
protected areas."(8)
At this stage of preparation, it is not possible to quantify the estimated likely
number of PAPs or PAFs as the micro-projects and other activities anticipated
through CBRDP/SILEM have not yet been identified.(9)
However, as Burkina Faso's rural areas are largely agricultural/pastoral in
nature, the likely affected persons can be categorized into three groups, namely:
i.  Affected Individual - an individual who suffers loss of assets or investments,
such as land, property, and/or access to natural and/or economic resources
as a result of the micro-projects and activities, and to whom compensation is
due. For example, an affected individual is a person who farms a plot of land
that shall be affected by the Project, or who has built a structure that is now
required by micro-project, or whose livelihood depends on public access to
lands which are to be affected by the project.
(8) World Bank. 2002. Resettlement and Rehabilitation Guidebook. Washington DC.
(9) The types of micro-projects to be financed under the CBRDP have been provided under an indicative list in the PAD.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                    GOVERNMENT OF BURKINA FASO
20



ii.  Affected Household - a household is affected if one or more of its members is
affected by Project activities, either by loss of property, land, loss of access or
otherwise is affected in any way by Project activities. This provides for:
a) Members of households including men, women, children, dependant
relatives and friends, as well as tenants;
b) Vulnerable individuals who may be too old or ill to contribute to
subsistence or other agricultural production;
c)  Opposite-sex relatives who cannot reside together because of cultural
rules, but who depend on one another for their daily existence; and
d) Other vulnerable people who cannot participate in production,
consumption, or co-residence for physical or cultural reasons.
iii.  Vulnerable Households and/or Individuals - vulnerable households and/or
individuals may have different land and resource needs from the majority of
households, or have needs unrelated to the amount of land available to them.
Further, vulnerability is often related to gender and other social structures,
and land tenure issues within a community. This generally includes, but is not
limited to:
a) Women: Women tend to be marginalized in the development process
due to traditional community structures with highly stratified gender
roles - for example, women in Burkina Faso do not have the right to
own land. In particular, unmarried women who are dependent on
sons, brothers, or others in the community for support and for
economic livelihood tend to be highly vulnerable, as are small-scale
female farmers who may rely on males in the community to perform
gender-specific tasks in exchange for a percentage of the crop or other
payment.
b) Herders/Nomads: Due to traditional land-tenure patterns, herders and
nomads are vulnerable because their access to land for grazing is
contingent upon the agriculturalists' agreeing to grant them access.
Traditionally, herders were welcomed due to the provision of fertilizer
from the livestock. However, as fertilizer plants become more common
and accessible to rural farmers, and given population growth and
limited natural resources, herders are particularly vulnerable.
c) Youth: Youth in rural areas may become marginalized because they
lack social status within the community until they "come of age", and
are not generally included in decision-making processes which are
often the responsibility of a Council of Elders, or the Village and/or
Land Chief.
d) Migrantts: Migrants are those who have left their homes for
environmental, economic, social, or political reasons. For example,
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                 GOVERNMENT OF BURKINA FASO
21



several thousand Burkinabe living in Cote d'Ivoire may return to their
villages as a result of the political violence there; other non-Burkinabe
migrants may also enter Burkina Faso as a result of conflict in West
Africa. They are particularly vulnerable, as they may not have
connections to the land; and they may face alienation due to existing
resource pressures.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                        GOVERNMENTOF BURKINA FASO
22



5            ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA FOR DEFINING VARIOUS CATEGORIES OF PAPS
5.1          CR.nERA FOR PAP ELIGIBILIY
PAPs shall be entitled to compensation based on the status on their occupation of
the affected areas. Under the World Bank's OP 4.12 and the Laws of Burkina Faso
(see Section 6), PAPs are defined as:
a) Those who have formal legal rights to land (including customary and
traditional rights).
b) Those who do not have formal legal rights to land at the time of the census
but have a claim to such land or assets provided that such claims are
recognized through a process identified in the resettlement plan.
c) Those who have no recognizable legal right or claim to the land they are
occupying.
OP 4.12 specifies that those individuals covered under (a) and (b) above are to be
provided compensation for the land they lose, and other assistance in accordance
with the policy. Individuals covered under (c) above are to be provided with
resettlement assistance in lieu of compensation for the land they occupy, and
other assistance, as necessary, to achieve the objectives set out in this policy, if
they occupy the project area prior to a cut-off date established by the Government
of Burkina Faso, and which is acceptable to the World Bank. All persons included
in (a), (b), or (c) above are to be provided with compensation for loss of assets
other than land.
Individuals or families who encroach upon the Project area after the cut-off date
are not entitled to compensation or any other form of resettlement assistance as
set forth by this framework.
Should actual houses fall within the area to be acquired under a proposed micro-
project, owners or occupants, or PAFs, of those houses shall be considered eligible
for resettlement. Should any of the resources being adversely affected be owned
or managed as common property within a village or among groups of villages, all
those with an interest in those resources shall be entitled to resettlement and/or
compensation.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                GOVERNMENT OF BURKINA FAso
23



6           LEGAL AND REGULATORY FRAMEWORK FOR RESETTLEMENT
6.1         INTRODUCTION
Since Burkina Faso's independence in 1960, the Government and various projects
have attempted to devise a village institution at the local level that includes
members of the different socio-cultural groups within a village. In 1996, the
Agrarian Reform Law (RAF) gave a legal existence to village level committees
(Conmmissions Villageoises de Gestion des Terroirs, or CVGT) that are designed to
play a role in land evaluation, allocation and confiscation. In February 2000, the
Government passed a decree broadening the CVGT's range of development
responsibilities, enabling them to manage public funds. In this sense, the CVGTs
are now facilitating the transition towards developing rural municipalities; under
certain circumstances, CVGTs may also federate into inter-village committees
(CIVGT). Importantly, however, CVGTs and CIVGTs are not substitutes for rural
municipalities once these are effectively operational.
The importance of land tenure issues is best highlighted by the promulgation of
the law on agrarian and land tenure organisation (RAF), which affirmed the
State's ownership of all land in the country, except for a very small area covered
by formal titles. The RAF was intended to enable all Burkinabe citizens to gain
access to agricultural land regardless of their origin, while also breaking the
power of traditional chiefs, by establishing an elected village comnmittee to
administer land.
The effect of this law is that all untitled land is owned as a right by the State. In
practice, the diversity of situations and the verbal nature of most agreements and
other traditional transactions limit the RAF's effectiveness, creating a sense of
insecurity with regards to land tenure issues. In the rural setting, the law is quite
difficult to implement, reducing its legitimacy. In practice, traditional rules are
abided by.
This has significant implications for the legal and regulatory framework. This
section provides a brief overview of how the Burkina Faso's laws and regulations,
particularly when understood in conjunction with the World Bank's OP 4.12,
address resettlement issues.
6.2         LAND TENURE AND OWNERSHIP
There are a number of laws and decrees related to land tenure, property rights,
and expropriation in Burkina Faso. These are highlighted in Table 6.1. This
resettlement framework considers these laws and those of the World Bank
Operational Policy OP 4.12.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                GOVERNMENT OF BURKINA FASO
24



Table 6.1     Laws and Decrees relating to Land Tenure and Property Rights
Legislation                              Description
Law No. 014/96/ADP, 23 May 1996          The law determines the fundamental principles
for agrarian and land reorganisation in Burkina
Faso, development of the management of rural
and urban land, such as systems of organisation
of water, forests, animals, fish, mineral ores from
quarries and mines, as well as the regulation of
land rights.
Decree 97-054/PRES/PM/A4EF               Conditions for and application of Law No.
014/96/ADP.
LaW No. 041/98/AN, 06 August 1998        Regarding organisation of territorial
administration in Burkina Faso
Law No. 043/98/AN, 09 August 1998        Regarding programming the implementation of
decentralisation
6.2.1         Public Property
Under Burkina Faso's Lawv No. 014/96/ADP (23 May 1996), national land consists of
all land and real estate or equivalent, that is situated within the national territory
limits, and those which are acquired by the State.
However, customary land rights exist among ethnic groups throughout the areas
where the Project will be implemented. Land use patterns in Burkina Faso are
largely based on customary law that exists in parallel to the official law.
The RAF recognizes six kinds of titles for land occupation:
*   arreter d'affection - for public offices' occupation and activities;
*   arreter de mise a la disposition - for non-economic activities (church, culture,
etc.)
*   permis d'occuper - for temporary activities
*  permis d'exploiter - for industrial or commercial use
*   bail (lease) - for permanent activities
Further a "village" is defined as the smallest administrative unit for governance,
based on the following two criteria:
1. It must comprise more than 100 inhabitants or 20 households;
2. It must be at least 5 kilometers from an existing administrative village
In practice, however, these criteria, and the law, are not very well integrated into
customary tenure, which remains dominant, especially in rural areas.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                        GOVERNMENT OF BURKINA FASO
25



6.3         LAND TENURE UNDER CUSTOMARY RIGHTS
Customary tenure for land rights is the accepted and dominant form of tenure in
rural Burkina Faso. Although land and resources, particularly within the
conservation sites, have been nationalised, they are subjected to the traditional
tenure regime in terms of day-to-day management.
6.3.1        Traditional tenure regime
While village organisation varies throughout the country, it is often structured on
the basis of lineage, gender and age, depending on ethnicity and history.
Generally, the Village Chief is head of the main lineage, and rules with the help of
an Elders council. There is also generally a Land Chief (tingsoba), may or may not
be the Village Chief, and may even live in another village.
This is a common feature in Burkina Faso, particularly where the boundaries of
the protected areas are not clearly demarcated. Community members farm,
gather, trap and hunt within what they perceive as their village territories; part of
these territories is often found inside the protected areas.
In contrast, the codified tenure system defines access and use rights in terms of
the principles of private ownership that necessitates registration but takes no
account of the principles underlying customary land and resource access tenure.
Under this system, all land and resources belong to the State, except where a
parcel of land has been registered.
6.3.2        Traditional Categories of Land
Local communities usually categorize land in the following ways according to its
use:
* Inhabited, cultivated, and fallow land,
* Exploited bush,
* Bush that is not frequently exploited, and
*  Comnunity forests and protected areas.
These uses are categorized by rights ranging from the individual to the
community level.
Inhtabited, Cultivated and Fallo7v Land
Inhabited and cultivated land is generally exploited by individuals. Clearing bush
requires heavy labor and usually occurs from September to the start of the April -
June season. Customary rights recognize the labor that an individual invests in
clearing and maintaining land. Individual farmers have control over the land they
clear as long as they keep it in cultivation. Among all ethnic groups, immediate
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                GOVERNMENT OF BURKINA FASO
26



blood kin also have residual rights to any land a recently deceased person was
cultivating. If there are no close classified relatives, or once the individual ceases
to use this land, it begins to revert back to the community. For this reason,
individuals may not relinquish land they are using to an outsider without the
general agreement of the village.
Exploited Bush
Exploited bush is considered community land. Even if a village moves, it still
retains residual rights to its exploited land. Others can use it but generally check
first with the village. When a village falls apart or ceases to exist, its land reverts
to the district-wide pool.
Bush Not Frequently Exploited
Bush that is not regularly exploited may be used by anyone. However, bush may
contain trees that have been protected by individual farmers who once farmed
this land. These farmers would have first claim to the fruits of these trees, even
though the land has reverted to bush.
Community Forests and Protected Areas
Conservation sites are considered communal or open access land where
exploitation of the natural resources is free to all members of the village
community. Each village claims primary, though not exclusive, rights to its
perceived village territories usually identified using natural features (trees, rivers
or streams). These boundaries, it is believed, are determined by village founders
and elders and knowledge of them is passed from generation to generation.
Community members normally live, farm, gather and hunt within their perceived
territories. People from other communities are free to hunt in perceived territories
of other villages if they are passing through or pursuing an animal, but would ask
permission to make more than a casual hunting or gathering expedition. Within
each perceived village territory, an individual looking for land to cultivate, after
ensuring that no one else has a prior claim to the plot, approaches the village chief
and/or village council for permission to cultivate it.
Once an individual has obtained permission to clear the land for cultivation, a
claim is established. People moving into tribal areas not owned by them and
wanting land to farm may either rent or buy. Land over which there are no
individual claims is communal, implying that all community members have equal
rights to it and its resources.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                   GOVERNMENT OF BURKINA FASO
27



6.3.3       Land Occupation for Micro-projects
Acquisition of land to be used by the local communities for development of
micro-projects under the CDBRP/SILEM will be governed by the Laws of
Burkina Faso and by the World Bank's OP 4.12.
The CVGT has administrative control of the village lands and acts as a liaison
between the government and the inhabitants of the village. At present, local
communities are operating on their own land, and by customary law require the
approval of the chief of other villages if they require land that is not within their
domain. If a proposed micro-project requires more land than is available within a
community, arrangements must be agreed to by the chief of all other potentially
affected villages, and the implementing village will have to obtain legal title to the
land with a land certificate through the GoBF. In these instances, the
CVGT/CIVGT shall work with the PRCUs, with assistance from the PCU as
needed to mediate and facilitate the acquisition. The PCU shall also provide
guidance to the PRCUs and CVGT/CIVGT on addressing issues related to legal
title of land.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT               GOVERNMENT OF BURKINA FASO
28



7            RESETTLEMENT ENTITLEMENT POLICY
7.1          LEGAL BASIS FOR RESETTLEMENT ENTITLEMENT
In cases where laws for compensation and resettlement are inadequate, the
procedures for compensation as described in OP 4.12 are applicable. In Burkina
Faso, the entitlement policy for the CBRDP/SILEM shall be based on the
legislation discussed in Section 6 and on the World Bank's OP 4.12.
7.2          LAND OCCUPATION FOR SUB-PROJECTS
The lands to be acquired and used by the CBRDP/SILEM would be governed by
the Laws of Burkina Faso as well as the Operational Policy OP 4.12 (Involuntary
Resettlement). For the purposes of the Project, administrative and financial
concerns related to the acquired land shall be decentralized to the level of the
CVGT/CIVGT.
7.3          ENTITLEMENTS RELATING TO VARIOUS CATEGORIES OF IMPACTS
Project Affected Persons and Families (PAPs/PAFs) shall be entitled to
compensation either in cash payments, in-kind contributions, or in the form of
assistance, as described in Table 7.1.
Table 7.1     Forms of Compensation
Type                  Description
Cash Payments         Compensation will be calculated and paid in the national currency.
Rates will be adjusted for inflation.
In-Kind Compensation  Compensation may include items such as land, houses, other
structures, building materials, seedlings, agricultural inputs and
financial credits for equipment.
Assistance            Assistance may include a dislocation allowance, transportation, and
labor.
In the following types of compensation and rehabilitation measures, as detailed in
Table 7.1:
7.3.1        Methods of valuing affected assets
Valuing methods for affected land and assets depend on the type of asset. The
three land asset types identified under Burkina Faso law in this policy framework
are:
* State-owned land;
* Privately owned land; and
* Assets held under customary rights.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                     GOVERNMENT OF BURKINA FASO
29



State owned land would be allocated freely (perhaps except for processing and
registration fees); however the CVGT/CIVGT would be expected to pay to
acquire land in this category in cases where the state-owned land is being used by
individual and/or household farmers. Privately owned property, as well as state
owned land would have to be acquired at the market value. The guiding principle
is that whoever was using the land to be acquired by the Project would be
provided other land of equal size and quality.
However, according to Burkina Faso law, assets held under customary rights on
state-owned land would have to be valued according to the following method for
compensation:
*  Micro-projects would compensate for assets and investments, including
land labor, crops, buildings, and other improvements, according to the
provisions of the resettlement plan.
*  Compensation rates would be market rates as of the date and time that the
replacement is to be provided. As such, current prices for cash crops
would have to be determined.
*  Compensation would not be made after the entitlement cut off date in
compliance with this policy.
*  Home sites located in communal property will only be compensated for
the replacement value of the structure being acquired.
Because the World Bank policy on resettlement, (OP 4.12), makes no distinction
between legal and customary rights, not only assets and investments will be
compensated for, but also land. Thus, a customary landowner or land user on
state owned land shall be compensated for land, assets, investments, loss of access
etc. at market rates at the time of loss.
7.3.2       Compensation payments and related considerations
Individual and household compensation will be made in cash, in kind, and/or
through assistance. The type of compensation will be determined by the
PAP/PAF, although every effort will be made to instill the importance of
accepting in-kind compensation if the loss amounts to greater than 20% of the
total loss of subsistence assets.
Making compensation payments raises some issues regarding inflation, security,
and timing. One purpose of providing in-kind compensation is to reduce
inflationary pressures on the costs of goods and services. Local inflation may still
occur, thus market prices shall be monitored within the time period that
compensation is being made to allow for adjustments in compensation values.
The question of security, especially for people who will be receiving cash
compensation payment, needs to be addressed by the CVGT/CIVGT, with
oversight from the PRCUs. Local banks and micro-finance institutions should
work closely with the government at this level to encourage the use of their
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT               GOVERNMENT OF BURKINA FASO
30



facilities, which will positively impact the growth of the local economies. The
time and place for in-kind compensation payments shall be decided upon by each
recipient in consultation with the CVGT/CIVGT. Monetary payments should be
paid at a time in relation to the seasonal calendar.
7.4          COMPENSATION PROCESS
The compensation process for micro-projects shall involve several steps to be
carried out in accordance with the measures set out in the micro-project RAPs.
These steps include:
(a) Public Participation
Public participation with local communities shall be an ongoing process
throughout resettlement planning. PAPs shall be notified by the CVGT/CIVGTs
during the identification of micro-projects and consulted with as part of the
screening process. To ensure that any sensitive areas are accurately identified
during this procedure, all necessary village chiefs, religious leaders, other elders
and individuals who control fishing areas, wild trees and bee hives, for example
will accompany the survey team to the site. The subsequent socio-economic
survey will record all relevant information about the PAPs, and ensure that this is
accurately reflected in the RAP in order to allocate the appropriate compensation.
Periodic monitoring will ensure that PAPs have been consulted and that
compensation and relocation has been carried out satisfactorily.
(b) Notification
Landowners shall be notified by the CVGT/CIVGT that their property is required
for development of the micro-project. The user shall be informed through a
formal notification, both written and verbal, to be delivered in the presence of the
village chief and the PRCUs.
(c) Docunientation of Holdings and Assets
Village officials and the local community shall arrange meetings with PAPs/PAFs
to discuss the compensation process. For each individual or household affected,
the local community shall complete a compensation dossier containing necessary
personal information on the affected party and those individuals considered as
household members, total land holdings, inventory of assets affected, and
information for monitoring future arrangements. The dossier must be confirmed
and witnessed by village officials and shall be kept up-to-date. This is necessary
as it is possible for an individual to surrender parcels of land over time and can
eventually become eligible for resettlement. All claims and assets shall be
documented in writing.
ENVIRONNIENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                GOVERNMENTOF BURKINA FASO
31



(d) Agreement on Compensation and Preparation of Contracts
The types of compensation shall be clearly explained to, and agreed with,
PAPs/PAFs. The local community shall draw up a contract listing all property
and land being surrendered, and the types of compensation (cash and/or in-kind)
selected and agreed upon by the PAP/PAF and the CVGT. A person selecting in-
kind compensation shall complete an order form, which is signed and then
witnessed. This contract shall then be read aloud in the presence of the affected
party and the village chief and local leaders prior to signing.
(e) Compensation Payments
Any and all handling of property such as land and buildings and compensation
payments shall be made in the presence of the affected party and village chief and
leaders.
7.4.2        Community Compensation Payments
In the context of the CBRDP, community compensation shall be in-kind only for a
community as a whole in the form of reconstruction of the structure to at least the
same standard or equivalent better standard to that being built by local NGOs in
the area to serve the same function. Examples of community compensation
include:
* School buildings (public or religious structures)
* Wells or hand pumps for water
* Market places
* Roads or bridges
* Storage warehouse
* Community land with public access rights
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                GOVERNMENT OF BURKINA FASO
32



Table 7.2       Compensation Matrix
General Description   Definition         Compensation approach        Compensation Mechanism       Implementation                 Monitoring & Evaluation
Loss of Agriclultfural Land: Area in cultivation,  Loss of land, labor, and crop loss  Use a single rate regardless of the  Land mapping shall be performed  The PRCU shall review the
Greater than 20% of the  being prepared for  shall be compensated by the  crop, incorporating the combined  at the time of micro-screening by  compensation determination
PAP/ PAF's total      cultivation, or that  CVGT/CIVGT with funds from  highest value of all staple crops  the CVGT/CIVGT or a contracted  to ensure transparency and
landholding           was cultivated     the Project, through provision of  lost, at market value, and the  service provider.     adherence to the policy,
during the last   land of equal productive capacity  labor costs in preparing new land                      subject to an annual review.
agricultural season.  and which is satisfactory to the  (the average costs of clearing,
PAP/PAF.                      plowing, sowing, weeding twice,
and harvesting the crop), which is
to b e updated to reflect values at
the time compensation is paid.
Loss ofAgricultiural Land: Same as above.  Same as above. However, if the  Same as above.           For this, the entire PAF must be in  The CVGT/CIVGT shall pay
Less than 20% of the                     PAP/PAF so wishes, cash                                    agreement to accept cash in lieu of particular attention to the
PAP/PAF's total                         compensation equal to the full                              equivalent land. The PAF must also PAF/PAP, to ensure that the
landholding                              replacement cost of equivalent                             agree with the CVGT/CIVGT or its compensation is used
land at market value may be                                delegated subcommittee (CAS) on  productively and for the
provided as an altemative.                                 a spending plan for using the  benefit of all family members.
money in a productive manner that A monitoring plan shall be
will benefit all PAF members. This agreed in tangent with the
plan shall be submitted along with  spending plan.
the abbreviated RAP and kept on
file with the PRCU.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                                                                                                       GOVERNMENTOF BURKINA FASO
33



General Description    Definition          Compensation approach          Compensation Mechanism         Implementation                   Monitoring & Evaluation
Loss of Residential    Includes abandoned  Based on drawings of PAP/PAF's  Prices for construction materials  Drawings and information on  The PRCU shall provide an
Butildinigs and Struictutrcs:  structures as a result home and its related structures/  shall be based on the average  construction materials shall be  initial review of compensation
Greater than 5% of total  of resettlement or  support services. Average    prices in different local markets;  performed at the time of the micro- measures at the time of
area/structure         relocation, or those  replacement costs will vary based  costs for transportation and  screening. Average prices shall be  application for a micro-
which are directly  on the different types of buildings  delivery of these items to the  determined at the time of  project, subject to an annual
damaged by con-     and structures, as well as the  acquired replacement land or  compensation.                    review.
struction .         numbers and types of materials  building site; and estimates of
used in construction (e.g., bricks,  construction of new buildings,
rafters, straw, doors, etc.).  including labor costs. Cash
and/or credits will be paid based
on replacement costs
Loss of Residential    Same as above.      Cash compensation for the loss  Same as above.                If the impact on the land/structure  The PRCU shall provide an
Butildinigs and Strictuires:               shall be provided at full                                     is such that the remaining       initial review of compensation
Less than 5% of total                      replacement cost acceptable to the                             residential land is insufficient to  measures at the time of
area/structure                             PAP/PAF.                                                       rebuild the lost structure, then the  application for a micro-
entire land and structure may be  project, subject to an annual
ceded to the Project by the     review.
PAP/PAF in exchange for
equivalent land.
Loss of Residential    Non-owners who      Tenants shall receive assistance for Tenants shall be provided with a  Tenants shall be identified when  The PRCU shall provide an
Buiildings anid Strictutres:  lease a building or  rent and moving expenses, but  cash grant from the Project equal  site selection is discussed within  initial review of compensation
Tenants                structure for       shall not be relocated.         to 3 months' rental fees at the  the CVGT/CIVGT for specific   measures at the time of
residential purposes                               prevailing market rate, shall be  micro-projects. Tenants shall be  application for a micro-
assisted in identifying alternative  provided with adequate notice of  project, subject to an annual
accommodation, and shall be    their relocation.               review.
provided with a disturbance
allowance, as deemed by the
Project, to account for loss of
income and additional expenses
incurred by moving.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                                                                                                               GOVERNMENT OF BURKINA FASO
34



General Description    Definition         Compensation approach          Compensation Mechanism         Implementation                  Monitoring & Evaluation
Temiporanj Loss Of Land:  Land that will be  PAP/ PAF shall be compensated  All damages to private land or  Negotiations between contractors  The CVGT shall provide a
by voluntary agreement acquired for a set  for their (temporary) loss of  property including crops shall be  and landowners so that expenses  mediator/technical assistance
between a contractor   period of time as a  income, standing crops, and for  compensated at prevailing market can be included in the bid price.  if necessary to facilitate
and a landowner only.  result of the project  the cost of soil restoration and  rates including compensation for                        negotiations.
damaged infrastructure based on  tenants, if any, that includes
prevailing market rates.       rental fees and dislocation
allowances for when the
land/structure is inaccessible.
Loss of Butsiniess:    Buildings and      Prevailing average market value  Compensation shall include (i)  Buildings and structures shall be  The PRCU shall provide an
buildings and structures structures for   for building and materials, in  provision of an alternative   valued at the average prevailing  initial review of compensation
income-generating   addition to cash compensation for  business site(s) in an equivalent  market rate given the nature of  measures at the time of
activities          lost businesss.                business area; (ii) cash      their structure and the prices of  application for a micro-
compensation for lost business  materials used in construction. Lost project, subject to an annual
structure reflecting full     income shall be calculated based on review.
replacement cost of the structures the business' past income records,
(without depreciation); and (iii)  or based on the average incomes of
cash compensation for lost income similar stores in the area.
during transition.
Loss of Othier Assets  Fixed assets other  Replacement shall be negotiated  When possible, replacement shall The CVGT/CIVGT and the     The CVGT/CIVGT shall be
than land (e.g.,    with the owner and shall form part be of an equivalent value and in-  PAP/PAF shall negotiate prices  responsible for inspecting the
fencing)            of the construction contract for the kind. Replacement costs shall be  based on prevailing market rates.  replacement asset to ensure it
micro-project.                 determined prior to construction                              is acceptable with the
and included as part of the bid                               PAP/PAF within two weeks
price.                                                        of reinstatement.
Loss of nion-produictive  Trees/vegetation  These trees often have recognized  Younger trees may be replaced  No compensation for minor  The PRCU shall provide an
fruit aid shiade trees  that does not provide local market values, depending on  with trees of the same species, in  pruning of trees.  initial review of compensation
income-generating   species and age.               addition to supplies to support                               measures at the time of
activities, but are                                the trees' growth (e.g., a water                              application for a micro-
used for other                                     bucket, fencing, and a shovel).                               project, subject to an annual
purposes.                                                                                                        review.
ENVIRONMENTAL REsOURCEs MANAGEMENT                                                                                                             GOVERNMENT OF BURKINA FASO
35



General Description   Definition          Compensation approach         Compensation Mechanism        Implementation                  Monitoring & Evaluation
Loss of access to resou/rces:             Compensation shall be provided in Compensation shall be      Negotiations between the CVGT  The PRCU shall provide an
grazing land                              the form of access to other,  determined based on negotiation  and the PAP may be mediated by  initial review of compensation
equivalent grazing whenever    between the CVGT and the PAP  the PRCU.                      measures at the time of
possible. In-kind compensation  for the current year only, and only                         application for a micro-
may also be offered, if agreed to  for the duration of time when                            project, subject to an annual
between the Project and the PAP.  lands are inaccessible; in other                          review.
words, if the project restricts
access at a mid-point of the dry
season, then the PAP may be
compensated for the remainder of
the time the PAP anticipated to
graze.
Loss of access to rcsoutrces:             Compensation shal be paid for  If land/sustainable resources of  PAPs losing access to resources  Any issues with regards to
materials (e.g., fruit,                  those resources that provide the  equivalent value are not available shall be identified and notified as  access to resources shall be
wood, herbs, etc.)                        foundation for livelihoods -  for compensation, cash or in-kind  part of the compensation process.  addressed in the Annual
whether these are used for    compensation shall be provided,  The CVGT/CIVGT shall take all  Audit, in collaboration with
domestic or productive use.    based on prevailing local market  possible measures to provide  the PRCU and the
rate for the specific materials, and  altemative sources of income-  Department of Forestry, as
the CVGT/CIVGT shall make     generating activities for PAPs,  part of CONEDD.
efforts to provide alternative  particularly those identified as
sources of livetihoods for the  vulnerable.
PAPs.
ENvIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                                                                                                          GOVERNMENT OF BURKINA FASO
36



8     INSTITUTIONAL MECHANISMS AND ORGANISATIONAL PROCEDURES
FOR DELIVERY OF ENTITLEMENTS
8.1   PROJECT CO-ORDINATION AND MANAGEMENT
Compensation and relocation of displaced persons will be funded like any other
activity eligible under the project's administrative and financial procedures,
described in more detail in the Project Implementation Manual.
8.1.1  National Level
The National Project Co-ordination Unit (PCU) of CBRDP has the overall
responsibility for implementing the Resettlement Policiy FrameWork and for
ensuring that all compensation, resettlement and rehabilitation activities are
satisfactorily completed before providing approval for disbursement of funds for
micro-projects in the case of abbreviated RAPs.
Funding will be processed through this unit, which has been set-up and staffed
with several members including a Project Coordinator and a Financial Specialist,
who were appointed prior to project negotiations and credit effectiveness. The
PCU manages the day-to-day functions and project activities, inter alia, ensuring
availability of funds and technical assistance at decentralized levels, i.e.
departments and communes.
The key roles of the PCU in terms of resettlement planning are to:
* Facilitate the discussion between the villages and the communes (provinces)
regarding compensation for land acquired for the micro-projects;
* Monitor the Provincial Project Coordination Units (PRCUs) work to ensure
that the activities are carried out in a satisfactory manner;
* Organize the necessary orientation and training for the provincial,
departmental and commune officials so that they can carry out consultations
with communities, support communities in carrying out RAPs and implement
the payment of compensation and other measures (relocation and
rehabilitation entitlement) to PAPs in a timely manner;
* Ensure that progress reports are submitted to the World Bank office in
Ouagadougou on a regular basis.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                GOVERNMENT OF BURKINA FASO
37



8.1.2        Decentralized Administration
At the decentralized level, project administration and resettlement planning run
in parallel, and are divided into three levels: (a) provincial, (b) commune, and (c)
village. Figure 8.1 and 8.2 illustrates the process of administration and the
paragraphs below describe each level of responsibility in more detail.
(a) Provincial level
The PCU is supported at the provincial level by the establishment of CCTPs. The
CCTP is responsible for (a) providing provincial coordination to the CBRDP
through direct intervention with villages; (b) ensuring control over projects to
ensure that benefits accrue at the provincial level; and (c) providing quality
assurance over which projects get funded through CVGT/CIVGTs. Project
Coordination Units (PRCUs) have been established in CCTPs.
These PRCUs are responsible for (a) supporting the CCTP in provincial
coordination with the CBRDP and intervention with villages; (b) providing
technical support to villages in community driven development; (c) assisting in
the identification and screening of micro-projects under the CBRDP; and (d)
reviewing micro-project applications for technical and financial feasibility.
CVGT/CIVGTs have or will be set-up and staffed with an administrator and
accountant among others. These members have or will be appointed under terms
acceptable to the World Bank. The CVGTs/CVGTs will be responsible for
channeling funds to beneficiaries; launching capacity building activities;
coordinating activities within the province and the CVGTs/CIVGTs, inter-village
land management committees, and managing the monitoring and evaluation
system.
(b) Commune level
At this level, a CVGT Village land management committee/ CIVGT inter-village
land management committee will be established with the responsibility to:
Ensure that potentially involved village residents are informed regarding
investments and their rights and options relating to land or other assets that
may be involved;
Review and approve micro-project proposals prior to appraisal for any
investment activities requiring access to private owned or utilized land or
other assets;
* Coordinate activities between different communities,
Ensure timely provision of compensation in cash or in kind, as required;
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                GOVERNMENT OF BURKINA FASO
38



Review Contractor performance to ensure that any temporarily utilized land
is adequately restored;
Respond to any grievance submitted by PAPs; and
*  Supervise micro-projects implementation with regular missions in the field.
c) Village level
At the village level, communities will be involved through participatory
approaches in the development of micro-project proposals, in the environmental
and social screening of each micro-project and in preparing the necessary
safeguard requirements (Environmental and Social Assessments, RAPs) as
required. This is explained in more detail in Chapter 6 of the Environmental and
Social Management Frame7vork.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                    GOVERNMENT OF BURKINA FASO
39



Figure 8.1      Lines of Reporting and Advice on Resettlement Planning
Village                                   Communel                               National
Province
CVGT/CIVGT and                                CCTP
Co?nitj d'Action                               &                  Advice +     CBRDP/SILEM PCU             Advice +           CONED
Specifiquie        , Adice +      Provincial Coordination  *    suppo.rt*                                support             an.d
... ...uupornuporrti
support              Ulnits                                                                          World Bantk
Reportformat (d)                           Reportfornat (e)                        Reportfomtat (p)
(d)                PRCU                 (e)
Conitract Service Providers               Environtnental& Social                     Natural Resources                    Annual Perfornce Revinw
Mitigationi Officers                   Management Officer
Advice +                               . Advice +Ad.ce +
su pporitsti pport                                                                su pport
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                                                                                                 GOVERNMENT OF BURKINA FASO
40



Administrative Level    I Process                                                               | Technical Support
Village/Community
Village/Inter-Village Land  o  Carries out screening and scoping of proposed micro-project using the  Pool of qualified consultants and/or civil servants
Management Committee          environmental and social screening forms                           will be made available through CBRDP and SILEM,
(CVGT/CIVGT)              o   Determines based on screening results whether the proposed micro-project  primarily during the first year, to support the
requires a RAP/abbreviated RAP                                     PRCUs in reviewing the appraising RAPs
* If micro-project requires a RAP, then prepares the plan and submits the  submitted by communities. These individuals will
micro-project application form with a completed RAP/abbreviated RAP  be familiar with land tenure policies and
to the appropriate CDC                                         compensation procedures in Burkina Faso. This
* If micro-project does not require a RAP, then submits the micro-project  pool of individuals will also provide technical
application form for review to the appropriate CDC             support to PRCUs in reviewing RAPs and will be
Commune/Inter-village                                                                        _   available to visit villages and assist in training
CVGT                      o   Reviews and approves micro-project applications (within 30 days) based on  communities in the preparation of RAPs.
technical and financial feasibility (including the submitted ElAs/ESIAs, RAPs
and mini-pest management and mini-waste management plans)
o   Submits approved applications to the PCU for funding
Province
Provincial Project        o    Reviews and approves applications (within 21 days)                Representatives from DGEF, and CBRDP/SILEM
Coordination Units        a    Ensures that potentially involved village residents are informed regarding  will work directly with the PRCUs and CVGTs to
(PRCUs)                        investments and their rights and options relating to land or other assets that  assist with the review and approval of applications
may be involved
o   Coordinates activities between different communities and organizes  Proposed Land acquisition and communal planning
permitting and licensing for proposed projects                    Specialist will provide needed input and assistance
o    Responds to any grievance submitted by PAPs
CVGT                      o    Once PRCU approves the applications, CVGTs will channel funds to
beneficiaries and launching capacity building activities
o    Will also coordinate activities within the province, and manage the
monitoring and evaluation system
o    Responds to any grievance submitted by PAPs
o   Ensure that compensation has been carried out satisfactorily before
construction is approved for micro-project
World Bank
o   Provides technical guidance and support particularly during I s year of
program implementation                                         l
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                                                                                         GOVERNMENT OF BURKINA FASO
41



More specifically, village representatives will assist the CIVGT/CVGT in:
*  Scheduling open meetings to ensure that potentially involved village residents
are informed regarding proposed investments, and their rights and options
relating to land or other assets that may be involved;
* Identification of impacts on land and assets, individuals potentially involved,
and the amounts and types of lands and other assets sought from each
individual;
* Scheduling open meetings for public validation of field measurements and maps
relating to siting of proposed activities, and public disclosure and validation of
any land-related agreements;
*  Seeking voluntary contributions or negotiated land acquisition;
*  Preparing required reports on matters relating to land acquisition;
*  Facilitating compensation in kind and exemptions from local contributions in
relation to land acquisition;
* Conducting public meetings to review commune-level annual reviews of
implementation performance, to solicit villagers' view on the adequacy of
implementation, and to address any grievances, if possible.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                   GOVERNMENT OF BURKINA FASO
42



9     DESCRIPTION OF THE IMPLEMENTATION PROCESS AND
ARRANGEMENTS
9.1   IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
For each micro-project, a detailed implementation schedule of the various
activities to be undertaken will be included in each micro-project's RAP.
Likewise, for each micro-project, resettlement schedules will be coordinated with
the civil works schedules. Payment of compensation and provision of other
rehabilitation entitlements (in cash or in-kind), and relocation if that is the case,
will be completed at least one month prior to the scheduled start-up date of
works in the respective work site.
9.1.1 Preparation and Review of RAPs during Project Implementation
At this stage in project preparation, it is not possible to predict the number of
RAPs that will be produced during the 1st year of project implementation.
However, it is likely that there will be very few RAPs required for proposed
micro-projects as the majority of land that is required is communal land and has
been pre-determined for specific use by the community. As outlined in Figure 8.2,
once the micro-project applications along with RAPs are submitted for review,
the CVGTs and the PRCUs have a certain time frame set for review of the
documents. This time frame will be agreed to by the GoBF once the Resettlement
Policy Framework has been accepted by the Government.
Annual Performance Audit
An annual performance audit will be carried out once a year, preferably by
independent consultants hired by the PCU, in order to ensure that RAPs are
being prepared in compliance with the Resettlement Policy Framework and the
OP 4.12, and that compensation has been carried out satisfactorily. The audit
report will be submitted to the PCU and to the World Bank for clearance.
9.2   CONSULTATIONS AND INFORMATION DISCLOSURE
Public consultation and participation are essential because they afford potential
displaced persons with the opportunity to contribute both to the design and
implementation of micro-projects. Public consultation will take place at the
inception of the micro-project at the level of local communities assisted by local
NGOs, leaders, elders and service providers.
Consultations will occur throughout the entire project cycle, (a) the socio-
economic study, (b) the resettlement plan, (c) the environmental impact
assessment, and (d) during the drafting and reading of the compensation
contract. This is compliant with the primary objective of the CBRDP and SILEM,
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT               GOVERNMENT OF BURKINA FASO
43



which is to ensure a participatony approach towards community driven
development.
Prior to any negotiations, and prior to any land acquisition proceedings, the
Village Land Management Committees (CVGT) must provide information to any
PAPs about key provisions of this Framework. Potentially affected individuals
must be informed that they are not obligated to voluntarily contribute land for
micro-project purposes, that involuntary acquisition of land without appropriate
compensation is not permitted, and that lodging of a valid objection by an
affected landowner will be sufficient cause for micro-project approval to be
delayed or withheld.
Additional information to be disclosed will include:
* Entitlement to replacement in kind or compensation at replacement cost;
* Methods to be used in establishing compensation rates;
* Procedures for pursuing grievances, including contact information.
Information should be presented in a language and medium accessible to those
potentially involved or affected.
9.3   MECHANISMS FOR GRIEVANCE REDRESS
At the time the RAP is approved and individual compensation contracts are
signed, PAPs will have been informed of the process for expressing
dissatisfaction and to seek redress. Each village will have an opportunity to
comment on annual commune review of micro-project implementation
performance. Any grievances may be addressed as part of the review process.
If PAPs are not satisfied with proposed entitlements of implementation
arrangements, or are dissatisfied with actual implementation, they can also seek
satisfaction through the CIVGT and/or CVGT or its designated officials. If this
does not result in resolution of issues, PAPs can also make their grievance
verbally or in written form to provincial level officials responsible for project
facilitation and information dissemination. If this procedure is also inadequate,
PAPs can proceed to make their grievance verbally or in written form to the PCU.
At each level, specified authorities should record receipt of grievances and reply
to the PAPs within ten days after receiving the grievances. PAPs will be exempt
from any administrative or legal charges associated with pursuing grievances.
9.4   BUDGETAND SOURCE OF FUNDING
Each abbreviated RAP will include a detailed budget for compensation and other
rehabilitation entitlements. It will also include information on how the funds will
flow as well as the compensation schedule. The RAP will also clearly state where
the sources of land and fund will come from.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT               GOVERNMENT OF BURKINA FASO
44



As the borrower, the Government of Burkina Faso carries official responsibility
for meeting the terms of this framework, including financial obligations
associated with land acquisition. In practice, government funds will not be
regularly available for Village Land Management Committees (CVGT) for this
purpose. Therefore, where a micro-project is proposed which requires land
acquisition, and where no sufficient sources of necessary compensation funds can
be identified, the proposal will be disqualified.
In the case of the SILEM, intermediate sources of support for land acquisition
will include the following:
*  For every minor land acquisition, where the value of the land taken from an
individual is approximately equal to the share of the cash contribution for which
the person is responsible, exemption of individuals contributing cash for
necessary village communal fund contributions may be sufficient compensation;
and/or
* With the approval of the relevant commune officials, village cash contributions
(at least 3% of estimated micro-project costs) collected from unaffected villagers
may be used for payment of compensation to PAPs.
9.5   SUPERVISION MONITORING AND EVALUATION
Supervision and monitoring of resettlement issues will be carried out
systematically with the supervision and monitoring of the environmental and
social issues as identified in the ESMF. The monitoring of these issues will be
incorporated into the performance evaluation of the overall project.
Arrangementsfor monitoring by implementing agency
Arrangements for monitoring should fit with the overall monitoring plan of the
CBRDP/SILEM, which includes PCU monitoring at the national level and
decentralized monitoring through the PRCUs and CVGTs. These units are
expected to have monitoring and evaluation guides established and functional by
the end of the first year in the project cycle.
As part of the resettlement plan goals, the monitoring shall evaluate the
following:
*  whether affected individuals, households and communities were able to
maintain their pre-project standard of living, and even improve on it; and
*  whether local communities remain supportive of the project.
To facilitate the monitoring procedure, the following indicators in Table 9.1 will
be used to evaluate the implementation of RAPs:
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT               GOVERNMENT OF BURKINA FASo
45



Table 9.1     Indicators for Monitoring and Evaluating RAPs
Monitoring                              Evaluation
Outstanding compensation or resettlement    Outstanding individual compensation or
contracts not completed before next         resettlement contracts
agricultural season
Communities unable to set village-level  -  Outstanding village compensation contracts
compensation after two years
Grievances recognized as legitimate out of all  e  All legitimate grievances rectified
complaints lodged
Pre-micro project production and income (year e  Affected individuals and/or households
before land used) versus present production  compensated or resettled in first year who
and income of PAPs, off-farm income trainees,  have maintained their previous standard of
and users of improved agricultural techniques  living at final evaluation
Pre-micro project production versus present  -4  Equal or improved production per household
production (crop for crop, land for land, etc)
World Bank supervision arrangenents
The World Bank will undertake periodic project supervision in the provinces and
communes to assess compliance with the Framework requirements, and to
recommend any corrective measure that may be necessary to resolve
implementation problems or inadequacies.
To facilitate Bank supervision, all approved RAPs will be available for Bank
review at the Provincial Project Coordination Units (PRCUs), and all village-level
land use reports, including Statements of Voluntary Contribution and Statements
of Negotiated Agreements, will also be available at the communal level.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                         GOVERNMENT OF BURKINA FASO
46



