E789 V. 1
August 2003
Government of Burkina Faso
I-
z
0
u  :
F-
z
uLJ
Process Framework:
August 2003
Environmental Resources Management
1001 Connecticut Avenue, NW Suite 1115
Washington, DC 20036
Telephone 202 466 9090
Facsimile 202 466 9191
http://www.erm.com
ERMS                                 C,



Government of Burkina Faso
Process Framework:
Community-Based Rural Development
August 2003
Reference 0002038
Prepared by: Rachel Cardone, Tania N. Mansour, and Cara
Harbison
For and on behalf of
Environmental Resources Management
Approved by: Kurt Lonsway
Signed: KUVF                  lzJS VVAf
Position:     Technical Director
Date: August 15, 2003
This report has been prepared by Environmental Resources
Management the trading name of Environmental Resources
Management Limited, with all reasonable skill, care and diligence
within the terms of the Contract with the client, incorporating our
General Terms and Condibons of Business and taking account of the
resources devoted to it by agreement with the client.
We disclaim any responsibility to the client and others in respect of
any matters outside the scope of the above.
This report is confidential to the client and we accept no responsibility
of whatsoever nature to third parties to whom this report, or any part
thereof, is made known. Any such party relies on the report at their
own risk.
In line with our company environmental policy we purchase paper for
our documents only from ISO 14001 certified or EMAS verified
manufacturers. This includes paper with the Nordic Environmental
Label.



CONTENTS
1          INTRODUCTION                                                1
1.1        DEVELOPMENT OFA PROCESS FRAMEWORK                           1
1.2        BACKGROUND TO THE PROJECT                                   1
1.3        SCOPE OF DISPLACEMENT AND RESTRICTION TO NATURAL RESOURCES
AND LAND UNDER CBRDP/SILEM                                  5
1.4        IDENTIFICATION AND SCREENING OF MICRO-PROJECTS              6
1.5        SAFEGUARD COMPLIANCE                                        7
2          PARTICIPATORY STRATEGY FOR POTENTIALLY
DISPLACED PERSONS                                           9
2.1        IDENTIFYAFFECTED POPULATIONS                               10
2.2        ESTIMATE THE NUMBER OF PROJECT-AFFECTED PERSONS            11
2.3        ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA FOR AFFECTED PEOPLE AND VILLAGES      12
2.4        IDENTIFICATION OF CRITERIA FOR VULNERABLE GROUPS           13
2.5        PROPOSE METHODS OF PUBLIC CONSULTATION                     13
2.6        CRITERIA FOR MITIGATION/COMPENSATION MEASURES              14
2.7        INTEGRATING PAPS INTO PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION               20
3          REDUCTION MEASURES OF POTENTIAL NEGATIVE IMPACTS           22
4          CONFLICT RESOLUTION                                        23
4.1        INTRODUCTION                                               23
4.2        CONFLICT BETWEEN AGRICULTURALISTS AND PASTORALISTS         23
4.3        CONFLICTS BETWEEN HUMAN POPULATIONS AND WILDLIFE           24
4.4        MECHANISMS TO ADDRESS CONFLICT                             24
5          MONITORING ARRANGEMENTS                                    26



INTRODUCTION
1.1          DEVELOPMENT OF A PROCESS FRAMEWORK
The following is a Process Franmeworkfor Reducing Negative Social Impacts inl the
Limitation0 of Access to Classified Areas, developed to address the potential negative
social impacts the CBRDP/SILEM Project may have on access to resources as a
result of micro-projects operating in classified areas.
The Process Framework was prepared by the consultants Environmental Resources
Management Ltd (ERM) with funding through a GEF grant, working closely with
the Task Team Leader and Task Team in Washington DC and with the Project
Coordination team in Ouagadougou.
As indicated in O.P. 4.12 (paragraph 26), "A process framewVork is prepared wizen
Bank-supported projects may cause restrictions in access to natural resources in legally
designated parks and protected areas. The purpose of the process framework is to establish
a process byj wvhich members of potentially affected communities participate in design of
project components, determination of measures necessany to achieve resettlement policy
objectives, and implementation and monitoring of relevant project activities."
This framework is being prepared in parallel with two other documents:
* an Environmental and Social Management Framework (ESMF), which provides
the appropriate tools and mechanisms to screen micro-projects for potential
social and environmental impacts and recommends programs for training and
capacity building, and
*  a Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF), which sets forth principles and
procedures to be followed in order to compensate people who may be
negatively affected by the Project so as to ensure that they will be assisted to
improve, or at least restore their living standards, income and/or production
capacity levels to pre-Project levels.
1.2          BACKGROUND TO THE PROJECT
1.2.1        National Programfor Decentralized Rural Development
The Government of Burkina Faso (GoBF) has received financing from the IDA,
effective in December 2001, to support its Community Based Rural Development
Project (CBRDP), which is a community-driven development program with local
investment funds managed by communities and targeted to reduce poverty and
promote sustainable development in rural areas. The program aims to be
implemented in Burkina Faso's 45 provinces over a period of 15 years, in three
five-year phases. The program's objective is to support poverty reduction and
promote sustainable development in rural Burkina Faso through strengthened
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                 GOVERNMENT OF BURKINA FAso
1



local governance and community empowerment, with a focus on marginalized
groups. The CBRDP will be implemented within a decentralized rural
development framework, and shall more specifically (a) support implementation
of demand-driven micro-projects, and (b) conduct local capacity-building efforts.
The CBRDPs long-term vision is one of participatory and representative local
governments and institutions planning and managing their own development
programs, and mobilizing the necessary resources through increased local
revenues and government fiscal transfers. To achieve these goals, the program
shall:
(i)   Strengthen capacity of villages and local governments to prioritise,
plan, implement, and maintain community-based investments;
(ii)  Provide decentralized funding for demand-driven and community-
managed rural infrastructure and services; and
(iii)  Support Burkina Faso's ongoing decentralization and poverty
reduction strategy processes.
Phase I of the CBRDP (2001-2005) will initiate the process, develop the capacity of
rural areas to manage their own development in a sustainable, equitable and
productive manner, and facilitate the emergence of rural municipalities or groups
of municipalities. To that effect, it will couple capacity building activities and a
demand-driven local investment fund to enable communities to learn by doing.
Phase 11 (2006-2010) will build upon and expand the achievements of Phase I and
scale up the program to a national level. Phase III (2010-2015) will consolidate
what has been achieved and prepare an exit strategy.
The baseline project (CBRDP) has the following five components:
i.  Build and reinforce local capacity building;
ii. Provide local investment funds;
iii. Build and reinforce institutional capacity building,
iv.  Introduce a land tenure security pilot project; and
v.   Strengthen and provide program coordination and monitoring and
evaluation functions.
These components have overlapping timeframes for implementation.
1.2.2       The Sahel Integrated Lowland Ecosystem Management project
The Sahel Integrated Lowland Ecosystem Management project (SILEM), funded
through the GEF financing window, is designed to provide supplemental support
to the CBRDP. SILEM will provide incremental support for environmental and
natural resource management related activities under each of these five
components as listed above, in each of the Program's three phases.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT               GOVERNMENT OF BURKINA FASO
2



SILEM's basic development objective is to strengthen the capacity of rural
communities to undertake an integrated management of their ecosystems, so as to
help reduce, mitigate and reverse to some extent the degradation of their natural
resource base, and thereby alleviate, in a sustainable manner, poverty and
vulnerability. In particular, SILEM will generate multiple and interconnected
environmental benefits such as:
(a) Building capacity for sound, sustainable integrated ecosystem
management planning (IEM) and implementation at local, regional and
national levels;
(b) Reduce, mitigate, and reverse land degradation and desertification with
adequate and innovative soil and water management technologies in
lowlands as a means for improving the productivity and sustainability of
plant and animal production systems, and for protecting natural habitats
of local and global importance; and
(c) Strengthen the natural resource base and decrease vulnerability to climate
change (drought and other stress factors) by improving conservation and
maintaining (agro-) biodiversity at ecosystem, species and genetic level.
Box 1.1        Land Tenure Security Pilot Project
The objective of this component in CBRDP is to improve land tenure security and access for all
users, particularly the poor. It is expected to (i) foster equity and social peace, (ii) encourage
investment and agricultural productivity, (iii) enhance the preservation and rehabilitation of
natural resources, it will define and propose on the basis of field experiences an institutional,
legal, technical and methodological framework for stable and equitable land tenure in rural
areas. The pilot will be carried out in six test sites representative of land use and ownership
problems associated with them. It will experiment with methodologies for recording and
securing user rights, initiating the formalization of customary systems, resolving conflicts and
demarcating land units. The process is expected to be demand-driven and participatory.
The SILEM project will not undertake any specific land tenure security pilot by itself. However,
it will provide resources to advise and support communities of SILEM villages in their
voluntary efforts to resolve land tenure issues or conflicts by providing them with facilitators,
and by encouraging full participation of all stakeholders or social groups in the consultation
processes, so as to efficiently improve and implement the endogenous conflict resolution
mechanisms.
Source: SILEM Project Appraisal Document, July 8, 2002
1.2.3          Implementation
CBRDP/SILEM's (hereafter the Project) implementation follows the course that is
being adopted by the overall national community-driven development (CDD)
program of Burkina Faso, called the National Program for Decentralised Rural
Development, or PNDRD. The PNDRD aims to build capacity for and support
decentralisation throughout Burkina Faso's 8,000 villages by the year 2010. The
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                         GOVERNMENT OF BURKINA FAsO
3



PNDRP will also support the ongoing participatory development process being
carried out under Burkina Faso's Poverty Reduction Strategy and Rural
Development Strategy (PRSP).(')
In the first phase (2001-2006), CBRDP plans to intervene in 26 provinces with a
target of 2,000 villages. SILEM plans to intervene in its first phase (2003-2006) in
only 100 villages to initiate and demonstrate IEM activities.
In the second phase (2006-2010), CBRDP will intervene in an additional 2,000
villages, with an ultimate goal to cover all 8,000 of Burkina Faso's villages in the
third phase, while SILEM will intervene in an additional 200 villages in the
second phase, but no more than 600 villages by the end of the third phase.
SILEM's goal is to initiate, consolidate, and confirm IEM demonstration activities
for replication throughout the country to be initiated - and funded - by
communities themselves.
Both CBRDP and SILEM are administered, and finances are channelled through,
the Project Coordination Unit (PCU), which works at the national, regional,
provincial, and community levels. Table 1.1 illustrates the CBRDP's roles and
responsibilities at the national, regional, provincial, and village levels.
(1)Source: Burkina Faso PRSP. Internet: http://www.imf.org/external/NP/prsp/2000/bfa/01/index.htin,
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                     GOVERNMENT OF BURKINA FASO
4



Table 1.1      CBRDP Administration
Unit                        Responsibility
National Level
CNCPDR                      * Assures harmonisation of the different steps taken through
decentralisation
Steering Committee          * Comprised of representatives of relevant Ministries and civil
society, approves and supervises programs of activities
Project Coordination Unit   * Provides daily program management
Regionial Level
Regional Office for         * Five committees are in place to collaborate with the CCTPs to
Accountability               channel funding for CVGT/CIVGT development plans (PGTs)
Provinzcial Level
Provincial Technical        * Provides Provincial coordination to the CBRDP through direct
Coordination Committee       intervention with villages
(CCTP)                      * Provides indirect intervention in areas that are impacted by
CBRDP activities
* Ensures control over projects to ensure that benefits accrue at the
provincial level
* Provides quality assurance over which projects get funded
through CVGT/CIVGTs
* Ensures quality assurance at a provincial level to avoid
duplication of efforts
Provincial Project Coordination * Support the CCTP in provincial coordination with the CBRDP
Units (PRCU) (2)              and intervention with villages
* Provide technical support to villages in community driven
development
* Assist in the identification and screening of micro-projects under
the CBRDP
* Responsible for reviewing micro-project applications for
technical and financial feasibility
Local Level
Village/Inter-Village Land  * Community-based organizations that devise community
Management Committee          development plans and receive funding through the CBRDP for
micro-projects.
* Responsible for sub-project execution.
* Sub-committees developed on the basis of different topics such
as HIV/health; women; migrants; farming, etc. are represented
on the CVGT/CIVGT, and work to implement village level
programs and policies.
1.3            SCOPE OF DISPLACEMENT AND RESTRICTION TO NATURAL RESOURCES AND LAND
UNDER CBRDP/SILEM
Burkina Faso has embarked on a broad reform program that includes
decentralization and community-driven projects, which requires a strong
(2) Also referred to as provincial operating units (Equipes Operationnelles ,EO) in the CBRDP PAD.
ENVIRONNIENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                         GOVERNMENT OF BURKINA FASO
5



participatory approach, especially with regards to the inclusion of vulnerable
peoples. (3) It is in this spirit that this process framework has been developed.
Under the proposed scope of projects eligible for funding through CBRDP/
SILEM, the projects will not in principle involve any activities that resettle people
involuntarily, because of the participatory processes put in place to ensure that
consensual and win-win decisions are reached to satisfy all parties. However, the
risk of marginalisation of the weakest social groups in the process by dominant
groups could lead to involuntary resettlement of the weakest groups and needs to
be monitored.
CBRDP/SILEM-supported natural resource projects - primarily projects to
improve biodiversity and to fight desertification - are small in scale and are
generally expected to cause little or no significant adverse impacts, especially in
protected areas. Nonetheless, past community driven development (CDD)
experience shows that such activities sometimes result in loss of land or loss of
access to productive and other resources, particularly in the case of new civil
works or changes in the situation of existing infrastructure.
1.4           IDENTIFICATION AND SCREENING OF MICRO-PROJECTS
Micro-projects shall be identified through participatory processes at the village
and inter-village level. Micro-project screening will be used to identify the types
and nature of potential environmental and social impacts related to the activities
proposed under the Project and will provide adequate measures to address the
impacts. Screening for resettlement issues shall be incorporated as part of the
environmental and social screening, which were developed with the following
safeguard criteria, as detailed in Chapter 6 of the Environmental and Social
Management Framework (ESMF).
(3)Burkina Faso Ministry of Economy and Development, and the Ministry of Budget and Finance. 2001. Burkina Faso Poverty
Reduction Strategy Paper Progress Report. Internet: http://poverty.worldbank.org/files/Burkina-Faso_PRSP ProgRep.pdf
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                        GOVERNMENT OF BURKINA FASO
6



Box 1.2       Safeguard Criteria for Micro-Project Approval
o The micro-project has undergone an environmental and social screening in
compliance with the relevant World Bank safeguard policies (OP 4.01,
OP 4.12), and in line with the processes identified in the ESMF.
0 An Environmental Impact Assessment and socio-economic baseline study
have been carried out for projects with potential environmental and social
impacts.
o A Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) or abbreviated RAP has been prepared for
micro-projects with potential land acquisition or displacement of people.
O The need for land acquisition and legal title to land used for micro-projects
has been determined, along with identification of necessary measures to
address these, including an implementation strategy.
0 The proposed micro-project should ensure that land acquired/required is not
(a) in disputed areas, (b) cultural property, (c) negatively affecting indigenous
peoples, and (d) is not in natural habitats or protected areas.
Although each Provincial Coordination Unit (PRCU) will review micro-
applications independently and at the provincial level, each PRCU must also take
into consideration the cumulative impacts of the micro-projects as a whole. The
Project's support for cooperation between and amongst communities to pursue
common development goals may help to mitigate cumulative impacts. Further,
the development of annual investment plans, or AIPs, which are based on a five-
year local management plan, or PGT should serve to highlight potential problems
well in advance. Still, the PRCU must be diligent in this regard, and work with
the Project at the national level to address these potential impacts.
After the project has been approved, the compensation, resettlement and
rehabilitation activities of the Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) or abbreviated RAP
will be satisfactorily completed and verified by the communities before funds can
be disbursed for the micro-project.
1.5           SAFEGUARD COMPLIANCE
For safeguard compliance, it is recommended that RAPs prepared for micro-
project during the first year be furnished to the World Bank, as well as the Project
Coordination Unit (PCU), for review to ensure that the RAPs produced initially
are in line with the OP 4.12. Gaps in quality shall be addressed through training
at the provincial level for relevant service providers and reviewers, funded by the
project as part of the technical support budget. Subsequent RAPs prepared
throughout the rest of the project can then be reviewed at the provincial level,
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                    GOVERNMENT OF BURKINA FASO
7



with an annual independent review process led by the PCU, as described in
Chiapter 6 of the ESMF. At this point, World Bank clearance will not be necessary.
Capacity Building
Capacity building shall be integrated into micro-project preparation at the
community level through technical assistance (e.g., training) that will allow
communities to conduct an initial screening of their own micro-project proposals
for environmental and social issues with the support of contract service
providers (4) and the PRCU. This training will be incorporated into the
CVGT/CIVGT training program budget, which is a sub-component of the
CBRDP/SILEM Program. This sub-component is centred on the organizational,
management, and technical skills required for CVGT/CIVGTs and their
subcommittees to successfully plan, implement, and maintain village level
investments. The PRCUs and PCU will also receive training in micro-project
review.
All training will include capacity to develop mitigation measures to address
environmental and social impacts and to monitor performance. Capacity building
will be targeted at decentralized levels (village, province, region, national), in line
with Burkina Faso's PNDRP, to ensure that resettlement planning is
mainstreamed throughout public administration, specifically as it relates to the
Project, providing a linkage with the development of rural municipalities as a key
project goal. This is described in more detail in Chapter 6 of the ESMF.
(4) Provinces generally engage the services of local private firmns to work with villages to develop their AlPs and PGTs.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                    GOVERNMENT OF BURKINA FASO
8



2            PARTICIPATORY STRATEGY FOR POTENTIALLY DISPLACED PERSONS
Any aspect of the Project that involves the use of classified areas must include a
participatory strategy for involving vulnerable groups, as well as project affected
persons, into the decision making process. Should the inclusion of an Abbreviated
RAP or a RAP be determined as part of the screening process, then, where
resettlement issue involves a restriction in access to classified areas, this process
framework shall be adopted.
Figure 2.1   Planning Process for Micro-projects
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~No 
r -----~---------------- i
Proccss Fraewmork ApplicabIc with'P _  |  Pon ofan RAP
RAP, A-RAP, and EIA      or AbbIewd RAP and/or EIA
J L
i  I
Because of the participatory nature and scope of the CBRDP/SILEM, it is not
anticipated that any significant resettlement issues, with regards to the
displacement of people or restriction of access to resources, will occur. Should a
project trigger the need for an Abbreviated or full Resettlement Action Plan, and
should the project take effect in a classified area, then this Resettlement Process
Framework must be adopted.
A Resettlement Process Framework has six basic steps, which align with the
existing framework for the CBRDP. These steps, presented in Box 2.1, are
followed by mechanisms to assist affected persons, conflict resolution, and
monitoring.
ENVIRONMENTAL REsouRCE5 MANAGEMENT                 GOVERNMENT OF BURMA FASO
9



Box 2.1        Stepsfor Participatory Strategy
* Identify affected populations
* Estimate the number of project-affected persons
* Provide eligibility criteria of the villages and affected people
* Provide identification of criteria of vulnerable groups
* Propose methods of public consultation
. Provide a step to integrate the populations assigned to the setting in the
implementation of the project
These steps are integrated in alignment with the ESMF as well as the RPF,
whenever possible, so as not to duplicate procedures.
2.1            IDENTIFYAFFEcTED POPULATIONS
Overview
Affected populations include any person(s) whose standard of living is affected
by the project, as well as any communities that are impacted as a whole as a result
of the project. Project Affected Persons (PAPs) are defined as "persons affected by
land acquisition, relocation, or loss of incomes associated with (a) acquisition of
land or other assets; and (b) restriction of access to legally designated parks and
protected areas."(5)
With regards to the CBRDP/SILEM's potential impact in classified areas, PAPs
may include those who live adjacent to the classified areas, and who rely, whether
seasonally or throughout the year, on resources from the natural areas for their
livelihoods.
Box 2.2        How to Identify Affected Populations
At the beginning stages of project development, a general idea of affected populations may be
discerned based on the type of project proposed, and whether or not it may impact access to
natural resources. As part of the participatory process through which communities determine
their development priorities, the potential impacts of these priorities should be noted, with
regards to people, and livelihoods.
As a general rule, due to the traditional land tenure system, original landowners may have a
cultural or historic claim to the land even if they have given their land rights to more recent
settlers. As such, the potential for affected villages may extend as far as 50 kilometres from the
project site.
Sources of information about affected populations may be found in census data (from the 1996
national census), estimated from baseline data concerning populations in affected areas, or
gained from information that may be gathered by non-governmental organisations operating in
the region.
(5) World Bank. 2002. "Resettlement and Rehabilitation Guidebook." Washington, D.C.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                          GOVERNMENT OF BURKINA FAsO
10



2.2            ESTIMATE THE NUMBER OF PROJECT-AFFECTED PERSONS
Overview
PAPs are those people who, on account of the execution of the Project, or any of
its components or micro-projects or parts thereof, would have their: (i) right, title,
or interest in any house, land (including residential, agricultural, forest and
grazing land) or any other fixed or moveable asset acquired or possessed, in full
or in part, permanently or temporarily; or (ii) business, occupation, work, place of
residence or habitat adversely affected; or (iii) standard of living adversely
affected.
Affected populations may be those agriculturalists that live in a region year-
round and rely on the natural resources for firewood, shea-nuts, for leather
tanning, or for fruit, such as mangoes. Affected populations may also include
pastoralists, who migrate to the area on a seasonal basis with the dry season from
the north to the south of Burkina Faso. Given the many different activities that
occur in classified areas, a participatory approach must be used to extract as much
information about the users of the resources as early in the project development
as possible.
Every micro-project proposed through the CBRDP/SILEM must pass a basic
environmental and social screening form that will be used to determine whether
further studies, such as Environmental Impact Assessments (EIAs), or
Resettlement Action Plans (RAPs), are required. If a RAP is required, then (PAPs),
whether classified as members of a Project Affected Family (PAF) or, if they are
designated as a Community Affected Person (CAP), will be identified through the
plan's socio-economic survey.
Box 2.3        How to Project the Number of Project-Affected Persons
At this stage of preparation, it is not possible to quantify the estimated likely number of PAPs or
PAFs as the micro-projects and other activities anticipated through CBRDP/SILEM have not yet
been identified.(6)
The number of Project-Affected Persons shall be determined using the processes described in
the Resettlement Process Framework, and which are available on the World Bank's website
(http://essd.worldbank.org/sdv/guidebook/generic/gindex.htm) and in the World Bank's
Resettlement and Rehabilitation Guidebook, 2002. Due to the nature of the CBRDP/SILEM, it is
anticipated that projects requiring additional study will use an Abbreviated RAP.
(6) The types of raicro-projects to be financed under the CBRDP have been provided under an indicative list in the PAD.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                          GOVERNMENT OF BURKINA FASO
11



2.3            ELIGIBILFTY CRITERIA FOR AFFECTED PEOPLE AND VILLAGES
Overview
Requirements for PAPs state that the populations who depend on access to those
areas restricted by the micro project in order to ensure their standard of living
shall be defined according to their socio-economic profile as deemed by the
village development plans, which are developed with assistance from external
agencies such as NGOs and independent contractors. Once these plans are in
effect, future dwellers on the land will not be eligible for compensation or
mitigation measures through the CBRDP/SILEM. Further, any person identified
as a PAP must be able to take part in meetings either as an individual or as part of
a group of PAPs with representation, as well as take part in decisions concerning
the project management.
Individuals or families who encroach upon the project area after the cut-off date
are not entitled to compensation or any other form of resettlement assistance as
set forth by this framework.
Should housing structures be located within the area to be acquired under a
proposed micro-project, owners or occupants, or PAFs, of those houses shall be
considered eligible for resettlement. Should any of the resources being adversely
affected be owned or managed as common property within a village or among
groups of villages, all those with an interest in those resources shall be entitled to
resettlement and/or compensation.
Box 2.4        How to Deternine Eligibility Criteria for Affected People and Villages
Eligibility criteria for people and villages shall be based upon the definition of a Project Affected
Person. Their entitlement to compensation shall be based on the status of their occupation
and/or access to affected areas. Under World Bank's OP 4.12, PAPs are defined as:
a) Those who have formal legal rights to land (including customary and traditional rights)
b) Those who do not have formal legal rights to land at the time of the latest census but have
claim to such land or assets, provided that such claims are recognized through a process I
identified in the resettlement plan.
c) Those who have no recognizable legal right or claim to the land they are occupying.
OP 4.12 specifies that those individuals covered under (a) and (b) above are to be provided
compensation for the land they lose, and other assistance in accordance with the policy.
Individuals covered under (c) above are to be provided with resettlement assistance in lieu of
compensation for the land they occupy, and other assistance, as necessary, to achieve the
objectives set out in the resettlement policy framework, if they occupy the project area prior to a
cut-off date established by the Government of Burkina Faso, and which is acceptable to the
World Bank. All persons included in (a), (b), or (c) above are to be provided with compensation
for loss of assets other than land.
ENVIRONMENTAL REsoURCES MANAGEMENT                          GOVERNMENT OF BURKINA FAso
12



2.4           IDENTIFICATION OF CRITERIA FOR VULNERABLE GROUPS
Overview
One of the critical issues in bringing the entire community together to select,
finance, and implement micro-projects is how to ensure an equitable and
representative decision-making process. Vulnerable groups must be identified as
a priority, as they most often lack the coping mechanisms to deal with a sudden
loss in access to resources such as classified areas to ensure their food security
and survival.
Since most Burkinabe cultural groups are very stratified, organized around caste,
age, kinship, and gender divisions, participatory planning must be implemented
to ensure that vulnerable groups (e.g., women, pastoralists, youth, castes) are
fully included in the decision making process at the preliminary stages of the
project. Identification criteria for vulnerable groups may vary based on the region
of the country, and the community's socio-economic profile. Still, individuals
who meet the criteria must be prioritized with regards to compensation and
mitigation measures that generate incomes, and these persons must take part in
the decisions concerning the impacts of the project on their access to resources.
Box 2.5       How to Identify Vulnerable Groups
Vulnerable groups shall be identified on a case-by-case basis, using generalizations provided by
the census and other information on poverty in Burkina Faso. Because the structure of village
and inter-village committees, including their sub-committees, has already been established
through the PNDRD and other frameworks, the identification process for vulnerable groups is
already in place. Vulnerable groups are mainstreamed through their inclusion in village level
sub-committees (CAS) as part of the CVGT/CIVGTs, especially in the selection, financing, and
implementation of micro-projects. It should be noted that different villages have different
characteristics, and vulnerable groups will vary from village to village and region to region,
although a common characteristic relates to poverty levels and access to resources.
2.5            PROPOSE METHODS OF PUBLIC CONSULTATION
Overview
Systems of public consultation already exist within Burkina Faso, and have been
strengthened in recent years as a result of progress reports indicating public
consultation as an area for improvement within the Poverty Reduction Strategy
Process.() In effect, consultation with PAPs, vulnerable populations, and civil
society is important to improve the decision-making process and to help mitigate
any potential conflicts or issues in a preventative manner. Because Burkina Faso
has developed a participatory system by which public consultations are held, also
(7) World Bank. 2001. "Burkina Faso Poverty Reduction Strategy Progress Report." Washington, D.C.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                        GOVERNMENT OF BURKINA FASO
13



known as MARP, which is known and used by NGOs, service providers, and by
the CBRDP/SILEM PCU, this method shall be followed.
Box 2.6       How to Integrate Public Consultation into Decision Making
In francophone Africa, the term MARP, for Accelerated Method of Participatory Research and
Planning is used to best describe the Rapid Rural Appraisal (RRA) and Participatory Rural
Appraisal (PRA) methods used in public consultation and participatory planning, although the
significance of the initials evolved to take into account the difference between RRA and the PRA
through the course of a public consultation workshop held in Senegal in 1994 8, The MARP
method basically refines the methods of PRA in that it follows the idea of a participatory
approach rather than a teaching approach in order to insure objectivity and thorough data
collection.
2.6            CRITERIA FOR MMGAnON/COMPENSATION MEASURES
OvervieW
In order to receive compensation, PAPs must be identified and verified by the
Project in accordance with an Abbreviated or Full Resettlement Action Plan. The
compensation process shall involve several steps, including public participation,
notification, documentation of holdings and assets, agreement on compensation
and preparation of contracts, and compensation payments.
The criteria for compensation measures will vary depending on the level and
extent of impact from the micro-project. A full list of compensation measures is
provided in Table 2.1.
(a) Public Participation
Public participation with local communities shall be an ongoing process
throughout resettlement planning. PAP/PAF/CAPs shall be notified by the
CVGT/CIVGTs during the identification of micro-projects and consulted with as
part of the screening process. To ensure that any sensitive areas are accurately
identified during this procedure, all necessary village chiefs, religious leaders,
other elders and individuals who control fishing areas, wild trees and bee hives,
for example will accompany the survey team to the site. The subsequent socio-
economic survey will record all relevant information about the PAPs, and ensure
that this is accurately reflected in the RAP in order to allocate the appropriate
compensation. Periodic monitoring will ensure that PAPs have been consulted
and that compensation and relocation has been carried out satisfactorily, as is
described in Section 9 of the RPF.
(8) Gueye, Bara. Dakar: IIED, 1999. 38p. (Serie Recherche Participative: no. 99/01).
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                        GOVERNMENT OF BURKINA FAsO
14



(b) Notification
Landowners shall be notified by the CVGT/CIVGT that their property is required
for development of the micro-project. The user shall be informed through a
formal notification, both written and verbal, to be delivered in the presence of the
village chief and the PRCUs.
(c) Documentation of Holdings and Assets
The CVGT/CIVGT and other relevant village officials shall arrange meetings
with PAPs/PAFs to discuss the compensation process. For each individual or
household affected, the local community shall complete a compensation dossier
containing necessary personal information on the affected party and those
individuals considered as household members, total land holdings, inventory of
assets affected, and information for monitoring future arrangements. The dossier
must be confirmed and witnessed by village officials and shall be kept up-to-date.
This is necessary as it is possible for an individual to surrender parcels of land
over time and can eventually become eligible for resettlement. All claims and
assets shall be documented in writing, in French and at least one relevant local
language.
(d) Agreement on Compensation and Preparation of Contracts
The types of compensation shall be clearly explained to, and agreed with,
PAPs/PAFs. The local community shall draw up a contract listing all property
and land being surrendered, and the types of compensation (cash and/or in-kind)
selected and agreed upon by the PAP/PAF and the CVGT. A person selecting in-
kind compensation shall complete an order form, which is signed and then
witnessed. This contract shall then be read aloud in the presence of the affected
party and the village chief and local leaders prior to signing.
(e) Compensation Payments
Any and all handling of property such as land and buildings and compensation
payments shall be made in the presence of the affected party and village chief and
leaders.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                GOVERNMENT OF BURKINA FASO
15



Table 2.1. Compensation Matrix
General Description   Definition         Compensation approach        Compensation Mechanism        Implementation                Monitoring & Evaluation
Loss of Agricultural Land: Area in cultivation,  Loss of land, labor, and crop loss  Use a single rate regardless of the  Land mapping shall be performed  The PRCU shall review the
Greater than 20% of the  being prepared for  shall be compensated by the  crop, incorporating the combined  at the time of micro-screening by  compensation determination
PAP/PAF's total       cultivation, or that  CVGT/CIVGT with funds from  highest value of aU staple crops  the CVGT/CIVGT or a contracted  to ensure transparency and
landholding           was cultivated     the Project, through provision of  lost, at market value, and the  service provider.     adherence to the policy,
during the last   land of equal productive capacity  labor costs in preparing new land                      subject to an annual review.
agricultural season.  and which is satisfactory to the  (the average costs of clearing,
PAP/PAF.                      plowing, sowing, weeding twice,
and harvesting the crop), which is
to be updated to reflect values at
the time compensation is paid.
Loss of Agricnltural Lanid: Same as above.  Same as above. However, if the  Same as above.          For this, the entire PAF must be in  The CVGT/CIVGT shall pay
Less than 20% of the                     PAP/PAF so wishes, cash                                    agreement to accept cash in lieu of particular attention to the
PAP/PAF's total                          compensation equal to the full                             equivalent land. The PAF must also PAF/PAP, to ensure that the
landholding                             replacement cost of equivalent                              agree with the CVGT/CIVGT or its compensation is used
land at market value may be                                delegated subcommittee (CAS) on  productively and for the
provided as an alternative.                                a spending plan for using the  benefit of aU family members.
money in a productive manner that A monitoring plan shall be
will benefit aU PAF members. This  agreed in tangent with the
plan shaU be submitted along with  spending plan.
the abbreviated RAP and kept on
file with the PRCU.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCEs MANAGEMENT                                                                                                       GOVERNMENT OF BURKINA FAso
16



General Description    Definition         Compensation approach           Compensation Mechanism        Implementation                  Monitoring & Evaluation
Loss of Residential    Includes abandoned  Based on drawings of PAP/PAF's  Prices for construction materials  Drawings and information on  The PRCU shall provide an
Buildings and Stnrctures:  structures as a result home and its related structures/  shall be based on the average  construction materials shall be  initial review of compensation
Greater than 5% of total  of resettlement or  support services. Average   prices in different local markets;  performed at the time of the micro- measures at the time of
area/structure        relocation, or those  replacement costs will vary based  costs for transportation and  screening. Average prices shall be  application for a micro-
which are directly  on the different types of buildings  delivery of these items to the  determined at the time of  project, subject to an annual
damaged by con-     and structures, as well as the  acquired replacement land or  compensation.                  review.
struction.          numbers and types of materials  building site; and estimates of
used in construction (e.g., bricks,  construction of new buildings,
rafters, straw, doors, etc.).  induding labor costs. Cash
and/or credits will be paid based
on replacement costs
Loss of Residential    Same as above.     Cash compensation for the loss  Same as above.                If the impact on the land/structure  The PRCU shall provide an
Buildings and Structures:                 shall be provided at full                                     is such that the remaining     initial review of compensation
Less than 5% of total                     replacement cost acceptable to the                            residential land is insufficient to  measures at the time of
area/structure                             PAP/PAF.                                                     rebuild the lost structure, then the  application for a micro-
entire land and structure may be  project, subject to an annual
ceded to the Project by the     review.
PAP/PAF in exchange for
equivalent land.
Loss of Residential    Non-owners who     Tenants shall receive assistance for Tenants shall be provided with a  Tenants shall be identified when  The PRCU shall provide an
Butildings and Stnicthres:  lease a building or  rent and moving expenses, but  cash grant from the Project equal  site selection is discussed within  initial review of compensation
Tenants                structure for       shall not be relocated.        to 3 months' rental fees at the  the CVGT/CIVGT for specific  measures at the time of
residential purposes                               prevailing market rate, shall be  micro-projects. Tenants shall be  application for a micro-
assisted in identifying alternative  provided with adequate notice of  project, subject to an annual
accommodation, and shall be   their relocation.               review.
provided with a disturbance
allowance, as deemed by the
Project, to account for loss of
income and additional expenses
incurred by moving.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOuRcEs MANAGEMENT                                                                                                            GOVERNMENT OF BURKINA FASO
17



General Description    Definition         Compensation approach          Compensation Mechanism         Implementation                  Monitoring & Evaluation
Temporary Loss Of Land:  Land that will be  PAP/PAF shall be compensated  All damages to private land or  Negotiations between contractors  The CVGT shal provide a
by voluntary agreement acquired for a set  for their (temporary) loss of  property including crops shall be  and landowners so that expenses  mediator/ technical assistance
between a contractor   period of time as a  income, standing crops, and for  compensated at prevailing market can be induded in the bid price.  if necessary to facilitate
and a landowner only.  result of the project  the cost of soil restoration and  rates including compensation for                        negotiations.
damaged infrastructure based on  tenants, if any, that includes
prevailing market rates.       rental fees and dislocation
allowances for when the
land/structure is inaccessible.
Loss of Business:   - Buildings and       Prevailing average market value  Compensation shall include (i)  Buildings and structures shall be  The PRCU shall provide an
buildings and structures structures for    for building and materials, in  provision of an alternative  valued at the average prevailing  initial review of compensation
income-generating   addition to cash compensation for  business site(s) in an equivalent  market rate given the nature of  measures at the time of
activities          lost businesss.                business area; (ii) cash      their structure and the prices of  application for a micro-
compensation for lost business  materials used in construction. Lost project, subject to an annual
structure reflecting full     income shall be calculated based on review.
replacement cost of the structures the business' past income records,
(without depreciation); and (iii)  or based on the average incomes of
cash compensation for lost income similar stores in the area.
during transition.
Loss of Other Assets   Fixed assets other  Replacement shall be negotiated  When possible, replacement shall The CVGT/CIVGT and the     The CVGT/CIVGT shall be
than land (e.g.,    with the owner and shall form part be of an equivalent value and in-  PAP/PAF shall negotiate prices  responsible for inspecting the
fencing)            of the construction contract for the kind. Replacement costs shall be  based on prevailing market rates.  replacement asset to ensure it
micro-project.                 determined prior to construction                              is acceptable with the
and included as part of the bid                               PAP/PAF within two weeks
price.                                                        of reinstatement.
Loss of non-productive  Trees/vegetation  These trees often have recognized  Younger trees may be replaced  No compensation for minor   The PRCU shall provide an
fnrit and sihade trees  that does not provide local market values, depending on  with trees of the same species, in  pruning of trees.  initial review of compensation
income-generating   species and age.               addition to supplies to support                               measures at the time of
activities, but are                                the trees' growth (e.g., a water                              application for a micro-
used for other                                     bucket, fencing, and a shovel).                               project, subject to an annual
purposes.                                                                                                        review.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOuRcEs MANAGEMENT                                                                                                            GOVERNMENT OF BURKINA FASO
18



General Description   Definition          Compensation approach         Compensation Mechanism        Implementation                  Monitoring & Evaluation
Loss of access to resouirces: Generally, common  Compensation shall be provided in Compensation shall be  Negotiations between the CVGT  The PRCU shall provide an
grazing land          lands used either  the form of access to other,   deternined based on negotiation  and the PAP may be mediated by  initial review of compensation
within a village or  equivalent grazing whenever  between the CVGT and the PAP  the PRCU.                      measures at the time of
amongst villages.   possible. In-kind compensation  for the current year only, and only                        application for a micro-
may also be offered, if agreed to  for the duration of time when                            project, subject to an annual
between the Project and the PAP.  lands are inaccessible; in other                          review.
words, if the project restricts
access at a mid-point of the dry
season, then the PAP may be
compensated for the remainder of
the time the PAP anticipated to
graze.
Loss of access to resources: Generally, common  Compensation shall be paid for  If land/sustainable resources of  PAPs losing access to resources  Any issues with regards to
materials (e.g., fruit,  lands used either  those resources that provide the  equivalent value are not available shall be identified and notified as  access to resources shall be
wood, herbs, etc.)    within a village or  foundation for lvelihoods -   for compensation, cash or in-kind  part of the compensation process.  addressed in the Annual
amongst villages.  whether these are used for     compensation shall be provided,  The CVGT/CIVGT shall take all  Audit, in collaboration with
domestic or productive use.    based on prevailing local market  possible measures to provide  the PRCU and the
rate for the specific materials, and  alternative sources of income-  Department of Forestry, as
the CVGT/CIVGT shall make     generating activities for PAPs,  part of CONEDD.
efforts to provide altemative  particularly those identified as
sources of livelihoods for the  vulnerable.
PAPs.
ENvIRONMENTAL REsouRcEs MANAGEMENT                                                                                                           GoVERNMENT OF BURKINA FAso
19



2.7          INTEGRATING PAPS INTO PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Oveninew
Integrating PAPs into decision making and project implementation is important
in that it as participation serves to engage those people who will be adversely
impacted by the Project, the likelihood for larger negative impact in the long run -
in the form of conflicts, social upheaval, and other economic impacts - is reduced.
Further, by integrating PAPs and gaining their support, particularly from
vulnerable groups, as early in the project as possible, the likelihood of developing
a sustainable project is also increased, as the community will take "ownership" of
the project. Table 2.2 provides a detailed plan to integrate PAPs into project
implementation.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                    GOVERNMENT OF BURKINA FASO
20



Table 2.2 Integrating PAPs (PAP/PAF/CAPs) into Project Implementation
Issue                                 Mainstreaming Measures                Responsibility for Action            Timing
* Participation of vulnerable groups in  * Review of existing structures for  * PRCUs to coordinate at the province  * From CBDRP/SILEM start
decision making sub-committees (CAS)  CAS/CVGT/CIVGT where projects are     level with inputs from CVGT/CIVGTs
of the CVGT/CIVGTs                    proposed for the first and second
Project phases.
* Promote vulnerable groups to        * CVGT/CIVGT, with oversight from     * From CBDRP/SILEM start /ongoing
participate on sub-committees (CAS) of  PRCUs
the CVGT/CIVGT as a pre-requisite to
funding
* Participation of PAPs in the        * Engage PAPs in conducting the       * PCU and PRCUs                      * Committees determined prior to
Environmental and Social Impact       EIA/RAP or Abbreviated RAP, if                                              project/ongoing
Assessments, and Resettlement Action  required
Plans                               * Develop partnerships with NGOs and  * CVGT/CIVGT                         * Ongoing
civil society
* Formulate committees for and by     * CVGT/CIVGT with assistance from the  * From CBDRP/SILEM start
PAPs/vulnerable groupsfor             CCTP/PCU
representation of PAPs
* Compensation/mitigation             * Public participation                * CVGT/CIVGT                         * Ongoing
* Notification                        * CVGT/CIVGT with village officials
* Documentation of holdings & assets  * CVGT with assistance from PRCUs
* Agreement on compensation & contract * CVGT to coordinate
preparation
* Compensation payment                * CVGT to coordinate
* Community compensation payments     * In-kind measures agreed by the      * PRCU                               * Ongoing
community, following procedures
detailed above (notification, etc.)
* Monitoring & Evaluation             * PAP representative sits on village  * CVGT/CIVGT with oversight from     * From project start & throughout project
committee to address grievances       PRCU
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                                                                                            GOVERNMENT OF BURKINA FASO
21



3           REDUCTION MEASURES OF POTENTIAL NEGATIVE IMPACTS
As discussed, is not anticipated that the CBRDP/SILEM will have significant
adverse environmental or social impacts, especially with regards to access to
resources in classified areas. Nonetheless, the Project's structure is designed to
address potential impacts at the earliest possible stage in planning; to provide
mitigation measures to address these impacts; and to provide monitoring and
evaluation at all stages of operation.
The CBRDP/SILEM's participatory approach and focus on capacity building,
particularly in its first Phase, includes the following elements:
a) Recognition and support to local organizations or customary groupings
of hunters, fisherman, women's groups and animal husbandry groups,
forestry groups, etc. through sub-committees of the CVGT (CAS);
b) Oversight of CVGTs at a provincial level, along with a stipulation that
funding will not occur without adequate inclusion and participation
from vulnerable groups;
c) Compensatory measures are to be provided for those who will be
adversely impacted by the Project, whether by losing land, residential,
or other structures, or access to resources that impact livelihoods.
While this document provides the process by which negative impacts of the
Project shall be identified and addressed, due to the demand-driven nature of the
Project, and that no micro-projects have begun - the budget and financing for
compensation and mitigation cannot be determined at this time.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT              G-OVERNMENT OF BURKINA FASO
22



4            CONFLICT RESOLUTION
4.1         INTRODUCTION
The potential limitation of access to resources as a result of Project activities,
along with a resettlement policy to find resources of equivalent value as a
replacement for PAP/PAF/CAPs may increase competition for and conflict over
existing natural resources. This is particularly true for pastoralists, who generally
lack customary land tenure rights in the South of Burkina Faso, and risk
marginalization. In order to eliminate compensatory measures that will provoke
conflict between the PAPs/CAPs, the Project must anticipate potential areas of
conflict. These include, but are not limited to:
* Damage to animal husbandry
* Shifting patterns of livestock trails
* Access to water
* Potential for increased brushfires
* Challenge for land ownership and land security
*  Friction between government policy of and customary rights played out
between different groups of people
General areas of concern are the potential friction between agriculturalists and
pastoralists (largely migrants), and conflicts between human populations and
wildlife.
4.2          CONFLICT BETWEEN AGRICULTURALISTS AND PASTORAUSTS
Depending on the extent of impacts, a certain number of conflicts may be created
or accentuated with the reduction of access to classified areas, especially in areas
of the South and Southwest, where migrants do not have customary rights. These
conflicts may exist for each site:
* Access to water points, due to competition for ponds and watering pools
* Increased risk for pastoralists in the time after the harvest, when fields are
at the disposal of the herds;
* Increased risk of conflict as a result of trimning and cutting trees in
villages adjacent to classified areas by pastoralists to increase pastoral
land; and
* With regards to livestock trails, migrant pastoralists who traditionally use
protected areas as a through-way to transfer cattle or other livestock from
one areas to another in the direction of other grazing lands or livestock
markets may attempt to reconstruct passageways through surrounding
communities if traditional routes are closed due to a Project, provoking
conflict.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                 GOVERNMENT OF BURKINA FAso
23



These potential sources of conflict may be addressed through preventative and
compensatory measures, and by implementing preventative and coping
mechanisms, to be determined as a part of the participatory process of
community development through the CVGT/CIVGT, with training and
coordination provided through the PRCU and CCTP, with support from the
Direction Generale de l'Amenagement du Territoire (DGAT), and DRED.
4.3         CONFLICTS BETWEEN HUMAN POPULATIONS AND WILDLIFE
The Project may also stimulate conflict between human populations and wildlife,
although these should be possible to identify and prevent in the early stages of
micro-project development. For all of the potential project sites, especially those
in classified areas, it will be important to consider the question of damages posed
by wildlife as a direct impact of the project, and means to address these through
either compensation (generally in-kind) and training. Some examples of these
may include the following:
* Access restriction for human populations to protect wildlife may have a
"backlash" effect, whereby the wildlife may have greater exposure risks.
* Any new micro-projects should not be placed in areas known as wildlife
corridors, to prevent damage and also to maintain separation between
wildlife and human populations.
4.4         MECHANISMS TO ADDRESS CONFLICT
Mechanisms to address conflict can be categorized as either preventative or
curative. At the preventative level, it is necessary to identify potential conflicts
and to attempt mitigation early in the Project, using a participatory approach,
integrating potentially concerned groups. These groups tend to be marginalized
because of their lack of land tenure and their reliance on an intermediary (e.g.,
husband, father, or host). Training through the project on mechanisms for conflict
management may also be required.
Under customary law, these groups are often brought together by the Council of
Elders, and are often open to discussions that include groups who are not
typically involved at the higher levels of village administration: women, migrant
livestock farmers, native groups who have recently arrived to the area, and youth.
The intermediary is responsible to explain to the newcomer the access rights to
local resources relative to communal and classified areas, and is essentially in
charge of their passage through the village.
In order to prevent conflicts, the placement of centers of communication which
incorporate the existing networks as well as establishing precise management
guidelines accepted by all parties involved (hours and timely access to water
points, seasonal access to grazing areas, banning of access agreed by all) may be
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT               GOVERNMENT OF BURKINA FASO
24



necessary. The agreement obtained through consultation can be an informal
setting or through official measures. The execution of mutual protocol includes
the rights and needs of each person as well as the Village Observation Committee,
sanctioning methods, etc. When a confrontation has already occurred, it is
necessary to involve institutions familiar with the key actors (after) having
reached a consensus on the issue, in the form of a simple recognition of the
offence by the party, compensation payment, and community service, etc. There
again, the proportion of social issues at the level of local government is essential
in order to for the process to be reached in an amicable fashion without
interference of local authorities.
The official regulatory process of conflict resolution is under the jurisdiction of
the districts and/or the Prefect. A large part of the litigation, and before was
considered "customary". The types of inter-village conflicts that escape treatment
at the local level occur by refusal of the actors to recognize a local authority. In
Burkina Faso, policies exist which relate to "alternatives for conflict
management"; they involve the selection of local representatives by the
communities and legal institutions, who are entitled to handle a certain number
of rural disputes in order to bring relief to the ethnic tribes that are in conflict.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                     GOVERNMENT OF BURKINA FAso
25



5           MONITORING ARRANGEMENTS
Monitoring arrangements through this process framework should be integrated
with, and based on, the monitoring arrangements discussed in Section 9 of the
RPF.
At the beginning of the project, the PCU should establish site by site for each
phase (a) Evaluation on status of each site, (b) Evaluation at mid-point of project
(c) Final evaluation at end of project. The key indicators are defined by each
phase. The base for the reference on the social impacts should be established at
the beginning of the project through public consultation and completed during
the creation of the village development plan. The baseline will consist of:
* Evaluation of activities in the protected areas, gathered from the
exhaustive list
* The evaluation of the PAPs according to the list of the PAPs, the methods
by which to contact them, and an index for the vulnerable groups,
* The evaluation of compensatory measures considered (micro-projects and
trainings for the PAPs; development and infrastructure for the CAPs), the
project timeline of activities, the protocols),
* The monitoring and evaluation of at the decentralized level for
transparency of actions, decision-making, procurement methods,
functionality of conflict management systems, etc.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                GOVERNMENT OF BURN NA FASO
26



