                                   Updated Project Information Document (PID)
                                                                                                   Report No: AB786

Project Name                       BURKINA FASO - Sahel Integrated Lowland Ecosystem Management
Region                             Africa Regional Office
Sector                             General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector (100%)
Theme                              Environmental policies and institutions (P); Biodiversity (P); Other environment
                                   and natural resources management (S)
Project                            P070871
Borrower(s)                        GOVERNMENT OF BURKINA FASO
Implementing Agency(ies)           MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, WATER AND FISHERIES
                                   Deuxieme Programme National de Gestion des Terroirs (PNGT2)
                                   Address: BP 1487 OUAGADOUGOU 01 BURKINA FASO
                                   Contact Person: Jean-Paul Sawadogo, National Coordinator PNGT2
                                   Tel: (226) 32 47 53/54        Fax: (226) 31 74 10          Email:
                                   PNGT@fasonet.Bf
Environment Category               B (Partial Assessment)
Date PID Prepared                  March 23, 2004
Auth Appr/Negs Date                March 31, 2004
Bank Approval Date                 June 22, 2004

1. Country and Sector Background
Burkina Faso, a semi arid country subject to low and variable rainfalls is one of the most vulnerable to
global warming. Land degradation and desertification are the main environmental issues facing the rural
economy, and have resulted in decreased soil fertility, the loss of genetic (biological and agricultural)
diversity, severe declines in arable lands, a decreased agricultural productivity, and deforestation. About 20
percent of arable lands have been lost during the past three decades, and yields have declined between 50
and 100 percent. The variability of agricultural output has also increased, thereby increasing the economic
vulnerability of the poor.

The government has developed specific strategies and action plans to deal with these issues of (see box for
details), which include: the National Environment Action Plan (NEAP), the National Soil Fertility
Management Strategy and Action Plan (1999), the National Desertification Action Plan (1999), the
National Biodiversity Strategy (2001) and the National Biodiversity Monograph (1999), the National
Program for Land Management (dddd), and the National Village Forestry Program (dddd). The focus and
proposed actions of key strategies are listed in the box below.

A common denominator in all of these plans is that they can only be effectively implemented through
decentralized institutions and grass-roots activities that are demand-driven and managed by local
communities. The recent Lettre de Politique de Développement Rural Décentralisé (LPDRD), endorsed
by the Government of Burkina Faso (GOBF) and supported by its development partners, confirms and
embodies the fundamental principles that decentralization and participation are pillars of sustainable
development. To achieve these goals, the base-CBRD program will: (i) strengthen the capacity of villages
and local Governments to prioritize, plan, implement, and maintain community-based investments; (ii)
provide decentralized funding for demand-driven and community-managed rural projects; and (iii) support
decentralization.

                                                                2
                                                                                                                        PID


        Box 1: Priority Domains and Actions of National Environmental Strategies



                            The National Desertification Mitigation Action Plan (PAN/LCD)


      Priority domains of this action plan include:
           ·    sustainable natural resources management (NRM)
           ·    improvement of the living conditions of the rural and semi-urban population
           ·    creation of an enabling environment (policy, legal, and institutional)
           ·    development of NRM competence
           ·    scientific and technical cooperation
           ·    strengthening the economic power and negotiation capacities of vulnerable groups
      ·    encourage process of participatory, decentralized planning

                             The National Strategy and Action Plan for Biological Diversity

      Proposed actions for the conservation of biological diversity are:
           ·    increase the participation of local communities in conservation
           ·    develop agro-sylvo-pastoralism
           ·    improve the organizational capacity and literacy rate of communities to better take into
                consideration conservation activities
           ·    intensify the search, inventory and collection of varieties of agricultural and forestry species for
                their conservation
           ·    promote political and administrative decentralization
           ·    preserve fragile or threatened ecosystems of pronounced global and national interest
           ·    strengthen the land management and land use planning process
           ·    put in place a framework for prevention of biodiversity related risks

                                   The National Soil Fertility Management Action Plan

      The main actions proposed are:
           ·    increased investment in the production of agro-minerals (rock phosphate, lime)
           ·    facilitate the processing of industrial and urban wastes into organic fertilizers
           ·    facilitate the transformation of crop wastes and residues into organic fertilizers
           ·    promote the participatory development of technologies adapted to various agro-ecological and
                economic conditions;
           ·    extension of adapted technological packages towards various social groups




2. Objectives
The project development objective is to strengthen the capacity of rural communities to undertake an
integrated management of their ecosystems, so as to reverse the degradation of their natural resource base,
and thereby alleviate, in a sustainable manner, poverty and vulnerability.

3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
Compared to other donors, the Bank and GEF are in a unique position to provide Burkina Faso with
long-term financing (APL) and nationwide support. Such support supplements the bilateral donors' IEM
interventions that are scattered, in limited geographical areas, across the country. This nationwide and
long-term support provides the Government with a unique instrument to better coordinate, monitor and
manage all IEM interventions.

The fact that this project supplements a national community-driven rural development program provides

                                                              3
                                                                                                                       PID


GEF with a unique opportunity to tackle local and global environmental degradation issues at their root
causes by providing support to communities to stop and reverse environmental degradation. By supporting
only the incremental costs of interventions, above the costs covered by the base project, GEF is also able to
help communities address such issues in the most cost-effective way.

4. Description
Using an IEM approach, SILEM will establish participatory systems for sustainable development and
management of selected watersheds in four pilot provinces and will build the national and local capacity to
support and replicate the experience nationwide. In the first phase, the Program will support an integrated
approach towards the rehabilitation of degraded lowland ecosystems in the provinces of                             Soum,
Sanmatenga, Kourittenga, and Kompienga. FN Key criteria in the choice of the initial provinces were: (a)
agro-ecological and socio-economic diversity (b) the importance of the province's watersheds to the
country as a whole and in terms of biodiversity, (c) the presence of the base-project in the province, and
(c) the degree of resource degradation.

Watersheds will be chosen during project implementation on the basis of greatest need, using both
top-down criteria (e.g. scientific studies and GIS data coupled with administrative input related to
priorities/plans) and bottom-up criteria (e.g. community resource mapping, community development plans,
and community willingness).

The project will be implemented through five components: (i) Local Capacity Building for IEM, (ii) Local
Investment Fund for IEM Sub-Projects, (iii) Institutional Capacity Biulding for IEM, (iv) Building
partnerships for sustainable IEM financing, and (v) Program Coordination, Administration and
Monitoring/Evaluation.

FN: Soum province is in the sahelian zone with a large number of animals and strong competition for the use of lowland
areas by pastoralists and agriculturalists. Sanmatenga is the northern sudanian zone transected by the Nalambé river with a
mix of agricultural and pastoral activities and lowland areas rich in biodiversity. Kourittenga is also in the northern
sudanian zone and with very high population densities and agricultural pressures, its resource base in highly degraded.
Kompienga has an overall plan for water management and dams, but not an IEM plan ; it is a province with a number of
important protected areas and high degree of biological diversity.


Component 1: Local Capacity Building for Integrated Ecosystem Management

The objective of this component is to strengthen the technical and organizational capacity of rural
communities and municipalities to plan, implement and monitor IEM activities. Activities financed under
this component will include awareness building and training on IEM concepts, land/water use planning, and
environmental issues. This component will also support the development of watershed associations. PIU
staff and service providers will assist communities and watershed associations in developing watershed
management plans and integrating those plans into village-level local development plans. They will train
community groups and watershed associations in the use of various IEM tools (such as GIS maps) to
visualize their natural resource base and understand the linkages and cause-effect impacts of alternative use
scenarios. The IEM approach will promote more ecologically sound local development plans and will assist
the base-Project in decentralization by encouraging villages sharing a common watershed to work together
to come to common sustainable development plan. The Project's intervention sites include 2 provinces, 4
sub-watersheds and about 200 villages in the first phase.

Component 2: Local Investment Fund for IEM Sub-projects

The SILEM Local Investment Fund will have two windows: one for financing village and inter-village

                                                          4
                                                                                                         PID


(watershed association) sub-projects (< US$ 30,000) and a special window (> US$30,000 ­ US$ 150,000)
to provide provinces with resources to undertake larger investments.

Village and inter-village window

In addition to the CBRDP envelope of $3-5 per capita per year, SILEM will provide funds ($2-4 per capita
per year) for IEM activities put forward by the watershed management association . IEM activities could
include micro-projects that are investment oriented (rehabilitation of lowland sacred forest), economic
incentive oriented (reducing the risk of adopting new technologies by providing start-up funds), or learning
and innovation oriented (dissemination of IEM technologies). Eligible activities could include:

    l promotion of zero-tillage and conservation agriculture in lowlands and adjacent uplands
    l testing and dissemination of innovative technologies for land rehabilitation
    l testing and dissemination of innovative agro-sylvo-pastoral management practices
    l support to biodiversity promoting enterprises (medicinal plants or lowland aquaculture)
    l rehabilitation and biodiversity conservation of lowland areas with specific cultural functions
    l protection of river banks against livestock damage
    l creation of arboreta and the protection of sacred woods
    l the identification and improvement of wildlife routes
    l the stabilization of the banks of fishing waters
    l establishing a local system for monitoring fishing activities


Provincial window

SILEM will supplement the provincial window of CBRDP with an earmarked fund to (i) provide
incremental funds for larger scale investments and (ii) fund province-specific studies required to develop a
participatory economic development plan . Examples of such studies might include surveys of species,
land-water use studies, or environmental business development plans.

Component 3. Institutional Capacity Building for Integrated Ecosystem Management

SILEM will support institutional capacity building for the creation of an adequate policy environment. It
will support civil society groups (NGOs, CBOs, , etc.) and decentralized government institutions that can
contribute to policy dialogues to provide incentives for adoption of IEM practices. The Project will also
build institutional capacity for high quality participation of Burkina Faso in global environmental
conventions and negotiations. The Project will provide organizations with institutional capacity, including
training (information, negotiation and conflict resolution ), equipment, and operating costs. The main
national institution to receive such support will be the National Council for Environmental Management
(CONEDD). Others will be local governments, producer organizations, private sector associations, and
NGOs.

With respect to policy dialogue capacity, SILEM will regularly support a NRM/Env policy forum for
dialogue between IEM stakeholders, Government, NGOs, producers, CVGTs, CIVGTs, CBOs or CASs,
the Cadre de Concertation Technique Provincial (CCTPs), private sector, etc. Policy action plans will be
issued each year and their implementation will be monitored by task forces or pressure groups. Policy
issues to be addressed by the forum could include: (i) Land tenure security; (ii) Improved access to
fertilizers, (iii) crop-livestock integration and (iv) incentives for time-lagged IEM benefits.

Component 4. Building partnerships for sustainable IEM financing

                                                       5
                                                                                                          PID




The objective is to build the capacity to mobilize national and international funds to address environmental
and resource management issues of local, regional and potentially global significance.

The component will (i) assist and train CVGTs, watershed associations, and community leaders in the
mobilization of funds for environmental protection and local development, (ii) provide training to central
and local governments to enable them to engage in global financial resource mobilization and environmental
negotiations, (iii) initiate contacts between the communities and environmental management partners (e.g.
private sector, NGOs, northern hemisphere cities, bilateral donor agencies), and (iv) assist the parties in
reaching mutually beneficial contractual arrangements.

This component will also explore (i) opportunities for partnerships offered by the Kyoto Protocol and the
Convention on Climate Change, and partnership through the carbon trade markets (twinning, etc.); and (ii)
mechanisms for supporting alternative sustainable financing mechanisms such as a desertification
mitigation fund.

Component 5. Program Coordination, Administration and Monitoring/Evaluation

SILEM will provide incremental funding to the CBRD project coordination unit and the provincial CBRD
teams to support the cost of project implementation. SILEM will also provide funding for the M&E and
impact assessment systems, with a particular emphasis on strengthening the environmental and natural
resource components of the base project. The monitoring and impact evaluation system will have the
following components: (i) an internal project M&E system, (ii) a participatory indigenous M&E system,
and (iii) an impact evaluation system that relies onscientific data collection.

Indicators for assessing the physical effects of IEM on land quality, soil fertility, biodiversity, carbon
sequestration and protection of international waters will be developed and measured periodically with the
assistance of research centers, universities, and laboratories.

Initial baseline data were collected during the SILEM project preparation with the census and
characterization of all lowlands and the construction of a GIS database . The information in the database
will be further improved during the first year of implementation to insure that it contains all necessary
information needed to undertake the monitoring and evaluation of the project.

The Project may also finance, on a pilot basis, the development of a natural resources account in
collaboration with the statistical departments of the ministries of planning, agriculture and environment.

1. Local Capacity Building for IEM
2. Local Investment Fund for IEM Sub-projects
3. Institutional Capacity Building for IEM
4. Building Partnerships for Sustainable IEM Financing
5. Project Coordination, Administration, M&E
6. Physical contingencies
7. Price contingencies

5. Financing
Source (Total ( US$m))
BORROWER/RECIPIENT ($0.00)
LOCAL COMMUNITIES ($2.20)

                                                      6
                                                                                                        PID


GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY ($20.00)
Total Project Cost: $22.20

6. Implementation
Institutional arrangements:

Oversight: At the national level, SILEM will be under the responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture,
Water and Fisheries and implemented by the National Community-Based Rural Development (CBRD)
Program.

Steering: A National Steering Committee (NSC), chaired by xx and made up of xx members representing
xx, has been established to guide and monitor the implementation of the CBRD project. The same Steering
Committee will monitor the implementation of SILEM, with the addition of a member from the national
environment protection agency (Conseil de l'Environnement et de Developpment Durable, CONEDD).
The NSC meets annually to (i) analyse the project results consolidated in annual reports, (ii) analyze,
discuss and adopt the annual work program and budget, (iii) advise the project team on the conformity of
results, annual programs and strategies with national policies and experiences.

Advisory Body: A Scientific and Technical Advisory Committee (STAC) will be established to provide
scientific and technical guidance on SILEM implementation. It will be chaired by the General Director of
CONEDD, and include IEM specialists and partners from national research institutes, universities,
government, NGOs and private operators. The STAC will meet each semester or as requested by any of its
members.

Implementation arrangements:

Project Management and Administration: SILEM will be implemented through the existing structures of
the CBRD program. At the national level, day-to-day management will rest with the national project
coordination unit (PCU) and at the provincial level with the operational units. The main responsibilities of
the PCU will remain to: (i) manage the work program at the national level; (ii) ensure that funds from
Government and donors are made available to the beneficiaries in a timely manner and in accordance with
the signed agreements with each donor, including GEF (as well as national and international private sector
donors and northern hemisphere community partners); (iii) provide technical support to the provincial
operational units; (iv) organize workshops at the national and regional levels in support of the project
objectives; (v) monitor and evaluate the implementation of the work program and its impact, and report
results to various stakeholders; (vi) undertake or contract out environmental and social impact assessments
of sub-projects; and (vii) provide required information on project implementation and impact to
Government and the different donors.

At the provincial level, the CBRD has 19 operational teams covering 26 of the country's 45 provinces.
The operational teams in the provinces targeted for SILEM intervention will be reinforced with the addition
of a team member specializing in integrated ecosystem management and will supervise the implementation
of the integrated CBRD/SILEM work program. The responsibilities of the provincial teams are to (i) assist
the CCTP in the coordination of the Program at the provincial level; (ii) provide support to the CCTP in
its review of village, inter-village and watershed development plans; (iii) enter into contracts with and
supervise the service providers hired by the Project to execute specific activities (e.g. training of
beneficiaries, participatory needs assessments, project proposal formulation, support to the execution of
communities' annual investment plans, technical and financial audits, etc.); and (iv) implement the
monitoring and evaluation system at the provincial level.

                                                       7
                                                                                                         PID




Project Monitoring:       Under the base-project, input, output and outcome data are collected at the
community level by the beneficiaries themselves and they are receiving training from the base-Project to
effectively carry out this task. The data collected by the beneficiaries is computerized, analyzed and
aggregated by the provincial teams and made available to the CCTP and the DRED. At this level, the
information is used to (i) review the work program (supervision needs, audits, approval of new investment
budgets, ...), (ii) improve coordination between development projects, NGOs and public agencies, and (iiii)
monitor development impact.        A copy of the report is provided to the beneficiaries for information and
feedback. After initial compilation and analysis by the provincial team, the data is forwarded to the
monitoring and evaluation staff at the PCU to be further aggregated and analyzed at the national level. The
findings will be used in the progress report and the national and regional workshops. In additional, to this
participatory monitoring system, the M&E unit of the PCU contracts with outside experts for baseline
environmental, institutional and household socio-economic baseline studies and impact analysis. SILEM
will draw on the procedures and baselines already in place, add specific biodiversity related indicators not
included in the base-Project's system, and strengthen the environmental impact analyses in the areas
specific to SILEM's intervention (e.g. land degradation, soil fertility, biodiversity).

Operational Manuals: The Project Implementation Manual (PIM) of the base-project guides day-to-day
project implementation and has been adapted to guide the implementation of SILEM. The PIM consists of
the following detailed manuals: (i) the Administrative and Financial Procedures Manual, (ii) the Technical
Manuals (guidelines for specific types of infrastructure investments), (iii) the Monitoring and Evaluation
Manual, (iv) the Local Investment Fund (LIF) Manual, and (v) the Environmental and Social Management
Framework. Any further revisions will be carried out during project implementation on the basis of field
experience, and as mutually agreed between the borrower and IDA.

7. Sustainability
Institutional sustainability is the main objective of the first phase of the base-Program and of the SILEM.
Considerable      resources   will  therefore   be    directed   to   institutional   strengthening. At  the
sub-project/community level, sustainability depends on the degree to which beneficiaries have ownership of
the Project. This sense of ownership is an essential goal of the participatory process. The contribution
required from beneficiaries to finance their local development (and IEM plan) helps achieve this sense of
ownership. Where essential and feasible, community contribution for recurrent maintenance will be a
condition of sub-project funding.

The program intends to ensure sustainability through local capacity building. Farmers will be trained in
IEM technologies such as soil and water management and improved agro-sylvo-pastoral practices.
Furthermore, an adequate enabling environment will be maintained by strengthening the capacity of
governance bodies to negotiate policy reforms with government.

SILEM also emphasizes financial sustainability by strengthening the capacity of rural communities to
establish financing partnerships with the international private sector and with governments of the northern
hemisphere.

8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The project design is based on various lessons that are also reflected in the baseline CBRD program. These
include:

Community-Driven Development

                                                        8
                                                                                                         PID


Lessons from past experiences in IEM clearly indicate that natural resources are most efficiently managed
when communities are entirely involved in the decision-making and control processes. This supports the
need for the CDD approach and for a substantial investment in capacity building to enable communities,
and in particular the poor, to participate in both processes. CBRDP and SILEM take into account the five
critical factors that characterize successful CDD projects: (i) good local organizational capacity and
community groups; (ii) the appropriate fit of technology to community capacity; (iii) effective outreach
strategies; (iv) client responsive agencies; and (v) enabling policies and government commitment.

The need for beneficiaries' participation in the identification, planning, implementation and co-financing of
micro projects, and the need to adjust the level and the nature of co-financing, are well known and taken
into account in the design of both CBRD program and SILEM.

Integrated objectives and ecosystem management

The integration of crop and livestock husbandry in lowland ecosystems will draw from experiences such as
the Pilot Pastoral Perimeters (PPP) Program in Chad and Senegal, which established, that proper use of
rangeland, with rules set up by the community, can improve rangeland and the relationship among pastors,
farmers and traders. The need to address land tenure security issues within an IEM approach has also been
taken into consideration by drawing on the land tenure security pilot of the CBRD program.

The need for long term commitment and financial sustainability is reflected in the long-term/APL approach
taken, as well as in the financial sustainability component of the Program that calls on sustainable
financing partnerships between the rural communities and external partners.

In building on the CBRD program, and by paying particular attention to IEM action plans and to
communities within the peripheries of important habitats/watersheds, the Program also complies with
recommendations of the Bank's Quality Assurance Group (QAG) : (i) the need to integrate biodiversity into
the broader national development agenda; and (ii) the need to focus on methods for addressing
socio-economic pressures in zones where populations are dependent on natural habitats.

By involving national institutions (e.g., PNGT2, CONEDD, INERA) in design and implementation, the
Program also insures that other recommendations of QAG review are reflected in the project, such as: (i)
the need to take into account technical and stakeholders' review; and (iii) the need to have clearly defined
goals and objectives so as to have well focused project efforts, to monitor progress and demonstrate impact.


Institutional sustainability and accountability

Along with CBRD program, SILEM builds on national institutions as a key for sustainability.                In
particular it builds on the local decentralized structures such as the DRED at the regional level, the CCTP
at the provincial level, the CVGT and other IEM sub-committees at the village level. The support to the
decentralization process and the land tenure security activities implemented under the CBRD program
provide a solid basis for institutional sustainability of SILEM. The Program also attempts to establish
financial sustainability by focusing on component of the project specifically on issues such as south-north
partnerships and other sustainable IEM financing mechanisms.

Along with CBRD program, SILEM builds on the lesson that all efforts at devolving authority to the local
level will fail unless local institutions are sufficiently representative of the local population. The
participatory planning process, which leads to the local development plans, and the local democratic

                                                        9
                                                                                                           PID


governance building process that results in CVGT and IEM subcommittees, are expected to provide the
required levels of representation and accountability.

Technology fit

A main lesson in agricultural technology development and transfer is that individuals will not adopt a
technology unless it fits their environmental, intellectual and socioeconomic capacities, and provides them
with substantially greater benefits and lower risks. It is also known that high time discount rates of medium
to long-term benefits from IEM tend to lower the adoption rate of related technologies, unless
compensations and rewards are used to provide sufficient adoption incentives. The local investment fund
and capacity building components of the Project take these factors into consideration by providing
incentives for technology adoption and by assisting rural communities, interest groups and the government
in the identification and implementation of needed reforms to encourage an IEM approaches.

9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
      Issues    : The base-Project has a category `B' rating. In fulfillment of the World Bank
Environmental Assessment guidelines OP/BP/GP 4.01, and in conformity to the recently adopted national
environmental impact assessment legislation, the borrower prepared an environmental and social
assessment during the preparation of the base-project. This report was prepared in consultation with a
number of NGOs working on environmental and natural resource management issues in Burkina Faso. It
has been available publicly since July 1999.

The SILEM Project is classified as a category B project. It will fund the incremental cost of activities and
investments to protect and promote sustainable management of natural resources of local and potentially
global important in the lowland ecosystems of Burkina. Although the project is designed to have mainly
positive environmental and social impacts, an Environmental and Social Management Framework (ESMF)
has been prepared to provide a guidelines for screening projects and identifying mitigation measures when
necessary.



10. List of factual technical documents:
· Inventaire des Bas-Fonds et Plaines du Sahel, du Plateau Central et de l'Est du Burkina Faso : Resultats
& Analyse ­ Rapport Final (INERA, December 2002)
· North-South Sustainable Financing Partnership Alternatives for Local Development and Natural
Resource Management - The Case of the Sahel Countries: Senegal, Mali, Burkina Faso, Niger ­ Rapport
Final (Lewis, Chantal ; September 2002)
· Inventaire de l'Agrobiodiversité au Niveau des Ecosystems de Bas-Fonds et Plaines du Sahel, du Plateau
Central , de l'Est et de l'Ouest Burkinabé ­ Rapport Final (Zongo, Jean-Didier ; April 2002)
· Etat des Lieux et Potentialités dans les Activités relevant des Domaines du FEM au Burkina Faso ­
Rapport Final (Ouadba, Jean-Marie, et. al. ; October 2001)
· Environmental and Social Management Framework, May 2003
· Resettlement Policy Framework and Resettlement Process Framework, May 2003

                                                  10
                                                                                                 PID


11. Contact Point:

     Task Manager
     Jane C. Hopkins
     The World Bank
     1818 H Street, NW
     Washington D.C. 20433
     Telephone: (202) 473-4540
      Fax: (202) 473 8229

12. For information on other project related documents contact:
         The InfoShop
         The World Bank
         1818 H Street, NW
         Washington, D.C. 20433
         Telephone: (202) 458-5454
         Fax:    (202) 522-1500
         Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop

Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not be necessarily included
in the final project.

