                            Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Updated)

                                                                                                 Report No: AC838
Section I - Basic Information
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 05/05/2004
A. Basic Project Data (from PDS)
I.A.1. Project Statistics
Country: BURKINA FASO                                        Project ID: P070871
Project: Sahel Integrated Lowland Ecosystem                  Task Team Leader: Jane C. Hopkins
Management
Authorized to Appraise Date: April 1, 2004                   IBRD Amount ($m):
Bank Approval: June 22, 2004                                 IDA Amount ($m):
                                                             Global Supplemental Amount ($m): 4.50
Managing Unit: AFTS4                                         Sector: General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector
Lending Instrument: Adaptable Program Loan (APL)             (100%)
Status: Lending                                              Theme: Environmental policies and institutions (P);
                                                             Biodiversity (P); Other environment and natural
                                                             resources management (S)

I.A.2. Project Objectives (From PDS):
The project development objective is the improvement of land management practices in targeted
sub-watersheds.

I.A.3. Project Description (From PDS):
Using an IEM approach, SILEM will establish participatory systems for sustainable development and
management of selected watersheds in four pilot provinces [FN # 4] and will build the national and local
capacity to support and replicate the experience nationwide. In the first phase, the Program will support an
integrated approach towards the rehabilitation of degraded lowland ecosystems in the provinces of Soum,
Sanmatenga, Kourittenga, and Kompienga.         Key criteria in the choice of the initial provinces were: (a)
agro-ecological and socio-economic diversity (b) the importance of the province's watersheds to the
country as a whole and in terms of biodiversity, (c) the presence of the baseline project in the province, and
(c) the degree of resource degradation.

Watersheds will be chosen during project implementation on the basis of greatest need, using both
top-down criteria (e.g. scientific studies and GIS data coupled with administrative input related to
priorities/plans) and bottom-up criteria (e.g. community resource mapping, community development plans,
and community willingness).

The project will be implemented through five components.

Component 1: Local Capacity Building for Integrated Ecosystem Management

The objective of this component is to strengthen the technical and organizational capacity of rural
communities and municipalities to plan, implement and monitor IEM activities. Activities financed under
this component will include awareness building and training on IEM concepts, land/water use planning, and
environmental issues. This component will also support the development of watershed associations. PIU
staff and service providers will assist communities and watershed associations in developing watershed
management plans and integrating those plans into village-level local development plans. They will train
community groups and watershed associations in the use of various IEM tools (such as GIS maps) to

                                                       2
                                                                                                         ISDS


visualize their natural resource base and understand the linkages and cause-effect impacts of alternative use
scenarios. The IEM approach will promote more ecologically sound local development plans and will assist
the baseline Project in decentralization by encouraging villages sharing a common watershed to work
together to come to common sustainable development plan. The Project's intervention sites include 2
provinces, 4 sub-watersheds and about 200 villages in the first phase.

Component 2: Local Investment Fund for IEM Sub-projects

The SILEM Local Investment Fund will have two windows: one for financing village and inter-village
(watershed management committee) sub-projects (< US$ 30,000) and a special window (> US$30,000 ­
US$ 150,000) to provide provinces with resources to undertake larger investments.

Village and inter-village window

In addition to the baseline Project envelope of $3-5 per capita per year, SILEM will provide funds ($2-4
per capita per year) for IEM activities put forward by the watershed management committees. IEM
activities could include micro-projects that are investment oriented (rehabilitation of lowland sacred forest),
economic incentive oriented (reducing the risk of adopting new technologies by providing start-up funds),
or learning and innovation oriented (dissemination of IEM technologies). Eligible activities could include:

    l promoting zero-tillage and conservation agriculture in lowlands and adjacent uplands
    l testing and dissemination of innovative technologies for land rehabilitation
    l testing and dissemination of innovative agro-sylvo-pastoral management practices
    l supporting emergence and strengthening of enterprises promoting biodiversity (medicinal plants or
         lowland aquaculture)
    l rehabilitating and conserving biodiversity of lowland areas with specific cultural functions
    l protecting river banks against livestock damage
    l creating arboreta and the protection of sacred woods
    l identifying and improvement of wildlife routes
    l stabilizing of the banks of fishing waters
    l establishing a local system for monitoring fishing activities


Provincial window

SILEM will supplement the provincial window of the baseline Project with an earmarked fund to provide
incremental funds for larger scale investments.

Component 3. Institutional Capacity Building for Integrated Ecosystem Management

SILEM will support institutional capacity building for the creation of an adequate policy environment. It
will support civil society groups (NGOs, CBOs, , etc.) and decentralized government institutions that can
contribute to policy dialogues to provide incentives for adoption of IEM practices. The Project will also
build institutional capacity for high quality participation of Burkina Faso in global environmental
conventions and negotiations. The Project will provide organizations with institutional capacity, including
training (information, negotiation and conflict resolution), equipment, and operating costs. The main
partners to receive such support will be the national structures responsible for monitoring and coordinating
the international environmental conventions. Others will be local governments, producer organizations,
private sector associations, and NGOs.

                                                          3
                                                                                                        ISDS


With respect to policy dialogue capacity, SILEM will regularly support a NRM/Env policy forum for
dialogue between IEM stakeholders, Government, NGOs, producers, CVGTs, CIVGTs, CBOs or CASs,
the Cadre de Concertation Technique Provincial (CCTPs), private sector, etc. Policy action plans will be
issued each year and their implementation will be monitored by task forces or pressure groups. Policy
issues to be addressed by the forum could include: (i) land tenure security; (ii) improved access to
fertilizers, (iii) crop-livestock integration and (iv) incentives for time-lagged IEM benefits.

The component would also provide incremental funding for specific studies required to develop
participatory economic development plans integrating IEM concerns. Examples of such studies might
include surveys of species, land-water use studies, or environmental business development plans.

Component 4. Building partnerships for sustainable IEM financing

The objective is to build the capacity to mobilize national and international funds to address environmental
and resource management issues of local, regional and potentially global significance.

The component will (i) assist and train CVGTs, watershed management committees, and community
leaders in the mobilization of funds for environmental protection and local development, (ii) provide
training to central and local governments to enable them to engage in global financial resource mobilization
and environmental negotiations, (iii) initiate contacts between the communities and environmental
management partners (e.g. private sector, NGOs, northern hemisphere cities, bilateral donor agencies), and
(iv) assist the parties in reaching mutually beneficial contractual arrangements.

This component will also explore (i) opportunities for partnerships offered by the Kyoto Protocol and the
Convention on Climate Change, and partnership through the carbon trade markets (twinning, etc.); and (ii)
mechanisms for supporting alternative sustainable financing mechanisms such as a desertification
mitigation fund.

Component 5. Program Coordination, Administration and Monitoring/Evaluation

SILEM will provide incremental funding to the baseline Project coordination unit and the provincial CBRD
teams to support the cost of project implementation. SILEM will also provide incremental funding to adapt
the M&E and impact assessment systems of the baseline Project to the added requirements of the SILEM,
with a particular emphasis on strengthening the environmental and natural resource components of the
M&E system of the baseline project. The combined monitoring and impact evaluation system (baseline
Project and SILEM) will have the following components: (i) an internal project M&E system, (ii) a
participatory indigenous M&E system, and (iii) an impact evaluation system that relies on scientific data
collection and evaluation.

Indicators for assessing the physical effects of IEM on land quality, soil fertility, biodiversity, carbon
sequestration and protection of international waters will be developed and measured periodically with the
assistance of research centers, universities, and laboratories.

Initial baseline data were collected during SILEM project preparation with the census and characterization
of all lowlands and the construction of a GIS database. The information in the database will be further
improved during the first year of implementation to insure that it contains all necessary information needed
to undertake the monitoring and evaluation of the project.

                                                                 4
                                                                                                                   ISDS




         The SILEM may also finance, on a pilot basis, the development of a natural resources account in
         collaboration with the statistical departments of the ministries of planning, agriculture, environment and the
         economy.

         I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key environmental and social
         characteristics of the area and population likely to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites or
         critical natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)

The Program will primarily support an integrated approach towards the rehabilitation of degraded lowland
ecosystems for Burkina Faso Sahel desert margin northern provinces Soum, Oudalan, Seno, Yatenga, Loroum
and Bam covering 36 829 sq km (13,4% of the country) and 662,129 inhabitants. However, the Program will also
be implemented and replicated in other provinces of Burkina Faso wherever land degradation and desertification
appear to be major threats from the viewpoint of rural communities.

An inventory of major lowlands across the Sahel and across the rest of the country has been carried out during
project preparation. A GIS data base is being developed using the result of the inventory and of field surveys
carried out to assess the ecological and economic characteristics and potentials of the lowlands. Six hundreds
(600) village lowlands with greatest potential local and global benefits will be selected as intervention sites of the
Program for fifteen years of implementation. One hundred (100) sites will be covered during the first phase
(2003-2006), followed by 200 sites during the second phase (2007-2011) and 300 sites during the third phase
(2012-2017).

The Program will give priority to lowlands and related micro-basins and watersheds of rural communities living
around natural habitats of global importance (150 kms radius) in order to provide the latter with knowledge,
technologies and resources to prevent or reduce the destruction of the natural habitats. In particular priority will
be given to communities living around officially protected habitats such as the Northern Sahel sylvo-pastoral and
wildlife reserve, the protected natural habitats on the central Mossi plateau, in the Eastern, Southern and
Western provinces of the country. Protected habitats of interest are mainly those located in the following
provinces: Soum, Seno, Oudalan, Mohoun, Sanmatenga, Passoré, Ganzourgou, Oubritenga, Boulgou,
Bougouriba, Comoé, Houet, and Poni. Attention will also be given to communities living around protected wildlife
reserves such as the wildlfe reserves of Arly, Madjoari, Singou, Bontioli, Kourtiagou, Pama, and Nabéré in the
provinces of Tapoa (including the W park), Gourma and Bougouriba, including wildlife reserves covered under
the Partnership for Natural Ecosystems Program (PAGEN).


         B. Check Environmental Classification: B (Partial Assessment)

         Comments:

The SILEM Project is a GEF window within the base project (CBRDP) which is classified as "B" category project.
This SILEM project will be funding mainly supplemental activities and investments to protect and promote local and
global natural resources and the environment in general in the lowland ecosystems of Burkina Faso. In particular,
the project supports preventive measures and local investments to protect and improve natural habitats,
biodiversity, carbon sinks, and international waters.

Although it is designed to have mainly positive environmental and social impacts at its intervention sites, the
project activity domains may trigger some of the safeguard policies listed in section C below:


         C. Safeguard Policies Triggered (from PDS)
         (click on   for a detailed desciption or click on the policy number for a brief description)
                                              Policy                                           Triggered
             Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)                         Yes     No
             Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                                 Yes     No

                                                                 5
                                                                                                                ISDS


             Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                                  Yes  No
             Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                    Yes  No
             Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                                Yes  No
             Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                                 Yes  No
             Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                                        Yes  No
             Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                                            Yes  No
             Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)                 Yes  No
             Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*                      Yes  No



         Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
         D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions. If information is not available,
         describe steps to be taken to obtain necessary data.

         II.D.1a. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. Identify and describe
         any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts.

Environmental Assessment: The SILEM project is not likely to have any major negative impacts on the
environment. However, an environment management framework (EMF) will be prepared to address any
unexpected negative environmental impacts during the project implementation stage.

Natural Habitats: Since GEF does not fund projects which impact negatively on natural habitats, the SILEM will
not support any activities that will result in tempering of natural habitats.

Forestry: According to OP 4.36, "forest policy is triggered by forest sector activities and other Bank sponsored
interventions which have the potential to impact significantly upon forest areas". In SILEM case, the focus is on
promoting agro-forestry in farmers field. Therefore this policy is not likely to be triggered.

Pest Management: SILEM does not involve the direct promotion or support the use of pesticides.

Cultural Property: The project will not have a negative impact on any national or international cultural heritage
or property.

Indigenous People: Not applicable.

Involuntary Resettlement: The projects will not involve any activities that displace people involuntarily, because
of the participatory processes put in place to insure that consensual and win-win decisions are reached to satisfy
all parties. However the risk of marginalization of the weakest social groups in the process by dominant groups,
which could lead to involuntary resettlement of the weakest groups persists and may need to be monitored.
Aresettlement policy framework (RPF) has been prepared to ensure that, if any of the above happens, the
requisite plans will be prepared. A process framework has also been prepared to deal with potential lack of
access to natural resources by local communities.

Safety of Dams: SILEM does not support the construction of dams.

Projects in International Waters: The Project will not divert or obstruct the free flow of international waters, it
will on the contrary support activities aiming at protecting international waterways and removing obstacles so as
to permit free flow of waters.

Projects in Disputed Areas: The project area does not include any disputed territory as defined in
BP/GP/OP/7.60.

                                                                6
                                                                                                                    ISDS


         II.D.1b. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of more than one safeguard policy or
         due to multiple project component.

All the activities proposed in the proposed project are geared towards protection and conservation of natural
resources and environment, and thus in principle, the project is not expected to have any significant negative
cumulative potential impacts on the environment.

         II.D.1c Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future activities in the project area.
Described in the previous section.

         II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if required)


         II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
         Provisions made by the baseline Project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies are as
         follows, and apply equally to SILEM:

         Environmental Assessment: The base project (CBRDP) is classified as Category B. The Environmental
         and Social Management Framework (ESMF), which addresses projects that are comprised of numerous,
         small and not fully specified micro-projects, examined the project's potential negative and positive impacts
         and recommended measures to address them, in line with BP/GP/OP 4.01 (as discussed in section 5 above).

         Involuntary Resettlement: The projects will not involve any activities that displace people involuntarily,
         however it may restrict people's access to resources within protected areas, therefore a Process Framework
         was prepared. A Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF) was also prepared to protect populations likely to
         be affected by land acquisition.

         II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and disclosure on safeguard
         policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.

The base project CBRDP and the supplemental project SILEM have been designed to be broadly participatory at
all levels, and first and foremost at the community-level. Well known participatory needs assessment techniques
will be applied to involve the maximum number of beneficiaries in the selection of investment sub-projects and
capacity building activities. The ESMF, the Process Framework and the RPF have been disclosed in the country
and at the World Bank Infoshop.

         E. Safeguards Classification (select in SAP). Category is determined by the highest impact in any policy. Or
         on basis of cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards. Whenever an individual safeguard policy is
         triggered the provisions of that policy apply.

         [ ] S1. ­ Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or significant technical and institutional risks in
                   management of one or more safeguard areas
         [X] S2. ­ One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are limited in their impact and are
                   technically and institutionally manageable
         [ ] S3. ­ No safeguard issues
         [ ] SF. ­ Financial intermediary projects, social development funds, community driven development or similar
                   projects which require a safeguard framework or programmatic approach to address safeguard
                   issues.

                                                      7
                                                                                                    ISDS




F. Disclosure Requirements

Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management Plan:                        Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                              4/15/2003       8/7/2003
Date of "in-country" disclosure                                          5/9/2003        7/30/2003
Date of submission to InfoShop                                           5/9/2003        8/15/2003
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the Executive        Not Applicable Not Applicable
Directors (For category A projects)

Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:                                       Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                              4/15/2003       8/7/2003
Date of "in-country" disclosure                                          5/9/2003        7/30/2003
Date of submission to InfoShop                                           5/9/2003        8/15/2003

Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:                            Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                              Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                                          Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                                           Not Applicable Not Applicable

Pest Management Plan:                                                     Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                              Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                                          Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                                           Not Applicable Not Applicable

Dam Safety Management Plan:                                               Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                              Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                                          Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                                           Not Applicable Not Applicable
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please explain why.

Signed and submitted by               Name                                               Date
Task Team Leader:                     Jane C. Hopkins                                    04/30/2004

Project Safeguards Specialists 1:     Kristine Ivarsdotter                               05/01/2004
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:

Approved by:                         Name                                                Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: Serigne Omar Fye                                        05/01/2004
Comments




Sector Manager                        Mary A. Barton-Dock                                04/30/2004
Comments

8
     ISDS

