                                          Document of
                                      The World Bank




                                                             Report No: ICR00001787



                 IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                   (TF-53855)

                                            ON A

                                          GRANT

                           IN THE AMOUNT OF US$4.5 MILLION

                                    TO BURKINA FASO

                                           FOR A

         SAHEL INTEGRATED LOWLAND ECOSYSTEM MANAGEMENT PROJECT


                                      AUGUST 31, 2011




Environment and Natural Resources Management Unit
Sustainable Development Department
Western Francophone Africa 2 – AFCF2
Africa Region
                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                       (Exchange Rate Effective 12/30/2010)
                          Currency Unit = CFA Franc (CFAF)
                          490.12 CFAF = US$1

                                 FISCAL YEAR
                             January 1 – December 31

                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

APL     Adaptable Program Loan
CBRD    Community Based Rural Development
CCIV    Cadre de Concertation Inter-Villageoise (Inter-Village Sub-Watershed Management Committee)
CDD     Community Driven Development
CDM     Clean Development Mechanism
CPAT    Provincial Commission for Land Administration (Commission Provinciale de l’Aménagement du
        Territoire)
CPP     Country Partnership Project
CVD     Village Development Council (Conseil Villageois de Développement)
CVGT    Village Land Management Committee (Commission Villageoise de Gestion du Territoire)
FM      Financial Management
GEF     Global Environment Fund
GEO     Global Environmental Objective
ICR     Implementation Completion Report
IEM     Integrated Ecosystem Management
IOI     Intermediate Outcome Indicators
ISR     Implementation Supervision Report
KPI     Key Performance Indicators
LIF     Local Investment Fund
M&E     Monitoring and Evaluation
PAD     Project Appraisal Document
PCD     Community Development Plan (Plan Communal de Développement)
PCT     Provincial Coordination Team
PDO     Project Development Objective
PGIE    Sub-watershed plan (Plan de Gestion Intégrée des Ecosystèmes)
PIM     Project Implementation Manual
PIU     Project Implementation Unit
PNGT2   Deuxieme Programme National de Gestion des Terroits
UNDP    United Nations Development Program




                       Vice President:        Obiageli K. Ezekwesili
                     Country Director:        Galina Y. Sotirova
                      Sector Manager:         Idah Pswarayi-Riddihough
                 Project Team Leader:         Emmanuel Y. Nikiema
                    ICR Team Leader:          Dahlia Lotayef
                                                              Burkina Faso

                          Sahel Integrated Lowland Ecosystem Management Project


                                                               CONTENTS

Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

1. Project Context, Global Environment Objectives and Design ............................................................ 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ....................................................................... 5
3. Assessment of Outcomes ................................................................................................................... 14
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ................................................................................. 23
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance .............................................................................. 24
6. Lessons Learned ................................................................................................................................ 26
Annex 1.    Project Costs and Financing................................................................................................ 28
Annex 2.    Outputs by Component ....................................................................................................... 29
Annex 3.    Economic and Financial Analysis ....................................................................................... 37
Annex 4.    Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes .................................. 41
Annex 5.    Beneficiary Survey Results ................................................................................................. 43
Annex 6.    Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ........................................................................ 45
Annex 7.    Summary of Borrower’s ICR .............................................................................................. 46
Annex 8.    Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ............................................. 56
Annex 9.    List of Supporting Documents ............................................................................................ 57
A. Basic Information
                                                                            Sahel Integrated
Country:                Burkina Faso              Project Name:             Lowland Ecosystem
                                                                            Management
Project ID:             P070871                   L/C/TF Number(s):         TF-53855
ICR Date:               08/31/2011                ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                            GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     APL                       Borrower:
                                                                            BURKINA FASO
Original Total
                        USD 4.50M                 Disbursed Amount:         USD 4.50M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 4.50M
Environmental Category: B                         Global Focal Area: M
Implementing Agencies:
 Coordination Nationale PNGT2
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                    Revised / Actual
     Process              Date              Process              Original Date
                                                                                        Date(s)
Concept Review:       03/27/2002       Effectiveness:             12/31/2004           12/22/2004
Appraisal:            04/19/2004       Restructuring(s):
Approval:             06/22/2004       Mid-term Review:           05/14/2007           05/14/2007
                                       Closing:                   12/31/2009           12/31/2010

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                         Satisfactory
Risk to Global Environment Outcome                Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                                 Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                             Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
         Bank                 Ratings                 Borrower                       Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:                         Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory                                  Highly Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Moderately Satisfactory                                     Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:




                                                  i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                            Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                          Quality at Entry
                           No                                               None
at any time (Yes/No):                               (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                             Quality of
                          No                                                None
time (Yes/No):                                      Supervision (QSA):
GEO rating before
                          Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                   Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                      15                  15
General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector                       50                  50
Other social services                                                  15                  15
Sub-national government administration                                 20                  20


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Biodiversity                                                           25                  25
Environmental policies and institutions                                24                  24
Other environment and natural resources management                     13                  13
Other rural development                                                25                  25
Participation and civic engagement                                     13                  13

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:           Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili             Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:         Galina Y. Sotirova                     A. David Craig
Sector Manager:           Idah Z. Pswarayi-Riddihough            Mary A. Barton-Dock
Project Team Leader:      Emmanuel Y. Nikiema                    Jane C. Hopkins
ICR Team Leader:          Dahlia Lotayef
ICR Primary Author:       Sylke Von Thadden




                                                   ii
F. Results Framework Analysis
Global Environment Objectives (GEO) and Key Indicators(as approved)
The global environment objective (GEO) is the sustainable conservation of biological and
agricultural diversity and the rehabilitation of soil and water resources in targeted
watersheds.

  The project development objective (PDO) is to improve the resource management
practices in targeted sub-watersheds through an integrated ecosystem management
approach.

  The objective of the project in the Global Environment Facility Trust Fund (GEF TF)
Grant Agreement does not specify whether it refers to the project's GEO or PDO. The
wording of the project objective in the Grant Agreement is different from both the PDO
and the GEO in the PAD. The GEF TF Grant Agreement#s objective of the project as
stated in the grant agreement was to strengthen the capacity of rural communities to
undertake an integrated management of their ecosystems, so as to reverse the degradation
of their natural resource base, and thereby alleviate, in a sustainable manner, poverty and
vulnerability [see section 5]. This difference in the way project objectives were stated in
the PAD and corresponding legal documents was not uncommon in this generation of
projects, with the objectives in the Agreements generally being shorter or more precise
versions of the more elaborate PAD descriptions. The Project will be assessed against the
PDO as defined in the PAD and stated above as this was the objective that the
government assessed project progress against during implementation. The ICR will
assess the impact and sustainability based on the PDO, which is what the project was
expected to achieve and not against the GEO which is a longer term objective, and was
intended to be achieved over a span of 15 years through a program.

Revised Global Environment Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
and Key Indicators and reasons/justifications
The project development objective remained unchanged.

  The PDO indicators are based on the Key Performance Indicators (KPI) identified in
the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) and linked to the project development objectives
[PAD, Annex 1. pg. 32]. They are also part of the six performance indicators included in
the GEF TF Grant Agreement. The 2005 ISR did not include these KPI indicators. It
included indicators that attempted to measure the progress made in project
implementation in 2005 (ex. the identification of lowlands and the carrying out of
baseline studies for each of the sites). The PDO indicators were included starting with the
2006 ISR. Values to measure both PDO indicators were only incorporated starting with
the 2007 ISR- however, these were not always accurate (see section 2.3).

  The seven Intermediate Outcome Indicators (IOI) are also based on the KPIs in the
PAD. They are classified as output indicators that are linked to the project components
[Annex 1. pg. 33]. Three of these indicators [IOI 1, IOI 3 and IOI 4.1] are aligned with
the performance indicators in the GEF TF Grant Agreement; however, the formulation of
two of the indicators [IOI 1 and IOI 4.1] is different than that of the performance
indicators in the Grant Agreement. The values contained in the ISRs are at times not


                                            iii
consistent with the point system that was to be applied (as defined in the PAD). Hence,
for the ICR, the actual values achieved at completion of the project were complemented
with information obtained by from the PIU.

(a) GEO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target    Formally        Actual Value
                                               Values (from      Revised         Achieved at
   Indicator            Baseline Value
                                                 approval        Target        Completion or
                                               documents)        Values         Target Years
                   % increase in index measuring comprehension and adoption of IEM (integrated
Indicator 1 :
                   ecosystem management) approach by targeted communities = X
Value
(quantitative or   0%                       Not defined                       Not available
Qualitative)
Date achieved      05/26/2004               12/31/2010                        12/31/2010
Comments
                   Target never defined or measured. An index to measure the comprehension and
(incl. %
                   adoption of IEM technologies was not established.
achievement)
                   Number of technologies and innovative IEM mechanisms adopted by targeted
Indicator 2 :      communities in each targeted Province = 2 [Adopted implies that 10 farmers are
                   using it in > 50% of their exploitation]
Value
(quantitative or 0                           8                                   11
Qualitative)
Date achieved 05/26/2004                     12/31/2010                          12/31/2010
                 Achieved above target. In addition to the adoption of 8 new household level
Comments
                 technologies in 2009, 3 collective technologies were adopted at the inter-village
(incl. %
                 level (collective river bank protection; animal route delimitation; landscape
achievement)
                 management).


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                               Original Target                   Actual Value
                                                                   Formally
                                                 Values (from                     Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value                               Revised
                                                   approval                      Completion or
                                                                Target Values
                                                 documents)                      Target Years
                   Degree of functionality of the CCIV (Inter-Village Sub-Watershed Management
Indicator 1 :
                   Committee) as measured by point system = 9 per Province, or 36 altogether.
Value
(quantitative or   0                        36 points                         40
Qualitative)
Date achieved      05/26/2004                12/31/2010                          12/31/2010
Comments           Target achieved. Representatives of each selected village selected. About 3
(incl. %           sessions of the CCIVs held each semester. 4 sub-watershed plans for each site
achievement)       adopted. Annual investment plans adopted.
Indicator 2 :      Number of IEM investments (micro-projects) financed and entirely implemented



                                                 iv
                   in each province = 35 (year 3) & 120 (year 5).
Value
(quantitative or   0                         480                               2971
Qualitative)
Date achieved      05/26/2004                  12/31/2010                        12/31/2010
Comments           Achieved well above target. A total of 2971 micro-projects were financed and
(incl. %           implemented in the four project sites by the end of the sixth year of project
achievement)       implementation.
                   % of completed IEM investments (micro-projects) receiving a positive
Indicator 3 :
                   evaluation : a) participatory review = 75; b) by project review = 60.
Value
(quantitative or   0                         75 and 60                         98 and 83
Qualitative)
Date achieved      05/26/2004                12/31/2010                         12/31/2010
Comments           Achieved above target. The technical and financial audit on the co-financing
(incl. %           agreements (covering the period 2006-2008) showed a 98% satisfaction rate and
achievement)       83% of projects were of good quality.
                   Degree of completion for the sub-watershed IEM plan as measured by point
Indicator 4 :
                   system = 18 for the 4 Provinces.
Value
(quantitative or 0                           16 points                         24 points
Qualitative)
Date achieved 05/26/2004                     12/31/2010                        12/31/2010
                 Target achieved. The coherence of the plans was ensured through the spatial
Comments
                 planning of the activities, which was illustrated on a GIS map. All sub-
(incl. %
                 watershed IEM plans were prepared and validated and adopted by the CCIV and
achievement)
                 the CPAT in 2005.
Indicator 5 : Number of new initiatives developed even though not all funded = 5.
Value
(quantitative or 0                           5                                 1
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/0210                     12/31/2010                        12/31/2010
                 Target not achieved; due to overly ambitious design given project#s limited
Comments
                 resources and scope. Investors had limited interest in investing in Clean
(incl. %
                 Development Mechanism (CDM) projects (novelty of the CDM and the
achievement)
                 uncertainty about long term returns).
                 Number of sub-watershed IEM plans and/or micro-projects financially supported
Indicator 6 :
                 by global partnerships = 2.
Value
(quantitative or 0                           2                                 N/A
Qualitative)
Date achieved 05/26/2004                     12/31/2010                        12/31/2010
Comments
                 Target not achieved; also due to an overly ambitious design as it required
(incl. %
                 mobilization of resources from the Carbon Fund, which did not occur.
achievement)
                 Degree of efficacy of impact monitoring system, as measured by point system =
Indicator 7 : 20 per province or 80 overall.
                 Data collection & analysis procedure designed and adopted for each of the 4



                                                   v
                   indicator (4pt), baseline data collected in year 1 on all 4 indicator
Value
(quantitative or   0                           80                                  46
Qualitative)
Date achieved      05/26/2004                  12/31/2010                          12/31/2010
Comments
                   Target partially achieved. See annex 2 for details about point system and
(incl. %
                   achievements.
achievement)



G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                        Actual
         Date ISR
No.                                GEO                             IP               Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                    (USD millions)
 1      12/03/2004              Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                      0.00
 2      06/29/2005              Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                      0.39
 3      12/29/2005              Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                      0.59
 4      06/30/2006              Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                      0.99
 5      01/11/2007              Satisfactory             Moderately Satisfactory               1.36
 6      07/31/2007              Satisfactory             Moderately Satisfactory               2.03
 7      05/01/2008              Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                      2.66
 8      12/01/2008              Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                      3.31
 9      05/26/2009              Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                      3.96
 10     12/06/2009              Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                      4.33
 11     06/26/2010              Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                      4.50


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                                    vi
I. Disbursement Profile




                          vii
      1.   PROJECT CONTEXT, GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT OBJECTIVES AND DESIGN

1.1 Context at Appraisal
1.      Burkina Faso is a landlocked West African country with more than 80% of its population living
in rural areas. Rapid population growth at a rate of 3.1% per annum between 2000 and 2005 has led to
increasingly higher demand for land for agricultural use and as a source of fuel wood and other wood
products (e.g. building materials), which the majority of rural dwellers rely on for their livelihoods.
Pressure on the natural resource base and the environment has been high and caused rapid degradation
from deforestation (estimated at 10,000 ha per year), bush fires, overgrazing and unsustainable
agricultural practices. Depletion of natural resources and environmental deterioration has adversely
affected local livelihoods, especially of the poor. About 45% of Burkina’s entire population lives below
the poverty line, which remains a predominantly rural phenomenon.

2.       In an effort to arrest and reverse natural resource degradation, the Government has developed a
number of demand-driven strategies and plans that are managed by local communities and decentralized
institutions.1 A key part of the Government’s decentralized rural development strategy is the three-phase
National Community-Based Rural Development (CBRD) program that aims to alleviate poverty in rural
areas by building local capacity to implement small investments to develop productive assets and/or
protect natural resources.2 The Sahel Integrated Lowland Ecosystem Management (SILEM) Project was
designed to complement this program by introducing a landscape dimension and an Integrated
Ecosystem Management (IEM) approach to local development planning. SILEM was prepared as a
stand-alone project but with a strong linkage to the CBRD program to which it: (i) provided
complementary GEF funding to the first and second CBRD projects; and (ii) was implemented through
the CBRD institutional structures already in place.3 SILEM’s implementation phase, however, is not
aligned with the first CBRD project (2000-2007) as it became effective only around the time of the Mid-
Term Review of the first CBRD project.

3.      SILEM was conceived as a long-term engagement aimed specifically at supporting the
Government’s efforts to address the deterioration of the country’s natural resource base. SILEM’s
design focused on involving local communities in resource and ecosystem management, which was
consistent with Burkina Faso’s national environmental action plans and conventions. The project
incorporated GEF principles, as described in GEF’s operational program #12, by addressing the focal
areas of biodiversity and land degradation, as well as interlinking IEM and community driven
development (CDD). The project also fit in well with GEF’s operational program #13 by supporting
conservation and sustainable use of biological diversity important to agriculture.

1
  The need to involve local communities in resource and ecosystem management is also reflected in the national
environmental action plans and strategies of Burkina Faso as well as in decisions associated with the Convention to Combat
Desertification (UNCCD), the Biodiversity Convention (CBD) and the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change
(UNFCCC).
2
  The CBRD program when it was conceived was a fifteen-year initiative to be partially financed by APLs consisting of three
five-year phases. The total cost of the first phase (2000-2007) was US$114.8 million, of which IDA financed US$66.4
million. The second phase of the program was approved on March 27, 2007 and is currently under implementation.
3
  The main difference in the components was related to the pilot components carried out under both projects. On one hand,
the CBRD project financed a land tenure pilot activity, which was not included in the project design of SILEM, while
SILEM’s project design included a pilot activity focusing on partnerships for sustainable financing for environmental
restoration and management which was not included in the CBRD operation.

                                                            1
4.      SILEM sought to “increase the productivity of rural assets (labor and land) through the
conservation and sustainable use of natural resources.? SILEM was, thus, likewise consistent with the
rural poverty reduction objectives of the Government's Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) that
identified the sustainable management of natural resources as a major principle. The project was also a
key element of the Bank’s 2001-2003 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) which identified SILEM “as a
15-year GEF-financed Adaptable Program Loan (APL)?. The program was divided into three phases of
five years each, of which the project under review is the first phase. The second phase was meant to
consolidate the first phase experience while also extending the program to additional provinces and sub-
watersheds. The third phase was intended to replicate the model nationwide. Funding for the second
phase was not secured and, therefore, the project has been terminated for now; however the Government
is currently exploring different options to ensure the continuation of SILEM’s activities over the next 2-
3 years (see section 2.5). The purpose of this ICR is to assess the results of the project against the
objectives of the first phase – which, in practice, lasted six years (2004-2010) due to a one-year
extension.

1.2 Original Global Environmental Objectives (GEO) and Key Indicators
5.     The Global Environment Objective, as stated in the PAD, was the “sustainable conservation of
biological and agricultural diversity and the rehabilitation of soil and water resources in targeted
watersheds?. The Project Development Objective in the PAD was to “improve the resource
management practices in targeted sub-watersheds through an integrated ecosystem management
approach?. As stated in section F, the objective in the Grant Agreement, “to strengthen the capacity of
rural communities to undertake an integrated management of their ecosystems, so as to reverse the
degradation of their natural resource base, and thereby alleviate, in a sustainable manner, poverty and
vulnerability,? is not consistent with the PDO or the GEO in the PAD.

6.    The project design, as outlined in the PAD, included seven Key Performance Indicators (KPIs)
that would have been relevant to all three phases of SILEM, however their target values were for the
project implementation period. To monitor implementation progress based on quantifiable outcomes and
outputs during the first phase, the PAD also included nine outcome/impact and output indicators that
were aligned with the seven key performance indicators of the program. Six of the nine performance
triggers were also prerequisites for access to subsequent financing for phase 2. All but one of these
triggers were taken from the list of performance indicators for the first phase of the project while the
remaining one was taken from the list of performance indicators identified for all three phases.4 The
triggers are identical with the Key Performance Indicators included in the GEF Trust Fund Agreement.

7.     Lastly, the PAD listed under Key Performance Indicators four “End-of-Program? indicators
which aimed to measure the impact of the program on conservation, biological diversity and the
rehabilitation of soil resources in targeted watersheds over the 15-year period with a first assessment
planned to be carried out towards the end of this project. These indicators are part of the performance
indicators in the GEF TF Grant Agreement summarized under one indicator: “Positive trend in an

4
 The formulation of the trigger “Number of sub-watershed IEM plans and/or micro-projects financially supported by global
partnerships = 2? in the PAD differs from the performance indicator in the Grant Agreement: “Number of new global
partnerships supporting IEM or carbon sequestration activities equals 2 in 5 years “.


                                                           2
aggregate index of plant and insect diversity, soil organic content, grass and tree biomass in three out of
four project sites in 5 years.? (An assessment of these indicators was carried out end of 2009 and is
summarized in section 3.2.)

1.3   Revised GEO and Key Indicators
8.     There were no revisions in the Global Environment Objective and key performance indicators.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries
9.     The Project was designed to benefit rural populations living in the vicinity of selected watersheds
in the four targeted provinces (Soum, Sanmatenga, Kourittenga and Kompienga), involving around
12,000 households in 120 villages.

1.5 Original Components
10.      The Project included five main components: (i) Local capacity building for Integrated Ecosystem
Management (IEM); (ii) Local Investment Fund for Integrated Ecosystem Management-Micro-projects;
(iii) Institutional Capacity Building for Integrated Ecosystem Management; (iv) Building partnerships
for sustainable IEM financing; and (v) Program Coordination, Administration and Monitoring/
Evaluation. The total project cost at the time of appraisal was US$4.76 million, of which GEF pledged
to contribute US$4.5 million and the Government of Burkina Faso US$0.26 million.

11.     Component 1 - Local Capacity Building for Integrated Ecosystem Management (US$1.03
million). The objective of this component was to strengthen the technical and organizational capacity of
rural communities and municipalities to plan, implement and monitor IEM activities. More specifically,
the project planned to provide funding for: (i) technical capacity building at the community level; (ii) the
development of effective watershed management committees, and (iii) training of community groups
and watershed associations in the use of various IEM tools.

12.     Component 2 - Local Investment Fund (LIF) for IEM Sub-projects (US$2.08 million). The
objective of the Local Investment Fund (LIF) was to provide resources to communities and provinces,
under two separate windows, for: (i) financing village and inter-village (watershed management
committee) sub-projects; and (ii) undertaking larger investment projects at the provincial level.

13.    Component 3 - Institutional Capacity Building for Integrated Ecosystem Management
(US$0.38 million). The objective of this component was to support institutional capacity building to
promote the creation of an adequate policy environment for the adoption of IEM practices. The purpose
was to provide training (information, negotiation and conflict resolution), equipment, and incremental
operating costs to equip local, provincial and national institutions with the capacity to integrate IEM
approaches in their development plans.

14.     Component 4: Building partnerships for sustainable IEM financing (US$0.17 million). The
objective of this component was to build capacity at local and national levels to mobilize national and
international funds to address environmental and resource management issues of local, regional and
potentially global significance. It would specifically seek to explore: (i) opportunities for partnerships
recommended by the Kyoto Protocol and the Convention on Climate Change, and partnerships through
the carbon trade markets (twinning, etc.); and (ii) mechanisms for supporting alternative sustainable
financing mechanisms such as a desertification mitigation fund.

                                                     3
15.     Component 5: Program Coordination, Administration and Monitoring/Evaluation (US$0.84
million). The objective of this component was to provide incremental funding to: (i) help finance the
cost of project implementation incurred by the CBRD project coordination unit and the provincial teams;
and (ii) adapt the M&E and impact assessment systems of the CBRD project to incorporate the added
requirements of SILEM, with emphasis on strengthening the environmental and natural resource
components of the M&E system of the CBRD project.

1.6 Revised Components
16. The components remained unchanged during implementation. However, due to difficulties under
Component 4 in finding partners that were interested in investing in Clean Development Mechanism
(CDM) projects, recommendations were made during the Mid-Term Review (MTR May 2007) to revise
the component and the respective indicators. But this was never formalized (see section 2.1).

1.7 Other significant changes
17.      Effectiveness and closing dates. The project was approved by the Bank’s Board of Directors on
June 22, 2004. However, it became effective only on December 22, 2004, mainly due to a number of
effectiveness conditions, which could not be met by the Government on time.5 The Project’s closing
date was extended in May 2009, with the Country Director’s approval, from June 30, 2009 to December
31, 2010. The main reason for postponement of the closing date was delays in disbursement following
climatic constraints. Low rainfall in 2006 and 2008 affected the management of many micro-projects in
territorial and water catchment areas. As a result, the implementation of the micro-projects had to be
postponed to 2009 and 2010. The extension of the project provided an opportunity for the project team
to allow the consolidation of lessons learned, to ensure the sustainability of activities, and to ensure good
linkage with other programs (for instance, the GEF supported Country Partnership Project (CPP) on
Sustainable Land Management). As part of SILEM’s fifteen-year program, these activities had been
initially planned under phase 2 and 3 but could not be carried out in the upcoming years given that the
required funding had not been secured.

18.     GEF financing. In order to meet the high demand for LIF micro-projects -- which exceeded, by
far, the initial projection of 480 micro-projects for the entire 5-year project period -- the Government
requested a reallocation of project funds.6 The proposed reallocation was expected to increase the budget
for the LIF from US$2.0 million to US$2.4 million by: (i) using all unallocated funds and (ii) reducing
the resources allocated for local capacity building for IEM and national capacity building for carbon
finance (Components 1 and 4). The rationale presented for these cuts was that technical training for the
communes had often been integrated into LIF-funded activities while the scope of activities under the
fourth component had been reduced. Since the amount exceeded the 5 percent threshold, the reallocation
had to be – and was -- endorsed by the Regional Vice-President.

5
  At the time of granting the extended period on November 9, 2004, the remaining documents still missing for meeting the
General Conditions [Section 12.04] were (b) the initial deposit of CFAF 20 to be made to the project account and (b) the
ratification of the legal agreement and issuance of the legal notice by the “Cour constitutionelle?. [See November 9, 2004,
letter from David Craig to Ministry of Finance and Budget].
6
  Note that the target of 480 micro-projects was based on the project designers’ assumption that communities would mainly
select large-scale sub-projects which were identified in the watershed management plans and available under the provincial
window (between US$35,000 and US$150,000) of the LIF. During project implementation, the communities selected mainly
IEM activities available under the smaller-scale village and inter-village window (< US$35,000) of the LIF. Therefore, more
activities were carried out than initially planned.

                                                            4
19.    Institutional setting. As initially planned, SILEM focused on providing training to rural
communities, community organizations (in particular the Village Land Management Committees
(CVGT) and the Inter-village Sub-watershed Management Committees -- CCIV) and municipalities.
Following the local elections for the municipal councils of the 302 newly created rural communes in
2006, the newly elected councils replaced the CVGTs by Village Development Councils (Conseil
Villageois de Developpement - CVD), whose mandate included contributing to municipal development
plans and promoting local development in the village. It took about a year to formally elect the CVDs.
Once in place, previous CVGT members that were taken over by the CVDs were able to continue
working with the project. However around one third7 of new CVD members had to be trained again,
which in turn led to some substantial implementation delays, notably regarding the micro-projects in
2006 and 2007.8

20.      Project Implementation Unit. SILEM was managed at the national and deconcentrated level by
the same Project Coordination Unit (PCU) and Provincial Coordination Team (PCT) as that for CBRD.
At the national level, one staff member of the CBRD program was nominated by the Government as the
national coordinator while, at the provincial level, the PCTs in the provinces targeted for SILEM
intervention were reinforced by addition of a team member specialized in integrated ecosystem
management and responsible for the supervision of the implementation of SILEM’s work program.
These institutional arrangements were reviewed during SILEM’s Mid-Term Review which
recommended the recruitment of a technical assistant to the national coordinator to strengthen the
project’s technical monitoring function and its focus on lessons learned and synergies with other
programs and partners. In addition, under the second CBRD project (2007-2012), the deconcentrated
project structures of CBRD were placed in regional coordination units. Given these changes of CBRD’s
institutional structure, it was decided during the Mid-Term Review to retain SILEM’s staff directly in
the four project provinces to ensure close support to the villages while keeping the operational cost low.
At the same time, the four agents were given greater responsibility in activity planning, data collection
and preparation of progress reports – tasks that had previously been carried out by CBRD’s Monitoring
and Evaluation Specialist.



            2.    KEY FACTORS AFFECTING IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOMES

2.1     Project Preparation, Design, and Quality at Entry
Project preparation
21. Project preparation took about three years, from 2001 to 2004. The Government began to prepare
the Project in March 2001 with the launching of a number of technical and scientific studies.9 These

7
  Based on estimates by the PIU.
8
  Long delays in setting up the CVDs were encountered in the Province of Soum in particular and, as a result, most of the
training of the new members of the CVDs was not carried out until the beginning of 2008.
9
  The studies included: (i) an Inventory of the Sahel, Central and East lowland of Burkina Faso: Results & Analysis - Final
report (INERA, December 2002); (ii) a North-South Sustainable Financing Partnership Alternatives for Local Development
and Natural Resource Management - The Case of the Sahel Countries: Senegal, Mali, Burkina Faso, Niger – Final report
(Lewis, Chantal September 2002); (iii) an Inventory of Agro-biodiversity at the level of the Sahel lowland ecosystems, of the

                                                             5
studies focused on GEF priority areas (biodiversity, climate change, international waters and land
degradation), and their scope of work was in line with GEF eligibility criteria so as to be able to qualify
for GEF funding. Most of the work was commissioned to local consultants and institutions. However,
weak management of the studies by some of the institutions led to a two-year delay in finalizing them.
The overall input of the studies on project design was mixed. The scientific work on the characterization
of lowlands and the GIS-based natural resource map provided an important input for the identification of
the project sites. In retrospect, the work on sustainable financing mechanisms carried out to inform the
preparation of the fourth project component on sustainable IEM financing was too general.

22. Given these delays, the US$350,000 in preparatory grant funding, which had been awarded to the
Government by GEF, had to be extended twice. Thus, the initial intention to closely align SILEM’s
implementation phase with the first CBRD project did not materialize, as SILEM became effective only
in 2004. In hindsight, however, this proved to be advantageous for SILEM as it was able to capitalize on
local institutions that had been put in place by CBRD and build on mechanisms that had been tested for
channeling investment funds to local organizations.

Adequacy of Government’s commitment
23. SILEM enjoyed Government of Burkina Faso’s strong commitment and ownership throughout
project preparation and design. The Project was prepared under the leadership of the Ministry of
Agriculture, Water and Fisheries and the Ministry of Economics and Finance with broad participation by
several other Ministries/Directorates (e.g. the Ministry in charge of Environment, the Ministry of
Animal Resources, and the Ministry of Scientific Research). A Technical Monitoring Committee was set
up (comprising the above mentioned Ministries) that allowed for effective institutional coordination and
close involvement of the Government in the design of the Project.

Key elements of project design
24.     Different project design scenarios were considered at the preparation stage.10 Though SILEM
was not blended with the CBRD project as initially planned, the complementary implementation of
SILEM was an appropriate decision as it allowed the Project to be more cost efficient while having a
greater impact on sustainable resource management in the pilot provinces. At the time of project design,
the concept of a GEF window funding an IEM activity together with a rural community-driven
development (CDD) operation was innovative, as this GEF window was a relatively new and innovative
type of intervention. Given SILEM’s focus on ecosystem management (addressing soil fertility,
biodiversity and desertification challenges), the Project also assisted the Government in the
implementation of key national environmental strategies and action plans.11

central, east and west highlands of Burkina Faso (Zongo, Jean-Didier, April 2002); and (iv) the current status and potentials
of GEF activities in Burkina Faso – Final Rapport (Ouadba, Jean-Marie, et. al., October 2001).
10
   One scenario entailed preparation of a regional program combining World Bank and GEF resources covering Burkina
Faso, Mali, Niger and Senegal. However, due to difficulties encountered in obtaining an agreement from all four countries, it
was decided that designing national projects in each of these countries, with the possibility of some form of regional
coordination, would be a more feasible option. Another scenario considered was to combine the project with the Burkina
Faso Partnership for Improved Management of Natural Ecosystem (PAGEN) but the different sets of tools and institutions
employed by PAGEN and the World Bank suggested that the combined program would be too complex to implement.
11
   SILEM contributed to the objectives of Burkina Faso’s national environmental actions plans, including the National
Desertification and Mitigation Action Plans (by encouraging participatory and decentralized planning), the National Strategy
and Action Plan for Biological Diversity (by supporting the search, inventory and collection of agricultural and forestry
species for their conservation), the National Soil Fertility Management Action Plan (by promoting the extension of

                                                             6
25.     The project design benefited from the experience and lessons learned from the CBRD program.
The key lessons integrated into the Project were the importance of: (i) using a CDD approach combined
with substantial capacity building to ensure effective natural resource management; (ii) a long-term
commitment (reflected in the programmatic approach taken) to generating global environmental
benefits; (iii) building on local decentralized structures to ensure institutional sustainability; and (iv)
properly tailoring technology and incentives for their application to community capacity.

Assessment of Project design
26.     SILEM’s Project Development Objective (PDO) of “improving the resource management
practices in targeted sub-watersheds through an integrated ecosystem management approach,? as stated
in the PAD, was and remains highly relevant to supporting the Government’s commitment to
decentralization, local empowerment and decentralized natural resource management.

27.    Project Components.The first three project components were designed as complimentary pillars
of a sustainable IEM approach, The core of the project, namely Component 2 was well designed and
highly effective. While Components 1 and (local capacity building and institutional capacity building for
IEM) could have been merged it appears that the team figured out how to implement the project without
being constrained by the 2 component design, but budgeting difficulties appeared during implementation
because of the overlapping nature of these first and third components. In retrospect, it would have been
more effective to have merged both under a single comprehensive IEM capacity building component
with several subcomponents. A similar conclusion was drawn by the CBRD project that merged both
components under CBRD II.

28.     The design of the fourth component (mobilizing national and international funds, in particular by
tapping into the Carbon Fund) was not well developed and too ambitious in view of its expected results
and available resources. It is however worth mentioning that the project design at the time of preparation
was quite innovative and far sighted to even consider such an activity at the time. The fact that it did not
materialize is not of much consequence. A key expected result under this component was the preparation
of two projects that would be financed through international funds (e.g. the Clean Development
Mechanism - CDM). However, the preparation team did not pay sufficient attention to the complexity of
such initiatives for which private investors needed to be identified and technical issues (e.g. land tenure
security aspects, M&E mechanisms etc.) needed to be worked out. The PIU did however manage to
identify one potential plantation project, but did not have sufficient resources to carry out the analytical
work required for preparing such a project (i.e., elaborating the evaluation methods for carbon capture
and the sequestration amount).12 At the time of project design, the international funding mechanisms
based on the Kyoto protocol (i.e, Carbon Funds) were not yet well developed, which helps to explain the
weak design of the component. In retrospect, a more in-depth assessment of the prerequisites for CDM
projects would have led to a more realistic design of this component which could have been limited to
knowledge sharing and sensitization on international funding mechanisms - as was appropriately
suggested by the Bank team during the Mid-Term Review. The weak design of this component is also
reflected in the costing table, in which only a global envelope was proposed for this component.

innovative technological packages) and the National Action Plan for the Convention on Climate Change (by promoting the
rational management of natural resources).
12
   One of the main outputs under this component was the preparation of a project note which was prepared jointly with the
Association of Mayors of Burkina Faso for the plantation of 10 000 ha of “d’Acacia sénégal? in 82 communes in 5 regions.

                                                           7
29.    The design of the fifth component (program coordination, administration and M&E) turned out to
be impractical because it was difficult to integrate SILEM’s M&E requirements into the already existing
M&E system and processes of CBRD, despite the budget available at SILEM to pay for the proposed
additional CBRD services. As a result, SILEM established its own M&E system but with little capacity
support until after the MTR when some of these design flaws were addressed and an additional staff
member was recruited.

Assessment of risks
30.     The PAD identified the following risks: (i) insufficient Government commitment to
decentralized decision-making and resource transfer to rural communities; (ii) low-priority concern
among communities about resource degradation; (iii) implementation risks for micro-projects due to
delays in the availability of funds; (iv) lack of qualified service providers and enterprises; (v)
insufficient level of commitment by regional and provincial authorities; and (v) lack of administrative
support by the CBRD project due to possible implementation delays of the second CBRD or even the
cancelation of the second phase. On the whole, these risks were realistic and the risk mitigation
measures were appropriate. However, three risks materialized that had not been anticipated. First, the
implementation of the LIF was not affected by delayed funding but by the impact of adverse climate
effects, which resulted in a postponement of the micro-projects to 2009 and 2010. Second, the
Government’s commitment to decentralization led to important changes in the country’s sub-national
administrative system; while these reforms strengthened local empowerment, they constituted a risk for
project implementation given the time required for the new institutional set up to begin functioning and
for key partners for SILEM (e.g. the CVDs) to be trained again in the planning and management aspects
related to the LIF. Third, the lack of private investors for CDM projects had not been anticipated as a
risk but posed a major constraint for the development of partnerships for mobilizing international funds.
A more careful analysis of the capacity and availability of private investors for CDM projects would
likely have helped to better anticipate the outcomes and associated risks as well as needed mitigation
measures, though carbon financing was a complex area with relatively little funding and limited capacity
to develop such projects at the time of design of the project. .

2.2    Implementation
31.    The implementation of SILEM was positively affected by various factors, such as:
32.     Government’s continuous support. At the national level, the Government of Burkina Faso
maintained its high interest and provided support throughout project implementation, as reflected in the
US$0.5 million in total counterpart contribution, paid in a timely way during project implementation.
(Most projects in Burkina Faso face significant challenges in obtaining timely counterpart funding.)
Throughout implementation, the technical services of the Ministries of Agriculture, Environment and
others, as well as the decentralized services, have facilitated the selection of the sites and management of
the LIF, as well as formal validation of the sites to ensure land security.

33.     Implementation capacity of SILEM. Though the implementation of SILEM was not fully aligned
with the CBRD program, the complementarity between SILEM and the CBRD Project allowed SILEM
to place its four staff members in the Provincial Coordination Teams and to capitalize on the network
created with local institutions and administrations already involved with CBRD. The Project benefited


                                                     8
from the experienced staff of the CBRD Project and most supervision missions were carried out jointly
for both projects to ensure that synergies and complementarities were further strengthened.

34.      High demand created for IEM activities. The demand for IEM activities financed from the LIF
increased exponentially during project implementation, from 86 micro-projects in 2006, when the LIF
became operational, to 1793 in 2008 and 2971 in 2010. 13 The successful implementation of IEM
activities was attributable to thorough participatory assessments that ensured ownership by and high
relevance for beneficiary communities. In addition, the “demonstration effect? of successful micro-
project outcomes increased the demand for IEM activities both within these villages as well as in
neighboring villages.

35.     The following factors hindered the smooth implementation of the operation: (i) the
installation of the new municipal councils following the elections in 2006 and the retraining of some of
the CVDs; (ii) initial delays and methodological difficulties in carrying out the impact assessment (see
the next section); (iii) the difficulties in identifying a partner for the CDM project; (iv) difficult
administrative coordination of the watershed plan in the cases when the watershed is shared by several
provinces which are in separate regions14; and (v) the unforeseen flooding (for example at the dam of
Kampelcezougo (Kouritenga), the lowland of Soalga (Kouritenga) and the lowland at Foulla
(Sanmatenga)), resulting in severe damage and degradation of several sites that were supported by
SILEM.

2.3     Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
36.     Results Framework. The PAD includes a log frame (used prior to the Bank’s introduction of the
Results Framework format) that contained a comprehensive set of outcome indicators (linked to the
PDO objectives) and output indicators (for each project component). With the exception of one outcome
indicator,15 all Key Performance Indicators included measurable targets. However, several shortcomings
in the log frame affected the measurement of the project indicators: Despite the prolonged project
preparation, the log frame lacked baseline data and annual targets. Some of the outcome/impact
indicators were either not well defined or inappropriate. The point system for two of the output
indicators in the English version of the PAD was internally inconsistent (as the points did not add up to
the total) and there were discrepancies between the point system in the log frame of the English and
French versions of the PAD. Inconsistencies also existed in the formulation of indicators between the
PAD as well as in the Grant Agreement.16 There were also minor differences in the formulation of the
indicators between the French and English version of the PAD – the English version of the PAD is used
for the purpose of the ICR.

13
   Figures were provided by the PIU.
14
   This was the case of the watershed that was shared by the Province of Kouritenga and Ganzourgou and by Kompienga and
Koultelgo.
15
    The PDO1 indicator “% increase in index measuring comprehension and adoption of IEM approach by targeted
communities = X? did not include a target value.
16
   The output indicators “Degree of functionality of the CCIV, as measured by point system = 9 per Province or 36
altogether? differed from the formulation in the GEF TF Grant Agreement “ Number of functional inter-village councils for
sub-watershed management issues, as measured by point system defined in the PIM equals 4 in 5 years.? Likewise the output
indicator “Number of sub-watershed IEM plans and/or micro-projects financially supported by global partnerships = 2?
differed slightly from the performance indicator in the GEF TF Grant Agreement “Number of global partnership supporting
IEM or carbon sequestration activities equals 2 in 5 years.?

                                                           9
37.    Impact Evaluation. The impact evaluation (based on the End-of-Program indicators) was
constrained for several reasons: First, there were delays in finding a service provider to carry out the
evaluation. As a result, the baseline values were established only in late 2006, a few years after the
project started, allowing a shorter observation period of three years (2006-2009) than originally
intended. Second, the evaluation was constrained by a small budget (limiting the number of samples that
could be assessed). It is also worth noting that as project interventions were determined through a
demand-driven participatory process, project sites and thus baseline values could not have been
predetermined and impact evaluation became a difficult undertaking

38. Similar to the End-of-Program indicators, the baseline for the PDO 1 indicator was established two
years late and the budget was constrained, permitting the team to conduct only a survey on a household
level and not a community level. In addition, the methodology for assessing the PDO1 indicator was
never provided in project design or during implementation. However, the PIU did develop a
methodology to assess the adoption of technologies and techniques used by farmers through two
simplified household surveys.

39.     Project Monitoring. Despite the failure to adapt the M&E and impact assessment systems of the
CBRD Project to the added requirements of SILEM, the M&E system adopted by SILEM proved to be
functional and captured the implementation of Project activities accurately and in a timely manner.
SILEM’s output indicators were closely monitored by its PIU; information on technical, physical, and
financial progress of SILEM project sites was collected regularly and documented in the CBRD’s
trimestral and annual reports. However, less attention was paid to the monitoring and evaluation of the
PDO indicators as the results of the household surveys were not assessed in the reporting documents.

40.     On the Bank’s side, the main challenges in monitoring progress towards the achievement of
project objectives was the choice of inappropriate indicators established during the design phase that
made it difficult to measure SILEM’s impact. Guidance was provided by Bank Management to focus on
the six performance indicators included in the GEF TF Grant Agreement,17 which were inserted into the
2006 ISR but without any measured values. The ISRs also lacked one of the key performance indicators
(“Number of sub-watershed IEM plans and/or micro-projects financially supported by global
partnerships = 2?).18 Actual values were included in the ISRs starting in 2007 but at times were not
consistent with the point system of the indicators as outlined in the PAD.19 Initially, the Bank team also
included the “End-of-Program? indicators in the ISRs but decided in 2009 to take them out again due to
a lack of data. Given the difficulties in monitoring these indicators, there was an agreement between all
involved parties, though not formalized, to discontinue the monitoring of the “End-of-Program?
indicators. In addition, the Bank team failed to monitor the PDO1 indicator and to revise it at the
beginning of project implementation. The information collected by two household surveys which
provided information related to PDO1 was available but not reported in the periodic supervision reports.
17
   See ISR 12/29/2005
18
   The fourth project component was supposed to be monitored through two indicators, one of which was also included as a
Key Performance Indicator in the GEF TF Grant Agreement (“Number of global partnership supporting IEM or carbon
sequestration activities equals 2 in 5 years?). However, only the second indicator “Number of new initiatives developed even
though not all funded = 5? of the fourth component was inserted in the ISRs.
19
   For instance, the KPI “Degree of completion for the sub-watershed IEM plan? is measured by a point system [a total of 16
points could be achieved] while the 2009 and 2010 ISRs stated “100? as “progress-to-date? which refers to the 100%
accomplishment of the indicator.

                                                            10
2.4      Safeguards and Fiduciary Compliance:
41.    Following the environmental and social assessment, the SILEM project was assigned a B
environmental classification. Two safeguard policies were triggered: (i) OP 4.01 (Environmental
Assessment), and (ii) OP 4.12 Involuntary Resettlement. The respective safeguard frameworks
(Environmental and Social Management Framework (ESMF) and Resettlement Policy Framework
(RPF)) were prepared and disclosed according to Bank policy.

42.    Compliance with safeguards was monitored during three supervision missions and assisted the
team in establishing an improved screening process for micro-projects. Based on the ESMF procedures,
which defined how micro-projects should be screened for potentially adverse social and environmental
impacts, the CBRD project and SILEM strengthened the screening process in 2006 by introducing
screening criteria for micro-projects in the new co-financing agreement with the CVGTs.20 Additionally,
in the case of micro-projects that may entail acquisition of land by the community a record of the
agreement (“process verbal?) between the involved parties was required. These improved processes
made it possible to identify activities with potentially adverse environmental and social impacts, as well
as to anticipate mitigation measures for micro-projects posing an environmental and/or social risk.
SILEM’s and CBRD’s improved screening process was presented at a training workshop organized by
the World Bank in Niger in 2010 and was recommended for adoption to other project teams in Burkina
and elsewhere (Niger, Benin and Togo).

43.     OP 4.12 was triggered due to SILEM’s activities restricting people’s access to natural resources
within protected areas. However, the PAD specified that the Project would not displace people
involuntarily. 21 Environmental and social mitigation measures were implemented to compensate
individuals, households and communities for land use changes or voluntary handing over of land.
Compensation was provided in form of compost heaps, stone edging, training on the “zaï? technique22,
improved fire stoves, etc. The compensation measures increased the motivation of all participants
involved in the micro-projects, (including the people affected by the project), thereby contributing to the
sustainability of the associated investments. The 2009 Environmental and Social Audit observed that,
for some investments, the respective compensation payments had not been made; this was mainly
attributable to a poor understanding of national and Bank environmental and social safeguards policies
by the different agents/stakeholders involved. Based on these findings, extensive training and
workshops were held to instruct regional coordination units and other actors regarding the completion

20
   SILEM identified a number of micro-projects that constitute the “nomenclature? for the eligible activities funded by the
LIF. On the basis of this “nomenclature?, the micro-projects are classified in two categories: (1) Category 1 groups the
micro-projects undertaken by the CVDs and where the implementation is done by individuals or households on their private
property but where the environmental and social profits are for the benefit of the community. This category of micro-projects
is not subject to environmental and social screening procedures. (2) Category 2 groups the community micro-projects which
require the acquisition of property either for private or community usage. These types of micro-projects can cause restricted
access to at least part of the project site. In this case, the screening criteria applied and a verbal process on the transfer of the
proposed investment site is signed between the parties. (Audit Environnemental et Social du SILEM, 2009).
21
   PAD, pg. 26.
22
   Zai is a traditional land rehabilitation technology invented by farmers in Burkina Faso to rehabilitate degraded drylands
and to restore soil fertility to the benefit of farmers living in drylands. The use of the zai technique produces higher grain
yields, particularly on highly degraded sandy soils. (INWENT/IFPRI/NEPAD/CTA, Conference Paper No. 10, The
Emergence and Spread of an Improved Traditional Soil and Water Conservation Practice in Burkina Faso, December 2003)

                                                                11
and usage of the safeguard forms when applying for micro-projects. As a result, the cost of
compensation measures had to be factored into the micro-project budgets, and the screening criteria
form for micro-projects was mainstreamed into the application procedures for and the financial
management of the micro-projects (i.e., they are a prerequisite for receiving funds from the LIF).23
Nonetheless, some challenges remain, namely: (i) designing a mechanism to monitor the implementation
of mitigation measures; (ii) more systematic consultation processes about compensation issues with all
stakeholders at community level prior to the submission of a project proposal to the LIF and (iii)
documenting the implemented mitigation measures in the monitoring reports of SILEM.24

44.     All Financial Management (FM) functions were carried out by CBRD staff, including
reconciliation of accounts, contracting of external audits and procurement processing.25 Financial reports
were regularly carried out and audited by independent consultant firms with no major issues being
identified throughout project execution. Review of financial management practices (including financial
accounting and reporting, flow of funds arrangements, etc.) was conducted periodically by a Bank
financial management expert who reported FM as Moderately Satisfactory for 2007 and 2008, while the
ISRs reported a Satisfactory rating for FM for the duration of the project, creating a disconnect for the
2007/2008 periods. Regular procurement reviews were carried out jointly for the CBRD and SILEM.

45.     Disbursement. The Project disbursed 100 percent of the GEF proceeds. Funds were disbursed
more slowly than planned over the first three years (the disbursement lag was at 30% in January 2007)
and this was part of the reason that the Project was downgraded from Satisfactory to Moderately
Satisfactory in 2007.26 However, disbursements increased substantially with almost all funds spent at the
time of the project closing and the Project was rated Satisfactory for the remaining years.

46.     Procurement was rated Satisfactory throughout project implementation in the ISRs.

2.5     Post-completion Operation/Next Phase:
47. Operation and Maintenance: According to the technical and financial audit, around 83 percent of
the subprojects (based on 497 micro-projects selected out of 1793 carried out between 2006-2008) were
judged to be of good quality and 15 percent of medium quality.27 Furthermore, recognizing that SILEM
will not be continued as initially envisaged, the Project trained and established Management Committees
to ensure the functioning, maintenance and supervision of all investments. Whereas the members of the
Committees work on a voluntary basis, there is a risk regarding their motivation over the medium term
given that revenues from most investments are expected in 2-5 years. The Project intended to provide
some income generating activities for the short term, but only a few Committees could benefit from this
given the limited funding available. One unique operational arrangement was made by the commune of
Kompienga, which funded the purchase of a motorized pirogue (boat) with SILEM’s support to control

23
   Mission combinée de revue à mi-parcours de la deuxième phase du PNGT2 ou CBRD II et de supervision du SILEM, 22
février au 6 mars 2010.
24
   Mission combinée de revue à mi-parcours de la deuxième phase du PNGT2 ou CBRD II et de supervision du SILEM, 22
février au 6 mars 2010.
25
   An accountant was hired to reinforce the financial and administrative service of CBRD for SILEM.
26
   In addition, the first and third capacity components were downgraded from Satisfactory to Moderately Satisfactory in 2006
due to the local elections in 2006 that resulted in delays in carrying out the training programs.
27
   However, an additional assessment planned in 2010 to cover the remaining years of project implementation could not be
carried out due to lack of funding.

                                                            12
the restricted fishing areas or “frayères? that are monitored by the village communities. 28 Most
communes that had also worked with SILEM made efforts to continue funding environmental natural
resource management (ENRM) activities (such as the development of feeder roads, the establishment of
a botanical conservatory, etc.) through the CBRD project.

48. Sustaining reforms and institutional capacity. Given the discontinuation of SILEM after the first
phase, during the last years of project implementation, the PIU and bank team focused on sustaining the
results that had been achieved thus far. There are strong prospects of sustainability at SILEM’s project
sites given the positive creation of awareness among the participating beneficiaries and their
commitment to maintain the sites.29 Training and awareness regarding IEM has also occurred at the level
of the technical services that have shared their experience with their respective Ministries. Some
concrete evidence exists that activities included in the sub-watershed plans (“Plans de Gestion Intégrée
des Ecosystèmes (PGIE)?) continue to be included in the Commune Development Plans (“Plan
Communal de Développement?- PCDs). A key success of SILEM was the formulation of land use rules
with the local authorities, which were translated into written contracts. These permitted project sites to
be farmed by an individual or the community and the benefits thereof retained. The successful process in
establishing land security for the investment sites caught the attention of the Directions Géneralé du
Foncier Rural et des Organisations Paysannes (DGFROP), which studied the experience of SILEM as
it prepared the National Policy for Rural Land Tenure 30

49. For some investments, however, prospects are at risk in the absence of further support. For
instance, land has been demarcated and land titles were issued for hunting sites, but without further
investments in the tourism infrastructure at the sites it is less likely they will generate revenues. Also the
success rate of the reforestation projects was estimated at 40%31 due to damage associated with animal
encroachment and dryness; this rate, however, is consistent with the experience in other reforestation
projects in Burkina Faso.

50.    Follow on Operation. As noted above, SILEM was designed to support each of the three five
year phases of the CBRD Project. Whereas all actors involved in SILEM (local governments, Bank,
GEF and beneficiaries) highlighted to the ICR team the important local benefits generated by the Project
and expressed great interest in a follow-up operation, no funding could be mobilized at the moment to
ensure continuation of the program in the immediate future. GEF’s expected financial support to the
proposed phases 2 and 3 of the operation has not yet materialized since utilization of the resource
envelope under GEF-5 replenishment (US$ 9.6 million) is still being worked out. These funds will be
available to all national institutions and actors (including SILEM) that submit eligible project proposals.
However, it is also important to note that the IEM approach continues to be strongly promoted and
implemented in Burkina Faso through the mainstreaming that has and is taking place. IEM is being

28
   It is noteworthy that the commune of Kompienga was able to fund this activity as it collects higher tax revenues than most
other communes. A key source of revenue for the commune is the electricity company that produces hydro-electrical power
from the dam of Kompienga.
29
   Both, the beneficiary assessment and the technical and financial audit highlighted the beneficiaries’ strong commitment to
the micro-projects and well as the good maintenance of the investment sites, suggesting the investments will be largely
sustained. (Etude sur l’appréciation des actions du SILEM par les bénéficiaires, Octobre 2009 and Evaluation de l’exécution
technique, financière et de la passation des marches des conventions de cofinancement SILEM/PNGT II 2006, 2007 et 2008,
Janvier 2009)
30
   Based on discussions with the PIU.
31
   This means that 40% of the trees planted had survived three years after planting.

                                                             13
adopted as an important tool in the second generation CBRD project and is also being implemented
through projects supported by other development partners as well. Moreover Burkina Faso has a very
strong history of developing and using IEM and it is among the core tools for improving livelihoods in
the country-side. Among the potential options that could also materialize in the medium term are the
following:

         Given Government’s strong commitment to rural development, it is likely that a majority of its
          future programs will be in rural areas with an increasing focus on adaptation to climate change.
          Synergies could be explored with these projects that should be able to build on SILEM’s
          experience.
         Opportunities could emerge to integrate SILEM’s experience in the Forest Investment Program
          (FIP) for which Burkina Faso was approved as a pilot country. With the support of the World
          Bank and the African Development Bank, the Government of Burkina Faso is currently in the
          process of preparing its strategy and priority areas of intervention to be funded by the program.
          The FIP seeks to scale up the experience and lessons learned from different programs that are
          underway, including SILEM’s experience in community and municipal forest management (e.g.
          the identification and the implementation of community micro-projects through financing
          mechanisms).



                                     3.   ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOMES32

3.1       Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
51.     The PDO continues to have high overall relevance considering that it is geared towards
sustainable natural resource management in Burkina Faso – a key element of the country’s decentralized
rural development strategy (as indicated in the Policy Letter for Decentralized Rural Development). The
Project’s global objectives, design components and implementation activities remain fully consistent
with Burkina Faso’s national environmental strategies and also fit well with the Bank’s Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS). The project design and implementation also offered other partners (e.g.
IFAD) the opportunity to test the soundness of environmental and watershed management techniques.
Furthermore, the project’s conceptual and technical innovations in sustainable land management
practices were commended by GEF, which also noted that SILEM’s experience would add value to
GEF’s monitoring and learning portfolio under the Operational Policy No. 12 on IEM as well as its Land
Degradation Focal Areas Strategy.33 Given that SILEM’s approach, which was relatively untested in the
context of sustainable land management, especially in Africa, it is noteworthy that the PIU was invited
to participate in WBI’s African country network for three years to share its experience and to participate
in the knowledge platform on sustainable land management and natural capital.

3.2       Achievement of Project Development Objectives
Rating : Satisfactory

32
   As mentioned in section 1.2, the assessment of the project’s outcomes is based on its PDO and key performance indicators
contained in the PAD [See Annex 1].
33
   GEF, Pilot Mission to the Government of Burkina Faso/WB/GEF project SILEM, Phase I, October 2010.

                                                            14
52.     The limited information available through the PDO indicators makes it difficult to be categoric in
assessing the achievement of the project’s objective (“ to improve the resource management practices in
targeted sub-watersheds through an integrated ecosystem management approach?). However given that
the project developed and promoted IEM planning and management tools, built local capacity to support
an IEM approach and created inter-village cohesion centered on a common interest in the protection of
shared watersheds, the project directly contributed to meeting the PDO. The End-of- Program indicators
and the two PDO Indicators demonstrated the following achievements:

      A positive trend in an aggregated index of plant and insect diversity, soil organic content,
       grass and tree biomass in three out of four project sites in 5 years. Though some moderate
       trends have been noted for the four End-of-Program indicators (with the exception of the wood
       biomass that was not assessed), the data is not robust enough to allow for conclusions to be drawn
       with certainty about SILEM’s impact on conservation, biological diversity and the rehabilitation of
       soil resources in targeted watersheds, which, in any case, often take a number of years after project
       completion to be clearly evident or even measurable. 34 (See section 2.3 for methodological issues
       regarding the indicators.)

                              Table 1: Preliminary results of SILEM’s impact evaluation
                                        (based on the End-of-Program indicators)
                     Key             Target value          Baseline Value                   End-of-project value
           performance/outcome                                                                (2008 or 2009)
                    (PAD)
         Indicator 1: Percentage                      2006 Value (actual):         Over the observed period, the number
         improvement in vegetation   (a) > 0 in 5     Soum: 60                     of vegetation species increased by 10
         diversity index1            years            Kompienga: 91                from 150 observed in 2006 to 160 in
                                                      Sanmatenga: 82               2009, thus an increase by 6.6%
                                                      Kouritenga: 3,35
                                                      Total: 150
         Indicator 2: Percentage     > 0 in 5 years   2006 Value (actual):         2009 Value (actual):
         improvement in                               Soum: 3,88                   Soum: 3,3
         invertebrate diversity                       Kompienga: 2,8               Kompienga: 2,3
         index2                                       Sanmatenga: 2,8              Sanmatenga: 2,8
                                                      Kouritenga: 3,35             Kouritenga: 2,5
                                                      Total: 3.88                  Total: 2.4
         Indicator 3: Percentage                      2006 Value (actual):         With the exception of the project sites
         increase in soil organic    > 0 in 5 years   Oumpougdeni: 10,1            at Koutoumtenga and Kaboanga, there
         content3                                     Kaboanga: 8,47               was an increase in organic carbon
                                                      Kampelcezougou: 12,23        storage at all other observed sites from
                                                      Nabnongomzougo: 13,30        2006 to 2008. The measurement of
                                                      Nakambé: 8,63                organic carbon storage is very costly
                                                      Koutoumtenga: 5,77           due to the laboratory analysis required.
                                                      Damba: 5,87                  For that reason no data was collected in
                                                      Filifili: 7,6                2009.




34
   The baseline data for three indicators (Indicator 1-3) was collected only in 2006 and actual values achieved are available
either for 2009 or 2008. For the indicator measuring the increase in biomass, data was not collected in 2009 as the samples
were taken late during the year and the productive species had dried out by then.

                                                             15
        Indicator 4: Percentage     (1) grass : 5 in                              The impact evaluation stated that there
        increase in biomass         5 years;                                      was a decrease in the productive
                                    (2) woody : >
                                                                                  species from 2006 to 2008.
                                    0 in 5 years;
       Source: Suvi des impacts du SILEM – Rapport final, Décembre 2009
       1
         The Shannon Werner index was not used; data is based on two simple surveys comparing the number of vegetation
       species between 2006 and 2009.
       2
         Used Shannon Werner index measured in same quadrates
       3
         Measured along transect (classic soil organic content measurement method)

      An increase in the comprehension and adoption of the IEM approach by targeted
       communities: Despite some design flaws of the indicator (i.e., the lack of a methodology to
       establish the index measuring the “comprehension and adoption? of IEM technologies and the
       insufficient budget to carry out a community survey), the findings of two household surveys showed
       an increase in the share of households using at least one IEM technology from 48% in 2006 to 62%
       in 2009.35 But as the collection of the baseline data did not take place until 2006 when SILEM’s
       capacity building and investment activities had already been launched, chances are that the actual
       baseline value could have been even lower and the actual increase could, thus, have been greater.

      Technologies and innovative IEM mechanisms adopted by targeted communities. This
       indicator was not only fully achieved but exceeded the target by far. In fact, eleven new household
       technologies had been adopted by 2009. In addition, three collective technologies were adopted at
       the inter-village level (collective river bank protection; development of feeder roads; landscape
       management with zoning), thus surpassing the indicator’s target of eight.36

53.     Given that the outcome indicators provide only limited information on the project’s outcomes,
the ICR also assessed whether and to what extent the Project succeeded in meeting expected results of
each component as outlined in the PAD. Hence, the Project’s main accomplishments are demonstrated
by the following outcomes by component (for details see Annex 2):

54.     Component 1: Local Capacity Building for Integrated Ecosystem Management: The main
expected results from this activity included the knowledge and competency acquired by local
communities and rural municipalities at the pilot sites to plan, implement, and monitor IEM activities.
This has been fully achieved as demonstrated by the fact that SILEM has enabled the targeted
communities and local authorities to achieve the following outcomes: (i) sound local development plans
were prepared by incorporating an integrated approach to natural resources management; (ii) inter-
community coordination for the management of shared resources deriving from a common watershed
was strengthened; (iii) collaboration between the technical services and villages significantly improved;
and (iv) the technical execution of environment and conservation micro-projects was effectively
managed and supervised. Another observed benefit was that the technical capacity building with respect
to IEM and agriculture technologies resulted in an improved productive capacity of rural resources (i.e.,
recovery of degraded lands, reduction in erosion, improved soil fertility, etc.). According to the
beneficiary assessment conducted in October 2009, the respondents were satisfied with the relevance of
the activities as well as the know-how they had acquired in IEM. They noted that, at times, the training

35
   See Thiombiano, A et al, 2008, Suivi d’impact du projet pilote de Gestion intégrée des Ecosystèmes des bas-fonds du
Sahel : Rapport final de la situation de référence, SILEM, Ouagadougou ; Thiombiano, A et al, 2009 : Suivi d’impact du
projet pilote de Gestion intégrée des Ecosystèmes des bas-fonds du Sahel, Rapport final, SILEM, Ouagadougou
36
   Information provided by the PIU.

                                                            16
duration was too short, and a more systematic review related to the lessons learned of the study tours
was suggested. 37 With regard to the environmental and conservation impacts of the Project, the
beneficiaries stressed the reappearance of small animals in forest areas and delineated zones as well as
the improved fish population (i.e., the emergence of larger fish) in the restricted fishing areas
(“frayères?). 38

55.         Another commendable accomplishment was the establishment and good functioning of the
CCIV’s which guided the participatory preparation of the 5-year sub-watershed plans and ensured the
annual translation of the sub-watershed plans into local investment plans. The involvement of the
Provincial Commission for Land Administration (CPATs), the Technical and Scientific Advisory
Committee, and the deconcentrated technical services in the review and adaption of these local
ecological development plans and the implementation of annual investment plans has provided local
government institutions with tools and an approach for introducing IEM in local development efforts. It
also increased the maintenance and sustainability of IEM activities.

56.     Component 2: Local Investment Fund (LIF) for Integrated Ecosystem Management Sub-
projects: The main expected result of this component was the use of the LIF by communities and
provincial institutions for the implementation of IEM plans at the pilot sites. This has been fully
accomplished; in fact, the outcome of this component has by far exceeded appraisal expectations. The
beneficiary assessment highlighted the very positive evaluation of the micro-projects by beneficiaries,
who considered the investments relevant and of good quality.39 Around 160 villages (against a target of
120 villages at appraisal) have benefited from the LIF. The Fund supported various Natural Resource
Management (NRM) activities, including soil and agriculture techniques, water conservation
technologies, livestock and fishery management, reforestation and forest management techniques and
natural resource protection. A total of 2,971 micro-projects were financed and implemented at the four
project sites by the end of the sixth year (2009) of project implementation. 40 The investments were
largely found to be in good technical condition. According to the 2009 technical and financial audit, 83
percent of the audited projects were of good quality, 15 percent of medium quality and a mere 2 percent
of poor quality.41

57.         While it is not only an accomplishment that the number of completed micro-projects
surpassed the end-of-project targets by far and more villages were served than initially planned, the
micro-projects have also generated tangible results in the form of revenues. An assessment of the impact
of agriculture planning in the province of Kouritenga in 2009 showed that: (i) farming with the support
of stone bunds increased the yield of grain by 24 percent; (ii) the use of organic compost (coming from
the « fosses fumières ») increased household revenues by 35 percent; and (iii) the treatment of furrows


37
   CODEX, Etude sur l’appréciation des actions du SILEM par les bénéficiaires, 2009.
38
   The re-emergence of species was noticed by the population in particular in the forest villages of Taankoemsé and Tibin as
well as the pasture zone at Kampélcezogo and Nabnongomzogo and included monkeys, hyenas, antelopes, jackals, partridges
and guinea fowl.
39
   CODEX, Etude sur l’appréciation des actions du SILEM par les bénéficiaires, 2009.
40
   In fact, 831 micro-projects were financed and implemented in the third year against a target of 120 for all four project sites
and 2791 were financed in the fifth year compared to an initial target of 480 targeted at appraisal. (Information provided by
the PIU) .
41
   ACEM, Evaluation de l’exécution technique, financière et de la passation des marches des conventions de confinancement
SILEM/PNGT II 2006, 2007 et 2008, Rapport final, Janvier 2009.

                                                               17
(by means of jute bags filled with lumps of earth, placed among the plants) allowed the furrows to be
filled in within two seasons.42

58.         Component 3: Institutional Capacity Building for Integrated Ecosystem Management:
The impact of the Project on supporting “a better understanding by local and central institutions of the
IEM approach? and on improving “capacity of local and central institutions in assisting local
communities in developing and implementing the sub-watershed IEM plan? was significant and went
beyond the expected outcomes of some activities. The successful strengthening of capacity building was
noted in the 2009 beneficiary assessment. It stressed the beneficiaries’ appreciation of the Project’s
participatory approach to preparing the sub-watershed plans, the information and sensitization sessions,
as well as the communication tools used and translated in local languages as part of the Project (e.g..
theatrical pieces, radio transmissions and assessment). The preparation of the four sub-watershed plans
has resulted in a widespread understanding among the communities involved that water catchment areas
are a common resource with the need for shared responsibility for their proper management. 43 The
effective coordination and organization of access to shared watersheds promoted inter-village cohesion
and led to a noticeable reduction in conflicts between resource users (see section 3.5 below).44

59.     Another key accomplishment under this component was the official legal recognition of all
micro-project sites and legislative texts (“arrêtés?), which created an important foundation for their
sustainability. Whereas these measures were initially planned for the second and third phases of SILEM,
it was a highly commendable accomplishment for SILEM to prepare and implement them during the last
two years of project implementation and with the limited resources left at its disposal. A positive
externality of these “contracts? was that SILEM’s experience was studied and used by the DGFROP in
its preparation of Burkina Faso’s legal and regulatory framework on land tenure issues in rural areas.

60.     Component 4: Building Partnerships for Sustainable IEM Financing: The accomplishments
under this target are mixed when measured against the component’s expected results and targets as
stated in the PAD. The Project was able to contribute partly to the expected outcome of “improved
national capacity to mobilize global financial opportunities/mechanisms for IEM initiatives?. The
Project has satisfactorily provided training sessions on available international financing mechanisms and
application procedures to the central administration (notably the Ministry of Environment) and the
private sector. SILEM also succeeded in preparing one project concept idea (against a target of five)
jointly with the Association of Mayors of Burkina Faso for the plantation of 10 000 ha of “d’Acacia
sénégal? in 82 communes in five regions. The Project was instrumental in initiating study tours to Niger
and Senegal to present the project concept and to find an interested private entrepreneur, albeit without
success with respect to the latter. On the down-side, the Project was not able to effectively “mobilize
global financial opportunities?, for example through a carbon sequestration activity funded under the
CDM. The uncertainty of the renewal of the Kyoto protocol constituted a main hindrance in creating a
partnership with private investors to invest in CDM projects.

61. Component 5: Program Coordination, Administration and Monitoring/Evaluation: Whereas,
as it turns outs, SILEM’s M&E system was not effectively integrated into the CBRD’s M&E system, as
had originally been intended, the Project established its own well functioning information system. Data

42
   Evaluation des effets des aménagements de DRS/CES réalisés avec l’appui du SILEM dans la province du Kouritenga.
43
   The training sessions with the communities include a module on sharing a common watershed with other villages.
44
   SILEM, Bilan 5 ans du SILEM, 2010

                                                          18
on technical, physical, and financial progress of SILEM’s project sites were collected regularly and used
by SILEM’s management for fine tuning project planning and implementation. An important
accomplishment was the construction of the GIS database for all four watersheds that allowed the: (i)
establishment of data collection plots for impact assessment; and (ii) mapping of all sites of investments
funded by SILEM LIF. However, despite significant efforts by the Project to introduce environmental
and natural resource indicators into the M&E system, methodological problems and higher costs than
anticipated affected the quality and usefulness of the data, hampering the assessment of the
environmental and conservation impacts of the Project, some of which, in any case, could probably not
yet be meaningfully measured at the time of closing. Nonetheless, apart from the difficulties related to
the impact assessment, over the years, the PIU showed a high ability to execute project activities, as
evidenced by the good disbursement rate and the ability to adjust project planning and implementation
in light of SILEM’s early termination after the first phase.

3.3    Efficiency
62.     At the time the Project was designed, no cost-benefit or cost-effectiveness analysis was
conducted. A detailed incremental cost analysis was carried out during project preparation, which was
the standard procedure and requirement for GEF projects. As stated in the PAD, experience suggests
that rural communities generally choose investments with very high rates of return that are sustainable.
The successful implementation of the CDD concept used by SILEM (as elaborated in section 3.2 and
Annex 2), reflects the recognition that a decentralized, participatory approach to rural development and
natural resource management is more effective and sustainable than other more top-down alternatives. In
addition, from the GEF resource mobilization perspective, the Project was highly efficient and cost-
effective with a relatively modest GEF contribution leveraging the ongoing work of the IDA-funded
CBRD program (which includes government and beneficiary contributions), through a design in which
existing institutional structures, arrangements and procedures could be utilized for maximum synergies
on the ground.

63.     Significantly, an economic and financial assessment of SILEM’s investments was later carried
out in 2009, specifically on the sub-projects. This ex-post economic analysis highlighted the increased
productivity of natural resources and improved pasture quality, which has led to higher incomes and
improved food security. The periods of food security have been extended by 8-9 months during the year
(in cases of low rainfall) and to 12 months (in cases of good rainfall). The micro-projects also resulted in
increased and diversified income of the farmers (see Annex 3 for more details).

Table 1 : Potential revenues per household per technique according to the farmer (FCFA)
                                                Cultivation
                                                     of                                  Commercial/
 Province    Compost pits         Stone fence     lowlands       Zaï        Fodder crop cash crop trees
Kompienga  375,000              200,000         -           -              -            500,000
            50,000        -      30,000-
Kouritenga 150,000              60,000          60,000      -              -               -
Sanmatenga 15,000 - 90,000      -               150,000     -              -               -
                                 20,000-                     35,000-        25,000-
Soum          30,000            50,000                      50,000         37,500          75,000
Source : Based on discussions with the focus group (Ministry of Agriculture, Water and Fisheries;
Economic evaluation of investments financed by SILEM Project in 4 micro watersheds, November
2009).
                                                    19
It was estimated that activities to fight against desertification have the potential to improve farm income
by 25-40%. 45 A sensitivity analysis underscored the positive rate of returns for some of the micro-
projects under several scenarios. On the whole, although indicating different rates of return, the results
of the assessment showed that the micro-projects have positive returns in all four provinces even if key
assumptions are changed (notably low revenues and an increase in costs). (see also Annex 3). These
findings are also supported by an economic analysis of CBRD I’s 2002-2006 portfolio, which showed a
high rate of return for compost pits (fosses fumières) and stone fences (cordons pierreux).46

64.      In line with the incremental cost analysis to assess the incremental GEF costs of achieving
global benefits through this project, the benefits identified under the analysis of each component have
been mostly achieved (with some exceptions related to the fourth and fifth components) as evidenced
through the results achieved in the various components of the project. While the Project supported
successfully local and institutional capacity building to design and implement IEM activities, the
building of partnerships for sustainable IEM financing and the set up of the Project’s M&E system and
conducting an impact evaluation posed a challenge. On the whole, the available data strongly suggests
that the implementation of the SILEM project was efficient in terms of leveraging GEF funds and cost
effective in terms of achieving the PDO in general and contributing globally towards sustainable
conservation of biological and agricultural diversity.

3.4     Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating : Satisfactory

65.     This project is rated Satisfactory given the achievement in the KPIs and the achievements at the
component level. At project completion, the KPI measuring conservation and environmental impact was
not met given the incomplete data set. However, the PDO 2 indicator was achieved and data for the PDO
1 indicator suggests through extrapolation that project contributed to a good outcome. As the main
agenda of the project was to introduce IEM technologies that resulted in higher incomes, the adoption
rates of 62% from 48% show a positive trend. Lessons from other projects and countries have shown
that when investments have a strong ownership of communities and they have significant benefits, as is
the case here, their potential for sustainability is much higher. The Project also generated unexpected
significant positive outcomes (notably the reduction in conflicts between resource users) that contributed
to the achievement of the PDO.47 The overall project outcome is therefore rated as Satisfactory.

3.5     Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a)     Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

66. A key design element of the Project was to enable local communities to benefit from IEM income
generation activities with communal and individual benefits. An economic assessment of SILEM’s
micro-projects showed that the investments have significantly contributed to the productivity of natural
45
   Ministère de l’Agriculture, de l’Hydraulique et des Ressources Halieutiques, Evaluation économique des investissements
réalises par le Project SILEM dan quatre micro basins versants, Novembre 2009
46
   World Bank, Implementation Completion and Results Report, Community-based rural development project, 2008. These
are the same technologies that were supported by SILEM but were funded by CBRD I as they were carried out in areas where
SILEM did not intervene.
47
   See section 3.5

                                                           20
resources, increasing agriculture revenues and restoring degraded land and biodiversity. 48 Livestock
productivity also improved significantly, particularly in the province of Soum, due to the establishment
of pasture zones and improved cultivation of forage crops.49 Other direct income benefits derived from
activities such as the demarcation of hunting zones, restricted fishing sites, planting of fruit trees,
establishment of nurseries and breeding of grass cutter (“aulacodes?) accrued to the rural population (in
particular the rural poor), contributing to food security and improved quality of life of the rural
population (payment of school fees, health costs etc.).

67. While gender equity continues to be a challenge in Burkina Faso, which has a low ranking on the
UNDP gender-related development index to HDI ratio, women benefited from several of the income
generating activities (notably the fosses fumières, the material for zaï, breeding of “aulacodes? and the
production of honey). 50 Women have also been prominently represented in village associations and
participated in the decision-making process at the community level, even though the administrative
structures at the community level remain largely a male domain. The 2009 beneficiary assessment
concluded that the interest of women and youth had been well taken into consideration in the
implementation of SILEM’s activities but suggested, among other things, the need to further support
women’s engagement in the decision-making process through the establishment of quotas in the
different management entities at the community level.

(b)     Institutional Change/Strengthening

68. Strengthening institutional capacity was a key strategy for ensuring sustainability of the IEM
activities financed under the Project. To this end, almost all components focused on local capacity
development through training, field studies and technical assistance, policy development through local
rules establishment for shared natural resources knowledge, etc. SILEM organized about 534 training
events and 27 workshops on a range of themes related to local development planning, NRM project
management and sustainable land management practices. 51 The following long-term institutional
impacts have been noted:

69. At the local level: The institutional support provided by the Project in policy planning (i.e.,
integrating IEM practices in the PCDs, administrative procedures (i.e., land tenure issues) and
conservation of biological diversity in natural habitats (i.e., establishing a protected area for fishing)
resulted in increased awareness and commitment of local institutions, village organizations and resource
users with regard to biodiversity conservation and NRM. These activities were combined with the close
involvement of local authorities and deconcentrated technical services in an effort to ensure coherence,
relevance, and sustainability of the activities financed under SILEM. The involvement of and support by
local governments has been instrumental in project implementation and enhanced the reflection of local
land use priorities in provincial level development plans. The Project assisted the creation of the CCIVs
that supported the preparation and implementation of the watershed management plans and inter-
community coordination. With the termination of the Project, these committees will cease to be active
48
   Ministère de l’Agriculture, de l’Hydraulique et des Ressources Halieutiques, Evaluation économique des investissements
réalises par le Project SILEM dan quatre micro basins versants, Novembre 2009
49
   Based on a qualitative survey carried out in the context of an economic assessment of SILEM’s investment (Ministere de
l’Agriculture, de l’Hydraulique et des Ressources Halieutiques, Evaluation economique des investissements realizes par le
project SILEM dans quatre micro basins versants, Novembre)
50
   Women farm 44% of the plots in water catchment areas.
51
   Based on estimations provided by the PIU

                                                           21
although some of their coordination functions will be taken over by the Provincial Consultative Group
(CCP). The establishment of Management Committees, as discussed in section 2.5, was also critical.
70. At the national level: Even though the project achieved limited institutional outcomes at the
national level with regards to the IEM approach (due to a lack of funds the training events did not
materialize at the national level), it did create some awareness and sensitization in particular with regard
to international funding mechanisms and land management practices. SILEM provided advisory support
and knowledge sharing to key central government institutions (notably the Ministry of Environment)
and to the private sector. These accomplishments are likely to be sustained. The project supported the
creation of the Technical and Scientific Advisory Committee (TSAC), which was set up to provide
technical advice for the development of IEM tools, such as watershed plans. TSAC revised the four
watershed plans during four meetings in 2005 and 2006. However, the meetings often took place with
delays, as it was difficult to convene the various members in a timely manner. Overall, only six meetings
were organized with the last one occurring in 2007. Since TSAC was created to provide technical advice
during project implementation, the Committee will cease to be active after it terminates.

(c)        Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive and negative)

71.     A major unexpected positive outcome of the Project was its contribution to social peace between
farmers/cultivators and cattle farmers in all four provinces. The organization of the productive
zones/land into clearly delineated pasture zones and cattle routes, accompanied by an internal
negotiation and consultation process and the establishment of management rules has contributed to
conflict reduction. For instance, it was noted in the final evaluation report of SILEM (2010) that the
number of recorded conflicts per year declined from 22 official cases in 2006 to zero cases in 2009 in
Kouritenga. Likewise, damage caused by animals through uncontrolled rambling has diminished
significantly. 52 Another unanticipated positive outcome was the formulation of land use rules and
regulations and translation of these rules into written contracts, allowing official recognition of the
investment sites by local authorities.

3.6        Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops:
72.     Formal stakeholder workshops and a beneficiary survey were not carried out for preparation of
this ICR. However, a beneficiary assessment was conducted in 2009 with a sample size of 95
households from 17 communities in four provinces. The survey focused on SILEM’s approach,
implementation and impacts of the Project. Also during project implementation, several stakeholder
workshops were carried out on a wide range of topics including discussions on innovations in
sustainable land management practices, international financing mechanisms, approach of SILEM, etc.

73.     Meetings with stakeholder groups during the ICR mission revealed a high level of community
awareness with very active local groups and associations confirming the importance of the Project.
However, it also became clear that the increased capacity and interest in IEM practices created a demand
for financial and technical support that far exceeds what was available through the project and left high
expectations regarding follow-up support in the near future.




52
     SILEM, Rapport SILEM bilan 5 ans, 2010.

                                                    22
                 4.   ASSESSMENT OF RISK TO DEVELOPMENT OUTCOME

Rating: Moderate

74.     The risks to development outcome are assessed against the following criteria, which together
constitute the overall risk to the sustainability of the project achievements:

Institutional risk: moderate. From the outset, local capacity building had been the Project’s main
strategy to ensure institutional sustainability. As mentioned in section 3.5 above, activities and
investments have been embraced by local communities, government and other key national actors and
institutions. The Project’s approaches, procedures, and activities were institutionalized at the sites where
SILEM intervened. Creating ownership by local beneficiaries over their local development and sub-
watershed plans (through the participatory processes) was another important strategy, which was
successfully adopted, to promote sustainability. A further key factor for fostering institutional
sustainability was the Project’s success in using local structures. For instance, consultations on NRM
issues that had been carried out in the past by the CCIVs, were successfully mainstreamed into the
consultation process of the CCPs, which is supported by the Government and the CBRD project.

Economic risk: low. Economic benefits for conservation and natural resource projects have been well
documented; in the case of SILEM risk to factors that can adversely influence these benefits (such as
fluctuating commodity prices, fuel and food price increases, weaker demand for Burkinabé exports, etc.)
are expected to be low.

Financial risk: Moderate. The Project ensured financial sustainability by supporting productive
investments that generate revenues, establishing legal agreements on the investment sites, and
establishing management committees to maintain the sites. Despite the emphasis of the Project on
ensuring sustainable investments, a few of the investments are at risk in the absence of further financial
support. Likewise, the commitment of some of the Management Committees is at risk over the medium
term since their members’ work on a voluntary basis as funding for income-generating activities
(planned initially under the third phase of the program) had not been secured.

Government ownership/commitment: Low. Though no funding has not yet been mobilized to ensure
the continuation of the program the Government is currently pursuing several options to mobilize such
resources. It is also noteworthy that the Government has shown strong commitment to decentralized
rural development and buy-in to the IEM approach which continues to be implemented through the
CBRD and other projects.

Technical risk: low. Proven technical conservation and natural resource management interventions have
been used under the project. The beneficiaries manage IEM technologies (e.g., application of zaï
technique, stone line building, treatment of furrows, protection of river banks, etc.) well and are able to
replicate them without the need for additional support.

Social risk: low. SILEM has played a major role in conflict resolution and inter-village cohesion.
Although women’s involvement in the decision-making process still needs to be improved, women were
supported under SILEM by providing a range of income-generating activities. The Project’s contribution
to establishing full participation of all social groups in managing the Local Investment Fund has also

                                                    23
supported good governance and social accountability mechanisms.


               5.   ASSESSMENT OF BANK AND BORROWER PERFORMANCE

5.1    Bank Performance
(a)    Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

75.     SILEM’s design was fully aligned with Government’s long-term development objectives as
defined in the PRSP and built on the lessons learned from the CBRD project. The Project pioneered a
new approach by linking the IEM concept with a rural community-driven development (CDD) operation
that allowed it to respond to high priority concerns of the communes on socio-economic infrastructure
while also ensuring buy-in for the shared watershed management and engagement in IEM activities.
Efforts were made to provide the study with a sound background analysis but due to weak local capacity
in managing the studies the preparation of the project took three years. There were two important
shortcomings in the preparation and design of the project, the insufficient development of the fourth
component on mobilizing national and international resources and the weak design of the impact
indicators. It is however important to note that despite the lack of content in component 4, the inclusion
of such a component represents in itself a far sighted thinking of the team. The impact of the poor design
of the fourth component, did not allow for a successful implementation but did not affect the
implementation of the other components, nor did it affect significantly the project’s development
objectives. The poor design of the impact indicators made the timely establishment of the benchmarks
difficult and affected the quality and usefulness of the data (see also section 2.3 and 3.2). Additionally,
inconsistencies were also observed in the log frame, the PAD and the Grant Agreement. No quality of
entry evaluation is recorded.

76.     Overall, while the project was very well aligned with Government’s objectives, highly
innovative in its approach to IEM, and very well aligned with communities interests, taken together, the
three deficiencies require that quality at entry be only set at Moderately Satisfactory.

(b)     Quality of Supervision
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

77. Counterparts in Government (both the PIU and the CBRD project) noted that the Bank was a
supportive partner for SILEM throughout project implementation and for providing useful inputs and
advice. Missions included field visits (with specialized technical experts) engaged and public officials
and community members. Findings and recommendations are documented in detailed aide memoires,
although these were often not recorded in IRIS. While Bank staff provided only one formal supervision
mission per year, the placement of the TTL in the field allowed constant and direct informal support and
supervision. Likewise, other team specialists for procurement, financial management and safeguards
were also placed either in the field or the region which allowed the team to respond to implementation
issues in a timely manner. Shortcomings in project implementation were identified during the
supervision process and the MTR and adequate recommendations were made to strengthen project
performance. Despite appropriate decisions made by the Bank team, in particular related to the revision

                                                    24
of the fourth component and the impact indicators, a restructuring of the project would have probably
yielded a better outcome. Fiduciary reviews were carried out, for the most part, in conjunction with
routine supervision missions; the fiduciary reviews for some financial management and procurement
supervision missions are not reported in IRIS; and for financial management there were some
disconnects in the reported ratings. Fiduciary issues that emerged in the first half of project
implementation (in particular the initial low disbursement rate) were identified by the Bank and led to an
improvement in the Project’s overall disbursement performance. Social and environmental safeguards
aspects were addressed during project implementation. The latest report in 2010 demonstrates the
accomplishments achieved in this regard (e.g., the safeguard forms have been mainstreamed into the
application procedures for the micro-projects) but little documentation on the monitoring of safeguard
issues during project implementation is available.

78. The Bank supervision seems to have adequately supported the achievement of the PDOs, though it
failed to formally restructure the project regarding the fourth component and, as indicated above, the
monitoring of the project indicators was weak (see section 2.3). Project supervision was therefore rated
moderately satisfactory.

(c)     Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Despite the project’s alignement with the Government’s objectives and the strong interaction between
the Project’s TTL and other team members which were based in the field, the design and supervision
shortcomings indicated above justify a Moderately Satisfactory rating.


5.2    Borrower Performance
(a)    Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

79.     The Government of Burkina Faso demonstrated strong commitment and ownership throughout
project preparation and design. The Technical Monitoring Committee, set up during project preparation,
was essential in ensuring institutional coordination and close involvement of the Government in the
design of the project. Government’s active interest was also demonstrated by its US$0.5 million in total
counterpart contribution, paid in a timely manner during project implementation. A key success factor
was the involvement of technical services of the Ministry of Agriculture, Environment and others as
well as of public officials from local government in Project’s key activities. However, Government’s
CBRD project failed to integrate SILEM’s Monitoring and Evaluation system requirements into its
existing M&E system. In this respect, the Government could have done more to coordinate the activities
of the projects.

(b)    Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Satisfactory



                                                   25
80.     Overall, the performance of the implementing agency was commendable. Project management
was carried out by the experienced and dedicated team at SILEM with the National Coordinator being a
previous staff member of the CBRD project. The PIU also succeeded in actively involving local entities
and partners and provided valuable advisory support to the DGFROP. The PIU likewise established
excellent relationships with the Ministry of Environment and a broader community of conservation
practitioners, including international organizations (for example, TerrAfrica). Furthermore, the project
team demonstrated great adaptability to the finalization of the Project after the first phase by
reprioritizing its activities and rationalizing its available budget resources to support new interventions
seeking to ensure sustainability of project achievements. Monitoring of the Project’s activities was
adequately carried out during implementation despite the failure to integrate SILEM’s M&E
requirements in the M&E systems of the CBRD Project. However, less attention was paid to the
evaluation of the outcome indicator. Issues regarding financial management and procurement (in
particular related to the initial slow disbursement) were addressed in the second part of project
implementation when most of the capacity building was finalized and the demand for the micro-projects
exponentially increased.53 The Government’s Completion Report (“Rapport d’achèvement?) was well
prepared and has provided a helpful input for preparation of this ICR.


(b)     Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Satisfactory


                                             6.   LESSONS LEARNED

81.     Indicators must be realistic, feasible and available at the time the project is launched. A well-
prepared logical framework (i.e., a results-based monitoring framework) should be the backbone of
project design and should be fully specified and agreed prior to implementation. Objectives, indicators
and targets need to be realistic and measurable. A baseline is not only necessary in order to measure
project results, but also disciplines project designers to pay attention to realistic and measurable impact
indicators.

82.     An IEM approach focusing on inter-village cohesion built on a common interest in the protection
of shared watersheds is a successful model. SILEM was innovative as it brought together villages
located in a watershed area and created a common interest among them based on an integrated
management plan to protect the watershed. This approach of developing a common vision across
interested villages allows for a coherent organization and management of different occupations
(farmers/cultivators and cattle farmers) based on the recognition the performance in each business
depends on the common management of the shared watershed. The success of this approach was also
reflected in the decline in social conflict in the areas where SILEM intervened.

83.    Formal and informal mechanisms were both required to ensure the sustainability of the
investment. Community participation in SILEM-funded activities was necessary but not sufficient to

53
  The initial disbursement foresaw the implementation of micro-projects in the early years of the Project while, in practice,
the PIU focused on low cost training and capacity building activities for the first two years, shifting a large share of
disbursements to the second part of the project life cycle.

                                                             26
ensure sustainability of improved infrastructure as the need to address land tenure security in
conjunction with application of an IEM approach became apparent. SILEM also stressed therefore the
importance of maintaining the sites by improving land tenure (i.e., granting titles and creating land usage
tools). They were established and approved by all key local authorities.

84.     Implementation of the IEM project alongside an established CDD project (the CBRD project)
proved to be a unique opportunity for SILEM to increase its implementation effectiveness. SILEM’s
complementarity with the CBRD allowed the Project to use the local structures, joint management,
capitalizing on lessons learned, etc., thereby avoiding duplication. In addition administrative costs could
be kept low while resources could be spent most effectively on the pilot activities. Given the successful
integration, SILEM built the foundation to promote the integration of the pilot operation in other
ongoing activities (i.e. the CBRD program or the WB funded FIP operation).




                                                    27
                                                          ANNEXES

Annex 1.            Project Costs and Financing

(a)       Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)

                                        Appraisal Estimate         Actual /Latest Estimate      Percentage of Appraisal
            Components
                                          (US$ million)                (US$ million)
1. Local Capacity Building                         0.14                      0.13                         89%
2. Local Investment Fund (LIF)                     1.92                      1.90                         99%
3. Institutional Capacity Building                 0.63                      0.57                         90%
4. Building Partnerships for
Sustainable IEM Financing                          0.02                      0.01                         73%
5. Project Coordination,
Administration, M&E                                0.81                      0.80                         99%
                Total Baseline Cost                3.52                       3.41
Physical Contingencies
Price Contingencies
                Total Project Costs                3.52                       3.41

Please note that exchange rate at appraisal was US$1 = 535 CFAF


(b)       Financing

                                                            Appraisal           Actual/Latest
                                                                                                       Percentage of
      Source of Funds          Type of Financing            Estimate              Estimate
                                                                                                        Appraisal
                                                          (US$ million)         (US$ million)
 Borrower                                                       0.26
 Global Environment                                              4.5
 Facility (GEF)




                                                              28
Annex 2.          Outputs by Component


Component 1: Local capacity building for integrated ecosystem management
The component’s overall implementation performance was rated satisfactory.
1.       The component’s objective was to strengthen the technical and organizational capacity of rural
communities and municipalities to plan, implement and monitor IEM activities. Planned activities under
this component were centered on technical capacity building at the community level, the development of
effective watershed management committees and training of community groups and watershed
associations in the use of various IEM tools. The Key Performance Indicator identified for this
component measured the “degree of functionality of the CCIVs? based on the following criteria: (i) the
inclusion of 2 representatives of each village of the sub-watershed; (ii) meetings held once per semester;
(iii) review and approval by the CCIV of the preliminary sub-watershed plan; (iv) a proven capacity for
implementation of the sub-watershed plan and arbitration of conflicts; and (v) reviews and approvals of
the annual investment plan.

2.      “Degree of Fnctionality of the CCIVs? The indicator was met in a satisfactory manner with some
outputs even above target. The Project supported the establishment of four Inter-village Sub-Watershed
Management Committees (CCIVs). Following a process of village awareness campaigns on SILEM,
about 320 representatives from 160 villages were selected for the CCIVs in 2005. 54 Since then, the
CCIVs have been fully operational with about 3 sessions held each semester per sub-watershed (against
an initial target of one session per semester). In 2005 and 2006, the meetings focused on the review and
approval of the sub-watershed plans (Plans de Gestion Intégrée des Ecosystèmes (PGIE)). The CCIVs
have been instrumental in facilitating the preparation of the five-year sub-watershed plans and their
annual implementation. The plans were prepared under the guidance of the CCIVs in a participatory
planning process (including a participatory diagnostic oriented by facilitators, creation of focus groups at
the village level, consolidation of proposals by all villages which are part of the watershed, and
prioritization of proposals, using GIS tools). Once reviewed by the Technical and Scientific Advisory
Committee, the plans were adopted by the CCIVs and the Provincial Commissions for Land Use
Planning (CPAT) in 2005.

3.      To translate the sub-watershed plans into annual investment plans, the CCIVs organized inter-
village sessions to prepare the annual investment plans, which were then reviewed and adopted by the
CCIVs at the end of November of each year and then integrated in the Village Development Plans
(“plans de gestion des terroirs?) and, since 2008 and 2009, in the Commune Development Plans (“plan
communal de développement? – PCDs).55 Over the six years of project implementation, a total of 67
sessions were conducted and 561 annual investment plans were prepared. The CCIVs capacity to
arbitrate conflicts has been proven by the preparation of the annual investment plans. According to the
2010 evaluation report of SILEM, the villages have implemented about 86,2% of micro-projects

54
  The representatives were members of the Village Land Management Committees (CVGTs).
55
  The preparation of the annual investment was implemented through a participatory process: (i) each village elaborated its
annual investment plan by selecting a number of activities from the sub-watershed plan in a participative manner, facilitated
by the CVD; (ii) the annual investment plans are consolidated and validated by the CCIV during an inter-village session; (iii)
and, finally, these validated watershed annual investment plans are merged together at the national level and submitted to the
project steering committee for adoption.

                                                             29
included in the annual investment plans on a yearly basis.56 Implementation of the plans were monitored
by the CCIVs and the Village Land Management Committees (CVGTs).

4.      Technical Training of Community Groups and Watershed Associations in the Use of Various
IEM Tools: In addition to the development of effective watershed management committees, the Project
supported technical capacity building at the community level and training of community groups and
municipal councils and members of the Provincial Consultative Group (Cadre de Concertation
Provincial- CCP). CCIVs and members of other community organizations (e.g. the CVGTs) benefited
from a range of training sessions on technical, financial and management issues regarding the LIF.
About 6029 CVGT and CVD members were trained on various subjects such as participatory
monitoring, financial management, maintenance, etc. In addition, 1445 beneficiaries (CVD, municipal
council members) received training on legislative texts in forestry, environment and water. With the
replacement of CVGTs by Village Development Councils (Conseil Villageois de Developpement -
CVD), about one third of the newly elected members in the CVDs had to be trained again.57 In addition,
8566 beneficiaries of SILEM (farmers, members of community groups, etc.) were trained in agricultural
techniques, such as “zaï?, fodder crops, protection of riverbanks, production and usage of compost and
stone line building.

5.      Development and Distribution of Communication and IEM Tools. As part of the technical
capacity building and awareness creation and training on IEM concepts, the Project supported a number
of information tools (e.g.. technical documents, picture boxes, audio tapes) and conducted 8 radio
transmissions and their distribution through 26 broadcastings. The Project also financed a theatre play
on SILEM as well as a documentary, which was presented twice on national TV and 146 times in the
four selected provinces.


Component 2: Local Investment Fund for Integrated Ecosystem Management-Sub-projects
The component’s overall implementation performance was rated highly satisfactory.
6.      This is the main component of the project consuming 56% of the total project’s cost. The
component’s objective was to provide, under two separate windows, resources to communities and
provinces for: (i) financing village and inter-village (watershed management committee) sub-projects;
and (ii) undertaking larger investment projects at the provincial level. Funds under the first window
(<US$ 35,000) were earmarked for IEM activities incorporated into the sub-watershed management
plans and the village development plans. The provincial window (> US$35,000 – US$150,000) aimed to
support sub-projects based on priority needs identified in the watershed management plans. Two Key
Performance Indicators were specified under this component: (i) the number of IEM micro-projects
financed and entirely implemented in each province (measured by the following targets: 35 (year 3) and
120 (year 5)) and (ii) the percentage of completed IEM micro-projects receiving a positive evaluation
(based on a participatory review = 75% and the project review = 60%).




56
     SILEM, Rapport bilan sur 5 ans, 2010.
57
     Based on estimations by the PIU.

                                                  30
7.      The first indicator has surpassed by far the initial target. A total of 2971 micro-projects had been
financed and implemented in the four project sites by the end of the sixth year of project
implementation. In fact, 831 micro-projects were financed and implemented in the third year against a
target of 120 for all four project sites and 2791 were financed in the fifth year compared to 480 targeted
at appraisal. The micro-projects were selected according to the annual investment program and were
managed and supervised by the communities. The funds have been placed in the village council
accounts and are managed by the CVGT. Under this component, total disbursement amounted to US$
2.7 million (52% of total project cost). Given the high demand by the communities, all micro-projects
were funded through the first window.

Table x : Number of SILEM’s micro-projects and cost by province
    Province          Actual number of completed      Actual cost of
                             micro-projects         completed micro-
                         (as of December 2010)      projects (in US$)
Soum                                         1070                715,641
Kouritenga                                    766                731,182
Kompienga                                     397                495,393
Sanmatenga                                    738                761,744
Total                                        2971              2,703,960
Source: SILEM (PIU)

8.      Around 160 villages have benefited from the Local Investment Fund, which supported various
NRM activities, notably soil and agriculture techniques, water conservation technologies, livestock and
fishery management, reforestation and forest management techniques and natural resource protection,
more specifically:

       (i) Land protection and restoration/conservation of water and soil: The Project supported a
       number of activities related to land planning and development, including 3 837 ha of improved
       land through stone bunds, 8 307 fosses fumières; the recuperation of 3 138 ha of degraded land
       using the scarifiage, zai technique, demi-lunes, 250 gullies treated for agro-pastorale production,
       and 26 500 m revitalized small dykes.

       (ii) Reforestation and forest resource management: Key activities related to the restoration of
       forest cover and biodiversity included the demarcation of 75 ha of community forests with paint
       and 155 ha of community forests with well-defined concrete markers, the production of 195 720
       seedling plants, the use of 941,934 plants for reforestation, and the establishment of an 11 ha
       botanical conservatory.

       (iii) Improvement of livestock production: The main constraint for livestock production is the
       poor organization of space. For this reason, SILEM’s investment focused, in particular, on the
       creation of 3514 ha of pasture zones and 417 km of pasture ways, as well as the creation of 10
       pastoral water points.

       (iv) Promotion of plant production: The key outputs in this area were the conversion and
       rehabilitation of 166 ha of lowland areas (mainly for rice production) and the supply of 8, 800 kg
       of improved cereal seeds to the beneficiaries of converted or rehabilitated parcels of land.



                                                      31
        (v) Support to the fishing production: In order to improve the productivity of water reservoirs,
        the LIF supported the creation of two restricted fishing areas (“frayères?), supplied 4 reservoirs
        with fish, and provided 61 fishermen with regulatory fishing equipment.

        (vi) Research activities: The LIF also financed the supply of equipment for 460 beekeepers and
        the supply of 73 grass cutter (“aulacodes?) parents for breeding.

9.     The second indicator was likewise met in a satisfactory manner. A technical and financial audit
(covering the period 2006-2008) showed that 100% of the micro-projects had been implemented and
98% of the beneficiaries surveyed were satisfied with the Project’s supervision carried out by the PIU,
the technical services, the village organizations and the private sector. 58 The beneficiary assessment
highlighted the positive evaluation of the micro-projects by the beneficiaries, who judged the
investments to be relevant and of good quality.59

10.     The technical and financial audit also found that the micro-projects were in good technical
conditions. In fact, 83% of the selected projects (based on 497 micro-projects) were judged of good
quality, 15% of medium quality and only 2% of poor quality. The evaluation was based on technical
norms, quality of maintenance work, and physiognomic aspects. The audit also revealed that 98% of the
beneficiaries were satisfied with the supervision carried out by the PIU as well as the involvement of the
technical services, the village organizations and the private sector in monitoring the implementation of
the micro-projects. An additional assessment planned in 2010 to cover the remaining years of project
implementation, however, could not be carried out due to lack of funding.

Component 3: Institutional Capacity Building for Integrated Ecosystem Management
The components overall implementation performance was rated satisfactory.

11.     The objective of this component was to support institutional capacity building to promote the
creation of an adequate policy environment. The Key Performance Indicator identified for this
component was the degree of completion of the sub-watershed IEM plans, measured through several
targets: (i) local development plans coherent together, (ii) sub-watershed plan designed, (iii) plans
validated by CCIV (iv) plans adopted by CPAT.

12.      The indicator was met in a satisfactory manner. Through a participatory process at the village-
level, the communities prepared a local development plan, which identified development constraints and
measures to address them. This plan was consolidated with those of the other villages that shared a
common watershed into a five-year sub-watershed plan. The coherence of the plans was ensured through
the spatial planning of the activities and illustrated on a map. This sub-watershed plan was prepared for
each of the four pilot watersheds in Soum, Kouritenga, Kompienga and Sanmatenga and adopted by the
CCIV and the CPAT during four sessions held in 2005 and 2006. At the end of the Project’s lifetime,
four sessions were held with the CPATs in each province to present and discuss the activities and results
of SILEM and in an effort to ensure the maintenance and monitoring of the investments by the technical

58
   The audit was based on a sample of 231 micro-projects carried out in 50 villages in the four provinces. (ACEM, Evaluation
de l’exécution technique, financière et de la passation des marches des conventions de co-financement SILEM/PNGT II
2006, 2007 et 2008, Rapport final, Janvier 2009).
59
   CODEX, Etude sur l’appréciation des actions du SILEM par les bénéficiaires, 2009.

                                                            32
services of the administration. GIS maps were used to facilitate visualization of the investment sites
around each watershed.

13.      The successful implementation of this component was also noted in the 2009 beneficiary
assessment. It stressed the positive appreciation by the beneficiaries regarding the participatory approach
of the Project, the information and sensitization sessions and the communication tools used and
translated in local languages by the Project (e.g.. theatrical pieces, radio transmissions and assessment).
With regards to the training materials, communication tools and supporting documents, the most
significant outputs were a methodological guide on NRM (based on lessons learned in the four
watersheds), a technical guide on the NRM technologies used by SILEM’s beneficiaries, and the
carrying out of five thematic studies (for example, a study on options to extract value from wildlife in
the provinces of Kompienga and Soum, an economic and financial assessment of SILEM’s investments,
etc.). More studies had initially been planned but were not carried out when the activities were
reprioritized in the last two years of SILEM and reoriented towards those geared to ensure the sustained
utilization of the investments.

14.     A key accomplishment under this component was the formulation of land use rules, which were
translated into written contracts. Overall, 92 local contracts that recognized pasture zones and livestock
tracks, village forests, regenerated protected lands, improved hallows for rice farming, restricted fishing
areas etc. were signed. Enhancing land tenure security was initially planned for the second and third
phase of SILEM. However, it is commendable that the Project moved ahead with the establishment of
these contracts, given that it had only limited resources left at its disposal and less than two years to
develop and implement them. These accomplishments caught the attention of the General Directorate of
Land Tenure, which studied the experience of SILEM as it prepared the legal and regulatory framework
on land tenure issues in rural areas.

15.     Apart from the training for decentralized institutions and community organizations, the PAD also
specified as an output the training and capacity building for national structures responsible for
monitoring and coordinating the international environmental conventions, the private sector and NGOs.
In practice, these training events did not materialize due to a lack of funds. Likewise, the planned
environmental policy fora for dialogue between IEM stakeholders were not carried out.

Component 4: Building partnerships for sustainable IEM financing

The component’s overall implementation performance was rated moderately unsatisfactory.
16.     The objective of this component was to build the capacity at local and national levels to mobilize
national and international funds to address environmental and resource management issues of local,
regional and potentially global significance. The component included the following activities: (i)
assisting and training CVGTs, watershed management committees, and community leaders in the
mobilization of funds for environmental protection and local development; (ii) providing training to
central and local governments to enable them to engage in global financial resource mobilization and
environmental negotiations; (iii) initiating contacts between communities and environmental
management partners (e.g. private sector, NGOs, northern hemisphere cities, bilateral donor agencies);
and (iv) assisting the parties in reaching mutually beneficial contractual arrangements. In addition, the
component also envisaged to explore: (i) opportunities for partnerships recommended by the Kyoto
Protocol and the Convention on Climate Change, and partnerships through the carbon trade markets

                                                    33
(twinning, etc.); and (ii) mechanisms for supporting alternative sustainable financing mechanisms such
as a desertification mitigation fund. Two Key Performance Indicators were specified under this
component: (i) the number of new initiatives developed even though not all funded (measured by a
target of 5 initiatives); and (ii) the number of sub-watershed IEM plans and/or micro-projects financially
supported by global partnerships (measured by a target of 2 projects).

17.     In retrospect, the PAD was unrealistic in expecting that the Project team could prepare five
project concepts and complete two of them (supported by global partnerships) during the lifetime of the
Project. During early implementation, the Project made significant efforts to develop project concept
ideas that would meet the requirements of the international adaptation funds. However, it soon became
clear to the Project team that the identification of a private investor was a serious challenge. Investors
had limited interest in investing in CDM projects due to the novelty of the CDM mechanisms and the
uncertainty of the renewal of the Kyoto protocol. In addition, one potential reforestation project that had
been identified by the Project team required significant analytical work (i.e. elaborating the evaluation
methods for carbon capture and the sequestration amount). Moreover, the institutional arrangements
between the community and the private sector partner, the monitoring and evaluation mechanism for the
plantations and land tenure security aspects of the plantation sites were not yet defined. These
implementation problems were mainly due to the poor design of the component that had not adequately
taken into account the up-front analytical work and resources required to meet the expected outcomes. In
view of these implementation challenges, the team made the right decision during the Mid-Term Review
to limit the expected project results in this area to knowledge sharing and providing capacity building on
the adaptation funds. The respective indicators, however, were not formally revised.

18.     The Project did succeeded in accomplishing the goals set under the revised component, namely
to carry out a number of activities identified in the PAD. The Project supported several workshops,
training sessions and study tours to inform key stakeholders in the country about the mechanisms and
opportunities to mobilize international funds. Efforts were also made to prepare one project concept idea
with the support of an international consultant in 2008. The proposal note was prepared jointly with the
Association of Mayors of Burkina Faso for the plantation of 10 000 ha of “d’Acacia sénégal? in 82
communes situated in 5 regions.

19.    On the whole, if measured against the initial expected results, the Project managed to develop
only one project concept idea instead of 5. The second indicator was not met given the difficulties
encountered in attracting investors. Taking all this into consideration, the component is assessed as
moderately unsatisfactory.


Component 5: Program Coordination, Administration and Monitoring/Evaluation

The component’s overall implementation performance was rated moderately satisfactory.
20.     The objective of this component was to provide incremental funding to: (i) support the cost of
project implementation incurred by the CBRD project coordination unit and the provincial teams; and
(ii) adapt the M&E and impact assessment systems of the CBRD project to the added requirements of
the SILEM, with emphasis on strengthening the environmental and natural resource components of the
M&E system of the CBRD project. The Key Performance Indicator specified for this component is the
degree of efficacy of the impact monitoring system (measured by the following targets: data collection

                                                    34
& analysis procedure designed and adopted for each of the 4 indicator, baseline data collected in year 1
on all 4 indicators, data collection each year, data collection in year 5, final reports with analysis of
impact).

21.     Significant efforts were made by the team to strengthen the environmental and natural resource
components of the M&E system of the CBRD project, although in hindsight, methodological problems
and higher cost than anticipated affected the quality and usefulness of the data. At the center of the
impact assessment were four End-of-Program indicators (measuring the vegetation diversity index, the
invertebrate diversity index, soil organic content and biomass) that had been identified at project
appraisal. Following initial delays in identifying a local partner institution for IUCN, the Impact
Monitoring Manual was prepared in 2006. The study establishing the benchmark targets (“etude de
reference?) was also initially planned for the beginning of the Project but was finalized only in 2008. In
addition, due to difficulties in data collection and high laboratory cost, only some data could be collected
for 2 or 3 years over the period 2006-2009, depending on the indicator. For reasonable change/
improvement to be recognized in biodiversity conservation, at least a five-year period is required, as
foreseen in the PAD. Thus, the data collected to date does not yet permit any firm conclusions to be
drawn given the short time period for assessment. The final impact evaluation report was submitted to
the project unit in 2010. In light of these implementation problems, not all targets could be achieved and
thus, the Key Performance Indicator was only partly met.

   Degree of efficacy of impact monitoring system, as                  Target                         Achieved
 measured by point system (20 per province or 80 overall)            (for all four
                                                                      provinces)
Data collection & analysis procedure designed and adopted for              4                              4
each of the 4 indicator (4pt);                                           (16)                            (16)

Baseline data collected in year 1 on all 4 indicators (4pt);               4                              0
                                                                         (16)
Data collection each year = 8                                              8                             3.5
    a) 2 year (1/2 per indicator) = 2                                    (32)        2006 = 1 (4)
    b) 3 year (1/2 per indicator) = 2                                                2007 = 1/2 (2)
    c) 4 year (1/2 per indicator) = 2                                                2008 = 1(4)
    d) 5 year (1/2 per indicator) = 2                                                2009 = 1(4)
                                                                                                         (14)
Final reports with analysis of impact (4pt).                               4                              4
                                                                         (16)                            (16)
TOTAL                                                                     20                             11.5
                                                                         (80)                            (46)
Note:
1 Indicator : Percentage improvement in vegetation diversity index (>0 in 5 years) : Data was collected in 2007 and 2009.
2 Indicator : Percentage improvement in invertebrate diversity index (> 0 in 5 years) : Data collection was carried out in
2006, 2008 and 2009.
3 Indicator : Percentage increase in soil organic content (> 0 in 5 years) : Data collection was carried out in 2006 and 2008
4 Indicator : Percentage increase in wood biomass : No data is available.

22.     Apart from the shortcomings related to the impact assessment, another challenge was the
integration of SILEM’s M&E requirements into the already existing M&E system and processes of
CBRD, despite the budget available at SILEM to pay for the CBRD services. As a result, the PIU
established its own M&E system but with little capacity support until the MTR when an additional staff

                                                               35
member was recruited. The M&E system adopted by SILEM proved to be functional and captured the
implementation of Project activities accurately and in a timely manner – solely less attention was paid to
the evaluation of the PDO indicators as the results of the respective household surveys were not assessed
in the reporting documents.

23.      Nevertheless, over the years the PIU showed a high ability to execute the Project’s activities as
demonstrated by the good disbursement rate and ability to adjust project planning and implementation to
the early termination of SILEM. The team worked well with the CBRD team making it possible to
capitalize on CBRDs local structures and experience. An important accomplishment was construction of
the GIS database for all four watersheds that allowed the Project to (i) set in place data collection plots
for the impact assessment and (ii) map the sites of all investments funded by SILEM LIF. The PIU also
facilitated regular sessions to coordinate and share experience with other partners and institutions on
land degradation issues, forest management and climate change adaptation. However, the development
of a natural resource account, initially planned in the PAD, could not be carried out due to lack of
resources.




                                                    36
Annex 3.          Economic and Financial Analysis

An economic assessment of SILEM’s micro-projects was carried out in the four Provinces in 2009 to
evaluate SILEM’s effective and potential impact on the local economy.60 Local benefits achieved from
the investments included increased productivity of crops and livestock and greater sustainability of
resources as depleted assets are restored. The micro-projects also resulted in increased and diversified
income of the farmers (see table 1 below). It was estimated that activities related to fight against
desertification (LCD) have the potential to improve farm income by 25-40%.

Table 1 : Potential revenues per household per technique according to the farmer (FCFA)
                                                        Cultivation                                          Commercial/
   Province        Compost pits          Stone fence    of lowlands          Zaï          Fodder crop       cash crop trees
 Kompienga                  375,000            200,000              -                 -                 -           500,000
 Kouritenga        50,000 - 150,000 30,000-60,000             60,000                  -                 -                   -
 Sanmatenga         15,000 - 90,000                  -       150,000                  -                 -                   -
 Soum                        30,000 20,000-50,000                       35,000-50,000 25,000-37,500                  75,000
Source : Based on discussions with the focus group (Ministère de l’Agriculture, de l’Hydraulique et des Ressources
Halieutiques, Evaluation économique des investissements réalises par le Project SILEM dans quatre micro basins versants,
Novembre 2009)

The study included an assessment of the investment’s financial viability that applied several financial
criteria (the benefit/cost ratio (B/C), the net present value (NPV), number of years to obtain a positive
return (y) and the internal rate of return (IRR). An economic analysis for the Project as whole was not
carried out as in the case of most demand-driven programs, there are constraints to determining an
economic rate of return (ERR) because the portfolio mix and allocation outcomes are not known ex-
ante. The assessment is based on a sensitivity analysis that considers potential changes (low and high
costs and revenues of 10% and 50% respectively) and how this will affect the return of a number of
selected micro-projects in all four provinces. The sample of the study is indicative, assessing four types
of micro-projects (compost pits, stone fences, zai and fruit trees) and covering only around 3% of the
total micro-projects; therefore results should be interpreted with caution. On the whole, although
indicating different rates of return, the results of the assessment showed that the micro-projects have
positive returns in all four provinces even if key assumptions are changed (notably low revenues and an
increase in costs) (see table 2 and 3). The only exception constitutes stone fences, which do not achieve
a positive present net value in case revenues would drop by 50%.




60
  Ministère de l’Agriculture, de l’Hydraulique et des Ressources Halieutiques, Evaluation économique des investissements
réalises par le Project SILEM dan quatre micro basins versants, Novembre 2009

                                                             37
Table 2: Financial sustainability of SILEM’s micro-projects 1)
                                      Low cost                  Low Revenues               High Cost             High Revenues
Critera   Baseline                   10%              50%         10%           50%        10%           50%      10%            50%
                                                        COMPOST PITS (FOSSES FUMIERES)
                                             Kompienga
B/C                     4.95          5.61           10.90         4.36         1.98        4.41          2.97      5.55        7.93
NPV                  349,503       356,562         384,796     307,494       139,459     342,445       314,210   391,512     559,548
IRR                        -             -               -            -            -           -             -         -           -
Y                          1             1               1            1            1           1             1         1           1
                                             Kouritenga
B/C                     4.36          4.96            9.73         3.83         1.68        3.88          2.58      4.90        7.05
NPV                  308,010       315,069         343,303     270,150       118,712     300,951       272,717   345,870     497,308
IRR                        -             -               -            -            -           -             -         -           -
y                          1             1               1            1            1           1             1         1           1
                                             Sanmatenga
B/C                     2.86          3.29            6.73         2.48         0.93        2.51          1.58      3.25        4.79
NPV                  202,084       209,143         237,377     174,817        65,749     195,025       166,791   229,351     338,419
IRR                        -             -               -            -            -           -             -         -           -
y                          1             1               1            1            1           1             1         1           1
                                             Soum
B/C                     2.43          2.81            5.86         2.08         0.71        2.12          1.29      2.77        4.14
NPV                  171,352       178,411         206,645     192,894        66,042     164,293       136,059   256,321     383,173
IRR       -                    -             -                        -            -           -        1836%          -           -
y                         1             1                1            1            1           1             2         1           1




                                                                   38
                                                 Low cost                  Low Revenues                          High Cost             High Revenues
Criteria Baseline                               10%              50%         10%           50%                   10%           50%      10%            50%
                                                                  STONE FENCE (CORDONS PIERREUX)
                                                        Kompienga
B/C                         4.47               4.85              9.53         3.74         1.63                   3.79          2.51   4.79        6.90
NPV                      563,808            577,025           629,893     494,210       215,819                550,591       497,723   633,406     911,797
IRR                        828%                   -                 -       386%           67%                   408%          130%     9904%            -
y                              2                  1                 1            2            2                      2             2         2           1
                                                        Kouritenga
B/C                         2.79            3.21              6.59            2.41         0.90                   2.45          1.53      3.17        4.69
NPV                      369,124            382,341           435,210     318,995       118,477                355,907       303,039   419,254     619,772
IRR                        162%               230%                          121%           34%                   124%           61%      222%       3330%
Y                              2                  2                 1            2            2                      2             2         2           2
                                                        Sanmatenga
B/C                         2.14               2.24              2.64         1.82         0.57                   2.04          1.64      2.45        3.71
NPV                      282,625            295,842           348,710     241,145        75,227                269,408       216,539   324,104     490,023
IRR                         99%               128%                  -        78%           21%                    79%           42%      125%        372%
Y                              2                  2                 1            2            2                      2             2         2           2
                                                        Soum
B/C                         1.19            1.43              3.37            0.55        -0.14                   0.99          0.46      0.89        1.58
NPV                      156,805            170,023           222,891      72,666      - 18,373                143,588        90,720   118,185     209,223
IRR                         46%                57%              265%         23%               -                  37%           17%       38%         79%
Y                              2                  2                 2            2           N2)                     2             2         2           2
                                                                                  ZA?
                                                        Soum
B/C                         3.43                3.92             7.85         2.98         1.21                   3.02          1.95      3.87        5.64
NPV                       71,805              73,902           82,287      62,529        25,421                 69,709        61,324    81,082     118,189
IRR                            -                   -                -            -             -                     -             -         -
Y                              1                   1                1            1            1                      1             1         1           1
NPV (in FCFA); IRR (in %) and y (in years)
1)
   Calculation done by ha.
2)
   A positive net present value cannot be achieved

Note: In case the micro-project achieved a positive return within the first year, the IRR is not calculated.




                                                                                           39
Table 3: SILEM Financial returns of the fruit trees 1)
                                              Low cost                  Low Revenues               High Cost                 High Revenues
Criteria    Baseline                         10%             50%          10%          50%                                    10%            50%
                                                                         GOYAVIERS
B/C                        2.53            10.85             20.33         8.60         4.33        8.70            6.11       10.73        15.00
NPV                      30,552        5,678,758         5,911,335   5,000,408    2,519,585    5,562,469       5,329,892   6,240,819    8,721,641
IRR                        45%              84%              111%         75%          53%          76%             64%         84%          97%
y                             5                5                 5            5            5           5               5           5            5
                                                                        MANGUIERS
B/C                        1.36             3.22              6.59         3.41         1.89        2.45            1.53        4.17         5.68
NPV                      16,397        3,154,392         3,590,086   3,710,897    2,057,015    2,936,544       2,500,850   4,537,838    6,191,719
IRR                        31%              53%               78%        361%         298%          45%             34%        384%         423%
Y                             5                5                 5            5            5           5               5           5            5
NPV (in FCFA); IRR (in %) and y (in years)
1)
   Calculation done by ha.




                                                                           40
Annex 4.           Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

   (a) Task Team members

              Names                           Title                 Unit         Responsibility/ Specialty
Lending

 Yves Coffi Prudencio            Sr Ag. Services Specialist      AFTS4     TTL
 Jane C. Hopkins                 Sr .Agric.Specialist            AFTAR     TTL
 Mamadou Yaro                    Sr. Financial Specialist        AFTFM     Financial Management
 Emmanuel Y. Emmanuel            Sr. NRM Specialist              AFTEN     NRM & CDD
 Gwladys N. I. Kinda             Team Assistant                  AFMBF     Team Assistant
 Bepio C. Bado                   Sr. Operations Officer          AFTPR     Operations
 Dirk N. Prevoo                  Sr. Operations Officer          AFTS4     Operations
 Abdoul-Wahab Seyni              Social DevelopmentSspecialist AFTSD       Social Safeguards
 Amadou Konare                   Environment Specialist          AFTEN     Environment Safeguards
 Jean Michel Pavy                Sr. Biodiversity Specialist     AFTS4     Biodiversity
 Virginie Vaselopulos            Language Program Assistant      AFTEN     Language Program Assistant
 William Dakpo                   Procurement specialist          AFTPC     Procurement

 Supervision /ICR

 Bepio C. Bado                   Sr. Operations Officer          AFTPR     Operations
 Ibrahim B. Nebie                Sr. Ag. Services Specialist     AFTAR     Rural Issues
 Suzanne Essama                  Sr. Operations Officer          AFTDE     Operations
 Emmanuel Y. Nikiema             Sr. NRM Specialist              AFTEN     TTL
 Abdoul-Wahab Seyni              Social Development specialist AFTSD       Social Safeguards
 Amadou Konare                   Environment Specialist          AFTEN     Environment Safeguards
 Mamata Tiendrebeogo             Procurement Specialist          AFTPC     Procurement
 Aboubacar Diallo                Procurement Specialist          AFTPC     Procurement
 Begnadeyi Claude Bationo        Operation Officer               AFMBF     M&E
 Suzane Rayaisse                 Procurement Analyst             AFMBF     Procurement
 Gwladys N. I. Kinda             Team Assistant                  ABMBF     Team Assistant
 Aguiratou Savadogo-Tinto        Sr. Transport Specialist        AFTTR     Infrastructures
 Catherine Desiree Gamper        Consultant                      SASDU     M&E
 Ousmane M. Kolie                Sr. Financial Mgt. Specialist   AFTFM     Financial Management


                                                          41
Dirk N. Prevoo                 Sr. Operations Officer             AFTEN            Operations
William Dakpo                  Procurement Specialist             AFTPC            Procurement
Lionel Yaro                    Public Info. Assistant             AFRSC            Communication
Henri Mensah                   Consultant                         AFRSC            Communication



  (b) Staff Time and Cost (from SAP)
                                                                      Staff Time and Cost
      Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Staff Weeks                            US$ Thousands
                                                                              (including travel and consultant costs)
Lending
          FY2000 BBGEF                                         7.63                               27,328
          FY2001 BBGEF                                        20.91                               64,340
          FY2002 BBGEF                                        30.07                               94,149
          FY2003 BBGEF                                        19.92                               59,500
          FY2003 BBFAO                                            0                               25,000
          FY2004 BBGEF                                        28.75                              108,559
                   LEN TOTAL:                                107.28                              378,876
Supervision/ICR
          FY2004 BBGEF                                         1.27                                2,646
          FY2005 BBGEF                                        21.35                               49,849
          FY2006 BBGEF                                        13.49                               16,502
          FY2007 BBFAO                                            0                               19,800
          FY2007 BBGEF                                         6.99                               13,671
          FY2008 BBGEF                                        16.05                               33,004
          FY2009 BBGEF                                        17.45                               37,171
          FY2010 BBGEF                                        13.63                               38,702
          FY2011 BBGEF                                        12.50                               48,165
                    SPN TOTAL                                102.73                              259,510
GRAND TOTAL                                                  210.01                              638,386




                                                        42
Annex 5.        Beneficiary Survey Results

A beneficiaries’ perception study of the impact of SILEM was conducted in 2009. The objective was to collect
views from the beneficiaries on SILEM’s approach, its implementation and the impact on SILEM’s activities on
environment (soil, vegetation, water, fauna and flora), income (agricultural, pastoral, forestry, etc..) and social
issues (conflict reduction, food security, etc.). The study was carried out in 56 villages in the provinces of
Kouritenga, Kompienga, Soum and Sanmatenga where the Project provided support. The survey was
administered to the beneficiary population, local government and commune representatives, NGOs, other
organizations and the PIU.

The main conclusions of this survey are summarized as follows:

Approach and implementation of SILEM
     The process of planning SILEM actions, the development of partnerships, the organizations created to
       implement the project, and the monitoring mechanisms of SILEM’s activities were high points in the
       Project implementation.
     Overall, SILEM’s stakeholders (PIU, the beneficiaries, technical services, local government and
       communities involved) expressed their satisfaction with the approach of the project, described as
       participatory and empowering to actors that are direct beneficiaries.
     Rural communities were satisfied with SILEM’s approach that has empowered them in development
       planning (development of the watershed plan “PGIE? and the annual investment plan “PAI?),
       implementation of micro-projects (choice of providers, in-kind contribution of population), and close
       monitoring of the micro-projects (by the Village Development Councils (CVD), the Management
       Committee).
     The deconcentrated Technical Services of the Ministry of Agriculture, Water and Fisheries (MAHRH), of
       Animal Resources (MRA) and others noted the appropriateness of the participatory approach SILEM with
       national guidelines, including legislative texts of decentralization related to CVDs responsibilities.
     The main shortcomings identified in the project's approach concerned (i) the communication gap between
       the PIU staff of SILEM in Sanmatenga and some stakeholders as well as the insufficient involvement of
       the PIU staff in the implementation of micro-projects and (ii) the insufficient involvement of the
       deconcentrated technical services at the Kompienga province.

Implementation of SILEM’s activities
Component 1 - Local capacity building component (RCL): The stakeholders involved highlighted that various
micro-projects were carried out, starting in 2006 till the first half of 2009. They were satisfied with the relevance
of the activities as well as the know-how they had acquired in IEM. The overall physical implementation rate of
the component came to 81%, underscoring its achievements. The respondents also noted that, at times, the
training duration was too short, and a more systematic review related to the lessons learned of the study tours
could have been done.

Component 2 - local investment fund (LIF): SILEM’s direct beneficiaries strongly appreciated the results
achieved under this component. They considered the activities as relevant and of quality. The main quantitative
targets of this component were largely met or exceeded while the physical implementation rate reached 94%. The
achievements are evidenced by the strong demand in micro-projects supporting demarcation of sites, restoration
of soil and water conservation land.



                                                         43
However, some beneficiaries believed that the CVD should have mobilized financial resources that would have
funded the supervision activities carried out by the CVD in general. It was noted that members of the CVD often
abandoned their own activities to benefit from community activities supported by the project. In addition, it has
been also lamented that the project did not taken into account the financing activities related to the protection of
the sites (e.g. fencing) and other supportive activities (e.g. babysitting fees, etc).

Component 3 - institutional Capacity Building : Stakeholders judged the implementation of the component
satisfactory. It achieved a 78% implementation rate. Various awareness raising and information sessions on
SILEM and the communication tools (plays, radio and appreciation) which were translated into the local
languages were positively assessed.

Component 4 - Capacity Building component of national stakeholders to access the carbon markets : It was
noted that the implementation of this component was difficult. The component included a number of innovative
elements (i.e. scientific evaluation before and after the implementation of micro-projects, obtaining funds through
the carbon market, etc.) which had not been well developed during project preparation. Another constraint was the
insufficient resources available to prepare a project proposal for a plantation project to be submitted for funding
by the carbon fund. With an overall physical implementation rate of 67%, the component supported mainly
studies, field trips (to other regions) and international study tours.

Component 5 - Administration management and monitoring and evaluation : It was noted that the
monitoring and evaluation system was in general operational. The targets of most of SILEM’s performance
indicators were met or exceeded, with the exception of the indicator on the number of carbon projects. The overall
implementation rate of the component (in terms of physical realizations) was estimated at 92%.

Impact of the project
The project has had beneficial impact starting at the mid-term, including the gradual emergence of plants and
animal species, the recovery of degraded land, gains in agro-pastoral productivity and fisheries, reduced conflicts
between farmers and cattle farmers and capacity building of CVDs in planning, implementation and monitoring /
evaluation of community activities.




                                                        44
Annex 6.         Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

Not available.




                                               45
Annex 7.        Summary of Borrower’s ICR



I.    Contexte, Objectif et Conception du Projet

1.1      Contexte à l’évaluation du SILEM
Pays enclavé sans débouché sur la mer, le Burkina Faso fait partie des dix pays les moins développés du monde.
Bien que l’incidence de la pauvreté urbaine ait pratiquement doublé entre 1994 et 2003, passant de 10,4% à
19,9%, on notait que la pauvreté était principalement rurale avec plus de 92% de la population vivant en dessous
du seuil de pauvreté. Les principales sources de revenu pour les plus pauvres sont liées à l’exploitation des
ressources naturelles. En dépit de cet état de dépendance des populations rurales vis-à-vis des ressources
naturelles, on notait par ailleurs une dégradation accélérée desdites ressources due aux modes de gestion
inappropriés. Pour faire face à ces contraintes, le Burkina Faso a élaboré des stratégies nationales et des plans
d'action à long terme. Le Programme de Gestion Intégrée des Ecosystèmes des Plaines et des Bas-fonds du Sahel
(SILEM) a été conçu pour aider le gouvernement à mettre en œuvre de manière efficace les plans d’action
nationaux destinés à arrêter et à inverser la tendance de dégradation des ressources naturelles. Pour ce faire,
SILEM a complété le Deuxième Programme National de Gestion des Terroirs (PNGT2) du Burkina Faso (le
projet de base) en introduisant une dimension géographique et une approche de Gestion Intégrée de l'Ecosystème
(GIE) dans la planification du développement local.


1.2     Objectifs de développement initiaux et indicateurs clefs du projet
Le programme prévu pour une durée de 15 ans en trois phases quinquennales, visait à restaurer les sols et l'eau et
à conserver durablement la diversité biologique des bassins versants choisis. A l’échelle nationale, il
devait conduire à : (i) une réduction du rythme de désertification, (ii) une capacité accrue de séquestration du
carbone, (iii) une réduction de la vulnérabilité environnementale et sociale aux changements climatiques, (iv) une
meilleure sécurité alimentaire et de meilleures possibilités de revenus pour les ménages ruraux. L'objectif de
développement de cette phase pilote de cinq ans était d’améliorer des pratiques de gestion de ressources
naturelles des sous bassins versants ciblés.

Les principaux indicateurs clefs du projet sont : (i) le degré de fonctionnalité du Cadre de Coordination et de
Concertation des Micros Bassins Versants (CCMBV) ; (ii) le nombre de microprojets de gestion intégrée des
écosystèmes financés et entièrement exécutés ; (iii) le pourcentage des microprojets exécutés ayant reçu une
évaluation positive ; (iv) le niveau d’achèvement de la préparation des Plans de Gestion Intégrée des Ecosystèmes
des Micros Bassins Versants (PGIE /MBV) ; (v) le nombre de projets de Mécanismes de Développement Propre
(MDP) initiés ; (vi) le degré d’efficacité du système de suivi d’impact.


1.3     Principaux bénéficiaires
Pour la première phase, les bénéficiaires directs du SILEM étaient les populations rurales vivant dans les micros
bassins versants choisis dans les provinces du Soum, du Sanmatenga, du Kourittenga et de la Kompienga, soit
environ 120 villages et 12 000 ménages.


1.4    Composantes
Le SILEM a été mis en œuvre à travers cinq composantes, à savoir :




                                                       46
      Composante 1 : Le Renforcement des capacités locales en gestion intégrée des écosystèmes (RCL/GIE) qui
      prenait en compte l’appui des communautés à la planification, à la concertation/coordination, à l’organisation
      et à leur formation sur divers thèmes relatifs à la gestion intégrée des ressources naturelles;

      Composante 2 : Le Fonds d’investissement local (FIL) à travers lequel les ressources financières ont été
      mises à la disposition des villages et des provinces pour la réalisation des investissements dont ils assuraient
      la maîtrise d’ouvrage ;

      Composante 3 : Le Renforcement des capacités institutionnelles (RCI) qui permettait d’apporter l’appui
      nécessaire aux services techniques, aux associations et ONG en vue d’un encadrement technique des
      communautés dans la mise en œuvre des activités ;

      Composante 4 : Le Renforcement des capacités des acteurs nationaux à accéder aux marchés de
      carbone qui visait à appuyer les communautés à formuler des projets éligibles aux marchés de crédits de
      carbone ;

      Composante 5 : L’Appui incrémental à l’administration, la gestion et le suivi évaluation qui permettait de
      supporter le fonctionnement et la mise en œuvre du dispositif de suivi des performances et des impacts du
      projet.


1.5    Modifications intervenues

Réallocation budgétaire
Il avait été prévu un nombre limité de microprojet à financer à travers le FIL (480 microprojets à la fin du projet).
L’accent avait été plutôt mis sur le renforcement des capacités locales et institutionnelles. Cette prévision tenait
compte de l’expérience de la première phase du PNGT2 durant laquelle on avait noté une faible demande en
investissement pour la gestion des ressources naturelles, la plus grosse part de la demande ayant été orientée vers
les investissements socio-économiques. Mais après avoir conduit les actions de sensibilisation et de
communication dès le démarrage du projet, la demande communautaire en microprojets de gestion des ressources
naturelles exprimée dans les plans de gestion intégrée des écosystèmes s’est avérée plus ambitieuse que la
prévision initial.

Une réallocation budgétaire a été effectuée courant 2009 pour permettre d’une part de budgétiser les ressources
non allouées et d’autre part de réduire les ressources prévues au titre des composantes RCL et renforcement des
capacités des acteurs nationaux à accéder au marché de carbone au profit de la composante FIL. Cette réallocation
se justifie par le fait que les coûts des formations techniques sont, dans la pratiques, souvent intégrés à ceux des
micros projets prévus dans le FIL et contribue plus efficacement à l’atteinte des objectifs d’apprentissage
(learning by doing).

Composante « Renforcement des capacités des acteurs nationaux à accéder aux marchés de carbone »
L’objet de cette composante était d’élaborer cinq projets MDP devant être financés par les partenaires privés mais
la mise en œuvre comportait des difficultés. Ces difficultés étaient inhérentes au fait que les projets MDP devaient
être portés par des acteurs privés dont la plupart étaient insuffisamment informés des mécanismes pratiques de
mise en œuvre de tels projets. Par ailleurs, ces acteurs n’étaient pas prompts à prendre le risque d’investir dans un
projet qu’ils maîtrisaient peu et dont les retombées économiques ne sont pas immédiates. La mission de revue à
mi-parcours intervenue en mai 2007 avait donc recommandé le redimensionnement des résultats attendus de cette
composante pour les limiter à l’information et au renforcement des capacités des acteurs, notamment du secteur
privé puis au partage des expériences entre les acteurs burkinabés et ceux des pays voisins qui mettent en œuvre
des projets similaires.


                                                          47
Prorogation de la date de clôture du projet
La date de clôture initiale du projet était prévue au 30 juin 2009. Mais au regard de la nécessité de consolidation
des actions réalisées pour garantir leur durabilité, la mission de supervision de décembre 2008 avait recommandé
la prorogation de la date de clôture au 31 décembre 2010.

      II.       PRINCIPAUX FACTEURS AFFECTANT L’EXECUTION ET L’ATTEINTE DES
                                 RESULTATS DU PROJET

2.1         Préparation du projet, conception et entrée en vigueur

Préparation du projet
En 2001, le gouvernement burkinabé avait sollicité et obtenu du Fonds Mondial pour l’Environnement (FEM)
340 000 dollars US en vue d’assurer la préparation du SILEM (Sahelian Integrated Lowland Ecosystem
Management). Pour ce faire, un nombre des études techniques avaient été réalisées. Initialement, il avait été
envisagé que le démarrage du SILEM coïncide avec celui de la première phase du PNGT2 dont la mise en œuvre
a commencé en 2002. Mais compte tenu du délai de préparation qui était relativement long (3 ans), il y a eu un
décalage entre le début du SILEM et celui du PNGT2. Cela avait nécessité un réajustement du dispositif
organisationnel au cours de la mise en œuvre du projet.

Le processus de préparation avait impliqué les départements ministériels en charge de l’Environnement et du
Cadre de Vie (MECV), des Ressources Animales (MRA), de l’Agriculture, de l’Hydraulique et des Ressources
Halieutiques (MAHRH) ainsi que de la Recherche Scientifique (MESSRS). La collaboration des partenaires
financiers dans la préparation du projet a été optimale.

Conception
La prise en compte des différentes zones agro-écologiques du Burkina Faso pour la mise en œuvre de la phase
pilote a permis de disposer de résultats extrapolables sur toute l’étendue du territoire national. Pourtant, de toutes
les cinq composantes du projet, seule celle relative au Renforcement des capacités des acteurs nationaux à accéder
aux marchés de carbone a connu des difficultés de mise en œuvre du fait qu’elle n’était pas suffisamment clarifiée
dans le document du projet. En effet, compte tenu du temps de préparation qui s’était déjà écoulé, il était prévu
qu’un consultant international soit recruté après le démarrage du projet pour aider à préciser et opérationnaliser le
contenu de la composante alors que des résultats quantitatifs étaient déjà ciblés dans le cadre de résultats du
projet.



2.2     Mise en œuvre
(a) Les principaux facteurs ayant influencé positivement l’éxecution du projet
     La mise en œuvre des actions de Gestion Intégrée des Ecosystèmes à travers le SILEM dans les provinces
      d’intervention du PNGT2 a favorisé l’adhésion des communautés de base dont les besoins socio-
      économiques étaient pris en compte par ce dernier. Il y a eu ainsi une complémentarité et une synergie
      entre le PNGT2 et le SILEM sur le terrain.

     L’implication des services techniques et des autorités administratives des provinces concernées dans le
      choix des micros bassins versant d’intervention du SILEM a contribué à une meilleure atteinte des résultats.

     Conçu pour quinze ans en trois phases de 5 ans, la mise en œuvre de la phase pilote a suscité une grande
      motivation au niveau des différents acteurs, ce qui a contribué à l’atteinte des résultats prévus y compris
      les déclencheurs de la phase suivante. Le renforcement des capacités a été un facteur déterminant dans
      l’atteinte des résultats du projet. Il s’est opéré à travers d’une part le RCL et d’autre part le FIL qui a

                                                         48
      constitué une opportunité d’appropriation des techniques de Gestion Intégrée des Ecosystèmes (GIE) par les
      populations à travers le « learning by doing ».

     L’élaboration des Plans de Gestion Intégrée des Ecosystèmes (PGIE), établie à travers un approach
      participative, reflets les besoins par les populations elles-mêmes et répondant aux normes techniques en
      la matière. L’extraction des Plans Annuels d’Investissement (PAI) à partir des PGIE et leur mise à jour ont
      favorisé la prise en compte de l’évolution des besoins des populations avec le temps.

     La non exigence de contribution financière pour la réalisation des activités de GRN a favorisé une forte
      adhésion des communautés qui s’est traduite par une plus grande mobilisation de leur contribution en nature
      dépassant même souvent la subvention accordée par le projet

     La tenue régulière des rencontres de concertation inter-villageoises sur la mise en œuvre du projet a
      permis des échanges d’expériences, une planification concertée et harmonisée et une synergie d’actions sur le
      terrain.

(b) Quelques facteurs ayant influencé négativement l’éxecution du projet
     En ce qui concerne la composante relative au renforcement des capacités des acteurs nationaux à
      accéder au marché de carbone, a l’occasion d’un mission d’un consultant indépendant il a été mis en
      évidence le caractère ambitieux des résultats initialement prévus. Néanmoins, deux idées de projets MDP
      ont été identifiées.

     Lorsqu’un micro bassin se trouve à cheval entre deux provinces qui n’appartiennent pas à la même
      région (cas du micro bassin versant de la Kompienga), la coordination administrative apparaissait assez
      complexe et trop couteuse par rapport aux ressources financières prévues. Cela a conduit le projet à travailler
      dans la partie du micro bassin versant qui se trouve dans les limites de la province.

     Lors de l’adoption du code général des collectivités territoriales ce qui a eu comme resultatant dans la
      création des conseils municipaux et des Conseils Villageois de Développement (CVD), un renouvellement
      des formations au profit des membres des CVD a été necessaire.

     La fluctuation à la baisse du cours du dollar a affecté le montant global du projet. En effet, initialement
      évalué sur la base de 1 dollar USD= 600 FCFA, la perte subie du fait de la baisse du cours du dollar.


2.3      Système de suivi évaluation

(a) Les acquis :
 Le dispositif de suivi-évaluation a permis de rendre compte régulièrement des performances et d’opérer les
     ajustements nécessaires à la bonne exécution du projet. Il est adapté au mode d’intervention participatif,
     impliquant et responsabilisant les acteurs depuis le niveau village jusqu’au niveau central.

     Quant au suivi des impacts, assuré par l’Union Internationale pour la Conservation de la Nature (UICN), un
      manuel de suivi d’impact du SILEM a été élaboré et adopté par le comité consultatif scientifique et technique
      (CCST) en 2006 et la situation de référence pour les indicateurs retenus a été établie en fin 2006. De plus, les
      données sur les impacts ont été régulièrement collectées et le rapport final a été produit en 2010.
     Des études ponctuelles ont permis de compléter les domaines d’impact ci-dessus, notamment l’enquête sur la
      perception des bénéficiaires, l’évaluation économique et financière des investissements, l’audit technique et
      financier des investissements.

                                                          49
(b) Les défis :
 La meconnaissance précise des aménagements à l’avance
   Le long temps mis pour rechercher un partenariat et conclure le protocole de collaboration;
   Le long délai de finalisation des travaux préliminaires, notamment l’élaboration de la méthodologie de suivi
    d’impact et sa validation par le CCST qui eu pour conséquence l’établissement tardif de la situation de
    référence (un an et demi après le démarrage du projet) ;
   Un coût relativement élevé des analyses scientifiques dans les laboratoires qui n’a pas permis d’analyser la
    totalité des échantillons collectés sur le terrain ;
   Des indicateurs retenus prennent forcément un certains temps pour évoluer notablement alors que le délai
    d’observation a été relativement court (3 ans seulement). Par conséquent, le dispositif n’a permet d’observer
    que les premiers effets des aménagements réalisés.


2.4     Conformité aux politiques de sauvegarde environnementale /sociale et de gestion fiduciaire
Le projet est classé en catégorie B conformément aux politiques de sauvegarde environnementale et sociale de la
Banque Mondiale. Compte tenu de l’effet cumulatif de nombreux micros projets mis en œuvre par le projet, un
cadre de gestion environnemental et social et un cadre de politique de réinstallation ont été élaborés après
consultation des acteurs. Les politiques de sauvegarde activées concernent : (i) l’évaluation environnemental (OP
4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01) et (ii) Réinstallation involontaire (OP/BP 4.12).

L’application des dispositions prévues dans ces cadres a permis d’atténuer par anticipation les impacts négatifs
potentiels. L’utilisation de la grille de veille environnementale et sociale pour la sélection des micros projets et
l’élaboration des procès-verbaux de cession des sites d’investissements communautaires ont permis d’identifier et
de financer des activités à faible impact environnemental et social négatif, de prévoir des mesures d’atténuation
pour les microprojets comportant des risques environnementaux et/ou sociaux puis d’assurer la sécurisation des
investissements.

Des mesures de mitigation environnementale et sociale prévues ont été effectivement mises en œuvre sous forme
de compensation en fosses fumières, cordons pierreux et en renforcement de capacité sur le zaï et les foyers
améliorés, etc. L’audit environnemental et social des actions a jugé que la mise en œuvre du SILEM conforme au
CGES.

Les audits de gestion comptables et financiers ainsi que de la passation des marchés ont été régulièrement
conduits par des cabinets indépendants ainsi que par des experts de la Banque Mondiale et des avis favorables ont
toujours été émis, sans réserves particulières.


2.5     Actions post-clôture du projet (perspectives)
Le SILEM a été conçu sous-forme de programme de 15 ans à exécuter en trois phases quinquennales, pour
accompagner la mise en œuvre du PNGT2 qui est le programme de base. La phase pilote qui fait objet du présent
rapport a permis de tester l’approche de gestion intégrée des écosystèmes et d’atteindre des résultats et des
impacts forts appréciables.

La seconde phase était sensée assurer l’extension géographique de l’approche, tout en la consolidant sur la base
des leçons apprises de la mise en œuvre de la phase pilote et des problématiques naissantes. La mise en œuvre de
cette phase pilote a mis en évidence l’efficacité de l’approche pour la prise en charge, en parfaite synergie, des
contraintes relatives la dégradation des terres et de la biodiversité ainsi l’adaptation aux effets de la variabilité



                                                         50
climatique. A cet effet, une note d’idée de projet a été esquissée et pourrait être développée et enrichie en vue de
l’élaboration d’un document d’évaluation de la seconde phase.

                                    III.    EVALUATION DES RESULTATS

3.1      Pertinence des objectifs, de la conception et de la mise en œuvre du projet
L’objectif de développement, l’approche et la démarche de mise en œuvre ont été pertinents. En effet, la
problématique de gestion durable des ressources naturelles, base de l’économie nationale, reste un challenge
majeur pour le gouvernement, les collectivités décentralisées et la société civile au Burkina Faso. Elle est
exacerbée ces dernières années par des évènements climatiques extrêmes tels que les sécheresses et les
inondations qui accroissent la vulnérabilité des populations rurales les plus pauvres. Les objectifs du projet sont
en conformité avec les orientations politiques et stratégiques du gouvernement; en témoigne l’élaboration récente
des instruments tels que la loi portant Code Général des Collectivités Territoriales (CGCT) au Burkina Faso
promulgué le 14 avril 2005, la Stratégie de Croissance Accélérée et de Développement Durable (SCADD) en
cours d’élaboration pour remplacer le Cadre Stratégique de Lutte Contre la Pauvreté (CSLP) et un nombre de
programmes visant de renforcer les capacités des villages et des collectivités locales à planifier et réaliser les
investissement, d’ameliorer la gestion durable de la terre et s’atteler la vulnérabilité aux changements climatiques.
Au niveau local, le diagnostic réalisé lors de l’élaboration des PGIE des micros bassins versants a confirmé
également la pertinence des objectifs du projet. En effet, les agro-écosystèmes, les écosystèmes humides,
aquatiques et sylvo-pastoraux identifiés présentent plusieurs contraintes de gestion.

3.2      Niveau d’atteinte des objectifs de développement
Les objectifs de développement du projet ont été largement atteints. Sur une prévision de 120 villages,
l’intervention du projet a concerné les communautés de 160 villages répartis dans quatre micros bassins versant.
Du fait de l’action du projet, les communautés cibles ont acquis les capacités : (i) de planification holistique du
développement intégrant la gestion durable des ressources naturelles et la résolution des problèmes socio-
économiques ; (ii) de coordination inter-communautaire pour la gestion des ressources partagées à l’échelle micro
bassin versant ; (iii) d’assurer la maîtrise d’ouvrage et l’exécution technique des micros projets de gestion des
ressources naturelles. L’implication des services techniques et de l’administration locale dans la planification, la
mise en œuvre et le maintien des investissements constitue une base de durabilité des acquis.
                                                    61
L’appréciation des bénéficiaires du SILEM indique que les effets imputables aux actions du projet ont été
jugés positifs et ont concerné (i) l’environnement (apparition progressive d’espèces végétales et animales,
renforcement du potentiel floristique et faunique au niveau des forêts villageoises et des mises en défens,
économie du bois de chauffe par l’utilisation des foyers améliorés et récupération de 1 000 ha de terres
dégradées), (ii) les revenus (gain de productivité en raison de l’application des techniques d’intensification) et (iii)
le niveau social (réduction de conflits entre agriculteurs et éleveurs, rapprochement entre les villages,
renforcement des capacités des CVD).

L’évaluation des activités de DRS/CES62 a été conduite en 2009. Elle a porté sur les aménagements réalisés par
les producteurs de 2006 à 2008 avec l’appui du SILEM. Il ressort de cette étude que: (i) l’aménagement des
exploitations agricoles en cordons pierreux permet d’accroître le rendement des spéculations céréalières de 24% ;
(ii) l’utilisation de la fumure organique issue des fosses fumières induit un accroissement de rendement de
35,23% ; (iii) le traitement des ravines par l’utilisation de sacs en jute remplis de mottes de terres combinée à la
végétalisation, a permis leur comblement en deux saisons.

L’ensemble des indicateurs clefs du SILEM a été atteint et se présente comme suit :


61
     SILEM, Etude sur l’appréciation des actions du SILEM par les bénéficiaires, 2009
62
     Evaluation des effets des aménagements de DRS/CES réalisés avec l’appui du SILEM dans la province du Kouritenga

                                                            51
       Le degré de fonctionnalité du Cadre inter-villageois de Coordination et Concertation des micros
        bassins versants : Cet indicateur composite a reçu la note de 40 points sur 40, soit 100% de la note cible.
        Les communautés à travers le CCIV extraient régulièrement du PGIE des PAI qu’ils mettent à jour et
        exécutent.
       Nombre de microprojets financés et entièrement exécutés (Cible= 150 à l’an 3 et 480 à l’an 6): La cible
        de cet indicateur est largement dépassée. En effet, 2 971 micros projets villageois et inter-villageois de
        gestion des ressources naturelles ont été réalisés sur une prévision initiale de 480 micros projets financés en
        fin de projet. Ces microprojets ont concerné les domaines suivants: (i) reboisement et gestion des ressources
        forestières; (ii) la défense et restauration des sols /gestion de la fertilités des sols; (iii) l’amélioration de la
        production animale ; (iv) l’amélioration de la production végétale ; (v) amélioration de la production
        halieutique; la recherche-actions.
       75% des microprojets exécutés ayant reçu une évaluation positive par les bénéficiaires et 65% par le
        projet: L’étude sur la perception des bénéficiaires a fait ressortir une appréciation positive des réalisations du
        projet par l’ensemble des bénéficiaires enquêtés. Cela a été confirmé par l’audit indépendant des
        investissements financés à travers le FIL. Cet audit a permis de noter que 100% des micros projets financés
        ont été réalisés et que 98% des réalisations sont jugés satisfaisantes.
       Niveau d’achèvement de la préparation des PGIE des micros bassins versants (cible en fin de projet:
        note au moins égale à 18 points sur 24) : Cet indicateur composite a évalué la qualité du processus de
        planification communautaire qui a abouti au PGIE. Il a reçu la note de 24 points sur 24. Les communautés
        ont acquis les capacités d’identifier les contraintes de leur milieu, de planifier des actions au niveau
        villageois et de les mettre en cohérence à l’échelle des micros bassins versants ciblés.
       Degré d’efficacité du système de suivi d’impact (20 points par province, 80 en tout) : Cet indicateur a été
        entièrement atteint et a obtenu la note de 80 points sur 80. En effet, un manuel de suivi d'impact, incluant la
        méthodologie et la description du dispositif, a été élaboré par l'UICN et adopté par le CCST. Le rapport sur la
        situation de référence a également été élaboré. La collecte et l’analyse des données ont concerné la période
        de 2007 à 2009. Le rapport final a été déposé en 2010. Des études ponctuelles sur les effets du projet ont été
        réalisées.

3.3      Efficience du projet
L’efficience du projet est clairement mise en évidence à travers l’analyse coût/avantage et de la rentabilité
                                                                 63
financière des investissements réalisés. L’évaluation économique indique que les aménagements sont rentables
dans toutes les quatre provinces et que d’une manière générale, les aménagements sont plus rentables dans la
Kompienga, suivie du Kouritenga, du Sanmatenga et enfin du Soum (voir calcul de VAN et TRI en annexe ….).
Ce gradient de rentabilité croissante est positivement corrélé avec le gradient pluviométrique. Cette efficience
s’explique également par l’approche de responsabilisation des communautés pour la maîtrise d’ouvrage des
investissements, à travers leurs structures représentatives que sont les conseils villageois de développement
(CVD). Par ailleurs, les investissements à caractère individuel (fosses fumières, cordons pierreux, zaï et arbres
fruitiers) font preuve d’une viabilité financière robuste.

3.4     Justification de l’appréciation globale des résultats
Les résultats atteints par le projet sont jugés satisfaisants. En effet, l’ensemble des indicateurs clefs est atteint ou
dépassé. Le projet a généré des effets et des impacts positifs significatifs sur les conditions de vie, sur
l’environnement biophysique et sur les capacités des acteurs tant au niveau local que national.



63
     Evaluation économique des investissements réalisés par le projet SILEM dans quatre micro bassins versants


                                                              52
3.5      Autres résultats et impacts
Les résultats inattendus du projet concernent principalement l’émergence d’une paix sociale entre les groupes
sociaux professionnels, notamment entre les agriculteurs et les éleveurs. En effet, depuis 2006, année de mise en
œuvre effective des activités du SILEM, les conflits entre agriculteurs et éleveurs ont connu un apaisement
notoire dans les quatre provinces d’intervention, en raison notamment des actions d’information/sensibilisation,
de délimitation de zones de pâture et de pistes à bétail avec des règles internes de gestion. A titre illustratif, il a été
signalé qu’au Kouritenga, le nombre de conflits enregistrés par an est passé de 22 cas officiels en 2006 à zéro cas
en 2009. De même, les constats de dégâts causés par les animaux en divagation ont beaucoup diminué. Par
ailleurs, il a été constaté un plus grand rapprochement entre les villages du fait des différentes rencontres inter-
villageoises de concertation et de coordination pour la gestion des ressources naturelles partagées et un
renforcement des capacités des CVD en planification, exécution et suivi/évaluation des activités de gestion des
ressources naturelles communautaires.

       Impacts sur les conditions de vie des populations bénéficiaires
Au niveau des revenus. La vulgarisation des méthodes CES/DRS par le projet a conduit à (i) une maîtrise des
techniques culturales de production, (ii) une amélioration des rendements agricoles. (iii) une meilleure sécurité
alimentaire et (iv) une augmentation des revenus. Certaines actions comme la délimitation de zones de chasse, les
sites de frayères et l’élevage d’aulacodes ont procuré des revenus directs aux bénéficiaires. Les revenus générés
contribuent au paiement de frais de scolarité, de santé et à l’acquisition d’équipements, toutes choses qui
contribuent à l’amélioration des conditions de vie des bénéficiaires. Les surplus agricoles commercialisés sont
perçus comme des facteurs contribuant positivement à l’économie locale par l’approvisionnement régulier de la
province tendant à maintenir les prix plus stables.

Au niveau social. De nombreux acteurs témoignent que les activités du SILEM ont contribué à l’amélioration des
conditions de vie des populations et à la cohésion sociale. Par ailleurs, il a été noté que la mise en œuvre des
activités a induit une plus grande collaboration entre les services techniques et les villages.

Impacts sur les ressources naturelles. Les effets bénéfiques du projet sur l’environnement sont reconnus par les
acteurs et concernent particulièrement : (i) le couvert végétal (par exemple, la recolonisation de certaines forêts
villageoises par l’apparition progressive d’espèces végétales et animales) (ii) la faune (les espèces évoquées sont
notamment les singes, les hyènes, les biches, les chacals, les perdrix et pintades sauvages), (iii) les sols (une
récupération de terres dégradées) et (iv) les plans d’eau (une reconstitution des berges des cours d’eau et des
plans d’eau).

Impact sur les capacités locales. L’impact des actions du SILEM s’est traduit par le renforcement des aptitudes
des CVD à planifier, à assurer la maîtrise d’ouvrages des investissements et à conduire le suivi participatif des
activités. Ces capacités sont confirmées au regard du nombre de microprojets (3000) réalisés avec succès.

Impact sur l'environnement institutionnel. La mise en œuvre du SILEM a contribué à la vitalité des organes
villageois, notamment des conseils villageois de développement (CVD). Les réunions sont très régulières dans
72% des villages enquêtés, ce qui est assez satisfaisant, même si une amélioration reste à souhaiter. Par ailleurs, la
forte implication des services techniques de l’Etat et des ONGs/Associations, convenue sur la base de protocoles
d’exécutionont permis de raffermir leur rôle d’appui technique et de contrôle des actions du SILEM. Les services
techniques ont estimé que l’approche participative et de responsabilisation des acteurs, en particulier les acteurs
directs que sont les populations concernées est en parfaite adéquation avec les orientations nationales.

    IV.      EVALUATION DES RISQUES POUR LES RESULTATS DE DEVELOPPEMENT
                     (DISPOSITIONS PRISES POUR LA DURABILITE)

Les principaux risques qui étaient associés à la mise en œuvre du projet concernent la durabilité des actions et leur
réplicabilité. La maîtrise de ces risques a été intégrée dans la stratégie d’exécution du projet : (i) le renforcement
des capacités des CVD sur plusieurs thématiques afin de leur permettre d’être pleinement opérationnelles et

                                                            53
d’assurer efficacement la maîtrise d’ouvrage ; (ii) la dotations de capacités nécessaires aux comités de gestion
assurer le respect des règles convenues et initier des actions de restauration et d’exploitation durable ; (iii) la mise
en place d’un Cadre de concertation inter villageois ; (iv) l’appropriation des investissements par les bénéficiaires
contribuant à l’initiative d’actions endogènes pour restaurer et accroître le potentiel productif et constitue un gage
de durabilité ; (v) l’appui aux investissements productifs (aménagement de bas-fonds, élevage des aulacodes,
production des plants, création de vergers, de zones de chasse et de frayères …) permttant aux communautés de
diversifier leurs sources de revenus (vi) introduire le processus de sécurisation et de pérennisation des
investissements ; et (vii) le développement des compétences à travers la stratégie du «faire faire» utilisée par le
SILEM a permis de développer au niveau local, les compétences des prestataires privés et publics chargés
d’accompagner les CVD dans la réalisation, l’entretien et la maintenance des investissements relatifs à la gestion
des ressources naturelles.

Les principaux risques environnementaux et sociaux dans l’exécution du projet ont été également identifiés et des
mesures d’atténuation proposées et mises en oeuvre.

       V.     EVALUATION DES PERFORMANCES DE LA BANQUE MONDIALE ET DU
                                 BURKINA FASO

5.1      Performance de la Banque Mondiale

La Banque Mondiale en tant que principal bailleur du SILEM a conduit le processus de préparation et
d’évaluation du projet avec succès et les missions régulières de supervision et de revue à mi-parcours du projet.
Ces différentes missions ont formulé des recommandations dont la mise en œuvre a apporté des solutions pour le
bon déroulement du projet. Par ailleurs, les requêtes (Demande de non objection, Demande de Remboursement de
Fonds, Rapports de Suivi Financier, Rapports d’audits annuels, etc.) soumises par le Gouvernement ont toujours
été traitées de façon diligente.

5.2      Performance de l’emprunteur

Le Gouvernement
La performance du Gouvernement dans la préparation du Programme est jugée moyenne au regard de durée de la
phase de préparation (3 ans). La performance du Gouvernement dans la mise en œuvre du projet est jugée
satisfaisante (Suivi régulier du projet, tenue régulière des comités de pilotage, déblocage à temps de la
contrepartie).

L’unité d’exécution du projet
La performance de l’organisme d’exécution est satisfaisante. Les programmes d’activités et budgets annuels, les
rapports d’activités trimestriels et annuels ainsi que les rapports d’audits sont soumis dans les délais au comité de
pilotage et aux partenaires techniques et financiers. Les missions de supervision et de revue à mi-parcours ont été
bien préparées. Le Projet a, en outre, réalisé un bon taux de décaissement 100% au 30 juin 2010.

                  VI.     LEÇONS APPRISES DE LA MISE EN ŒUVRE DU SILEM
     La disposition avec les CVDs comme porteurs de micros projets villageois a facilité les procédures de
      décaissement des fonds au profit des populations bénéficiaires.
     La contribution des populations bénéficiaires à la mise en œuvre des actions surtout sous forme de main
      d’œuvre a amélioré de manière significative l’exécution des actions.
     La démarche du projet a intégré une bonne communication avec les partenaires techniques et privés et les
      populations bénéficiaires à travers les cadres de concertation provinciaux, les protocoles/contrats
      d’exécution, les rencontres inter villageoises, etc.

                                                          54
   L’instauration d’un processus endogène de négociation et de concertation adoptée dans la mise en œuvre des
    actions de gestion des ressources naturelles a contribué à la réduction des conflits sociaux.
   La pertinence de l’approche spatiale « micro bassin versant » a permis (i) aux communautés de faire une
    planification concertée de la gestion des ressources naturelles à une échelle spatiale plus étendue et d’agir
    localement dans un cadre cohérent et (ii) de mettre en évidence l’interdépendance d’une part, entre les
    différentes composantes biophysiques de l’environnement et d’autre part entre les populations qui partagent
    un même bassin versant.
   La démarche adoptée pour la sécurisation des investissements communautaires (qui va de la
    sensibilisation/négociation à la prise d’arrêté de reconnaissance officielle) est pertinente dans la mesure où
    elle assure la durabilité des aménagements.
   La sélection des micros projets à travers la grille de sélection de la banque mondiale a permis de retenir les
    micros projets à faible impact négatif sur l’environnement et le social et de proposer des mesures
    d’atténuation ou de compensation.
   Dans le contexte de la communalisation, l’élaboration des PCD doit intégrer l’approche bassin versant pour
    prendre en compte la gestion des ressources partagées inter-communales.
   Les communautés ne disposent pas toujours de paquets techniques ou technologiques diversifiés pour faire le
    choix de la solution la mieux adaptée, d’où la nécessité de mettre à leur disposition un recueil de techniques
    pour les contraintes les plus courantes.


Commentaires sur les problématiques naissantes
Outre la dégradation des terres et la perte de biomasse et de la biodiversité, la prise en compte des stratégies et
techniques d’adaptation aux effets des changements climatiques dans les domaines de l’agriculture, l’élevage, la
foresterie et l’eau, constitue une problématique importante pour les projets similaires à mettre en œuvre à l’avenir.




                                                         55
Annex 8.         Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Not available.




                                                56
Annex 9.     List of Supporting Documents

  1. Project Concept Note, March 2002
  2. SILEM, Project Appraisal Document, May 2004
  3. Global Environment Facility Trust Fund Grant Agreement between Burkina Faso and the IBRD,
  July 14th 2004
  4. Aide-mémoire de la mission de préparation du SILEM (26 Juin au 5 Juillet 2000)
  5. Aide-mémoire de la mission de préparation (29th Avril 2004)
  6. Aide-mémoire de la mission de supervision du PNGT2 et du SILEM (21 novembre au 04
  décembre 2005
  7. Mission de Supervision du PNGT2 et du SILEM (5 au 23 Juin 2006)
  8. Mission de Supervision finale du PNGT et de Revue à mi-parcours du projet SILEM (13 au 29 mai
  2007)
  9. Mission de Supervision du SILEM (28 au 30 Janvier 2008)
  10. Mission de Supervision du PNGT et du SILEM (1er -15 Décembre 2008)
  11. Mission de Supervision de SILEM (11 Février – 06 Mars 2010)
  12. Supervision financière du PNGT II et revue à mi-parcours du SILEM - Rapport de supervision
  financière (2 au 18 mai 2007)
  13. Project Supervision – Financial Management input to FM rating in ISR, 28th July 2008
  14. Mission de Supervision en gestion financière (10 au 13 Décembre 2008)
  15. Mission de Supervision en gestion financière (15 au 23 juillet 2009)
  16. Mission de Supervision Mars 2010 – contribution de la passation des marchés à l’aide mémoire,
  Mars 2010
  17. Plan de Gestion intégrée des écosystèmes du Micro-bassin versant dans le Kouritenga, Octobre
  2005
  18. Plan de Gestion intégrée des écosystèmes du Micro-bassin versant de Korsimoro dans la Province
  du Sanmatenga, Mai 2006
  19. Plan de Gestion intégrée des écosystèmes du Micro-bassin versant du lac de barrage de la
  Kompienga, Septembre 2006
  20. Plan de Gestion intégrée des écosystèmes du Micro-bassin versant du Beli (Province du Soum),
  Novembre 2006
  21. UICN, Dispositif de suivi des impacts du SILEM, Février 2006
  22. Thiombiano, A et al, 2008 : Suivi d’impact du projet pilote de Gestion intégrée des Ecosystèmes
  des bas-fonds du Sahel : Rapport final de la situation de référence, SILEM
  23. Thiombiano, A et al, 2009 : Suivi d’impact du projet pilote de Gestion intégrée des Ecosystèmes
  des bas-fonds du Sahel : Rapport final, SILEM, Ouagadougou
  24. IIED, Sustainable Development Opinion 2003 Funding Adaptation to Climate Change : What,
  who and how to funds, 2003
  25. World Bank Carbon Finance Business, document pour l’Unité Carbon Finance pour les projets de
  Changement d'Utilisation des terres et de Foresterie (LULUCF), proposition de projet, Juin 2008
  26. Evaluation de l’exécution technique, financière et de la passation des marchés des conventions de
  cofinancement SILEM/PNGT II 2006, 2007 et 2008, Janvier 2009
  27. Evaluation des effets des aménagements de DRS/CES réalisés avec l’appui du SILEM dans la
  province du Kouritenga
  28. Etude sur l’appréciation des actions du SILEM par les bénéficiaires, Octobre 2009
  29. Audit Environnemental et Social du SILEM – Rapport final, 2009

                                                 57
30. Ministere de l’Agriculture, de l’Hydraulique et des Ressources Halieutiques, Evaluation
economique des investissements realises par le project SILEM dans quatre micro basins versants,
Novembre 2009
31. GEF, Pilot Mission to the Government of Burkina Faso / World Bank / GEF Project SILEM,
Phase I? (October 18 to 29, 2010)
32. SILEM, Bilan 5 ans du SILEM, 2010
33. CBRD I, Implementation Completion Report, February 29th 2008
34. CBRD II, Project Appraisal Document; February 2007
33. OPCS : Guidelines for Implementation Completion and Results Report, August 2006
34. SILEM Files: Map of sites of interventions, 2011.




                                               58
