                                 Document of
                              The World Bank




                                                   Report No: ICR000016




          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                              ( IBRD-41780 )




                                   ON A

                        LOAN IN THE AMOUNT OF
                            US$ MILLION 150.00

                                    TO

                                 Romania

                                  FOR A

                              Roads Two Project




                              March 26, 2007




Sustainable Development Department
South Central Europe Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region

                              CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                       (Exchange Rate Effective March 26, 2007)

                       Currency Unit = New Romanian Lei (RON)
                                 US$ 1.00 = RON 2.5313
                                   RON 1.00 = US$0.40

                                     FISCAL YEAR
                                [January 1 ­ December 31]

                       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

BMS           Bridge Management System
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
CPS           Country Partnership Strategy
EBRD          European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EIB           European Investment Bank
ERR           Economic Rate of Return
EU            European Union
EU-PHARE      European Union Assistance Program for Eastern Europe
GDP           Gross Domestic Product
GRSP          Global Road Safety Partnership
ICR           Implementation Completion Report
ICRS          Interministerial Committee on Road Safety
MOU           Memorandum of Understanding
NAR           National Administration of Roads
OED           Operations Evaluation Department
PDO           Project Development Objective
PMS           Pavement Management System
PMU           Project Management Unit
PSR           Project Status Report
RNCMNR        Romania National Company for Motorways and National Roads
SAR           Staff Appraisal Report
SICRS         Secretariat for Inter-ministerial Committee for Road Safety
TA            Technical Assistance
TRP           Transport Restructuring Project
TSSP          Transport Sector Support Project
USAID         United States Agency for International Development



        Vice President: Shigeo Katsu, ECAVP
      Country Director: Anand K. Seth, ECCU5
       Sector Manager: Motoo Konishi, ECSSD
   Project Team Leader: Henry G. R. Kerali, ECSSD
     ICR Team Leader: Henry G. R. Kerali, ECSSD

                                                Romania
                                       Roads Two Project




                                             CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 3
 3. Assessment of Outcomes............................................................................................ 5
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome........................................................... 9
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ....................................................... 9
 6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 11
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 12
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 13
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 14
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................. 16
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 18
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................... 20
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 21
 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR..................... 22
 Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders....................... 23
 Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 24

A. Basic Information

Country:                Romania               Project Name:          Roads 2 Project
Project ID:             P039250               L/C/TF Number(s):      IBRD-41780
ICR Date:               03/30/2007            ICR Type:              Core ICR
                                                                     GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                   Borrower:
                                                                     ROMANIA
Original Total
                        USD 150.0M            Disbursed Amount:      USD 150.0M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
National Company for Motorways and National Roads (NAR)
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date            Process          Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                                Date(s)
Concept Review:        01/23/1996    Effectiveness:         10/24/1997        10/24/1997
Appraisal:             10/14/1996    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              06/03/1997    Mid-term Review:                         03/31/2000
                                     Closing:               09/30/2003        06/30/2006


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                     Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                  Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                             Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                         Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings              Borrower                Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory          Government:            Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory          Implementing
                                              Agency/Agencies:       Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                  Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory          Performance:           Satisfactory


C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                              QAG Assessments
      Performance              Indicators             (if any)              Rating

Potential Problem Project No                  Quality at Entry
                                                                    None
at any time (Yes/No):                         (QEA):


                                              i

Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           No                                         None
time (Yes/No):                                    Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                 12                 3
Roads and highways                                                88                97


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Access to urban services and housing                             Primary        Not Applicable
Administrative and civil service reform                          Primary        Not Applicable
Infrastructure services for private sector development           Primary          Primary
Other public sector governance                                                   Secondary
Pollution management and environmental health                    Primary         Secondary
Public expenditure, financial management and
                                                                                 Secondary
procurement
Rural services and infrastructure                                Primary         Secondary


E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                        At Approval
Vice President:            Shigeo Katsu                       Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:          Anand K. Seth                      Francois M. Ettori
Sector Manager:            Motoo Konishi                      Ricardo A. Halperin
Project Team Leader:       Henry G. R. Kerali                 Jeremy Lane
ICR Team Leader:           Henry G. R. Kerali
ICR Primary Author:        Jacques G. Yenny



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
(a) improve traffic safety and the fitness of the vehicle fleet; (b) continue helping
Romania to meet the changing pattern of demand for land transport infrastructure; (c)
improve the management and performance of NAR; (d) assist the Romanian civil works
construction industry in its transition to a market economy; and (e) promote the reduction
of lead in petrol.




                                                 ii

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The PDO and Key Indicators were not revised.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target      Formally       Actual Value

   Indicator        Baseline Value            Values (from        Revised        Achieved at
                                                approval          Target       Completion or
                                              documents)          Values        Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Road Agency (RNCMNR) to prepare and submit Action Plan
Value
quantitative or annual road program fromAnnual
                RNCMNR has prepared                road                      Annual road

Qualitative)    2002 to date               program                           program prepared

Date achieved 03/31/2002                   12/31/2004                        12/31/2004
Comments        The road programs were prepared. The persistent issue is that the real binding
(incl. %        budget constraint is not applied. This is a problem of budgeting and outside the
achievement)    RNCMNR competence. The programs were presented; achievement 100%.
Indicator 2 :   Average Lead content of Leaded Petrol - 0.15 by year end 2003
Value
quantitative or 0.5                        0.15                              0.15
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2000                   12/31/2002                        12/31/2002
Comments
(incl. %        The introduction of unleaded petrol was carried out swiftly; achievement 100%.
achievement)
Indicator 3 :   Collect Axle Load Data for 12 month period
Value
quantitative or 0%                         100%                              100%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2000                   12/31/2002                        12/31/2002
Comments
(incl. %        Axle load studies were conducted; achievement 100%.
achievement)
Indicator 4 :   Make recommendations on a System for Axle Load Monitoring and Control
Value
quantitative or 0%                         100%                              100%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2002                   12/31/2002                        12/31/2002
Comments
(incl. %        Weigh scales were introduced to all important border crossings, and country

achievement)    wide monitoring is in place (see outcome indicator #3); achievement 100%.




                                                iii

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                          Original Target       Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator        Baseline Value          Values (from                        Achieved at
                                               approval          Revised       Completion or
                                             documents)       Target Values     Target Years
Indicator 1 :  Number of Black Spots treated (cumulative) - 50 by year end 2002
Value
(quantitative  0                         40                                  38
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2000                 12/31/2002                          12/31/2002
Comments       The black spot program is discussed in the ICR text. About 25 additional black
(incl. %       spots were eliminated as part of the road rehabilitation program; achievement
achievement)   99%.

Indicator 2 :  Percentage of Accident Reductions at selected Treated Spots -One year after
               treatment - 50%
Value
(quantitative  0                         50                                  50
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2000                 12/31/2002                          12/31/2002
Comments
(incl. %       Accident reduction targets at the black spot locations were achieved or exceeded;

achievement)   achievement 100%.

Indicator 3 :  Complete Installation & Commissioning of nine (9) Automatic Weight in Motion
               Stations by September 30, 1997
Value
(quantitative  0                          9                                  22
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2000                 12/31/2002                          12/31/2002
Comments
(incl. %       WIMs introduced and installed; target exceeded.
achievement)
Indicator 4 :  Number of Road Contracts Awarded - nine (9) by year end 2003
Value
(quantitative  0                          9                                  9
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2000                 12/31/2002                          12/31/2002
Comments
(incl. %       Target met 100%.
achievement)
Indicator 5 :  Number of Kilometers completed (cumulative) - 300 by year end 2003
Value
(quantitative  0                          250                                300
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2002                 12/31/2002                          12/31/2002
Comments
(incl. %       Target met 100%.
achievement)



                                               iv

Indicator 6 :  Number of Bridges Rehabilitated (cumulative) - 50 by year end 2003
Value
(quantitative  0                        50                                68
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2000                12/31/2002                        12/31/2002
Comments
(incl. %       Target exceeded
achievement)


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                               Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived              DO                       IP                 Disbursements
                                                                           (USD millions)
  1     01/27/1998      Highly Satisfactory      Highly Satisfactory                 0.00
  2     03/19/1998      Highly Satisfactory      Highly Satisfactory                 6.18
  3     08/19/1998      Highly Satisfactory      Highly Satisfactory                17.93
  4     12/30/1998         Satisfactory             Satisfactory                    35.62
  5     08/12/1999         Satisfactory             Satisfactory                    51.75
  6     02/16/2000         Satisfactory             Satisfactory                    76.06
  7     06/30/2000         Satisfactory             Satisfactory                    84.37
  8     12/26/2000         Satisfactory             Satisfactory                   112.03
  9     06/28/2001         Satisfactory             Satisfactory                   124.74
  10    12/12/2001         Satisfactory             Satisfactory                   127.10
  11    05/14/2002         Satisfactory             Satisfactory                   130.95
  12    10/24/2002         Satisfactory             Satisfactory                   130.95
  13    05/30/2003         Satisfactory             Satisfactory                   130.95
  14    10/30/2003         Satisfactory             Satisfactory                   132.39
  15    04/28/2004         Satisfactory             Satisfactory                   135.01
  16    06/21/2004         Satisfactory             Satisfactory                   135.01
  17    08/06/2004         Satisfactory             Satisfactory                   135.01
  18    06/22/2005         Satisfactory             Satisfactory                   136.64
  19    06/23/2006         Satisfactory             Satisfactory                   146.90



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                            v

I. Disbursement Profile




                           vi

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal
At the time of project preparation and appraisal, Romania was still recovering from the shock of
shifting from a centrally planned economy to a more market oriented one. Per capita income was
low at US$1,450 in 1995. Investment had virtually dried out. For instance in 1992, investment
for the whole transport sector was only US$35 million. Investments in the sector increased to
US$130 million in 1995 as a result of the EBRD, EIB and the Bank's assistance. This was still a
very low 0.3% of GDP versus the more typical 2 to 3% normally observed in both developing and
developed countries. Under the previous regime, road and road transport were neglected as
emphasis was placed on rail transport. Trucks and buses could only operate within district
boundaries and all transport beyond 50 km had to be by rail. As a result the condition of the road
network had deteriorated. It was estimated that about one third of the national road network,
(approximately 5000 km) required some form of strengthening to avoid failure. The Transport
Project co-financed with EBRD and EIB and the European Union assistance program for Eastern
Europe (EU-PHARE) was progressing very well. Disbursements had reached 90% and were
ahead of schedule. Institutional development was also proceeding apace and a road fund law was
promulgated at the end of 1996. The new project was therefore continuing the strong partnership
that had been developed through the previous Transport Project. It also pursued the close and
fruitful collaboration with EBRD, EIB and EU-PHARE, addressing safety and environmental
improvements, while funding road improvements in the European network at EU standards to
facilitate EU accession. The latter was assigned special importance in the Country Partnership
Strategy (CPS) approved in May, 2006.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)
(a) improve traffic safety and the fitness of the vehicle fleet; (b) continue helping Romania to
meet the changing pattern of demand for land transport infrastructure; (c) improve the
management and performance of NAR; (d) assist the Romanian civil works construction industry
in its transition to a market economy; (e) promote the reduction of lead in petrol and assist
Romania to harmonize standards with the EU. The SAR dates back from 1997 and no
specific performance indicators were given in the report.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification
The PDO were not revised. No indicators had been specified in the SAR and none were formally
retrofitted. Indicators that were adopted and inserted to PSRs during supervision to track
progress are shown in the project information data sheet.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries,
The main objectives of the project were to reduce transport costs, including vehicle operating
costs, accident costs and road maintenance costs. Benefits were to be captured first by
intermediate producers such as truckers and bus operators as well as directly by consumers as car
users. Because road transport had been fully deregulated, it was very competitive and most of the
intermediate savings were expected to be passed on to final consumers of goods
transported. Reduced transport costs were also expected to increase competitiveness of
exports. Reduced road accident rates would benefit the population at large, including non
motorized persons often victims of accidents with vehicles. Reduced fuel consumption on
improved roads and the reduction of lead content in gasoline would result in significant health
benefits for the population at large.



                                                 1

1.5 Original Components
In addition to the Bank's components (US$150 million), the project was financed in parallel by
EBRD (US$85.9 million) and EIB (US$67.5 million). Most of the technical assistance and
studies were to be financed by EU-PHARE in the form of grants (US$15.9 million). There were
four major components:

         (i)   Traffic Safety $24.1 million: this included components in education, engineering
               (roads and vehicles) and enforcement. Bank financing of US$8.6 million was for
               civil works for the treatment of black spots and for two pilot safety projects on a
               national road and a linear village. The softer aspects of education and enforcement
               were to be financed by EU-PHARE;
         (ii)  Road Rehabilitation $485.1 million: The program included 1,000 km of road and
               bridge rehabilitation, consisting of overlays or reconstruction on existing alignment,
               with some widening, construction of hard shoulders and minor geometric
               improvements to improve road safety. The Bank was to finance 300 km and most
               of the bridge program for an amount of US$127.4 million;
         (iii)  Equipment and Materials $39 million: The Bank was to finance equipment for
               routine maintenance of roads and bridges remaining with the road administration
               (US$14 million), while EBRD was financing equipment, software and technical
               assistance for the commercialization and eventual privatization of periodic
               maintenance activities;
         (iv)   Institutional Development $4.8 million: This component was to be financed
               entirely by EU-PHARE. It included technical assistance (TA) for project
               management, assistance to the construction industry, computerization of the
               national road administration (NAR), commercialization of NAR and TA for
               developing Pavement and Bridge Management Systems (PMS and BMS), traffic
               planning and legislation.

1.6 Revised Components
The components were not revised.

1.7 Other significant changes
Due to changes in priorities in its assistance to Romania, the support promised by EU-PHARE for
technical assistance related to road safety and institution building did not materialize. Other
arrangements had to be made during project implementation. For road safety, this involved the
participation of the Global Road Safety Partnership (GRSP) and Dutch bi-lateral assistance. For
institutional building, the EBRD contributed to developing a cost accounting system for NAR and
US-AID financed a study of the road construction industry. NAR financed more of the TA
activities than originally planned in particular for the development of the Pavement and Bridge
Management Systems (PMS, BMS) and road planning in general. EU support for road safety was
re-established in 2002, with a 2 year program and US$3.2 million equivalent for i) road safety
twinning, ii) technical assistance for road safety, iii) development of a traffic and accident data
base, and iv) technical assistance to strengthen administrative capacity.

As substantial funds remained in the loan after completing the 300 km of rehabilitation agreed
upon at appraisal, NAR proposed to add the improvement of the road to the airport in Bucharest
and a third program of bridge rehabilitation covering 23 bridges. While the additional road
project was clearly justified and urgently needed, it delayed the project closing date by about




                                                  2

three years. The start of construction on the airport road was delayed by problems of land
acquisition and relocation of utilities.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
The overall quality at entry is rated satisfactory. This assessment is based on:

Consistency with Government Priorities and CAS: The project objectives were fully consistent
with the Government priorities and the CAS. The Government policy for the sector was to foster
competition through freedom of action by transport companies in terms of market entry, routes,
cargoes, tariffs and investments, free modal choice by transport users and investment decisions
based on economic analysis. Regarding investment, the strategy of the Ministry of Transport
was: in the short term to arrest the technical and operational deterioration of the system; in the
medium term to renovate the existing transport capacity; and in the longer term to modernize and
develop infrastructure, equipment and vehicles to match the economic and technical level of
Western Europe. The CAS focused on reform program to continue moving the economy toward
the market and assigned special importance to support for EU accession. The Bank strategy also
posited a future shift from infrastructure lending, which was a common trait of Bank policy at the
time and was later reversed.

Safeguard Policies. The project was classified as Category "B" under the Bank's Operational
Policy 4.01. During the feasibility studies, background environmental data was collected and
minor environmental effects were identified such as the removal of trees and the interference with
the existing surface and ground water flows. During the detailed design phase, detailed
mitigating plans were prepared which included replanting of trees and installation of proper
drainage systems. Measures were imposed on the contractors to minimize dust and noise during
construction. Since the project involved rehabilitation of roads within their existing right of way,
no resettlement was necessary.

Lessons Taken into Account: Lessons from OED findings on recently completed highway
projects were fully taken into account in preparing this project as follows:

    · Operating agencies have authority and resources to carry out the project: NAR, a regie
        autonome, had full authority to manage the project and with the introduction of the road
        fund, a stronger financial situation; (however, the Road Fund was abolished during this
        project see 3.2.3).
    · Project components to be of high priority and under clear-cut responsibility of a single
        agency: The 1000 km to be improved had been selected out of 3000 km analyzed in
        detail and reflected their high priority. The short list of roads was discussed thoroughly
        with NAR and the Ministry of Transport and there was a high ownership of the project;
        improving traffic safety was of high priority for the Government which had recently
        established a Secretariat for Inter-ministerial Committee on Road Safety (SICRS) in
        charge of implementing the education, enforcement, and vehicle regulation parts of this
        project component.
    · Projects should be closely supervised: In addition to regular supervision, annual reviews
        were planned of the Borrower's proposed budget and expenditures for the following year;
    · Detailed terms of reference are available early on for the preparation of action plans:
        Detailed terms of reference had been prepared and agreed for the preparation of action



                                                   3

        plans for road safety and reduction of lead in gasoline. Gradual transfer of periodic
        maintenance activities from force account to contract had started under the Transport
        Project and was to continue and expand under the project.

Quality of Design: The project design was geared to achieve the objectives. Regarding specific
components, engineering design for the roads selected to be improved under the project were
prepared by two consortia of consulting engineers, both comprising an international firm and a
Romanian firm.      This was satisfactory, although the designs had to be revised just before
implementation due to increased traffic and consistency with adjoining EIB funded projects.
Good cooperation had been maintained through the jointly financed Transport Project with EBRD
and EIB and continued during design of this project.

Project Risks: The risks were clearly identified to be from a broad institutional nature rather than
on the economic return of the project and mitigating measures were planned for each of the
specific risks as follows:
        ·      Insufficient counterpart funds, risk reduced by the recently approved Road Fund
               Law and agreed annual consultation on budget allocations; (Road Fund was
               abolished 2004 see 3.3.3)
        ·      Strained implementation capacity at the earlier stages of the project, while the
               previous project was still under implementation, mitigated by technical assistance
               to the PMU provided in the project;
        ·      Delays in implementing the agreed strategy on commercialization of periodic
               maintenance, risk reduced by the process already started in 3 of the 7 regions and
               with specific assistance in the project; and
        ·      Difficulties in implementing the traffic safety component which was dispersed
               among different agencies not accustomed to work together to be mitigated by the
               twinning of the road safety group with an experienced partner and the recent
               creation of ICRS and its permanent secretariat for inter-ministerial coordination.

2.2 Implementation
The program of road and bridge rehabilitation proceeded satisfactorily and with generally good
quality works. The project was not restructured and was not at risk at any time.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
The SAR dates back from 1997 and there are no specific indicators given in the report. The lead
reduction in gasoline to 0.15 g/liter, a PDO indicator which was expected to be reached by
9/30/2003, was reached by the end of 2000, almost three years earlier than planned. There was
good monitoring of traffic accidents, both nation wide and more specifically on the 38 black spots
treated under the project. The substantial improvement after black spots improvement clearly
demonstrated the benefits of relatively minor expenses to substantially reduce accidents (see
Section 3.3 (1) and also the project information data sheet in the beginning of the ICR.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
Environmental Protection and Resettlement: The road rehabilitation was mainly within the
existing right-of-way and the impact of the project on the environment was minimal. The
mitigating measures adopted for minimizing the environmental impact of the project during
construction were implemented satisfactorily. Land acquisition only became necessary along the
road between the Henry Coanda Airport and Bucharest. This was conducted in accordance with
the requirements of the Expropriation Law and was consistent with the requirement of OB/BP




                                                  4

4.12 on Involuntary Resettlement. Virtually all the works were within the existing right of way
and less than 2 hectares in total were required for the three civil works contracts.

Fiduciary: The accounts of the road administration were independently audited every year during
the project implementation and the audits were satisfactory. The financial management specialist
was a member of most supervision missions. NAR also participated as the only state entity in a
pilot project to introduce international accounting practices to financial management. Late 2003,
when the project was nearing completion, NAR was reorganized, without consulting the Bank, as
a fully state owned joint stock company RNCMNR (Romania National Company for Motorways
and National Roads). The change in the legal form did not affect the project or its audits, which
remained satisfactory, but entailed new fiduciary company responsibilities whose importance
became an issue two years later when a new project was being prepared.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
Roads improved under the project were always open to traffic. The road administration went
through various reorganizations during the life of the project. As of September 2003, NAR
became the Romania National Company for Motorways and National Roads (RNCMNR) (see
3.2.3). The company is responsible for the operation and maintenance of the national roads
(including those rehabilitated under the project), which are being carried out by contract, the
administration having commercialized periodic maintenance operations. The Ministry of
Transport was also reorganized and became the Ministry of Transport, Construction and Tourism
(MTCT). Institutional development in the road sector commenced under the first Transport
Project approved in 1992, and continued in reduced scale under this project because PHARE
funding did not materialize. The initiative is picked up in the Transport Restructuring Project
(TRP) of 2004 and the Transport Sector Support Project (TSSP) of 2006, which both have
substantial loan-funded institutional development components. They include key road
management systems, IT modernization, project management and planning training, and
performance based contracting, which all are essential in modern and accountable road
administration.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
The project objectives are still relevant to the current country priorities and the latest Country
Partnership Strategy (CPS 2006/05/16) and the special importance that the Bank has assigned to
strengthening partnership with EU and other external parties. Soon after the appraisal, the Bank
strategy was positing a future shift away from infrastructure lending. This position was reversed
a few years later, as the Bank approved two new transport projects, the TRP in 2004 and the
TSSP in 2006. According to the CPS of 2006 "maintaining financial discipline and properly
managing the substantial costs of upgrading infrastructure and environmental standards to meet
EU requirements are priorities and to improve allocational efficiency of public spending, bold
reform of the expenditure planning and management systems is required." The ICR project, and
the new projects are fully consistent with the priorities in the CPS.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
1. Improve traffic safety and the fitness of the vehicle fleet
Traffic safety made considerable progress under the project and the objective has been met. After
EU-PHARE declined to provide the expected [and agreed] assistance, the supervision team and
the Government turned to the Global Road Safety Partnership (GRSP) and other donors for
assistance. During a GRSP round table meeting in February 2000, in Bucharest, the Ministry of



                                                  5

Transport established a GRSP committee in Romania, with various stakeholders assuming
responsibility for implementing the originally agreed road safety measures in engineering,
enforcement and education (generally referred to as "the three Es"). Besides a number of
Governmental agencies, the partners included insurance companies, car manufacturers, oil
companies, road haulers associations, automobile clubs, etc. The year 2002-03 was declared the
year of traffic safety by the Government and education campaigns were conducted through
various medias and in the schools. As a result of all these measures, the rate of serious accidents
and casualties decreased significantly from 1997, the year before the project, to 2003, while the
vehicle fleet increased at a regular pace.


                              National Accident Statistics 1997-2003


                                      1997    1998    1999   2000    2001    2002     2003
        Vehicle registration (000) 3,128 3,286 3,302 3,485 3,598 3,700 3,829
            Fatalities number         2,863 2,778 2,505 2,499 2,461 2,398 2,235
        Fatalities per 10,000 veh.     9.2      8.4    7.6    7.2    6.8      6.5     5.8
        Seriously injured number      7,451 7,221 6,601 6,315 5,963 6,777 5,538
           Per 10,000 vehicles        23.8     22.0   20.0   18.0    16.6    15.6     14.4

The treatment of black spots and the pilot safety projects including a section of a national road
and a linear village have also shown satisfactory results. The cumulative accident reduction on
38 black spots improved under the project is shown in the table below. The number of accidents
and serious injuries were both reduced by 77% and fatalities by 71%. This shows the high
efficiency of the physical corrections made on these spots.


        Accident Reduction at 38 Black Spots Treated Under the Project (1994-1997)

    Before Civil Works               After Civil Works
      Implementation                 Implementation                Decrease (-)/Increase (+)

 No. of   Fatalities Serious    No. of    Fatalities Serious   No. of      Fatalities     Serious
Accidents            Injuries Accidents             Injuries Accidents                   Injuries
  409        171       392        93         49        92   -316 -77.3% -122 -71.4% -300 -76.5%


A Road Weather Information System was installed and will provide increased safety through
better information for road users in a timely fashion. The police have been provided with
equipment for enforcement of the traffic law, in particular to control driving under the influence
of alcohol. Finally, measures have been taken to improve the fitness of the vehicle fleet by
technical and pollution control inspections.

2. Continue helping Romania to meet the changing pattern of demand for land transport
infrastructure: This objective is attained. At appraisal, it had been estimated that one third of
the national road network, about 5,000 km, needed some form of strengthening to avoid failure.
Together, the Transport project of 1992 and this project covered over 40% of the roads needing
strengthening. Over 90 bridges were also rehabilitated. Subsequent EBRD and EIB projects
extended their support for further improvement of the national road system, which is now in
much better condition than fifteen years ago. Railway projects financed at the same time ensured
a balanced development of the land transport system in Romania.




                                                   6

3. Improve the management and performance of NAR: There were measurable improvements
in the management and performance of the agency in charge of national roads. As already
mentioned NAR became the RNCMNR and as such has become an administrator and manager of
the national road system, with service delivery and supply functions excepting routine
maintenance tendered to the private sector. Prior to this development, in 2001, NAR had
successfully corporatized and commercialized some of its road maintenance units, thus
meeting one important part of the project objective. The original road fund of 1996, based on
a 25% charge on ex-refinery prices of fuel and a 10% charge on ex-factory prices of vehicles,
provided stability to road financing, but was replaced in 2004 by the vignette (Rovinieta). This is
expected to cover only part of the maintenance cost of national roads. The vignette income is
scheduled to increase gradually. It was EUR 35 million in 2004 and will be approximately EUR
135 million in 2007. The maintenance costs are estimated at about EUR 250 million per year. In
the long run, the vignette income is about half of the administration and recurrent maintenance
costs. The abolition of the Road Fund, requested by the IMF and the BANK/PREM had many
unfortunate effects, including: strain on the counterpart funds; elimination of any state funding for
the county roads; reduction of NAR/RNCMNR's autonomy to manage the road program;
immediate reduction in the maintenance funds and the need for RNCMNR to resort to short term
commercial loans for road maintenance; and the lack of funds for TA. Financing of the annual
road program continues to be a difficult issue. A Road Council with stakeholders' participation
has been established. Progress with computerization of management, including cost accounting
and planning models such as PMS and BMS lag behind expectations. The new government in
2000 (and again a new government in 2004), continuous reorganization of NAR, frequent
changes of the Director General, averaging one per year during the project, and its final
transformation into a commercial company contributed to these delays. The incomplete matters
are taken up in the new projects and are progressing satisfactorily. In spite of oscillating progress,
normal in restructuring and institutional development, management and performance of
NAR/RNCMNR, has improved and the objective has been attained.

4. Assist the Romanian civil works construction industry in its transition to a market
economy: This objective is attained. Assistance to the local construction industry was provided
by USAID. With all the civil works financed by the various donors since 1992, the local
construction industry has made significant progress, first by entering into joint-ventures with
foreign contractors and then launching on their own. There is now a competitive construction
industry in Romania.

5. Promote the reduction of lead in petrol. The lead content in petrol has been reduced to the
agreed target of 0.15 gram per liter.       Overall, the achievement of project objectives was
satisfactory and even highly satisfactory in terms of traffic safety (see above).

3.3 Efficiency

The ERR was recalculated by the borrower for the six sections included in the economic analysis
of the SAR. The results are given in the tables below. In the years preceding appraisal, traffic
had been growing at 7% per annum. Typically in countries at the development level of Romania,
traffic growth substantially exceeds the increase in GDP. Based on the Bank's GDP growth
forecast for the early project years, the economic analysis assumed traffic growth rates of 5% per
year to 2000, 4.5% between 2000 and 2005 and 4% thereafter. This was assumed to be
conservative in view of recent growth and expected economic development. Actually, the forecast
traffic growth occurred only on DN1. Because of economic stagnation and recession, traffic on
the other roads grew very little between 1995 and 2000. As a result, the recalculated ERRs are
lower than expected. The weighted average ERR for the project is half the appraisal estimate, but


                                                 7

still an acceptable 26%. There is an important caveat to this conclusion. According to a recent
consultant report, NAR/RNCMNR traffic counting census may not be reliable. The traffic figures
in the table below are averages over the link from the 2005 census projected to 2006 assuming a
5% increase in traffic; these average numbers were used in calculating the ERR. However, there
is wide variance on the traffic volumes on a given link; for example on DN6 the traffic volume
varies 21,000 and 6000, and on DN2 Buzau ­ Rm. Sarat the volume varies between 16,000 and
8,000. Thus, the ERR numbers in the table below are conservative estimates.

            Road Rehabilitation Program: Forecast and Actual Traffic and ERR


         Road Name                     1995             ERR in %       2006 Traffic ERR in %
                                       Traffic          SAR            AADT          ICR
                                       AADT
         DN1 Campina-Comarnic          11,400           39             21,030        30
         DN2 Urziceni-Buzau            7,800            54             8,950         12
         DN2 Buzau-Rm. Sarat           9,700            51             11,800        26
         DN6 Bucuresti-Alexandria 9,800                 62             13,250        21
         DN65 Craiova-Slatina          7,800            45             12,200        21
         DN65 Slatina-Pitesti          7,700            45             9,280         24
         Otopeni-Banesa (1)            n.a.             25             63,600        >45.
         Averages                                       50                           26


     (1) This road was added in 2002 and the estimated rate of return is as of 2001.


Rehabilitation costs were estimated as a function of the condition of the roads, determined on the
basis of deflection data and existing pavement investigations carried out by consultants and
rechecked by an automated road analyzer vehicle. Work quantities were determined in relations
to the conditions, traffic safety considerations and compliance with EU standards, especially for
the width of shoulders. Regarding the latter, however, costs were minimized in areas were
widening would be very expensive due to land acquisition and utilities relocation. Contract
prices were less or close to the estimates, except for the RN2 from Buzau to Rimnicu-Sarat and
Urziceni-Buzau, where the Bank agreed to an increase of road width and the costs were slightly
higher than initially appraised for a narrower road.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Satisfactory
The overall achievement of the project objectives is rated satisfactory. This assessment is based
on a review of achievements of the five main objectives given in section 3.2 and the economic re-
evaluation given in section 3.3.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
Not applicable.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
In September 2003, NAR was changed into a joint stock company, Romania National Company
for Motorways and National Roads (RNCMNR), fully owned by the state. The change was done
quickly and the motivation for it was not clear. Apparently it was intended to permit RNCMNR


                                                   8

to borrow money from commercial banks against the Rovinieta income to alleviate road
maintenance financing problems in the short term. Although the institutional change might have
been in the long term interest of road management in Romania, it was carried out too quickly and,
later, had negative repercussions on the road sector institutional development. The asset base of
RNCMNR was never either thought out or carried through because political power changed at the
end of 2003. This resulted in RNCMNR becoming technically bankrupt, even though, as a state
owned company, it would remain as a going concern. As a consequence of the auditor's concern,
the new administration is reconsidering the institutional framework and the legal form of
RNCMNR. This is being supported under the ongoing TRP loan. As indicated in Section 8.2 c,
there were also positive and sustainable developments in terms corporatizing the maintenance
units, usage of the private sector for most periodic maintenance and rehabilitation, and, of course,
investments. Also in traffic safety, the positive trend has been sustainable.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
An unintended outcome and impact was the unexpected finding about the difficulties in utility
relocation and their financing in the context of the DN1 traffic management and rehabilitation
project to the Henry Coanda Airport at Otopeni. This had both (short term) negative impact and
long term positive impact. The short term negative impact had the result of prolonging the
project because of the administrative and legal process that had to be employed, which was costly
to RNCMNR and over which it had little control. This was exacerbated by the lack of adequate
information on the utility locations and which were, ultimately, only found out during
rehabilitation. The positive impact was that, in order to avoid delays in subsequent similar
projects (especially in the ongoing TRP), a protocol has been approved with RNCMNR and the
utility companies as to how to process utility relocation issues in the future. The engineering
design is also strengthened as a result. The importance of finding a solution to utility relocation is
no small matter. In other projects, whether financed by other IFIs or the Government, delays
have been substantial and cost overruns have been as high as 40 percent.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
Not applicable.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Low or Negligible
The quality of construction is good; the continuing traffic growth in the corridors improved by the
project, combined with vehicle operating cost savings, indicates that the economic benefits are
sustainable. The commercialization of maintenance and the improvement of the construction
industry are also irreversible. Modern management methods are gradually taking hold as
indicated and continue to get better. Road safety has improved and the Government is committed
to pursue its action, together with the stakeholders of the GRSP, in the 3 Es.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Satisfactory
Project preparation was carried out jointly with EBRD, EIB and EU-PHARE, continuing the
good relations developed under the prior Transport Project. Relations with the borrower were
also   very   good,    as   the   previous   project   had    been   implemented     promptly    and
efficiently. Feasibility studies for the road rehabilitation program had been performed on a long



                                                  9

list of 2,500 km, from which 1,000 km were selected by Government and co-financiers in
1996. Design work had proceeded and bidding documents were submitted to the Bank prior to
Board presentation. With this advanced preparation, disbursements were ahead of schedule until
2002, when the project was basically completed (see below). All Bank missions included a traffic
safety engineer, and a very comprehensive traffic safety program covering all safety aspects from
engineering, enforcement and education was developed in cooperation with the recently created
SICRS and continued under the GRSP. The component was ambitious, and the improvement in
traffic safety and awareness of its importance is extraordinary in view of the fact that the large
funding expected from EU-PHARE did not materialize, although some agreement had been
reached (see section 1.7).

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory
Supervision averaged two missions per year. There were three different task managers before
2000, but then greater continuity was ensured. The task manager changed again in 2003, when
the project was largely completed, but continuity was preserved by retaining the previous
manager as a consultant. The project was basically completed by the end of 2002, ahead of the
original closing date. However, about US$18 million in unallocated funds and project cost
savings remained. The Government proposed to use these funds for the Bucharest airport road
and more bridge rehabilitation. This proposal originated from the highest level of the Government,
and the Bank agreed to go ahead with the airport road because the design was ready. The road
was highly congested, had a high frequency of serious accidents, and served the country's most
important airport and access to the Prahova Valley, a popular recreational week-end destination.
Toward the end of 2002, the original closing date (September 30, 2003) was extended by two
months with a written promise to extend this by another 12 months, if the proposed subprojects
progressed on the planned schedule allowing full use of the 2003 and 2004 construction season.
The promised extension was granted, extending the project to November 30, 2004, however,
processing of the construction permit was delayed and no construction took place in
2003. Problems occurred with the relocation, design and betterment of utilities, and another 18
month extension was granted. RNCMNR had to rely on the utility companies to relocate the
utilities. The utility companies had the right to use their designers, and contractors of their choice,
including requiring RNCMNR to pay not only for the relocation but also for the betterment. This
required extensive negotiations as the utility companies had no interest in processing the project
quickly. With the encouragement of the Bank, a protocol was eventually agreed with the utility
companies and RNCMNR on how to deal with and process utility relocation in general. The
protocol provides a basis for more timely resolution of utility relocation issues. RNCMNR has
also made a proposal to the Ministry, patterned after the British practice, to change the laws that
govern utility relocation and their cost sharing. The project also ran into further delays and
difficulties with minor land acquisition issues. The project was the first application of the new
land acquisition framework that came into effect in 2004, and there were numerous minor issues
and legal processes which needed to be overcome. In the PSR of April 2004, a proposal was
made to consider closing the project on the then current closing date (December 31, 2004), with
the exception of the contracts for the road to the airport, in order to avoid additional supervision
costs. Because the TRP was under preparation it was decided to subsume supervision costs of the
project under the TRP budget and close the project on June 30, 2006. This allowed continued
focus to the resolution of the important issues present in the rehabilitation of the road to the
airport. Both the utility relocation and the land acquisition provided a useful training ground and
experience to deal with similar issues under the TRP. The Bank played an important role in
getting all parties to agree to the MOU on utility relocations, which is expected to be adopted as a
law in the future.



                                                 10

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
On the basis of the individual ratings above, the overall rating of Bank performance is satisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
The performance of the Government during project preparation and implementation was
satisfactory. This was in part a repeater project, so the familiarity with the Bank and co-
financiers requirements and procedures helped preparation and implementation. With regard to
road safety, as already mentioned, the Government had recently established the ICRS and its
secretariat. The Government was fully committed to the project. In the absence of the expected
financing for certain aspects of the traffic safety program, the Government supported the
establishment of the GRSP Committee for Romania with partners representing the transport
community (see section 8.2 a). In a sense, the lack of funding for consultants forced the various
agencies concerned and stakeholders to work on various parts of the program themselves,
therefore developing ownership, often lacking when the work is done by outsiders and their
reports seldom used efficiently. Other sources of financing were found also for enforcement
equipment for the police and vehicle testing:

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
Implementing
Agency                Performance

                      Performance. The main implementing agency was NAR, which had
                      performed well under the previous project and had an established project
                      management unit (PMU), that is fully integrated within the road
National Company      administration (NAR and subsequently RNCMNR). In addition, the traffic
for Motorways and     safety component was coordinated by the SICRS. In spite of many
National Roads        reorganizations which affected NAR, eventually RNCMNR, including
(NAR)                 frequent changes in managers, the performance remained effective as
                      shown by the disbursement curve. Because of the many changes at the top
                      of the organization, the development of planning tools such as PMS, BMS
                      and planning, programming and budgeting tended to lag behind.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
The project objectives were achieved and all loan conditions were complied with. The
cooperation between the borrower and the Bank was good throughout preparation and
implementation of the project.

6. Lessons Learned
Contingency plans would be useful when grant funding is not fully secured
The SAR noted that because of its procedures based on annual programs, no funds from EU-
PHARE would be available in 1997. Although discussions with EU-PHARE were encouraging,
commitments for later years were only tentative and subject to fluctuating priorities of the
Government and the EU. The road safety component of the project was very comprehensive and
therefore very ambitious. The expected grant funding for road safety and institutional
development totaled about US$16 million, a fairly large amount. There were no contingency
plans in case such assistance would not materialize or would be reduced. These plans had to be


                                                11

made during implementation, with very limited financing, when it became clear that subsequent
annual PHARE programs did not include the expected components of the project. This resulted in
delays in program implementation.

The merit of extending the closing date of loans to use remaining funds requires careful
assessment: The financial difficulties of Romania clearly made the Government eager to use all
funds at its disposal, particularly since the Bank had previously indicated that it would not fund
further infrastructure projects in Romania. At that time the original closing date was only six
months away. It was clear that any extension had to be substantial due to the type of road works
that would be required. Although the request for using the savings and the unallocated funds for
the improvement for the road to the airport came from the highest level of the Government, and
had significant potential economic benefits, in retrospect it may have been more pragmatic to
close the project and include the airport road in the next project. However, the new TRP had not
been confirmed by end 2002. In spite of the difficulties and the extensions required, the decision
to use the unallocated and project savings to improve this important road benefited the Romanian
authorities in many ways. Beyond the road user benefits, the project provided a useful learning
process to RNCMNR on how to deal with utility relocations and land acquisition, and motivated
the company to improve detailed engineering design in general.

Taking advantage of a difficult situation to resolve issues: As a consequence of the extensive
delays experienced with the construction of the airport road, the RNCMNR and the utility
companies have now agreed upon a framework for future cooperation encapsulated in the
Memorandum of Understanding (MOU). This is a major step forward as it will ensure that future
road projects in Romania do not encounter similar delays that can be costly. The key lesson here
is that all road projects involving civil works particularly within urban areas, should agree
beforehand how the utilities will be dealt with and the responsibilities for doing so.

The airport road design also revealed a technical feature in the Romanian road engineering
process. Traditionally, the engineers had prepared a "technical project" design, which was used
for the bidding process. This "technical project" is substantially less detailed than is the practice
in Western countries and is liable to cause large cost overruns because unexpected geotechnical
circumstances or utilities are encountered during construction. In fact, although not in this project,
large cost overruns have been the rule in Romania. As a consequence of the experiences of the
airport road engineering design, and with other IFI funded projects, the engineering design
practice is being strengthened under the ongoing TRP project.

Cofinancing and its time table must be agreed in writing. EU-PHARE cofinancing of
institutional development proved very problematic to this project because of a failure to keep
verbal financing promise. The scope of the planned institutional development component in this
project is now part of the new Bank-financed TRP project. This allows the Bank and the client to
carry out, monitor, and take into use the results of technical assistance. Accountability for results
also requires reliability of their financing.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
No issues were raised by the Borrower.

(b) Cofinanciers
None

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
None


                                                 12

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

        Components          Appraisal Estimate Actual/Latest Estimate   Percentage of
                                 (USD M)              (USD M)            Appraisal
TRAFFIC SAFETY                          24.10                    5.81           24.11
ROAD REHABILITATION                    485.12                 437.71            90.23
EQUIPMENT AND
MATERIALS                               39.40                  42.09           106.83

INSTITUTIONAL
DEVELOPMENT                               4.83                   0.70           14.49

        Total Baseline Cost            553.45                 486.31
Physical Contingencies                    0.00
Price Contingencies                       0.00
         Total Project Costs           553.45
                                          0.00                   0.00            0.00
                                          0.00                   0.00            0.00
 Total Financing Required              553.45                 486.31


(b) Financing
                                          Appraisal
     Source of Funds         Type of                     Actual/Latest   Percentage of
                           Cofinancing Estimate (USD
                                             M)        Estimate (USD M)   Appraisal

 European Bank for
Reconstruction and                              85.90              85.90       100.00
Development
 EC: European Investment
Bank                                            87.50              68.60        78.40

 International Bank for
Reconstruction and                             150.00            150.00        100.00
Development




                                          13

Annex 2. Outputs by Component

The description of the output by component is given for the components financed by the Bank
only.

1. Traffic Safety (SAR estimate US$24.1 million including contingencies, ICR
estimateUS$5.8      million): The Bank financed part of this component covered civil works for
the treatment of black spots and for two pilot safety projects on a national road and a linear
village.

Consultants and NAR identified 53 locations where remedial works were needed to eliminate
accident black spots. Out of these, 38 locations were improved under 16 contracts, while the
remaining 15 locations were improved within the road rehabilitation works. The 16 contracts
were evaluated in the spring of 2000, but due to Bank's `no objection' only late summer, and
because of weather, most contractors could not complete them before year's end as envisaged.
Since these were short works, no price escalation formula had been included in the contracts.
There was a problem of how to respond to contractors' request to adjust contract prices to account
for the 40% inflation. Proposals to apply the price escalation formula ex-post (according to the
national procurement legislation) were turned down by the Bank's procurement management, but
only a few contracts were cancelled and re-bid. The program was finally completed satisfactorily
in 2002. The improvements had been well designed and their safety and traffic flow benefits
were unquestionable. A review of the traffic accidents records at several of the previous black
spots indicated that the treatments had been very effective in reducing all types of road traffic
injuries.

Because the financing of technical assistance expected from EU-PHARE did not materialize, the
procurement of consultants to design the two traffic safety pilot projects was delayed. A contract
was finally signed in 2002. Works were further delayed by procurement problems and were
finally completed in 2005. The safety improvements on the DN1 at Balotesti were delayed by the
changes requested by the local authorities and MTCT. This experience highlighted the need for
greater public awareness on road safety issues, including measures to control traffic speeds,
particularly through linear villages. It is too early to evaluate the effectiveness of these pilot
projects.

2.   Road Rehabilitation (SAR estimate US$485.1 million including contingencies, ICR
estimate US$437.7 million: The Bank was to finance 300 km and most of the bridge program.
The 300 km of road rehabilitation were completed in 2002, almost a year ahead of the original
closing date. The quality of the works was good; minor defects that were observed during the
liability period were corrected. Two bridge rehabilitation programs of 68 bridges were also
completed. Six of the bridges could not be completed as contracted due to contractor problems
and some of the work had to be re-tendered.

3. Equipment and Materials (SAR estimate US$39 million, ICR estimate US$42.1 million:
The Bank financed equipment for routine maintenance of roads and bridges remaining with the
road administration (US$14 million), while EBRD financed equipment, software and technical
assistance for the commercialization and eventual privatization of periodic maintenance activities.
The procurement of equipment took place early in the project and was completed in 2000.




                                               14

4. Institutional Development (SAR estimate US$4.8 million, ICR estimate US$0.7 million:
This component was to be financed entirely by EU-PHARE and as already noted, this financing
did not occur. However, study and assistance to the construction industry, commercialization of
NAR periodic maintenance activity, and traffic planning and legislation for traffic safety did take
place under the project using funds from donors and NAR/RNCMNR itself. TA for developing
Pavement and Bridge Management Systems (PMS and BMS) was initiated and continues now
under TRP.    The only issue that could not be addressed due to the lack of funding was
computerization of NAR/RNCMNR. Also this is now financed under TRP.




                                              15

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis




                                            16

The results of the economic analysis are shown in Section 3.3. The analyses were originally done
by CESTRIN using old data. The results are in the table below. These results were updated
using straightforward interpolation and these results are shown in Section 3.3.

There are several issues and assumptions, which have an effect on the results and make them
conservative. The assumptions derive from the fact that the economic model (HDM3) was not
calibrated to Romanian conditions for road deterioration and the new vehicle fleet attributes.
Default values were used. To calibrate the HDM3 (or HDM4) model requires sustained data
collection activity. All these issues were to be addressed in the failed EU-PHARE component,
and are being addressed in the ongoing TRP project.

All things considered, the ERR estimates in Section 3.3 are the best estimates available with the
extant data. Given that the road improvements have been of good quality and carried out within
the budget, and that the vehicle park is now much better than in 1995, the user benefits and the
ERRs are low end estimates.




                                                17

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members
        Names                Title               Unit         Responsibility/Specialty
Lending

Salim Benouniche    Sr Procurement Spec.  ECSPS               Sr Procurement
                                                              Specialist

Henry G. R. Kerali  Lead Transport                            Team Leader (2003 -
                    Specialist            ECSSD               2006)

Antti P. Talvitie   Consultant            ECSSD               Former Team Leader
                                                              (2000-2003)
Doina Visa          Operations Officer    ECSSD               Operations Officer
Supervision/ICR




                                        18

b) Staff Time and Cost
                                          Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)

           Stage of Project Cycle                                USD Thousands
                                          No. of staff weeks   (including travel and
                                                                 consultant costs)
Lending
                   FY95                                                       15.84
                   FY96                                                      140.06
                   FY97                                                      153.81
                   FY98                                                        0.00
                   FY99                                                        0.00
                   FY00                                                        0.00
                   FY01                                                        0.00
                   FY02                                                        0.00
                   FY03                                                        0.00
                   FY04                                                        0.01
                   FY05                                                        0.00
                   FY06                                                        0.00
                   FY07                                                        0.00
                                   Total:                                    309.72
Supervision/ICR
                   FY95                                                        0.00
                   FY96                                                        0.00
                   FY97                                                        2.93
                   FY98                                                       81.23
                   FY99                                                       85.43
                   FY00                                    28                 96.62
                   FY01                                    19                 69.43
                   FY02                                    14                 72.32
                   FY03                                    14                 67.76
                   FY04                                    14                 69.64
                   FY05                                     6                 37.55
                   FY06                                    12                 63.64
                   FY07                                     1                   7.56
                                   Total:                 108                654.11




                                       19

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
(if any)
Not applicable




                                    20

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
(if any)
Not applicable




                                        21

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR




                                    22

Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders
Not applicable




                                        23

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents
Staff Appraisal Report, The World Bank, May 8, 1997
Project Status Reports and Mission Aide-Memoires
Nation Administration of Roads, Quarterly Progress Report, November 15, 1999
National Administration of Roads, Center for Technical Road Studies and Informatics
(CESTRIN)-Road Traffic Management Heavy Traffic Monitoring, Annual Report, October, 2000
National Company of Motorways and National Roads, Quarterly Progress Report, January to
March, 2004
National Company of Motorways and National Roads, Quarterly Progress Report, July to
September, 2004
National Company of Motorways and National Roads, Inception Report, December, 2004
National Company of Motorways and National Roads, Quarterly Progress Report, January to
March, 2005
National Company of Motorways and National Roads, Quarterly Progress Report, April to June,
2005
National Company of Motorways and National Roads, Quarterly Progress Report, July to
September, 2005
National Company of Motorways and National Roads, Quarterly Progress Report, October to
December, 2005
National Company of Motorways and National Roads, Quarterly Progress Report, January to
March, 2006
National Company of Motorways and National Roads, Quarterly Progress Report, April to June,
2006




                                              24

