Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 16153-RO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ROMANIA
Second Roads Project
May 8, 1997
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department I
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
(as of April 30, 1997)
Currency Unit     =    Leu
US$1      =    7,095 Lei
1 Leu     =    US$0.00014
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATES
Leu      =    US$1
1995         1996           January 1997       February 1997        March 1997
2,033        3,084               5,146               6,896               7,236
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ARL        -         Enterprise for Road Repairs and Works
CEE        -          Central and East European
EBRD       -          European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EIB        -          European Investment Bank
EU         -          European Union
HDM        -          Highway Design Model
ICRS       -         Interministerial Committee for Road Safety
IPTANA   -           Design Institute for Road, Water and Air Transport
IRI        -          International Roughness Index
MOT       -          Ministry of Transport
NAR        -          National Administration of Roads
NMT        -          Non-motorized transport
PHARE    -            Fund for Assistance to Central and European Countries
RA         -          Regie Autonome
RAR        -          Romania Automobile Registry
RD         -          Regional Directorate (of NAR)
SICRS     -           Secretariat of the Interministerial Committee on Road Safety
TERN       -          European Road Network
VPD        -          Vehicles per day
ROMANIA - FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
Vice President:       Johannes Linn, ECAVP
Director:             Kenneth G. Lay, ECIDR
Division Chief:      Ricardo Halperin, ECIIN
Staff::               Charles Jeremy Lane (Senior Highway Engineer; Task Manager); Jacques Yenny (Principal
Transport Economist); Sven-Ake Blomberg (Traffic Safety Engineer); Anca Dumitrescu
(Project Officer, Resident Mission); Sudipto Sarkar, Environment Specialist
Peer Reviewers were:  E. Vasur (EC2ET) and S. Lundebye (SAIIN)



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ROMANIA
Second Roads Project
CONTENTS
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY ......... .... ........................
I. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR.1
A.           The Transport System    .1 .   ...........................
B.           Traffic .................. ........................1
C. Investments..                                                                                                      2
D.           Institutions ..............                              ........................ 2
E.           Sectoral Issues .............. ........................ 3
F.           Sector Strategy  ............. ........................ 3
G.    Previous Bank Experience in the Sector .4
H.    Role of the Bank and Lending Strategy                                                .5
II.   THE HIGHWAY SECTOR ............ ........................ 6
A.           Infrastructure .......................... 6
B.           Road Transport ............. ....................... 10
C.           Environmental Aspects ................................ 12
m. THE PROJECT                                                                ..    13
A.           Project Objectives ............ ....................... 13
B.           Project Description ................................... 13
C.           Engineering and Status of Project Preparation .15
D.           Cost Estimates .............. ....................... 16
E.           Project Financing .......    .. ....................... 16
F.           Implementation and Monitoring ........................... 17
G.           Procurement  .......................................  18
H.           Disbursements ........................ 18
I.           Project Supervision ................................... 19
J.  Environmental Impact .19
K.           Project Accounts and Auditing ............................ 20
L.           Poverty Impact ......................... 20
IV. ECONOMIC EVALUATION .21
A. Framework .21
B.           Cost-Benefit Analysis  ................................. 21
C.           Sensitivity and Risk  ........................ 24
V.  AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS   .                                                             .25



CONTENTS (Cont'd)
TABLES
Table 1.1 - Freight Traffic by Mode of Transport
Table 1.2 - Passenger Traffic by Mode of Transport
Table 1.3 - Transport Sector Investment
Table 2.1 - Road User Charges: Fuel Tax Revenues
Table 2.2 - Road Sector Revenues and Expenditures, 1994-2003
Table 3.1 - World Bank Financed Road Sections
Table 3.2 - NAR's Equipment Fleet by Type and Age
Table 3.3 - List of Equipment to be Procured under the Project
Table 3.4 - Project Cost Estimate
Table 3.5 - Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
Table 3.6 - Estimated Schedule of Disbursement
CHARTS
Chart 1 - NAR's Organization Chart
Chart 2 - NAR's Organization Chart
ANNEXES
Annex 1      Project Management Unit: Terms of Reference
Annex 2      Procurement Schedule for IBRD Financed Items
Annex 3      Traffic Safety
Annex 4      Monitorable Indicators
Annex 5      Technical Assistance for Traffic Safety: Terms of Reference
Annex 6      Project Implementation Plan
Annex 7      Economic Analysis of Road Sections to be Rehabilitated
Annex 8      Documents in the Project File
MAP         IBRD No. 27751



ROMANIA
SECOND ROADS PROJECTS
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:              Romania
Beneficiaries and      National Administration of Roads (NAR); Romania Automobile Registry
Implementing Agencies: (RAR); Ministry of Transport Secretariat to the Interministerial Committee
for Traffic Safety (MOT/SICRS); Ministry of Education; Traffic Police
Department.
Amount:                US$150 million.
Terms:                 20 years including 5 years grace at the standard interest rate for LIBOR-
based US dollar single currency loans.
Commitment Fee:       0.75% of the undisbursed loan balances, beginning 60 days after signing,
less any waiver.
Onlending Terms:       Same as Bank terms.
Project Objectives:    a)   improve traffic safety and the fitness of the vehicle fleet;
b)    continue helping Romania to meet the changing pattern of demand
for land transport infrastructure;
c)   improve the management and performance of NAR;
d)    assist the Romanian civil works construction industry in its transition
to a market economy; and
e)    promote the reduction of lead in petrol.
Project Description:    The project will consist of 5 components:
a)    a program of about 1,000 km of road and bridge rehabilitation to
include overlaying or reconstruction on the existing alignment, some
widening, construction of hard shoulders and minor geometric
improvements;
b)    a traffic safety program (TSP) involving components in education,
engineering, (roads and vehicles) and enforcement;
c)    a program of institution building involving computerization of NAR
and the introduction of bridge and pavement management systems;
transport planning; continuation of work towards contracting



ii
out/privatizing of periodic maintenance and installation of permanent
traffic counting and axle load controls;
d)    a program of assistance to the road and bridge construction industry,
including establishment of a secretariat; training programs and
financing of equipment; and
e)    preparation of an Action Plan for the reduction of lead in petrol.
Project Benefits and
Risks:                 The project supports the rehabilitation of infrastructure, harmonization of
standards with the EU and environmental improvements which have been
identified as priority concerns in the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy
(CAS). The project also will raise the efficiency of public sector
management, reduce the state role in the economy by contracting out
construction and maintenance activities previously handled by force
account. The project benefits are in terms of reduced transport cost and
reduced accident costs which are expected to be widely dispersed
throughout the economy. The weighted average ERRs for road
rehabilitation is 48%. For the road safety component ERRs range from
40% to over 90%.
There are few risks which would affect the economic rates of return of the
project. For the road rehabilitation component, the main one would be that
traffic growth would be less than expected and benefits would thus be
lower than estimated. For the road safety component, the risk is that the
reduction of accidents will be less than expected, but the savings of even
minor reduction in accidents are so large in comparison to the level of
investment that the ERR will remain high.
The more significant risks are of a broader institutional nature:
a)   insufficient counterpart funds. The risk has been reduced with the
recent approval of the Road Fund Law which will provide NAR
with funds to complement the budget allocation. In addition the
Government has undertaken that the project will be given priority
over any other investments to be undertaken by NAR, however a
residual risk does remain given Romania's history of fiscal
difficulties, and in anticipation of potential problems, annual
consultations on budget allocations and a mid-term review are
provided under the project;
b)    strained implementation capacity in the earlier stages of the project,
while the Transport Project is still under implementation. To reduce
this risk, technical assistance to the PMU is provided in the project;
c)    delays in implementing the agreed strategy on commercialization of
periodic maintenance operations. NAR has already started the



iii
process in 3 of its 7 regions and there is specific assistance in the
project to deepen and extend the process; and
d)   implementation of the traffic safety component is dispersed among
many different agencies not used to working together and
coordination may be difficult. The project envisages drawing
technical assistance from an established European traffic safety
organization with links to its own analogous agencies.
Economic Rate
of Return:            About 48 %
Poverty Category:      N/A
Map:                   IBRD 27751
Project ID Number:    RO-PA-39250






I. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. The Transport System
1.1       Romania is one of the largest of the former centrally planned economies in the Central
and East European (CEE) Region with a land area of 237,000 square km and a population of 23
million, second only to Poland. Per capita income in 1995 was estimated at about US$1,450. The
country has a wide range of natural resources, including a fertile agricultural base, deposits of coal,
lignite, oil, natural gas and other minerals. Long a major food producer, Romania was a large
exporter of agricultural products until the early eighties.
1.2       The transport system has relied primarily on the railways, which have a well developed
network of 11,000 km, of which 36% is electrified and 26% is double track. The road network
totals 73,000 km, of which 20% are national roads carrying 60% of the traffic. Road density, with
regard to both population and land area, is the lowest among all CEE countries. The Danube offers a
navigable distance of 1,075 km in Romania and the Danube-Black Sea Canal (68 km) was opened to
traffic in 1984. Ninety percent of foreign trade is handled through the port of Constanza on the Black
sea. There are five major river ports on the Danube, the largest of which is Galati, accessible to
ocean-going vessels up to 15,000 tons. There are 17 airports of which 4 are international. The
transport sector contributes 4.8% of the GDP and accounts for 5% of the country's employment.
B. Traffic
1.3       Traffic on all modes has been adversely affected by the large downturn in the economy,
compounded by the restructuring of the economy away from heavy industry which was traditionally a
large user of transport. Since 1990, GDP declined by nearly 30%, industrial output declined by
nearly 52%, exports fell by nearly 55%, real wages declined by about 30%, investment by nearly
60%, and unemployment reached 10% of the labor force by end-1995 from near zero in 1989. The
share of industry in GDP declined to 40% from 54% in 1989, and that of agriculture has risen to
about 24% from 14% in the 1980s, while trading activities have almost doubled since 1989. Modest
growth was recorded in 1994 and in 1995.
1.4       As in other centrally planned economies, Romania's transport sector has been heavily rail
oriented. In 1960, rail accounted for over 80% of freight traffic and over 70% of passenger traffic
(Tables 1.1 and 1.2). While the rail share has gone down since then, in 1989 rail still accounted for
almost 70% of freight and over 40% of passenger traffic. The high share of rail freight was the
result of regulation forcing all transport above 50 km to the railways; this regulation has now been
abolished. Rail freight reached 300 million tons and 80 billion ton-km in the late 80s, but has fallen
dramatically since then. In 1995, it was down to less one third of its 1989 level at 27 billion ton-km.
Passenger traffic held up better, going down to 45% of its earlier level.
1.5       Road traffic grew rapidly in the 70s but stagnated in the 80s as it was suppressed by
physical control and regulation. Car traffic increased dramatically in 1990, but fell back thereafter as
fuel prices were adjusted to reflect world market prices. Truck traffic has been less buoyant due to
the downturn in the economy, but has been affected less than rail traffic. There is virtually no
intercity bus service at this time and railways remain the essential long distance passenger carrier.



2
Non-motorized transport (NMT) is almost totally absent in cities, but both the bicycles and horse
drawn vehicles are significant in, and adjacent to the linear villages. Both classes of NMT will be
considered in a traffic safety pilot study under the project (Annex 3).
1.6       Traffic through Constanta port was around 60 million tons p.a. in the late 80s, but is also
down by one third since then. Of the earlier traffic, about 60% was liquid bulk and another 30% dry
bulk, leaving only about 5 million tons of general cargo. Container traffic was small but has
increased rapidly since 1989 as Romania's markets are diversifying. Inland water traffic is
insignificant at less than 4% of total land traffic. On the Danube-Black Sea Canal, traffic reached
12.5 million tons in 1989, well below the forecasts of 75 million tons made in 1979 before
construction. Traffic in 1990 had fallen to some 6 million tons but has begun to grow again with the
lifting of the embargo on Serbia. Maritime traffic carried by the Romanian fleet quadrupled in the
70s from 4 to 16 million tons p.a. and more than doubled again to 36 million tons in 1989. It has
since fallen to less than 4 million tons.
C.  Investments
1.7      Investments in the transport sector have been around 10% of total public investments,
substantially below the level in market economies. Until the late 70s, railways received the bulk of
the investments in the sector. Later, the balance shifted toward water transport (maritime, river and
canals) with the construction of the new Constanza port, the Danube-Black Sea Canal and the
Bucharest-Danube Canal (now abandoned) and a major increase in the maritime fleet. In the 80s,
total water transport investments absorbed well over 50% of total transport investments, while rail
received about 27%. By comparison, investments in road infrastructure decreased from 9% in the
late 70s to less than 5% in the 80s (Table 1.3). In the 80s, construction started on the Bucharest
metro and, between 1986 and 1990, this absorbed about twice the amounts invested in the entire road
infrastructure of Romania. In recent years, investments in the sector have come to a virtual halt as a
result of the Government's efforts to reduce its budget deficit. For instance, in 1992, investment for
the whole sector was US$35 million, only allowing for urgent capital repairs and periodic
maintenance and no new investments. Transport sector capital investments increased to around
US$75 million in both 1993 and 1994 and to US$130 million in 1995 as a result of the European
Investment Bank (EIB)/European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) Transport
Project. The 1996 budget was around US$110 million, still a very low level at 0.3% of GDP.
D. Institutions
1.8      In 1990 and 1991, major changes took place in the transport institutions. The former
Ministry of Transport and Public Works was split into two separate Ministries. The Ministry of
Transport (MOT) was reorganized to concentrate on policy making and regulation functions rather
then being an operator of transport means. The railways, highways and ports became autonomous
units or "Regie Autonome" (RA), while road transport departments, construction departments and
design or research institutes became respectively transport companies, contractor and consultant
commercial companies (CC). The shares of most of these CC are still owned by the state, but
privatization has started and some CCs are now partially owned by the private sector. The MOT was
reorganized again in September 1994 to place even greater emphasis on its policy making and
regulatory function, while further limiting its interference in the running of transport operations, and
its staff was reduced from 450 to 350.



- 3 -
E. Sectoral Issues
1.9       One of the main difficulties when assessing the justification of new investments in the
sector is to evaluate the future volume and pattern of transport demand. The shift to a market
economy is resulting in less emphasis on transport intensive industries such as steel, cement and
petrochemicals and more on higher value added light industry such as textiles and agro-industry. The
latter will require lower transport volumes and are more likely to use road transport than rail or water
transport. Romania's use of energy was also very intensive. The demand for lignite and coal
transport may decline as the electric power company, RENEL, switches to nuclear (the first unit of
the Cernavoda power plant is in commercial operation) and from domestic lignite, which is currently
transported by the railway, to imported coal. As energy subsidies are phased out, and industries
conserve fuel to reduce operating costs, further reductions in coal transport can be expected.
Railways are unlikely to recoup much of the lost traffic and will have to concentrate on developing
new markets such as international freight and combined transport. On the passenger side, the need to
increase tariffs in order to reduce subsidies could moderate travel demand somewhat. As regards
road use by cars, it is expected that the growth in motorization will continue.
1.10      Investments in the transport sector were skewed toward very large projects without regard
for economic and financial feasibility. The result is that funds for maintenance, rehabilitation,
replacement of life-expired equipment and modernization were scarce. Existing infrastructure and
equipment are obsolete and service availability is low. The Bank together with EBRD is introducing
the use of economic feasibility studies as a basis for improving decision making on investments.
1.11      The sector was no exception to the general distortions resulting from administrative rather
than market drices. Fuel prices are still controlled, but Government policy is to ensure that they
reflect fluctuations in world markets. Under the 1992 Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL) agreement
was reached that Government would adjust them periodically to reflect external prices and exchange
rate movements. Road transport prices are free for freight, but still regulated for public passenger
transport. Similarly, railways have some flexibility in setting freight tariffs, but full control remains
on passenger tariffs. However, under the recently approved Railway Rehabilitation project
agreement has been reached on financial targets that will drive the tariff setting process. During 1996
railway tariffs were cumulatively increased by 74% (freight) and 99% (passengers) over the
December 1995 level. Further significant increases were made in February and in May 1997.
F. Sector Strategy
1.12      The following principles and policies are guiding the action of Government in the
transport sector:
(a)    Equality of treatment between private transport enterprises and state owned means
of transport;
(b)    Financial autonomy of transport companies;
(c)    Freedom of action by transport companies, in terms of entry, routes, cargoes,
tariffs and investments;



(d)    Free modal choice by transport users; and
(e)   Investment decisions based on economic analysis.
Regarding investments in the sector, the strategy of the Ministry of Transport is as follows:
(a)    Short term: to arrest the technical and operational deterioration of the system;
(b)    Medium term: to renovate the existing transport capacity taking into account the
patterns of changing demand resulting from free competition between modes; and
(c)    Longer term: to modernize and develop the infrastructure, equipment and vehicles
to match the economic and technical levels of Western Europe.
This strategy is sound and is reflected in this project on the investment side as well as by the
agreements reached regarding reforms to be introduced in the sector.
G. Previous Bank Experience in the Sector
1.13          The Bank has financed four projects in the transport sector; two under the previous
political regime and two since 1989. The first two were the Danube-Black Sea Canal Project (Loan
1794-RO); US$100 million, January 1980; and the Land Transport Project (Loan 2034-RO); US$125
million, April 1981. More recently we processed the Transport Project (Loan 3593-RO), US$120
million; April 1993; and the Railway Rehabilitation Project (Loan 3976-RO); January 1996 both of
which are under implementation. In January 1987, OED issued the PPAR for the first project. The
main conclusion was that, although completion was 17 months behind schedule, the work was
generally good. However traffic did not materialize to the extent expected and therefore the financial
results and economic benefits were lower than estimated. A main issue raised in the report concerns
the role of the Bank. The Bank loan came five years after construction of the canal had started and
mainly supplied finance (about 5% of total cost). It would have been better to participate earlier in
the project cycle to have an impact on technical and economic decisions before they were made.
1.14       The second project was completed and the loan closed on schedule in May 1987. The
Project Completion Report (PCR) was issued in January 1992. The overall assessment was
satisfactory. Disbursements were faster than expected and the project cost was well below estimates.
Economic returns were lower than expected following the downturn in the economy since 1990, but
all components remain justified. Issues of past irregular procurement practices were highlighted by
the Government in its commentary on the project.
1.15       The ongoing Transport Project (Loan 3593-RO), co-financed with EBRD, EIB, and the
European Union Assistance Program for Eastern Europe (EU-PHARE) was prepared rapidly and the
cooperation throughout the project's preparation was outstanding, with the Bank's comments on
project design, concept and implementation fully taken into account. Progress on project execution
has been very good and disbursements which have reached 90% of the loan amount are ahead of
schedule. The Railway Rehabilitation Project, cofinanced with EBRD and EU-PHARE, only became
effective in August 1996, so it is still too early to assess its progress, but the quality of cooperation is
very satisfactory.



- 5 -
1.16        Findings of OED on recently completed highway projects indicate that project success is
enhanced when:
-       operating agencies have authority delegated by line ministries to manage well
defined projects and adequate budget resources to carry them out;
-       individual project components are of high priority, straight forward and under
clear-cut responsibility of only one agency;
-       agencies demonstrate ownership of projects;
-       projects are closely supervised and there is a mid-term review; and
-       detailed terms of reference are available early on for the preparation of
complex action plans, especially when many agencies are involved (road
safety).
In addition, OED found that efficiency is improved by devolving supply of services to the private
sector, but privatization of state owned enterprises is politically difficult and can only be achieved
when there is strong commitment.
1.17        These lessons have been taken into account in the design and preparation of this project.
The road administration - a regie autonome (see paragraph 2.6) - has full authority to manage the
project and the introduction of the road fund (para. 2.13) will strengthen its financial situation. The
selection of about 1,000 km out of 3,000 km analyzed in detail reflect the high priority of the roads
to be rehabilitated under the project. The short list of roads to be improved was discussed thoroughly
within the administration and with the line ministry and there is a high ownership of the project. We
intend to supervise the project closely, including annual reviews (see para. 2.13). Detailed terms of
reference have been prepared and agreed for the preparation of action plans for road safety and
reduction of lead in petrol. The gradual transfer of maintenance activities from force account to
contract has started under the Transport Project and will be developed further under this project.
Enterprises for repairs and works (ARL) will be separated from the administration and
commercialized with a view to privatization in the future. Separation has started with ARL Cluj.
H.  Role of the Bank and Lending Strategy
1.18        A revised Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) is presently being submitted for Board
consideration. It focuses on support for a far reaching reform program in line with country priorities,
and assigns special importance to support for EU accession programs and to strengthening
partnerships with the EU and other external parties. At the same time, the strategy posits a future
shift from infrastructure lending. This operation has been designed with these strategic objectives in
mind. Thus it promotes the financial sustainability of the sector through the Road Fund (para. 2.13),
cements the strong partnerships that had been developed under the ongoing Transport Project by
continuing the close and fruitful collaboration with EBRD, EIB and EU-Phare (para. 3.12), pursues
safety and environmental improvements and by funding roads in the European network and utilizing
EU standards (para. 3.3) will facilitate EU accession. The ultimate goal is a balanced and cost
efficient transport system, that would maximize the positive externalities of providing convenient and
economic access to transportation services to the greatest number of people, while minimizing the
negative externalities such as the number and severity of accidents and the impact on the environment.
It builds upon the 1993 Transport Project (para. 1.15).



- 6 -
II. THE HIGHWAY SECTOR
A. Infrastructure
2.1        Network and Traffic.  Public roads in Romania are classified in a three-tier system:
national roads, district roads and communal roads. The National Administration of Roads (NAR) is
responsible for the national road network. The district and communal roads are directly under the
local administrations, however, NAR provides technical assistance on standards, project design and
budget submissions.
2.2        In 1996, the road network totalled about 73,000 km of which 15,000 km were national
roads.
Description         ROAD NETWORK*l
PAVED             GRAVEL        EARTH       TOTAL
km           S          km           km          km
National Roads                14,462         98         221            _      14,683
(of which motorways)          (113)        100                                 (113)
District Roads                18,111         67       7,718        1,138      26,967
Communal Roads                4,951          16       18,686       7,529      31,166
Total              37,524                  26,625        8,667      72,816
(%)                  51%                     37%          12%        100%
* (Excluding street networks)
2.3        In the past, roads and road transport were neglected as emphasis was placed on rail
transport. As a result, the condition of the network deteriorated, particularly in the 1980s. It is
estimated that about one third of the national road network, 5000 km, require some form of
strengthening to avoid failure. The Transport Project -- Loan 3593-RO included the rehabilitation of
about 1,100 km of national roads and works will be completed in 1997. The proposed project
continues to focus on the urgent need to strengthen the national road network, which now carries 60%
of the total road traffic in the country and all international transit traffic.
2.4        Road traffic grew continuously until 1980. However, it fell by about 20% in the 1980s
when fuel was rationed and stricter restrictions applied to road transport, i.e. trucks and buses could



only operate within district boundaries and all transport beyond 50 km had to be by rail. In 1990,
traffic was 46% above 1989 levels, with all the increase due to private cars, but it fell again in 1991,
following fuel price increases. Since then, traffic growth has followed a more regular and expected
trend, in line with the large increase in vehicle registration (see below). Forecasts can be made with
somewhat more confidence now that economic growth has resumed. Examples from other countries
indicate that once growth resumes, road traffic can be expected to grow faster than GDP from the
present relatively low levels.
2.5         Detailed traffic surveys, including Origin-Destination surveys are conducted once every
five years on the entire national road network, with the last one in 1995. In the intervening years,
continuous traffic counting is performed at over 350 locations on the network. Traffic composition is
assumed constant between two detailed surveys. To improve the system, the Transport Project
included the acquisition of some classification counters to provide continuous data on traffic
composition which are being installed. Less than 10% of the network has traffic levels in excess of
6,000 vehicles per day (vpd) and less than 3% has over 10,000 vpd.
1990         1995
Traffic in V.P.D.           (km)          (km)
< 1,000                     1,796       1,575
1,000 to 3,000              6,353       5,294
3,000 to 6,000              4,407       4,547
6,000 to 10,000             1,136        1,910
> 10,000                     347          718
TOTAL*                14,039        14,044
* excludes length through municipalities.
2.6         Highway Administration and Organization.  Construction, maintenance and
administration of the national road network is the responsibility of NAR which is a regie autonome
under the control of MOT and is at present dependent on the budget for almost all its resources (some
revenue is derived directly from bridge tolls, transit permits and overloading charges levied at frontier
posts). Its present organization is shown in Charts 1 and 2. The field organization consists of 7
regional directorates further divided into 41 sections, their borders coinciding with those of
administrative districts judets). Each section is divided into 4 to 6 districts for routine and winter
maintenance. In addition, there are some 140 "formations" for periodic resurfacing and
strengthening, each one equipped with one asphalt plant and the corresponding transport and paving
equipment. Other equipment is held at the district level. There are small workshops for maintenance
and minor repairs in each of the 41 sections and 7 regional workshops for major overhauls. All
resources - equipment, personnel, building, used for periodic maintenance are currently being
privatized. The plan to be executed under the project with EBRD financing is described in paragraph
2.10
2.7         Engineering, Construction and Maintenance.  Engineering for the road system has
generally been prepared by institutes of the MOT, the main one being the Design Institute for Road,
Water and Air Transport (IPTANA). In 1990, these institutes became joint-stock commercial
companies. The stock is still owned by the state but they are candidates for privatization. Private



engineering consultants have emerged, often in joint-venture with foreign consultants working on the
Transport Project and are competing with the institutes for work by contract . Road design standards
are barely appropriate to traffic flows and physical characteristics, and upgrading is required to reach
EU standards. The cross sections adopted for the proposed project involve a wider paved shoulder
for safety and capacity reasons.
2.8        In the past, road construction was done by specialized groups under the MOT, with
some specialization by mode. There were national companies as well as regional ones for the smaller
works. In 1990, these large construction groups were divided into smaller commercial companies in
a way similar to that described above for the institutes. A number of them have won bids under the
Transport Project, both on their own and in joint-ventures with foreign partners. The latter are
benefitting from technical assistance and technology transfer, which will increase their potential for
eventual privatization. The project will provide assistance to the construction industry following the
recommendations of an ongoing study.
2.9         Until 1993 maintenance had been done entirely by force account. Under the Transport
Project NAR started the process of gradually moving more work to contract. The process of
commercialization started in 1994 in one region (Cluj) and was extended in 1995 to the Brasov and
Constanta regions. Periodic maintenance in these regions is carried out by a separate organization--
the Enterprise for Repairs and Works (ARL). Each year, a contract is negotiated between the
regional directorate and the ARL for specific maintenance work. Accounting practices based on
commercial principles are being used increasingly in the ARLs. However, a constraint to further
commercialization is inadequate equipment in the ARLs.
2.10        An action plan for commercialization is being prepared with the assistance of EBRD
under the proposed project. The plan agreed with EBRD has two phases: Phase 1 will
commercialize periodic maintenance in the Cluj region in 3 steps: a) complete functional separation
of all periodic maintenance activities; b) setting up of a state owned joint-stock company within MOT;
and c) privatization of the company at an appropriate time in the future. Phase 2 will extend the
process to other regions where ARLs are at various stages of development. The EBRD component
also includes the establishment of an equipment financing facility, under which NAR would purchase
equipment and lease it to the ARL's as they are privatized, recovering its cost over time from works
it contracts with the ARLs.
2.11        Highway Expenditure and Financing.  Total road expenditures (recurrent and
capital) have been fairly constant between 1985 and 1991, fluctuating between US$260 to 300 million
per year. The distribution of these between the national roads and the rest of the network has also
been stable around 50-50. Most of the capital expenditures have gone to improving and strengthening
existing roads rather than new construction. Priority has been given to basic routine maintenance and
keeping the road surface in as good condition as possible at the least cost.



- 9 -
Highway Expenditures
(in million Lei)
l____     NATIONAL ROADS                 DISTRICT & COMMUNAL ROADS                  TOTAL
Recurrent    Capital                 Recurrent     Capital                               US$
Costs        Cost        Total       Cost         Costs       Total       LEI         Million
1985           1,489        744        2,233        1,580          545    2,125          4,358         255
1986           1,518        594        2,112        1,730          491     2,221         4,333         267
1987           1,480        612        2,092        1,680          512    2,192          4,284         293
1988           1,508        528        2,036        1,696          466    2,162          4,198         294
1989           1,557        528        2,085        1,918          534    2,452          4,537         304
1990           1,900       1,100       3,000        2,085          830    2,915          5,915         264
1991           8,288        918        9,206        6,515        2,671     9,186        18,392         307
1992          14,440       1,150      15,590       18,871        2,636    21,507        37,097         185
1993          64,107     47,144      111,251       49,077         8,705    57,782      169,033       222**
1994        286,260*     89,146      375,406      129,413        34,865   164,278     539,684*       326**
1995        443,189* 1   141,465 1   584,654*     203,000        61,481   264,481     849,135*       411**
*        The amounts include the rehabilitation costs
The annual average of exchange rates, as published by the National Bank of Ronania was used
2.12          Until 1996 road user charges consisted of: annual vehicle license fees; vehicle
registration fees; a 5% tax on the ex-refinery price of fuels and various fees and tolls. The level of
taxation was low and total revenues amounted to some US$63 million in 1992, with about half of it
from fuel taxes. In recent years as the price of fuel was gradually reduced in constant terms, fuel tax
revenues did not increased in parallel with traffic and fuel consumption. Revenues from tolls and
transit fees, however almost doubled since 1992. Fuel prices were increased substantially in July
1996 and again in January 1997 (Table 2.1).
2.13          A Road Fund Law was promulgated on October 2, 1996 based on a 25%  charge on ex-
refinery prices of fuels and a 10% charge on ex-factory prices of vehicles. This would generate
revenues of some US$200 million per year starting in 1997, growing with traffic and vehicle
purchases. This amount, combined with about US$35 million in various fees and tolls, would be
sufficient to cover the variable costs of the network, but would fall short of covering total road costs,
which are estimated at around US$400 to 450 million per year. The combination of the proposed fuel
tax and the existing annual license fees would also be sufficient to cover the variable costs of each
vehicle type, except for the heaviest trucks. The existing annual license fee, which has not been
incorporated into the road fund, should, nevertheless, also be gradually increased, particularly for
heavy vehicles as the fuel tax typically cannot cover fully the cost they impose to the roads. A
modification to the Road Fund Law, that would introduce such an annual licence fee, is under
preparation. Table 2.2 shows NAR's revenues and expenditures from 1994-2003. At Negotiations.
Government confirmed its agreement to hold annual consultations by November 30 of each year on
the Borrower's proposed budget and expenditures program for its national road network and confirm
that any investments in its national roads network. estimated to cost US$6.000.000 equivalent or more
shall be carried out only if determined to be economically viable in accordance with criteria agreed



- 10 -
with the Bank (para. 5.1 (a)). Acceptable criteria means that investments estimated to cost US$6
million or more should have an economic rate of return no less than 15% calculated in accordance
with a methodology and procedures acceptable to the Bank. All costs and benefits will be estimated
net-of-tax, and net cost and benefit streams will be developed taking into account the alternative
investment scenarios considered, and related maintenance costs.
B. Road Transport
2.14        Transport.  Road transport was completely deregulated in 1990 for freight and
passenger services. Transporters are now free to enter and operate any route they wish and determine
their own tariffs. The single large road transport company under MOT and the other 423 own-
account transport companies operated by various ministries for their own sectors have been
transformed in smaller units (average of 280 vehicles per company versus 500 in 1989) as follows:
the freight companies are commercial companies with state ownership of capital (share companies),
while the 55 passenger companies are Regies Autonomes administered by the 41 districts and the
Municipality of Bucharest. In addition to these state owned companies, there are already over 2000
private transport companies generally in the form of limited liability companies. The average size of
private companies and individual transporters is small. The intention is to privatize the state owned
companies starting with those dealing with freight.
2.15        There are now over 3 million four-wheeled vehicles registered in Romania, or about
146 vehicles per 1000 population. Commercial vehicles --buses and trucks-- account for 15% of the
fleet with cars comprising the remainder. Cars are concentrated in the urban areas, with Bucharest
accounting for 20% of the registration. Despite the rapid growth of automobile ownership, traffic on
major intercity roads remains with a high proportion of heavy vehicles, often exceeding 30%.
2.16        The present legal axle load is 10 tons for a single axle on motorways and European
roads (4,500 km) and 8 tons on other roads. NAR is studying the consequences of adopting the 11.5
ton limit of the European Community for roads and bridges on European roads as well as increasing
the bearing capacity on other national roads. Trucks are only weighed at border posts and
overloading was a problem before the 1989 revolution, mostly on roads in the vicinity of large
construction sites. While the problem is less acute now, it is likely to come back with economic
development. The Transport Project includes the purchase of weighbridges to improve data collection
for pavement design. These are being installed. During Negotiations the Government agreed to
collect data on axle loads for 12 consecutive months beginning not later than September 30. 1997 and
presenting for the Bank's review a report on its analysis. and recommendations for a system of axle
load monitoring and control by December 31. 1998 (para. 5.1 fb)).
2.17        Romanian Automobile Registry.  The Romanian Automobile Registry (RAR) is a
national regie autonome acting as a registering authority for all road vehicles. In this capacity RAR's
main attributions are: periodic inspection of vehicles for technical fitness and emission levels;
registration; certification of all new vehicles using public roads, based on testing in RAR own
laboratories. RAR headquarters are located in Bucharest and it has 40 branches throughout the
Romanian territory. RAR benefited from US$4 million financing from the Transport Project (3593-
RO) for the supply of 40 vehicle inspection lines which now provide improved, scientifically based
vehicle testing throughout the country, and an Automotive Emission Analysis System. RAR is self
financing, taking its revenue from fees charged for vehicle inspections and certification. A US$3.9
million sub-component of the traffic safety component for testing equipment will ensure a gradual
coming into line with EU standards of domestic vehicle production which is increasing rapidly. In
view of RAR's responsibilities at a national level related to traffic safety and enviromnental



- 11 -
protection, the proposed project will finance equipment for the homologation and environment test of
new vehicles. An amount for TA, would be provided within the traffic safety component through
bilateral assistance or a trust fund. This component supports Government policy of aligning with EU
standards by 2005.
2.18        Traffic Safety.  Road traffic accidents have become a serious problem since the
political changes of 1989/90. The annual number of traffic accidents, now exceeding 150,000, is
growing rapidly, and growth in motorization is expected to make a trend reversal difficult. The
growth registered from 1994 to 1995 was 37%. It is roughly estimated that some 2%-3% of the GDP
is lost in accident costs (estimated to $600 million/year). In 1996 the traffic police registered 8,930
serious accidents, causing fatality or serious injuries and 11,600 causing light injuries to the victims.
This exceeds the corresponding amount for 1992 by 12%. The annual consequences of the severe
traffic accidents are out of proportion compared to Western European countries:
* 37 fatalities per 100 injured (< 10 in Western Europe)
* 8.6 fatalities per 10 000 registered vehicles (< 3 in Western Europe)
* 1.22 fatalities per 10 000 inhabitants (high in relation to the low rate of car ownership)
These statistics indicate a higher risk of traffic accidents and more severe consequences than in other
CEE countries.
2.19        Institutional development has taken place in the field of traffic safety since the Bank-
sponsored study of 1993 and a Road Safety Policy Seminar sponsored by the Bank for its Eastern
Europe clients which took place in Budapest 1994. An Interministerial Council for Road Safety
(ICRS) and a permanent secretariat (SICRS) were established in 1995. The members of the ICRS,
chaired by the Minister of Transport, are leaders or authorized representatives from 11 ministries,
the Department for Local Public Administration and the General Council of Bucharest Municipality
which ensures the commitment to traffic safety on high level. The ICRS has so far approved a
preliminary Priority Actions Program 1996-2000 for traffic safety based on the proposals of five
Special Traffic Safety Commissions. A new road code has been submitted to Parliament for
approval.
2.20        Defining objectives and targets for traffic safety, improving the cooperation between the
entities involved in traffic safety development, establishing the performance indicators for traffic
safety activities and monitoring these requires a clear logical framework and increased attention of the
ICRS. Assignment of responsibilities needs adjustment to ensure that all major aspects are being
covered. Lack of staff experienced in traffic safety work, lack of equipment and lack of funds
hampers all systematic approach in spite of the established high level commitment to traffic safety
and substantial efforts made by the Traffic Police, the SICRS and the Romanian Automobile Registry
(RAR) to reduce the number and the consequences of accidents. Assistance will be provided to NAR
in locating and addressing accident "black spots" i.e. locations on the road network where the number
and the consequences of a certain type of traffic accident substantially exceeds the average under
similar traffic conditions elsewhere. Particularly high traffic accident incidence is due to the poor



- 12 -
traffic environment of the typical Romanian "linear villages"' and the suburbs of the cities. High
accident susceptibility due to poor traffic environment is also found on the designated European Road
Network (TERN) where slow motorized transport, animal drawn transport and other non motorized
transport (NMT) generally are using the same carriageway as the growing number of buses, trucks
and small cars traveling at increased speed. The proposed project includes a traffic safety component
addressing the above issues (see Annex 3).
C. Environmental Aspects
2.21          Lead in Petrol.   Romanian refineries currently add about 0.60 g of lead in the form
of tetra-ethyl lead or tetra-methyl lead per liter of petrol as an inexpensive way to enhance the octane
levels to meet the demands of the motor fleet. The lead content of Romanian petrol is high compared
to other Eastern European countries (0.60 g/l versus 0.15 g/l in Bulgaria, Hungary and Poland). Due
to the strong correlation between lead exposure and health effects, the government has taken a keen
interest to reduce the amount of lead in petrol. The reduction in lead in petrol is planned in three
phases. In Phase I, the aim is to reduce the current lead level of 0.6 gm/l to 0.32 gm/l in the short
term (by 1998). In Phase II, at a medium term (less than 5 years) the level will be further reduced to
0.15 gm/I to meet EU standards. In Phase III, in the longer term, the plan is to move towards the
use of unleaded gasoline keeping in mind that below the 0.15 g/liter threshold, the incremental cost
per unit of lead reduction increases as the lead level decreases.
2.22          Preparation of Action Plan.   Under the Commission for Motor Vehicles, a Working
Party has been formed, including representation of Government and the vehicle manufacture and
refinery industries to develop an Action Plan to phase-out lead in petrol. Technical Assistance is
being provided to the ICRS to assist in developing the Action Plan to bring the lead content of leaded
petrol to EU standards and to phase in unleaded petrol, with suitable incentives and under a realistic
time table. During negotiations. Government confirmed that by December 31. 1997 it would submit
(through the ICRS) to the Bank a Lead Reduction Action Plan, satisfactory to the Bank and carry out
the said Action Plan in accordance with its terms (para. 5.1 (c)). The ICRS will co-ordinate activities
among key players involved in developing the Action Plan and will report to the Bank on progress.
The Action Plan includes technical options and its economic implications for the refinery, the effects
of reduced leaded petrol on the existing fleet, pricing policies related to providing incentives in using
unleaded petrol, and increasing public awareness on the benefits of using reduced leaded petrol.
1/ Unlike medieval villages, where peasants were concentrated in nuclear villages for mutual security, travelling to and from their land by day, Romania's
villages are linear in layout with houses facing the snan roads with the owner's land in the form of a long thin strip, typically 25-50m wide, stretching out
behind the hous. This produces long thin villages often 5km from start to finish of the built-up area. Because of the number and closenes of houses to
the road centre line, widening is difficult and requires the highway authority to purchase a lrge number of small plots of land each with a different owner.
Widening without acquiring land, increases vehicle speeds and decreases the space for pedestrians, maring accidents inevitable and life for the vilagers
unpleasant. Because of the linear nature of the villages, bypasses would seldom be economic. This presents a serious traffic safety dilmma.



- 13 -
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives
3.1     The objectives of the project are to:
a)  improve traffic safety and the fitness of the vehicle fleet;
b)  continue helping Romania to meet the changing pattern of demand for land transport
infrastructure;
c)  improve the management and performance of NAR;
d)  assist the Romanian civil works construction industry in its transition to a market
economy; and
e)  promote the reduction of lead in petrol.
In addition the project would assist Romania to harmonize the standards of its road network,
its vehicles and their safety and the institutional practices of NAR with those of the
European Union.
B. Project Description
3.2     Project Description. The project will consist of five components:
a)  a program of about 1,000 km of road and bridge rehabilitation; to include overlaying or
reconstruction on the existing alignment, some widening, construction of hard shoulders
and minor geometric improvements;
b)  a traffic safety program (TSP); involving components in education, engineering (roads
and vehicles) and enforcement; (see Annex 3 for a full description)
c)  a program of institution building involving computerization of NAR and the introduction
of bridge and pavement management systems; transport planning; continuation of work
towards contracting out/privatizing of periodic maintenance and installation of
permanent traffic counting and axle load controls;
d)  a program of assistance to the civil works construction industry, including establishment
of a secretariat; training programs and financing of equipment; and
e)  preparation of an Action Plan for the reduction of lead in petrol.
3.3     Road and bridge rehabilitation is vital in Romania as its contact with Western Europe with
its higher axle loads and emphasis on road transport makes its impact. Roads have been selected
from the European network, including portions of the Trans European Networks (TEM, "the



- 14 -
corridors") as a result of feasibility studies (see below). The work will consist of strengthening to
carry 11 tonnes per axle, the EU standard, mostly by overlaying with asphaltic concrete, and by the
addition of wider shoulders of which 1 m will be paved. This is essential for safety (there is still a
significant proportion of non-motorized transport (NMT), including animal drawn vehicles, and slow
moving agricultural machinery), to permit overtaking thus providing capacity for the rising traffic
volumes, and to reduce shoulder maintenance.
3.4     The Bridge Repair Program. Bridges needing repair or widening, contained in lengths of
road being improved will be included in the respective contracts, but there will also be a stand alone
bridge rehabilitation program. This will involve some 50 bridges, and works will consist mostly of
replacement of expansion joints and re-waterproofing of decks. Works will be identified and
scheduled by the RD's (regional directorates) with assistance from local consulting engineers if
required. Contracts will be managed by RDs. Some small bridge repairs will be done by force
account for which the loan would finance materials such as joints and water proofing membrane.
Technical Assistance and the equipment purchase program will combine to upgrade, modernize and
re-equip the whole of NAR's bridge maintenance activities, served by a new bridge management
system to be introduced at the same time.
3.5     The traffic safety program (TSP) is described in detail in Annex 3. Activities in
engineering, enforcement and education will be pursued under the coordination of SICRS. Many
traffic safety efforts fail because of poor cooperation among the many actors; an important feature of
the TSP is therefore a pilot scale traffic safety demonstration project. In the important and heavily
trafficked corridor between Bucharest an Brasov, all the actors in the traffic safety field have agreed
to cooperate on an integrated project to show how the contribution of each component fits into the
whole. Technical assistance will be obtained from a major European traffic safety organization,
which would be able to call on the entirety of its home country's traffic safety services, as and when
needed. The pilot study findings and other subcomponents will be used to prepare a National Traffic
Safety Action Plan 2000-2009. Among the many agencies involved in the component will be RAR,
which already received assistance under the ongoing project to set up a nationwide chain of vehicle
inspection stations. This assistance, coordinated by SICRS, will be continued in the proposed project
in the area of standardization and quality control of new vehicle production, in line with EU
standards. During Negotiations Government reconfirmed its agreement to: 1) maintain at all times
until the completion of the Project. the ICRS and SICRS with a sufficient number of qualified staff
and adequate facilities, as satisfactory to the Bank: 2) (a) carry out the TSP with due diligence and
efficiency: (b) review with the Bank. by June 30 of each year. the progress achieved in the carrying
out of such a program: and (c) within four months of each such review, update the program and,
thereafter. implement all measures required to ensure the efficient carrying out thereof during the
period after such review. taking into consideration the Bank's comments on the matter: and 3) (i) by
December 31. 1999. submit (through the ICRS) to the Bank. for its review, a draft National Traffic
Safety Action Plan: (ii) immediately thereafter finalize said Action Plan taking into consideration the
Bank's comments on such a draft: and (iii) carry out said Action Plan in accordance with its terms
(inara 5.1 (d)).
3.6    Institution building in NAR will include bringing the pavement management system
developed under the previous project up to operational level, to serve as a basis for maintenance
works decisions, and introducing a bridge management system. A small cell will be established for
advanced planning, which will put together traffic volume and weight data from automated stations
now being installed, physical performance data from the PMS and BMS, and using Highway Design



- 15 -
Model (HDM) 4 and similar software serve as a tool to monitor the development of weak or
congested sections, to serve as a basis for the investment program. Computerization will be completed
and an NAR-wide cost accounting system will be installed (funded by EBRD). The periodic
maintenance activities of NAR and the related equipment are being commercialized and eventually
will be privatized. The project will provide equipment, software and technical assistance for this work
(funded by EBRD), and some equipment will also be provided for routine maintenance activities
remaining with NAR (funded by IBRD).
3.7     Assistance to the civil works construction industry will be based on the recommendations of
a study of Romania's civil works construction industry, which is being financed from the Transport
Project. The draft final report will be completed in the next few weeks. The component would
provide technical assistance in contract management, and financial management and control of
enterprises, to a technical secretariat to be established in the Association of Romanian Contractors.
The study is also likely to recommend various measures to improve the business and contractual
climate in which contractors operate, such as access to foreign exchange, import procedures and a
price adjustment clause in standard public sector works contracts that correctly reflects price changes.
These changes are expected to bring Romania's practices more in line with those of the European
community.
3.8     Reduction of lead in petrol will be brought about by the efforts of a working group
coordinated by SICRS to which the project will provide technical assistance (see paras 2.21,2.22).
The work will lead to the preparation of a national action plan for the reduction of the lead in leaded
petrol and the making available under price incentives of unleaded petrol by December 31, 1997.
C. Engineering and Status of Project Preparation
3.9     Feasibility studies for the major road rehabilitation works were performed on a "long list" of
some 2,500 km of roads in the E (European) network, from which about 1,000 km were selected by
the Government and the co-financiers in May 1996 for final design2. Table 3.1 shows the road
sections so far selected for World Bank financing totalling 304 km. Further road sections will be
selected from these or subsequent studies in consultation with the Bank; criteria of eligibility will be
an acceptable feasibility study, an economic rate of return not lower than 15% and a satisfactory
environmental clearance. The sections already selected for Bank financing have ERRs between 39
and 62 percent. One road section to be financed by EIB/PHARE, with a lower ERR has been selected
nevertheless because of its importance as part of EU Corridor #4. Design work is being carried out
by two consortia of consulting engineers, both comprising an international firm and a Romanian firm.
Complete contract documents for bids were sent to the Bank in January 1997. Designs and contract
documents for the bridge repair program are being prepared by NAR's regional directorates (RD's)
with the assistance of local consultant where necessary. A General Procurement Notice was published
on July 16, 1996 and prequalification for ICB contracts is well advanced. Specifications for road
maintenance equipment are being prepared by NAR. TORs for the major consultancies are
substantially complete.
2/ Pre-investment studies and design are being financed from Loan 3593-RO.



- 16 -
D. Cost Estimates
3.10    The estimated total cost of the project is US$553 million equivalent. Detailed costs are
shown in Table 3.4. Construction cost estimates are those prepared by the design consultants, based
on outturn prices from ongoing contracts and include a 20% contingency because of the inherent
uncertainties in rehabilitation work; the foreign/local breakdown is based on consultants' estimates.
The local component includes import duties on equipment (about 15 percent for construction
equipment), VAT (currently 18 percent) and other taxes and duties, amounting to a total of US$97
million. Costs of technical assistance, study travel abroad, computers and equipment are based on
experience under the ongoing project or consultations with manufacturers.
3.11    In view of domestic inflation, price contingencies are based on cost estimates expressed in
US dollars, and use the latest estimates of the Index of Unit Value of Manufactured Exports (MUV),
averaged at 2.4 per cent per annum over the life of the project. Physical contingencies for civil
works are assumed at 20% but for other items are not separately identified, and the amounts shown
for each item are regarded as budgets not to be exceeded, however engineers' estimates include
varying assumptions on quantities built in, depending on the terrain and degree of difficulty.
E. Project Financing
3.12    The proposed IBRD loan of US$150 million would finance about 27 percent of total project
cost. The Borrower will be Romania, with onlending to NAR.  The European Investment Bank
(EIB) and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) will be financing about
$87.5 million and $85.9 million equivalent, respectively. The remaining $214 million including all
taxes and duties, will be financed by Government. A fourth source of finance for this project is
expected to be the European Commission's PHARE Fund (EU-PHARE) which would finance most of
the road safety and institutional development components with grant financing of about US$16
million, and may as the program develops, finance up to 30 percent of Government's contribution to
the road rehabilitation component, up to a maximum of about US$60 million. Any amount in this
later category would be as a substitution for GOR funds, and therefore would not increase any totals
shown in the cost table. PHARE has its own procedures based on annual programs and funds are
unlikely to be available until late 1997. During Negotiations. the fiscal viability of the proposed level
of Government contributions was reconfirmed. Government also confirmed that it would meet all
local costs including cost overruns and any shortfall in foreign exchange (para. 5.1 (e)).



- 17 -
3.13    A financing plan has been developed and is shown below:
FINANCING PLAN
(in million US$)
Organization        Foreign        Local          Total
IBRD                    145            5           150
EBRD                     82            4            86
EIB                      84            3            87
EU-PHARE                 15            1            16
GOR                      0           214           214
TOTAL                  326           227           553
F. Implementation and Monitoring
3.14     Overall direction of the project will be handled by the existing project management unit
(PMU) now consisting of senior officers of NAR, SNCFR and RAR, without the SNCFR members to
which will be added the Director, ICRS. ICRS has five commissions staffed by members of
participating agencies, industry and research institutes, the chairmen of which in committee, will
function as a sub-PMU for the safety component. Terms of Reference for the PMU are given in
Annex 1. During Negotiations Government confirmed that the PMU will be maintained and suitably
staffed throughout the life of the project (para. 5.1 (f\). At the detailed level, the project will be
implemented by project implementation units PIU's with sub-PIU's in each implementing agency.
Overall control of accounting and disbursements will be handled by the PIU established in NAR for
the ongoing project, which is efficient and experienced. SICRS and RAR will handle procurement
related to the "improvement of technical vehicle standards" component. The roads component
including black spots will be managed by NAR, who will also give advice to other agencies on
procurement. The traffic safety component will be coordinated by the secretariat of the ICRS
(SICRS) which will function as a PIU. Limited technical assistance will be provided to the PIU's in
their first year of operation, financed by EU-PHARE (see below). TOR's for this assistance are also
given in Annex 1. As the other donors are ahead of the Bank in their loan processing and as
prequalification is already underway and designs are ready, it is proposed to provide for retroactive
financing and advance contractin2 up to $15 million, with effect from November 30. 1996. A set of
monitoring indicators has been developed (Annex 4) and progress reports will list these indicators and
show their status. NAR's PIU will continue to provide quarterly progress reports using the format
developed for the ongoing project, which is satisfactory. Other agencies will be responsible for
providing information on their components to NAR's PIU.



- 18 -
G. Procurement
3.15     Procurement arrangements for the Bank-financed elements of the project are detailed in the
Procurement Schedule (Annex 2), and Table 3.5 and the Project Implementation Plan (Annex 6). All
procurement financed by the proposed loan will follow the appropriate Bank Guidelines for goods,
works and consultants. Prequalification is using a document based on EBRD's standard document
which is essentially identical to the Bank's but with IBRD's eligibility criteria. Both EBRD and IBRD
will use a document for works based on SBDW of January 1995, thus reducing the preparation work
for the PIU. Prior review levels are shown in Annex 2. During Negotiations. agreement was
reached on the procurement procedures (para. 5.1 (g)). A Country Procurement Assessment report
has not yet been prepared for Romania, but all procurement will be based on IBRD standard bidding
documents.
H. Disbursements
3.16     The proposed Bank loan would be disbursed as follows:
Category   Description                 Amount ($m)  % of expenditures financed
I         Road and Bridge Works                 125  100% of foreign expenditures and
60% of local expenditures
2         Equipment                              13  100% of foreign expenditures,
100% of local expenditures (ex
factory cost), and 80% of local
expenditures for other items
l_________________________                 procured   locally
3         Consultant Services                     4  100%
4         Unallocated                             8
ILTOTAL                                          150
3.17     A schedule of disbursements is given in Table 3.6 which is based on the appropriate
historical profile giving a 6.5 year disbursement period. This is longer than for the ongoing project
because of Government's wish to spread its contribution over a longer period. As disbursement
performance has been good under the ongoing loan, disbursements may go faster. Disbursements
would be made against Statement of Expenditure (SOEs) for contracts less than (a) $4 million
equivalent for road works; (b) $500,000 equivalent for bridge works; (c) $100,000 for consulting
firms; and (d) $50,000 for individual consultants. For all contracts above these limits full
documentation would be required. To facilitate disbursements, a Special Account will be established
at a bank in Romania that is acceptable to IBRD. The Account will be managed by the National
Administration of Roads' (NAR's) PIU. The authorized allocation for the Account will be $8.5
million, equivalent to about four months of expenditures under the loan. The initial deposit will be
limited to $1.7 million and the remaining portions of the allocations will be disbursed when the



- 19 -
project has built up sufficient turnover to justify drawing on the full amount, defined as when the total
of withdrawals for the Loan Account plus the value of any Special Commitments made against the
loan are equivalent to $25 million. Application for replenishment of the Special Account would be
submitted on a monthly basis or when one half of the amount deposited had been withdrawn
whichever occurred earlier, and must include reconciled bank statements as well as other appropriate
supporting documents. All other applications for direct payment, special commitment or
reimbursement should be for amounts not less than 10% of the initial deposit of the authorized
allocations to the Special Accounts or not less than 10% of the full authorized allocations once
available. Submissions of replenishment applications take precedence over the minimum size
application. The project is expected to be completed by March 31, 2003, and the loan closing date
would be September 30, 2003.
1. Project Supervision
3.18     NAR and RAR are successfully implementing their parts of the ongoing project, so two
missions a year plus ongoing support from the Resident Mission will be sufficient to supervise the
components assigned to them. The traffic safety component with its dependence on collaboration
between agencies not so far used to working together, will require three missions a year, the third by
the traffic safety specialist until it is running smoothly. Procurement documents and
withdrawal/replenishment applications will be reviewed by the assigned project officer in the resident
mission before being forwarded to Headquarters, reducing the amount of work required on
supervision. Until the end of 1998, missions will be combined with missions for the ongoing project.
For the safety component, missions will consist of the traffic safety engineer and the task manager,
and for highway missions, the task manager and the transport economist. Two missions by ECi's
environment specialist will be required. Mission frequency and duration are expected to reduce in the
outer years. In sum, supervision of the proposed project would require about 100 staff weeks in
FY97 to FY 2003.
J. Environmental Impact
3.19         The project has been classified as Category 'B' under the Bank's Operational
Directive 4.01 which implies that limited environmental assessment would be required. The project
involves rehabilitation and widening of existing roads only and does not include any realignment.
Since the project would be limited to the existing right of way, there are no concerns related to the
resettlement of displaced persons. The project does not affect any archaeological or historic sites.
The project will contribute towards improving traffic flow and vehicles will travel at optimum speeds
lowering the fuel consumption rate. Smoother road pavements will reduce the wear and tear of
vehicles and lower levels of metals and other micro-particles normally found in the vicinity of roads.
Improved vehicle flow and an asphalt concrete surfacing will also contribute towards lower noise
levels. The project has a comprehensive safety component that will identify and ameliorate the black
points that cause accidents.
3.20         The EA for this project was performed in two stages. In Phase I, during the
feasibility study of the project, background environmental data was collected. Also, possible minor
environmental effects in certain areas were identified which included removal of trees and the
interference with the existing surface water and ground water flows. During Phase II, detailed
mitigative plans were developed which included replanting of trees and installation of proper drainage



- 20 -
systems. To minimize environmental effects during construction, the roads will be watered to reduce
dust levels and noise and emission control measures will be used on the equipments. The EA
procedures followed in the project are consistent with Romanian regulations and Bank Operational
Directives.
K. Project Accounts and Auditing
3.21       NAR's PIU will have overall responsibility for project accounts and loan reimbursement
and withdrawal applications. Other agencies--RAR, SICRS will maintain accounts for their project
activities, and provide information to NAR. All project accounts, statements of expenditure and the
special account and sub account and NAR's financial statements, as a regies autonome, will be
audited annually, and a report of the audit will be sent to Washington by June 30 of the following
year. During Negotiations agreement was reached that (a) all documents to sunport project
expenditures would be maintained by the Borrower, and made available to the Bank for review (5.01
(h): and (b) all project accounts including the SOEs and the Special Account and NAR's financial
statements will be audited annually. by independent auditors and audit reports acceptable to the Bank
will be submitted six months after the close of the fiscal year (para 5.01 (i)).
L.  Proverty Impact
3.22     The project will not have a significant direct impact on poverty. The Bank has prepared a
Social Protection Loan that is being submitted to the Board for consideration to help address poverty
issues, which presently are a significant concern in Romania. The project, however, will have
indirect benefits for the population at large: lower transportation costs would lower the costs of basic
food staples and of energy inputs, which weigh heavily on the budgets of poor families. Traffic
safety improvements will benefit pedestrians and NMT, which include many of the poor; furthermore
this segment of the population lacks the resources for sound medical treatment following road
accidents. Finally, the reduction of lead in petrol has an important potential benefit for children, as
there is medical evidence linking exposure to lead to mental development.



- 21 -
IV. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. Framework
4.1           Rehabilitation of infrastructure after many years of inadequate maintenance, and in
face of significant traffic growth prospects, is an important economic priority. To achieve this
objective under the present budget, managerial and institutional constraints, the Bank and EBRD have
agreed to support a gradual strategy. The ultimate goal is a balanced and cost efficient transport
system, that would maximize the positive externalities of providing convenient and economic access to
transportation services to the greatest number of people, while minimizing the negative externalities
such as the number and severity of accidents and the impact on the environment. Other CAS
priorities are to raise efficiency of public sector management, reduce the state role in the economy,
open critical areas to private sector participation, promote EU accession and address environmental
issues (para. 1.18). The proposed project addresses all the above priorities as explained in more
details in Chapters 2 and 3. It builds upon the 1993 Transport Project, which is being implemented
in a satisfactory manner.
4.2           The Government has made substantial progress in adopting market-based transport
policies since the start of economic transformation in 1990, and there are no major policy distortions
that will affect the implementation of the project. Further details are in para 1.8 and 1.12 for
measures taken and policies in the transport sector in general and in Chapter 2 for more specifics on
road and road transport. Besides the rehabilitation of infrastructure, the proposed project will
continue and deepen the support to policy decisions in the areas of contracting out civil works
including for maintenance, working through the Road Fund to ensure a stable funding basis for the
sector that relies on road user charges, modernizing rules and regulations in the subsector; and
improving traffic safety.
4.3           By lowering transport costs, the project benefits are expected to be widely dispersed
throughout the economy. Savings in vehicle operating costs will initially be captured by intermediate
producers such as truckers and bus operators as well as directly by consumers as car users. Because
the road transport sector is now competitive, most of the intermediate savings will be passed on to the
final consumers of goods transported, to the benefit of all income groups. Reduced transport costs
will also make exports more competitive. Also, the present value of road expenditures will be
reduced by undertaking road strengthening now and avoiding more expensive reconstruction at a later
date. Road maintenance expenditures will also decrease on rehabilitated and strengthened roads. The
road safety component of the project will reduce the cost of accidents on the economy at large. The
environmental impact of the project is expected to be minimal, since it deals with rehabilitation of
existing roads. On the positive side, reduced fuel consumption on improved roads will contribute to
lower pollution, and gradual reductions of the lead content of petrol should result in significant health
benefits.
B. Cost-Benefit Analysis
4.4           Road Rehabilitation.  The 1,000 km of roads to be rehabilitated under the project
have been selected on the basis of detailed feasibility studies of over 2,500 km of national roads to
establish priorities for this project. The main criterion used for selecting the roads for the project is
that the economic rate of return should be above 15%. Consideration was also given to the strategic
importance of the roads to the development of Romania and to international trade and to the regional



- 22 -
importance to the direct vicinity of each road. In carrying out the feasibility studies, consultants
have carefully compared alternative geometric standards and maintenance policies in terms of their
costs and benefits, with the use of the Bank's Highway Design Model (HDM-III). Feasibility Study
reports are in the Project File. All costs and benefits were evaluated in constant 1996 prices and have
been expressed in US$. Financial costs and prices have been converted into economic prices, net of
taxes and duties, but no shadow pricing has been utilized. At present, the exchange rate is freely
determined in the market. Since there is unemployment, and this is likely to continue during the
period of project implementation, had labor costs been shadow priced it is likely that economic
benefits would have been estimated to be higher.
4.5           Rehabilitation costs were estimated in function of the condition of the various roads,
determined on the basis of deflection data and existing pavement investigations carried out by
Romanian consultants for NAR in 1992-94 and of automated road analyzer (ARAN) surveys carried
out in late 1995. The ARAN surveys measure the International Roughness Index (IRI), and an array
of road conditions such as rut depth and distress situations (cracking, rutting, ravelling, potholes, etc).
For the purpose of the economic analysis, the roads analyzed where divided into links and sections of
homogeneous traffic levels and engineering characteristics. Work quantities were determined in
relation to the conditions listed above, traffic safety considerations and compliance with European
standards, especially for the width of shoulders. Regarding the latter, however, costs have been
minimized in areas where the widening would be very expensive due to utilities relocation and land
acquisition. Unit prices were based on those obtained on recent contracts being executed under the
Transport Project.
4.6           The main benefits of the projects are measured in terms of vehicle operating cost
savings. The variables affecting these are: the level and rate of growth of traffic by vehicle type and
the road conditions with and without the project. Present traffic level on the various road sections
was established by the detailed traffic counts and surveys done in 1995 by CESTRIN. Recent traffic
trends indicate a growth rate of 7% p.a. in the last few years. Typically, in countries at the level of
development of Romania, traffic growth exceed substantially the increase in GDP. Furthermore, in
Eastern Europe there is a motorization back-log which is likely to feed further traffic growth. The
Bank's forecast for Romania's GDP growth is to increase gradually, to about 2% in 1998, 3% in
1999, and 4.5% from 2001 onwards. For the project analysis, a conservative traffic growth rate of
5%, has been assumed up to the year 2000, falling to 4.5% between 2000 and 2005 and to 4.0% up
to 2015.
4.7           For calculating vehicle operating costs, the traffic has been divided into six categories
of vehicles representative of the Romanian vehicle fleet. The representative types have been derived
from a weighted average of different models considering the present composition of the fleet and its
probable future evolution. The basic characteristics of the representative types were developed from
information on vehicle operation and prices from transport operators. They were then used in the
HDM model to determine vehicle operating costs with and without the project, on the basis of road
conditions measured in the ARAN surveys mentioned above. Time savings were valued at the
predominant wage rates for drivers and working trips. Travel time savings for non-working and
leisure trips have been excluded from the analysis.
4.8           Based on the above assumptions for costs and benefits, the economic rates of return
(ERR) calculated over a 20 year period range from 39% to over 62% for roads to be rehabilitated
under the project. The weighted average ERR for the road rehabilitation component is 48%.



- 23 -
4.9          Traffic Safety. The World Bank's Highway Design Model HDM-III does not
evaluate the benefits related to traffic safety improvement. The implementation of the traffic safety
component will however substantially reduce the number of accidents by eliminating a large number
of traffic accident black spots, by improving driver's training, by increasing and diversifying law
enforcement, by improving traffic safety education and information etc. These activities will
accumulate substantial annual economic benefits as shown in para 4.10. Additional benefits are
anticipated to be generated from implementation of the long term Traffic Safety Plan 2000-2009,
which will be launched in 1999 as a major output of the twinning arrangement included in the project.
The civil works scheduled to be executed as part of the black spot elimination program and the two
pilot projects are calculated to reduce the annual amount of fatal accidents in the black spot locations
by a minimum of 40 (2 accidents/location/year) and subsequently, based on the present ratio of
fatalities/injuries in Romania, reduce the annual amount of injuries by more than 120. The program is
also expected to reduce the annual amount of accidents resulting in mere damage to property by at
least 50% in the black spot locations. This reduces the annual amount of such accidents by some 800.
The broad approach, which characterizes the traffic safety program, will also substantially improve
the adverse ratio of fatalities/injuries (1:2.7) and bring it closer to western European averages
(< 1:10). The target of the traffic safety plan will be to reduce the annual amount of serious accidents
causing fatalities or injuries by 40% and the annual amount of accidents causing damage to property
by at least 30% by 2009. It is expected that, if no action on safety is taken, due to growing
motorization the number of injuries would rise by at least 12% a year.
4.10         The estimation of the annual economic burden to the society due to road traffic
accidents has been made based on current accident pricing in western Europe and has been adjusted
using the ratio of GDP/capita of Romania compared to that of western Europe. The following pricing
has been used
one fatality         $ 130 000
one injury           $  13 000
one light accident   $   1 000
Trhe outcome of the implementation of the 10-year Traffic Safety Plan (TSP 2000-2009) will be a
gradual reduction of the annual economic losses to the society caused by road traffic accidents. The
annual benefits are estimated to accumulate as follows:
1999 - 1.0 % of the total economic losses in 1995         $  5 million
2000 - 2.0 %          "                "                  $ 10
2001 - 4.0 %          "                "                  $ 20
A sound and stable financing for the Traffic Safety Plan 2000 - 2009 will continue to increase the
annual savings in accident costs by an additional $ 20 million/year until all activities included in the
plan have been implemented and the amount of accidents reduced by approximately 40% compared
to the situation in 1995. This target corresponds very well with long term targets being set in many
western European countries today (ref. Norway. Sweden and Finland all renowned for excellent
traffic safety achievements).
The black spot elimination program is expected to lower the amount of accident rates in black spot
locations to standard level. The annual accident costs in present black spot locations will reduce as a
consequence of the execution of the civil works program as follows:



- 24 -
1999 - 25% of total impact of the program    = $ 1.4 million
2000- 80%                                   $ 4.5
2001-100%        "                        =$ 5.6
4.11         The total costs of the proposed traffic safety activities amount to $ 24 million. The
Bank loan would finance $8.6 million and the EU-Phare program cofinancing is expected to be $11.0
million. The implementation of the proposed $24 million Traffic Safety Program would yield an
economic rate of return (ERR) of about 96%. The ERR for the civil works component of the program
only, which is the main part ($13.6 million) supported by the proposed Bank loan would be about
40%.
C. Sensitivity and Risk
4.12         There are few risks which would affect the economic rates of return of the project.
For the road rehabilitation component, the main one would be that traffic growth would be less than
expected and benefits would thus be lower than estimated. If unanticipated construction difficulties
and or delays are encountered, construction costs could be higher than expected. Sensitivity of the
ERR to these two risks and to increase maintenance costs was analyzed by reducing traffic and
therefore vehicle operating cost savings by 20% and increasing costs by 20%. The effect of either on
the ERRs is less than 20% and ERRs would still range from 32 to over 53% (see Annex 7). For the
road safety component, the risk is that the reduction of accidents will be less than expected, but the
savings of even minor reduction in accidents are so large in comparison to the level of investment that
the ERR will remain high under any scenario short of major institutional failings.
4.13         The more significant risks are of a broader institutional nature:
a)    insufficient counterpart funds. The risk has now been reduced since the Road
Fund Law has been approved as it will provide NAR with funds to
complement budget allocation. In addition the Government has undertaken
that the project will be given priority over any other investments to be
undertaken by NAR, however a residual risk does remain given Romania's
fiscal difficulties, and in anticipation of potential problems, annual
consultations on budget allocations and a mid-term review are provided under
the project;
b)    strained implementation capacity in the earlier stages of the project, while the
Transport Project is still under implementation. To reduce this risk, technical
assistance to the PMU is provided in the project;
c)    delays in implementing the agreed strategy on commercialization of periodic
maintenance operations. NAR has already started the process in 3 of its 7
regions and there is specific assistance in the project to deepen and extend the
process; and
d)    implementation of the traffic safety component is dispersed among many
different agencies not used to working together and coordination may be
difficult. The project envisages twinning of the road safety group with an
experienced partner.
With the arrangements and assurances provided under the project, risks are considered acceptable.



- 25 -
V. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
5.1           During loan negotiations agreements were confirmed on the following:
(a)   to hold annual consultations by November 30 of each year on the Borrower's
proposed budget and expenditures program for its national roads network
during the following fiscal year and confirmation that any investments in its
national roads network estimated to cost US$6,000,000 equivalent or more
shall be carried out only if determined to be economically viable in
accordance with criteria agreed with the Bank (para. 2.13);
(b)   to collect data on axle loads for 12 consecutive months beginning not later
than September 30, 1997 and presenting for the Bank's review a report on its
analysis, and recommendations for a system of axle load monitoring and
control by December 31, 1998 (para 2.16);
(c)   that by December 31, 1997 it would submit (through the ICRS) to the Bank a
Lead Reduction Action Plan, satisfactory to the Bank and carry out the said
Action Plan in accordance with its terms (para 2.22);
(d)   to: 1) maintain at all times until the completion of the Project, the ICRS and
SICRS with a sufficient number of qualified staff and adequate facilities, as
satisfactory to the Bank; 2) (a) to carry out the TSP with due diligence and
efficiency; (b) to review with the Bank, by June 30 of each year, the progress
achieved in the carrying out of such a program; and (c) within four months of
each such review, update the program and, thereafter, implement all measures
required to ensure the efficient carrying out thereof during the period after
such review, taking into consideration the Bank's comments on the matter;
and 3) (i) by December 31, 1999, submit (through the ICRS) to the Bank, for
its review, a draft National Traffic Safety Action Plan; (ii) immediately
thereafter finalize said Action Plan taking into consideration the Bank's
comments on such a draft; and (iii) carry out said Action Plan in accordance
with its terms (para. 3.5);
(e)   to meet all local costs including cost overruns and any shortfall in foreign
exchange (para. 3.12);
(f)   that the PMU will be maintained, suitably staffed, throughout the life of the
project (para. 3.14);
(g)   the procurement procedures (para. 3.15);
(h)   the documentation supporting project expenditures would be maintained by the
Borrower, and made available to the Bank for review (para. 3.21); and
(i)   that all project accounts including the SOEs and the Special Account and
NAR's financial statements will be audited annually, by independent auditors
and audit reports acceptable to the Bank will be submitted six months after
the close of the fiscal year (para. 3.21).



- 26 -
5.2      The following are conditions of loan effectiveness:
(a) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower and
NAR; and
(b) that all the effectiveness conditions of the EBRD and EIB loan (other than those
related to the effectiveness of the Bank Loan) have been met.
5.3      With the above assurances and conditions, the project is suitable for a Bank Loan of
US$150 million to Romania for a period of 20 years, including five years of grace, at the Bank's
standard interest rate for LIBOR-based US dollar single currency loans.



- 27 -                                                  Table 1.1
ROMANI A
SECOND ROADS PR. ).Jb('T
Freight Traffic by Mode ol Transport
R   0    A         1)
PUBLIC         olwv                       RIVER  PIPELINES  TOTAL
RAILWAY  TRANSPORT    AIC('(OAf 7 StB-T107 IL
In billion ton-kim
1960                 19.8                         I             2 1     (.9          1.0     23.8
1965                31.0             2              -     i     5.8     1.2          1.1      39.1
1970                48.1)                                      12.9     1.3          1.8     64.0
1975                64.8            ') 3                        9.6     2.1          2.8      89.3
1980                75 5             1.8         :1            277      2.4          5.2    110.8
1985                74.2             7i  1____                 7.9      2.4          4.8    109.3
1989                X1.. I                        I '          40)      3.7          6.7    121.5
1990                573              i            ;)()    2.1                        5.1      93.5
1991                37.8             I.)         r.           .0.5      2.0          3.2      63.5
1992                28.2             3           I ! '3                 1.9          2.6      48.0
1993                25.1             2 8l        1 I            4.6     1.6          2.5      43.8
1994                24.7      i       .0            ,            .!     1.6          2.8      35.1
1995                27.2             64)            , ..i               2.6
Modal       1960        83nn            4%6;"                      )'      4/n         4%  100.00%/C
Distrib.    1989       67%              5";         2' !)    3 %                        5%  100.00%/c
1993       57% )            6           2 " -  '               40%o         6%  100.00%
II in illi o I tO  Is
1960                77.6            56 7        !(17 -        161.4     1.9          5.6    249.5
1965               114.4           I i(6l      271 i          10I    2.9            7.5    526.9
1970               171.3           2 39) SMI)                 4  8      3.4         11.3   1019.8
1975               228.3           4I 85        MK           128 I      4.1         14.5   1527.4
1980               274.6           4 1 3       I," 335       178o 5    12.3         22.5   2095.9
1985       -       283 4           3_2.2       I              1_ (21  2    189.4    21.3   2510.3
1989               306.3           3S23          3j           24!16    37.4         3(0.6   2790.3
1990               218.8           2).I 8      1732 e        I'93-; 4    12.0       23.5  21887.7
1991               146.3           11H, I          I:-       ()S( 3     8.2         16.1   1159.9
1992               111.4            65) 1       04'          7C-        6 6.2       14.8    839.8
1993                99.0            453         52('         574 5      7.1         13.4    694.0
1994                99.2           i  0           11.                   8 0         16.0
1995               105.11          1 59.(6    _i al                       3 _     _      __ 11 31
A      v e r a g e    i s t 'i n c c i n kim
1960                 255             )6j          II I                474           179
1965                 271,                          1            I4    414           147
1970                 2X80 |1                              1            382           159
1975                 284              22           Ii            V     512           193
1980                 275              260          12            I      195S        231
1985                 262               1           1 11          I      13(0        225
1989                 265              15           13-           I      99          219
1990                 262              ')k         1-'1          1           175     217
1991                 258              3 9    1                  2S    1    243       199
1992                 253              55           Ij           2      306           161
1993                 253             62 122                     2>    225            186
1994                 242              2                                2(0           175
1995J.___
-Ajy\romV             -     o                          _s_s.-_, ,_
in jy(romVroads21sartab1 x s



- 28 -
Table 1.2
R O M A N I A
SECOND ROADS PROJECT
Pssenger Traffic by Mode of Transport
| ~R                  O A    D |' 004-.. ';-
RAILWAY                                                           ''i   t- ,.T,   .
PUBLIC BUS            OTHERS        SUB-TOTAL
In  billion  passenger km )
1960                                          10.7               1.4              2.3               3.7  ..          44
1965                                          13.5              3.6               5.7               9.3
1970                                          17.8              7.9              12.5              20.4              382
1975                                         22.4              18.9              30.1              49.0        '     714
1980                                         23.2              24.0              37.9              61.9              854.
1985                                         31.1              21.7              31.0              52.7             13.8
1989                                         35.5              23.1              26.3              49.4              84.9
1990                                         30.6              24.0              21.1              45.1              75.7
1991                                         25.4              20.6                  -                   -           -
1992                                         24.3              25.3              16.4              41.7              66.0
1993                                          19.4             19.8              13.7              33.6              53.0
1994                                          18.3             25.0               n.a.              n.a  i
1995                                          18.9             22.4                n.a              nMa  .n,
Mod. dist. %     1960                         74%               10%               16%              26%              100%
1989                        42%               27%               31%               58%             10%
1993                        40%               32%               28%               60%             100%
_______________        (  In   Million   Passengers                               _ _ _ _ _ _ _
1960                                          215                72               188               260              475
1965                                          262               170               474               644              907
1970                                          328               359              1043              1402             1730
1975                                          367               815              2469              3284             3651
1980                                          348              1034              3035              4069             4417
1985                                          460               837              3722              4559             5019.
1989                                          481               879              3153              4032             4513
1990                                          468               781              2531              3312             3780
1991                                          363               760                  -                 -
1992                                          324               678              1808              2486             2810
1993                                          226               506              1463              1969             2195
1994                                          207              1543
1995                                          211              1406
( Average   Distance   In   Km
1960                                           50                20                12                14             30.0
1965                                           51                21                12                14             25.0
1970                                           54                22                12                15             22.0
1975                                           61                23                12                15             20.0
1980                                           67                23                12                15              19.0
1985                                           68                26                 8                12              17.0
1989                                           74                26                 8                12              19.0
1990                                           65                31                 8                14             20.0
1991                                           70                27                 -                  -
1992                                           75                37                 9                16              23.0
1993                                           86                39                 9                17             24.0
1994                                           89                16                n.a               n.a             n.a.
ource: NRA
m:y       y2% .p



ROMANIA
SECOND ROADS PROJECT
Transport Sector Investment
(In Lei Million)
1976-1980     1981-1985      1986-1990     1991  19921  1993    1994    1995        1996*
Total  %    Total    %     Total    %                   .      .
Railways                 31'108  35.7  33'417   27.5  28'440  26.5   360   877  11'649   20739   78'620       59'541
Highways                  7455   8.5   4'867    4.0   4'842   4.5   918 1'882  10'508   35'642   93'900    102'160
Road Motor Vehicles       18'014  20.7   9'980    8.2   4753   4.4       -     -       -       -        -          -
Rivers & Canals           11'289  12.9  15'515   12.8  21'302  19.9  1'214 3'678   9'068   24787   30'614     39'394
Maritime                  15'965  18.3  47'670   39.2  35'954  33.5      -
Aviation                   1'826   2.1   2'379     2    3'265     3   135   827   6'104   17'875   26'250    101'453 M
Pipelines                  1571   1.8        -   -      -       -        -     -       -       -        -          -
Subway (Metro)                           7'827    6.4   8756   8.2   943 1'914  19'948   32'920   35'332      30'000
Total in Lei (m)          87'228   100 121'655   100 107'312   100  3'570 9'178  57'277  131'963  264716    332'548
Transport as share of public
investments (%)                           10.9           10.6
Exchange rate in US$                          I                             308    760    1'660    2'070       3'200
US$ million equivalent                                  6'830  =      59.0  29.8   75.4    79.5   127.9        103.9
* Estimated
M:\CJL\ROM\SAR\TAB1 3.XLS



Romania
Second Roads Project
Road User Charges
Fuel Tax Revenues
Fuel Prices as of January 1, 1997                                                    Fuel Prices as of July 2, 1996
(Estimated Yield of Road Fund)                                                          (without Road Fund)
Premium  I Regular I Normal I Unleaded          Diesel                               Premium    Regular    Normal   Unleaded          Diesel
Prices in Lei/ton                          Before July 2, 1996       618840     576711      509931      625863      392910
Ex refinery          1298700    1192400    1055400    1327200        914600       Ex refinery               794326     722643      639631      804381      509446
Excise                194805      178860      158310      179172      54876       Excise                    119149      108396      95945      108591       30567
Road fund             324675      298100      263850     331800      228650       Fuel tax                   39716      36132       31982       40219       25472
Retail Margin         175000      175000      175000      175000     175000       Retail Margin             136400      136400     136400      136400      136400
VAT                   358772      331985      297461     362371      247163       VAT                       196'o6      180643     162712      196126      126339
Retail Price /ton                                                                 Retail Price /ton
ill l ei           2351952    2176345    i950021    2375543        1620289       in Lei                  1285718    1184214q   1066669    1285718        828224
___   ._            -I _ .I._                                                                               - _ __
_n US5               783.98      725.45      650.01     791.85      540.10       in US$                    428.57;     394.74     355.56      428.570     276.07 
Retail Price /liter                                                               Retail Price /liter
in Lei                 1811        1654        1463       1829        1329        in Lei                      990        900         800         990         679
in US$                 0.45        0.41        0.37       0.46        0.33        in US$                     0.33        0.30       0.27        0.33        0.23
RATES %                                                                           RATES %
Excise                  0.15        0.15        0.15       0.135        0.06      Excise                      0.15        0.15        0.15      0.135        0.06
Road fund               0.25        0.25        0.25        0.25        0.25      Fuel tax                    0.05        0.05        0.05       0.05        0.05
VAT                     0.18        0.18        0.18        0.18       0.18       VAT                         0.18        0.18        0.18       0.18        0.18
g/cc                    0.77        0.76        0.75        0.77        0.82      g/cc                        0.77        0.76        0.75       0.77        0.82
Lei/US$                 4000        4000        4000       4000        4000       Lei/US$                     3000        3000       3000        3000        3000
m:\cj\rom\sar\ruc.xls(table 2.1)



- 3 1-                                                      Table 2.2
ROAD SECTOR  REVENUES AND EXPENDITURES. 1994 - 2003                                                                          II-.le1461
BASE CASE (Road Fund xtarts 1997; 25% fuel tax; 1 0% car purchase tax: 3% economic growwth; lIl/Stata funds-60%I40%
M=S etUDe.. TMa vaieeel
1994     1995     1396      1991     19981    1999    2000    2001    2002        20031
Actual   Actual   Buoget  Proiectld ProjectJd Projectid Proje.ctd Ptojectjd Prajectld Proiactid
Aam t.c e.:u.q* ve cl RCL'JSD              1650    2300      3000
REVENUES
Own Re-enue.
Soecial Fuel Tax                           16,      24        27
Road Fund Fel T.                            0        0         0       126.    130       IN4      138     ?4Z      146       15?
Road Fund Car Purchaso Tax                  0,:      0         0       .25       261      26       27  ~28          2         30
Bridge Tolls & Crossing Taxes              47       42        3.4      35        361      37       38      38.      41. -     42
OthearRevenues                             it:       A         a        a         of       a        a       0        a         a
Subtotal fat Own Revenues                      74       70 .-     61      186.   192         197     20       ZiaO   .21I       22
Net Tall Revenue. for Pit..a                    a                  Q         0       .0       0        a       *r       .1 
lntemar,ort.l Funds
IFIlLoans: Road Rehabilffdon I            49.    .5          87       65         O        a        0       0   -
IF Loanrs: Rcad Re?abill2oonl 01                     0         0       32.       97       97       27       a        0         0
EBRD: Buchiarest-PitesdMotorway             :0       0        .0       27        27      a0       0a                   
SNP: Loan for 7bridgesrer~oilaof1           03::     0         2         3        1        0        0       0r       a         0
PNARE (ECU 21m)                             0        5        12         9        0        0       0        0        0      -0
Subtotal for Intermetionel Funds               48...   60        101      136      125        ST     92       a0        0         a
LocalCommercial Loans                           0:;-7O: la  . - 44          0        0 0               0   1    .      ...:     .0~
State budget fund. 
C0"MbUV01ni, inO .sm.r                    .39:      28        is        0         0        0       a        a        a        a
Conrnfburion for debr s.rvice               2        6        19       26        45               so 6     74       as       ea
Contnbuion for maintanance                 71t      :54       61        16       .7        2,       0      56S      4t        44
Counterpart funcds for IrFi Rehab, I       2'        23-      48,      34         0      a-Q        0                01        a
Counteroarn funds for IF! Refrab. II                    .      0       21.       e   65       65  a6O5
Counterpart fundis for Sucharest-Pilazzi Moto 0       0        0       25        25        0 
Sui.,otaxl state budget funds                                    I". 1   .    4  123  142    i       131      130.     130      130i
Total Road Sector Revenues              1     2621    2511      360       443      46S       4.1S    4311    340cI    3alz1
EXPENDITURE
Maintenance
Routine Maintenance                       -30::     30 .  .- 30        30        30      -33      S1..    6S       .1        55
Penodlic Maintenan-e                      80::   au          so       so        aD      .85      85   .s 16       12        6
Eou:oment                     17        1 ~~~~           ~~~      ~~~       ~~~~~~~~ 13  20  20  20  20  20  20  20
Subtotal Maintenance Expenditurea             127:   .117,       123      130      130       140.    186      205     227       238
Rahabilixation 
Rehabilitbaln IExpenditures                16               - 14      108         aj0              0                   
Renhab itation!It Exoenditures              0                  0       5        1621     162    1162        a   M..           II
Subtotal Rehabilitation Expendiurwe            76   -   8        14".5    162      162j      162     lI                  0.       6
Non-moxtorway Inveanimnta
OIlier invesonerw                          26       18.       11       30        301      30      30        m      '30       30
Subtotal non-motorway inveetynnt.              26       .18       1`1      30       30       30       30      30      -30        30
Debt Service,
Debt Service for iFrs Roadis Raltabirraon I  .2      6.       19       24        36       38      3?       36       33       32
Debt Service forlIFlasRoacs R.habb,kIal,':.O.        0         0        .1       .6       13      20       31'   :48  -      47
Oebt Srviceefor BNP Loan (T bridges)        Cu- 0_.                     2         2       -                               
DebtSeic.tfoLacalLoana(Ouclt.-CoNstI     - Q.        3        21       4         38       28     `IS       `01       0  - 
Debt service for 8ucuresti-Piete.i          0        a0        0        1         31       4       9        a        a 
Subtotal debt s.rvic.                           21       Sf      *40f      111      6Sf      841      63j     1Sf      18        86a
Total Non-motorway Expenditures               2311    2271      3191    3931       4011     41        3       t       348      35
MOTORWAY PROGRAMMEI
Fond. potentially e.ail.bl* lRtav.-EaP.I       311      241      311       521      521       GI       01     -0       0o         0
IS Road Sector Revenues                    12%  ..10%        .9%       12%      11%       0%       0%      ay. .   0%      Q.
Motor-Y Propoasles
8ucn*,est-Pit*sti 1US$ 103 mn)              0                  a       52        521       0       0        0        el       a 
Diner Motor-ays                            31       24        31        0         o   0        0       0        0        0   (
Sub-total Moiorwveye                           31       24        31       52       621       0        a                a    - 0 
Fundling Gap                                    a        0         0        0        a        a        0                a         GI



- 32 -
Table 3.1
ROMANIA
SECOND ROADS PROJECT
World Bank Financed Road Sections
CONTRACT #    NUMBER  ROAD SECTION NAME                                LENGTH KM ERR %
201, 202             DN6           Bucharest - Ale.-andria                       78.0    38
203, 204             DN2/E85       Urziceni-Buzau-Rimnicu Sarat                  88.4    51
205, 206, 207, 208    DN65/E70    Craiova - Slatina - Pitesti - Motorway        115.6    44
209,                 DN1/E60       Campina - Comarnic                           22.2    38
TOTAL                                       304.2
m:\cjl\rom\sar\tab3 .xis



Romania
Second Roads Project
NAR's Equipment Fleet by Type and Age (As of December 1995)
(includes equipment supplied under Transport Project)
Age      1-5 years        6-10 years        11-15 years      Over 15 years  Total
No.                   Equipment Type              Number    %        Number   %        Number    %       Number    %
I        Trucks                                       160       31      210       40      112       22        36        7      518
2        Fuel Tankers                                  11       26        6        14        6       14       20       46       43
3        Bitumen Storage Tanks                         I 1      12        7        8       28        32       42       48       88
4        Motor Graders                                 12       11       42       41        19       18       32       30      105
5        Front Loaders (< 2 m  bucket)                 27       36        6         8      32        42       11       14       76
6        Bitumen Distributors                          12       19       31       49        12       19        8       13       63
7        Snow Blower                                   19       12       22        14       32       21       80       53      153
8        Bulldozer                                      6       43        3       21         4       29        1        7       14
9        Excavator                                      0        0        6        17       12       34       17       49       35
10       Asphalt Plant                                  12       10        9        8       40       33       59       49      120
11       Road Marking Machine                          16       76         4       19        1        5        0        0       21
12       Asphalt Flnisher                              14        12        6        5       51       43       48       40       119
13       Compacting Rollers                            48        15       30        9       73       22      180       54      331
14       Tractors                                      86        15      136       24      131       23      213       38      566
15       Multipurspose Vehicles for Road               54       100        0        0        0        0        0        0       54
Maintenance, with attachments
16       Multipurpose Backhoe Loaders                  24      100         0        0        0        0        0        0       24
for Road Maintenance, with attachments
TOTAL                                        512               518               553    _          747    =          2330
:\qI\rom\sar\tab32.xIs



- 34 -
Table 3.3
ROMANIA
SECOND ROADS PROJECT
List of Equipment to be Procured under the Project**
No.                      Item                      No. Units
1  Multipurpose Road Maintenance                         42
Vehicle (including attachments)
2  Double drum Vibrating Compactor 1-1.5 tonne           42
IBRD Routine   3  Bridge Maintenance Equipment Set                      42
Maintenance
4  Bitumen Emulsion Spreader                             42
5 Road Marking Materials
6  Laboratory Equipment
EBRD Routine   7  Multipurpose Road Maintenance Vehicle                  42
Maintenance       (including attachments)
8  Bridge Inspection Unit                                 1
9  Asphalt plant 80-100 t/h                               5
10 Asphalt paver-finisher                                10
EBRD Periodic  11  Bitumen Emulsion Spreading Machine                    40
Maintenance   12  Doubledrum Vibrating Compactor 4-5 t.                 15
13  Bitumen Spreading Machine 10-15 t.                    5
14 Tipping Truck 25 t.
* Without taxes
** Other items may be purchased by direct contracting through current or recent contracts
m:\cjl\rom\sar\tab33.x1s



Romania: Proposed Second Roads Project
COST ESTIMATES (US$ thousand equivalent; including taxes, duties & contingencies)
TOTAL        IBRD       IBRD        EBRD         EIB       PHARE    GOR           FOREIGN        LOCAL
PROJECT COMPONENT                                     COST a!      COST           %       COST        COST       COST b/   COST c/          COST          COST
I   TRAFFIC SAFETY b/
la  Strengthening ICRS                                         120          0           0          0          0           120          0            84           36
lb  Education and driver training                             200           0           0          0          0           200          0           140           60
Ic  Traffic Law Enforcement                                  4,000          0           0          0          0         4,000          0          2,800        1,200
Id  Black spot treatment                                     8,500       5,610         66          0          0             0       2,890         5,610        2,890
le  DN Traffic Safety Pilot                                  3,500       2,310         66          0          0           100       1.090         2,310        1,190
If  Linear Village Traffic Safety Pilot                      1,100        720          66          0          0             0        380           726          374
Ig  Bucharest Traffic Safety Pilot                           1,100          0           0                               1,100          0           726          374
lh  Vehicle Homologation Equipment (RAR)                     3,880          0           0          0          0         3,830         50          2,716        1,164
li  Traffic Safety Services (Twinning Arrangement)           1,700          0           0          0          0         1,700          0          1,615          85
sub total                                         24,100       8,640         33          0           0       11,050       4,410        16,727        7,373
2   ROAD REHABILITATION
2a   State roads                                           445,350     104,060         66      65,160     85,500            0    190,630        244,943      200,408      1
2b   Bridge Programme                                       26,100      17,000         66           0          0            0       9,100        19,575        6,525      U
2c   Supervision                                            12,170       4,800        100       3,530      2,000            0       1,840        11,562          609
2d   Road and bridge design                                  1,500       1,500        100           0          0            0                     1,425           75
sub total                                          485.120     127,360         67      68,690     87,500            0    201,570        277,504      207,616
3   EQUIPMENT & MATERIALS
3a  Equipment & materials for routine mamt. of roads,       24,820      14,000         70       6,730          0            0       4,090        17,374        7,446
bridges, for CESTRIN; for item 4a, for road signs;
3b  Equipment for Periodic maintenance                      14,220          0          70      10,480                       0       3,740         9,954        4,266
subtotal                                             39,040      14,000                 17,210          0            0       7,830        27.328       11,712
4   INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
4a  TA for proj mng't                                          400           0          0           0          0          400           0           380           20
4b  Assistance to construction industry                        500           0          0           0          0          500           0           475           25
4c  Computerization of NAR                                   1,000           0          0           0          0         1,000          0           950           50
4d  CommercializationofNAR                                   1,130           0          0           0          0         1,130          0         1,074           57
4e  TA for PMS,BMS, traffic planning; legislation;            1,800          0          0           0          0         1,800          0         1,710           90      ;t
sub total                                            4,830          0          0           0          0         4,830          0         4,589          241
GRAND TOTAL                                         553,090    150,000                  85,900     87,500        15,880    213,810       326,148      226,942
a/ including price contingencies which reflect anticipated changes in local and intemational prices of 2.4% per year (USS)
b/ No taxes on PHARE financed items.
c/ includes all applicable local taxes, incl. VAT of 18%; & Customs duty of 15% on equipment.    file m:\cjlrom\sar\aprcost.xls  May 1. 1997



- 36 -
Table 3.5
SUMMARY OF PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS a/
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Project Element                                       ICB         NCB    Other b/  NBF c/    Total
1. Civil Works
Road Rehabilitation                                  157.67                           287.68   445.35
(104.06)                                   (104.06)
Bridge Rehabilitation                                             26.10                          26.10
(17.00)                        (17.00)
Black Spot Works                                                   8.50                           8.50
(5.61)                         (5.61)
Civil Works for DN Traffic Safety Pilot                            3.50                           3.50
(2.31)                         (2.31)
Civil Works for Linear Village Traffic Safety Pilot                1.10                           1.10
(0.72)                         (0.72)
2. Equipment and Goods
Equipment for Routine Maintenance                     14.00                              7.82    21.82
(12.00)                                    (12.00)
Materials                                                                       3.0               3.00
(2.0)              (2.0)
3. Technical Assistance and Consulting Services
Supervision                                                                    4.80      7.37    12.17
(4.80)             (4.80)
Road Design                                                                    1.50               1.50
(1.50)             (1.50)
4. Other Project Components (NBF)                                                       30.05    30.05
Total Project                                        171.67       39.20        9.30   332.92   553.09
(116.06)     (25.64)      (8.30)           (150.00)
a/    Costs include contingencies and taxes. Figures in parentheses are amounts to be
financed by the IBRD Loan
b/    Equipment and goods procured by international shopping and Consultancies following Consultants
Guidelines
c/    Not Bank Financed
File name: m:\cjl\rom\sar\aprcost.doc



- 37 -                                    Table 3.
Romania
Second Roads Project
Estimated Schedule of Disbursement *
Cumulative Disbursements
Bank Fiscal Year      Quarter Ending         US$ Million Equivalent
98         September 30, 1997                  1.7**
December 31, 1997                   3.0
March 31, 1998                      6.0
June 30, 1998                      11.3
99         September 30, 1998                  18.0
December 31, 1998                  25.1
March 31, 1999                     30.0
June 30, 1999                      37.5
00         September 30, 1999                  45.0
December 31, 1999                  52.5
March 31, 2000                     60.0
June 30, 2000                      67.5
01         September 30, 2000                  75.0
December 31, 2000                  82.5
March 31, 2001                     90.0
June 30. 2001                      97.5
02         September 30, 2C0 i                105.0
December 31, 2001                  112.5
March 31, 2002                     120.0
June 30, 2002                      127.5
03         September 30, 2002                 132.8
December 31, 2002                  138.8
March 31, 2003                     142.5
June 30, 2003                      146.3
04         September 30, 2003                 150.0
Loan Effectiveness estimated in first quarter FY98
Initial Deposit of US$1.7 million to a Special Account.
File name: m:\cjl\rom\sar\tab36.xls



ROMANIA SECOND ROADS PROJECT
NATIONAL ADMINISTRATION OF ROADS
MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT                GOVERNING                                   __,latm)ng Orgarniztion and        APPROVED,
NATIONAL ADMINISTRATION               couNc         J                                                               *GENERAL DIRECTOR
OF ROADS                                                                                                      eng. DANILA BUCSA
GENERAL DIRECTOR                             --wl_        vkooorn Offce (M 
STAFF     220
TA pars.  195                     DEPUITY GENERAL
Worker    25                         DIREC OR
Roads and Bridge                           F .pfm6ll  @d Con4n,Afetion Pt  neraioa Finia     TomclDprmn              oonclDprmn
Depwtlrvt  Aralays, En*ronffwnt    Progrwns Depahmeit             D~eptor
o r
.~~                                                                                                0                                     V0 
0i                                        E
tDenerecto                                                                                                                U.-)t_   tmdDSo       Slr J t   kd;     leo 
w                                                                                                               ECSfurdantZ)



ROMANIA SECOND ROADS PROJECT
NATIONAL ADMINISTRATION OF ROADS
. r REG. DIR.                  _{ SECTIONS (7) DISTRICTS (54)
t_BUCHAREST   J              WORKSHOPS (1) Asphalt Plant Units 12
EG L                          ( VR    SECTIONS (5) DISTRICTS (33)
CRAIOVA    JWORKSHOPS (1) Asphalt Plant Units (12) 
REG.DR,   A            {       SECTIONS (5) DISTRICTS (37)
TIMISOARA___~-                WORKSHOPS (1) Asphalt Plant Units (i19))
_    J    ~~REG. -DI:R.   5 _   _         SECTIONS (7) DISTRICTS (47) 
CL J                       WORKSHOPS (1) Asphalt Plant Units (18)
~SORGANIZATION )----GENERAL DIRECTOR v(  WORKSHOPS (l)) Asphalt Plant35U)nit  (17) ) 
REG.~~~ F:I:{             SECTIONS (9) DISTRICTS (S6) 
LA U\I       J_WORKSHOPS (1) ApatPatUis(1 
-RE                               SECTIONS (6) DISTRICTS (32) 
CLNiZ
3~~~CETI



- 40 -
Annex I
Page 1 of 5
Romania
Second Roads Project
Project Management Unit
Terms of Reference
The Project Management Unit (PMU) will be responsible for the management, administration and
coordination of the project. Its members will include a Chairman and seven representatives in a
managerial position of: (1) the National Administration of Roads (NAR) department of construction; (ii)
the NAR department of Maintenance; (iii) the NAR department of Equipment and Materials; (iv) the
NAR Procurement Division; (v) the NAR Economic Department; (vi) SICRS and (vii) RAR. The PMU
will have a secretary provided by NAR, with three permanent staff; an engineer, an accountant, and an
administrative officer. All permanent staff of the PMU will be provided under the current budget of the
NAR. The Chairman and members of the PMU can delegate its functions temporarily in other persons(s)
of their departments when duly justified reasons exist.
I1.    The main functions and responsibilities of the PMU will be:
a.    monitor and coordinate the activities of the project until its completion, including the one-
year guarantee maintenance period for civil works;
b.    liaise with the Bank in all matters concerning project implementation and supervision;
C.    provide advice and assistance to project beneficiary departments on procurement matters,
and clear procurement documents in order to ensure that they meet Bank procurement
guidelines;
d.    finalize arrangements for the technical assistance advisors;
e.    submit to the Bank disbursement applications on behalf of the beneficiary agencies or
departments;
f.    monitor and supervise the project accounts;
g.    prepare (and submit to the Bank) quarterly progress reports describing (in accordance
with the progress implementation indicators previously established and agreed between
the Government and the Bank) project implementation and compliance with time
schedule, and identifying issues arising during the project implementation and solutions
proposed, as outlined in the legal documents;
h.    submit to the Bank annual project audit reports, prepared by independent auditors, as
described in the legal documents; and
i.    contribute to the preparation of a project completion report (PCR); based on the
submission of the progress reports, correspondence with the Bank, and actual tasks
completed compared with those established and scheduled at appraisal.



- 41 -
Annex 1
Page 2 of 5
2.    Various departments would nominate persons responsible for their own part of the project (sub-
project). These persons, who can be the respective members of the PMU, would act as coordinators of
department project activities with the PMU.
3.    The functions and responsibilities of these sub-project implementation coordinators would be to:
a.    ensure the timely and proper implementation of their sub-projects;
b.    liaise with the PMU and seek procurement advice and/or other advice from the PMU to
perform (a) above;
c.    prepare all detailed and technical specifications and documents for the procurement of
works and goods, and submit them to the procurement specialist in the PMU for
clearance;
d.    prepare terms of reference and draft contracts for all consultants and submit them to the
PMU for approval and further processing;
e.    submit to the PMU related contribution to the quarterly project progress reports, as
applicable; and
f.    at the completion of their respective project component, submit to the PMU previously
specified information for the project completion report.



Annex 1
Page 3 of 5
TERMS OF REFERENCE
GOVERNMENT OF ROMANIA
MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT
NATIONAL ADMINISTRATION OF ROADS
SECOND ROADS PROJECT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TO PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION UNIT
JUSTIFICATION
Target Sector:  The Government of Romania (GOR) has applied for loans from three International
Financing Institutions (IFIs) namely the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD),
the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (ElIRD), and the European Investment Bank
(EIB), in various currencies towards the costs of the Second Roads Project ("the Project"). The Project
consists of improving operations in the road infrastructure sector through various actions implemented
by the National Administration of Roads (NAR) and the various ministries involved in road safety. In
essence, the Project shall consist basically of reconstructing and upgrading approximately 1,000 km of
National Roads, provision of equipment, institudior-ial development and road safety improvement.
Recipient Institutions: The Executing Agency for the roads rehabilitation, institutional development and
provision of equipment and materials components shall be NAR and the Interministerial Committee on
Road Safety (ICRS) shall be responsible for the implementadion of the road safety component. The
funding contribution of the IFIs is estimated in the region of 355 million of US$, while the local
contribution shall be approximately 155 million US$. The programme PHARE of the European
Community is expected to participate in the cofina:uLirIg lcr an amount of about 15 million US$,
addressing mainly the institutional development.
General Description of NAR: The public road network in Romania has a length of 153,000 km and
comprises approximately 15,000 km of national roads which are administered by the National
Administration of Roads, whereas country and communal roads ire administered by provincial authorities.
The NAR is a regie autonome with autonomous management under the Ministry of Transport (MOT).
It is staffed with approximately 15,000 employees located both at headquarters and in 7 road and bridge
regional divisions. Each regional division is managed by a gull director and a deputy director chief
engineer.
At the headquarters level the NAR is divided into five specialized departments (Maintenance Division,
Externally Funded Projects Division (DEFP), Motorways Division, Technical Division and Economic
Affairs Division).



- 43 -
Annex 1
Page 4 of 5
The budget of the National Administration of Roads is in the region of 500 billion of Lei. The main
activity of NAR has shifted in the recent years from one of constructing roads and bridges to one of
planning, setting construction, maintenance and safety standards and specifications.
Project Management.  To manage, administer and coordinate the First Road Project, a Project
Management Unit has been established within the NAR. Its members include a Chairman and other
representatives in a managerial position of (i) the NAR (ii) the MOF, and (iii) the MOT. The PMU have
delegated parts of its day-to-day functions to the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) works whose staff
come mainly from the Department of Externally Funded Projects (DEFP and responsible for monitoring
and coordinating the activities of the Project until its completion, including the one-year guarantee
maintenance period for civil). Such an arrangement will be maintained during the Second Roads Projects
and the PIU will liaise with the IFIs in all matters concerning Project implementation and supervision.
Ever since its establishment PIU has been supported by external expertise and procedures have been
prepared and implemented to improve Project management.
The NAR intend to recruit consultants to assist in the completion of the First Road Project and in the
implementation of the Second Roads Project.
Obiectives.  The main objectives of the assignment will be to provide assistance to the Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) established within DEFP to enable it to undertake the function of planning,
operating and monitoring during the period 1997 through to 1998.
Now that the PMU operates in an orderly manner the technical assistance is no longer required on a
permanent basis and the consultants selected for this assignment will be expected to staff the PIU on a
part-time basis in order to ensure efficient execution of the Project.
Scope of tasks:
-      complement, if appropriate, the system of procedures used by PIU staff;
-      advise DEFP on the need to modify the existing organizational PIU structure, given the upcoming
Second Transport Project;
-      advise on civil works, equipment and consultants services procurement and ensure that IFIs
guidelines are met;
-      assist PIU in the review of proposal and tenders, contracts, specifications and study reports; in
particular with respect to ongoing pre-investment studies assist DEFP in commenting periodic
reports;
-     follow up civil works physical progress and design automated system to periodically monitor
progress;
-     liaise with project supervisors and contractors, as may be necessary to resolve difficulties as they
arise, and to ensure the smooth progress of the project;



- 44 -
Annex I
Page 5 of 5
assist with the implementation of IFIs' loan covenants such as the Road User Fund and the
privatization of road maintenance;
follow up the development of training operations conducted by a foreign consultant and comment
on progress;
assist with the production of project completion report as required by the IFIs and the ministries
of Finance and Transport;
provide assistance and liaison to visiting IFIs missions as necessary; and
assist with the preparation of Work Programmes due under PHARE procedures;
assist and provide expertise in financial administration of contracts including procedures to deal
with price variations;
follow up loans management and ensure that loan funds are used in the more efficient manner,
in particular, assist with the preparation of appropriate disbursement schedules;
advise on preparation of local counterpart budget;
assist in the production of annual project audit reports to the IFIs;
assist in submitting to IFIs disbursement applications on behalf of the beneficiary agencies or
departments;
liaise with local banks to monitor and supervise the project accounts;
organize training programmes abroad on such areas as contract management, accounting,
development of new technologies in the road and bridge construction. The Consultant is
requested to provide a budget of 27,000 ECU for training activities abroad in its financial
proposal;
-      propose personnel to attend training programmes; and
-      implement such programmes with the approval of NAR.
Expertise required. It is envisaged that the appointed consulting firm will provide short term expertise
at least in the areas of (a) contract management and accounting; (b) procurement of goods and services;
(c) construction and maintenance of roads and bridges by contract; (d) quality assurance and quality
control; (e) road safety aspects; (f) construction industry organization; and (g) institutional and
organizational arrangements.
Staff input and time frame:  It is currently envisaged that this assignment will require at least two
specialist advisors in the following areas: contracting, road engineering and construction, finance, IFIs
procedures, and claims by contractors Intermittent inputs on an "as and when required basis" over the
period from 1997 through to 1998 shall be provided, amounting to an estimated total of 6 staff months.



- 45 -
Annex 1
Page 6 of 5
They will be supported by a team of local experts, providing intermittent inputs amounting in total to 12
staff months. Their expertise should replicate that provided by the expatriate team.
Organization Arrangements.  The NAR will provide to the Consultants a furnished office and access
to international phone/fax for the duration of the services.
The Consultants are requested to provide the following equipment (to be left with NAR-PIU at the end
of the contract):
1.    Laser printer
2.    Computers PC (IBN compatible) with at least:
486 DX 66 Mhz processor
500 MB HDD
8 MB RAM
with relevant softwares: 6 WINDOWS and MICROSOFT OFFICE
1 photocopier
Reporting:    The advisory team shall participate and assist the PIU for the production of the following
reports:
(1)    quarterly report to each International Financing Institution;
(2)    monthly reports to the Ministry regarding the progress of works and disbursements;
(3)    preparation of PHARE work programmes;
(4)    any report required by any of the institutions mentioned above.



- 46 -                                                         Annex 2
Page 1 of 3
PROCUREMENT PLAN: ROMANIA - SECOND ROADS PROJECT
(BRD-flnanced elements only)
1                 2          3           4                               6. Estinmted schedule
Description'         Type2     No. of      Procure-   Prequali-    Document        Invitation     Contract      Contract
slices/     ment       fication   Preparation       to bid        signing       Comple-
items/sub-    Method'                                                              tion
packages'
Road Rehabilitation Works    CW              3   ICB         7/16/96    03/30/1997      01/10/1998     06/10/1998    06/10/2002
1997 >S10mIII 
Road Rehabilitation Works   CW               6   ICB                     SEE ANNEX 6, PAGE 73 FOR ALL DATES.
1997 <SIOm
Road Rehabilitation Works    CW              7   ICB
1998 < SlOm
Bridge Repair              CW               49   NCB
Black Spots                CW               21   NCB
Works for Pilots           CW                2   NCB
Road Maintenance           G                 5   ICB         No
Equipment
Laboratory Equipment       G                 4   IS          No
Bridge Materials           G                 4   ICB/IS      No
Road Sign Materials        G                 3   ICB         No
Supervision                C                 1   SLF         N/A
Road & Bridge Design       C                10   SlF
TA for Institutional       C                 3   SLF
Improvements
File name: m:cjl\rom\sar\procurl .tab
1  Name of Package
2   Indicate CW  (for civil works); S&1 (for supply and install); G (for goods); TK (for turnkey); CF (for
consultant firms); CI (for Individual consultants); TR (for training). The type is related to the use of the
relevant standard bidding documents.
3   If known indicate number of slices, major items or subpackages expected in the package.
4   Indicate ICB, LIB, NCB, IS, NS, DC (for Direct Contracting), FA for (Force Account), MW  (for Minor
Works), SLF (for short-listing of consultant firms); SLI (for short-listing of individual consultants); SSF
(for Sole sourced of consultant firms); SS1 (for sole sourcing of individual consultants); Other (for
recurrent costs procured on the basis of administative procedures based on a schedule and budget acceptable
to the Bank); CB (for Community based work based on guidelines and procedures acceptable to the Bank);
CP (for commercial practices adjudged acceptable to the Bank); NBF (Not Bank financed).



ROMANIA: SECOND ROADS PROJECT
Procurement Information
Section 1: Procurement Review
($ millions)
Element              ICB                         NCB                             is              Consultants         Other Methods
1. Procurement     SBD W              SBD - SC                               SBD - Goods          SFC - CS            None presently
method thresholds   (All road rehab.  (All bridge rehab., black spots, linear  (Road and Lab      (All consulting     foreseen.
($ million)        works and major    village and DN work in individual      equipment in         assignments)
equipment)         contracts not to exceed $1,000,000 up to   individual contracts
$40 million)                          up to $300,000 not to
exceed $3,500,000)
2. Prior Review    All                 First 2 of each group                 First 2                .1 Firms          % Loan mount subject
to prior review 75
.05 Individuals
3. Expost Review    Explain briefly the ex-post review mechanism: Contracts not reviewed prior to bidding will be reviewed in the field prior to the first
disbursements. Trained staff exist in the Resident Mission for this task, who will also assist with prior review:
-I
Section 2: Capacity of the Implementing Agency in Procurement and Technical Assistance Requirements
4. Brief statement: AND is implementing the ongoing project very well. A Good unit has been built up for preparation of contract documents: bid evaluation
and contract management are satisfactory. EU-PHARE will finance T.A. to the PMU in project management including procurement. They will also assist the
PMU established in SICRS, which will act as the procurement unit for the various agencies in the Traffic Safety Programme being financed by EU-PHARE. This
unit will also benefit from the PHARE office in MOT. RAR has sufficient experience to handle its PHARE-financed equipment purchases gained during the
current project.
5. Country Procurement Assessment Report or Country Procurement       6. Will the bidding documents for the procurement actions of the first
Status:                                                               year be ready by negotiations?                                          (D xD
Draft Report due bv: June '97                                     Yes    lNo                     LJI            If not. why:               o



ROMANIA: SECOND ROADS PROJECT
Procurement Information (cont'd)
Section 3: Training, Information and Development Procurement
7. Estimated date of Project    8. Estimated date of     9. Indicate if there are      10. Domestic Preference for    11. Domestic Preference for
Launch Workshop             publication of General       contacts subject to mandatory   Goods                     Works, if applicable
Procurement Notice           SPN in Development Business
9/97                        7/16/96  (A)                 Yes             No           Yes             No            Yes            No  [9
6. Retroactive Finance                                                                7. Advance procurement
Yes                    No  [                  Explain: Biding for some works and      Yes  E]         No              Explain:
appointment of consultants may       LJ
precede loan signing. Disburse-
ment would not exceed 10% of
loan amount.
10. Explain ht iefly the Procurement Monitoring and Information System: PIlU/Project Managen,;en( Consultanits will maintain a data base of procurement  l
actions, ard -ontract management. Task Manager/Procurement Analyst will maintian similar system at IBRD'HQ based on information passed 'y RIIR who will
receive all updates to PIU's data base.
Section 4: Procurement Staffing
11. Indicate name of Procurement Staff part of Project Team:                         Division:              Extension:
Jeremy Lane, Task Manager & Focal person                              ECIIN                  32493
Anca Dumitrescu, Project Officer                                              ECIRO                 250 (Tel. 401-210-1804)
Irina Luca, Procurement Officer                                               ECIIN                 87092
12. Explain briefly the expected role of the Field Office in procurement: Task Manager will delegate initial review of all procurement documents (ICB, NCB,
IS) for which prior review is required. Ms. Dumitrescu of EC I RO who has taken many Bank procurement courses and has attended the month-long Turin ILO
course will review all new procurement documents and draw to the attention of the Task Manager to anything not in keeping with SBDs. She will also be involved
with post review of black spot and bridge repair contracts, after review in Washington of the first packages of each type, and will also review ICB documents not
reviewed prior to bidding, before the first disbursement.                                                                                            >
m:\cjl\rom\roads.doc                                                                                                                              rD X
a



- 49 -
Annex 3
Page 1 of 8
ROMANIA
SECOND ROADS PROJECT
TRAFFIC SAFETY PROGRAMME
Project Description
1.    Objectives
The activities within the traffic safety component aim to reduce the amount of road traffic
accidents in accident "black spots" to an acceptable "standard" level for Western Europe and by
increasing the efficiency of education and law enforcement to gradually improve the conduct of drivers
and other participants in traffic so as to reduce the rate of road traffic accidents. The project would
provide the required traffic safety know-how for producing and monitoring a Traffic Safety Plan for a
10 year period 2000 - 2009, which when implemented will reduce the amount of serious accidents by
at least 40% (saving the lives of 1,100 Romanians and keeping 3,200 Romanians from being injured in
traffic accidents annually). The project aims at establishing a permanent framework and a program for
traffic safety research and development (R&D) to support further improvement of traffic safety. It is
expected that funding will be provided through the PHARE programme.
2.    The trafMic safety component consists of:
2.1    Elimination of traffic accident "black spots"
Traffic accident "black spots" are locations on the road network where the amount of traffic
accidents substantially exceeds the average amount of the same type of accidents occurring in similar
traffic conditions elsewhere. The "black spots" are evidence of poor traffic environment and should be
eliminated urgently. Recent statistics indicate that a substantial amount of accident "black spots" exists
on the rural as well as the urban road network in Romania. An substantial part of "black spots" are
located within the typical "linear villages" with mixed motorized and non-motorized traffic using the same
carriageway and uncontrolled access from the plots to the main road.
The project would provide technical assistance to NAR for identification of accident "black spots"
on the national road network and definition of the causes for accident accumulation. Technical assistance
would also be provided for compiling a priority program for improving the traffic environment and for
advising and supervision of technical design of the safety measures required in each "black spot". The
accident "black spot" elimination program would address the problems causing accidents in prioritized
road locations in most of the 41 regions but special emphasis would be put on identification and
implementation of alternative solutions for "black spot" elimination and studies related to the impact of
such designs in 6 regions, where the accident rates are high and which can be studied in connection with
the rural and urban pilot projects (ref. 2.3, 2.4 and 2.5). The pilot projects would provide the required
technical support for the research and development needed in connection with such studies.



- 50 -                                   Annex 3
Page 2 of 8
The proposed loan to NAR would be used for technical design and implementation of the civil
works program. Technical assistance will be provided to assist NAR with compiling a draft "black spot"
elimination program for 1997 which would be based on systematic "black spot" identification, accident
analysis, impact assessment and cost/benefit evaluations. Assistance would also be required for related
technical design. Technical assistance for identifying and evaluating the "black spot" elimination program
for 1998 would be provided through the twinning arrangement (ref. 2.9).
The PIU at NAR would procure and supervise the required consultants' services defined in the
Terms of Reference (ref. annex 5) and the civil works. The World Bank would provide technical
expertise for supervision of the urgently needed cofinanced consultants' services.
Implementation Schedule
Technical assistance for "black spot" identification,    9/97-3/98    $150,000
accident analysis, programming and design                             Japan (PHRD)
Site studies, final technical design and programming    9/97-4/98     GTA
($150,000)
Civil works and supervision                       6/98 - 10/99        $8,500,000
2.2   Improvement of technical vehicle standards
The total registered fleet of motorized 4-wheel or larger vehicles excluding tractors is 3,019,000
and the average rate of annual growth exceeds 7%. The main part of the vehicle fleet is old and a poor
level of maintenance combined with lack of vehicle inspection capacity has dropped the technical standard
of the vehicles to a level which is below satisfactory when compared with Western European standards.
Many accessories, which are mandatory and therefore standard equipment of Western European vehicles
or recommended as provisions in order to provide a better technical safety level for the driver and the
passengers, are still missing or if provided of extremely poor quality. The consequence is both reluctance
and ignorance related to use of them. Extensive environmental problems related to emissions from
vehicles also need to be solved urgently.
Assistance to the Romanian Automobile Registry (RAR) would be used to define and purchase
laboratory equipment for testing vehicle emission levels, safety and noise. The laboratory would be used
for homologation of vehicles and equipment to required standard. The homologation would gradually
improve the technical standard of vehicles on the road and contribute to solving problems related to traffic
safety of vehicles, noise and pollution.
Technical assistance would be required for (i) assessing the needs of Romania related to harmonization
of vehicle homologation to EU and EEC guidelines and; (ii) identifying tests and homologation equipment
requirements. The twinning arrangement (ref. 2.9) would later on make available technical assistance for
institution development ie. reviewing and assessing the requirement of developing the organization of
vehicle inspection and all registries related to vehicle use.
EU-Phare would be expected to provide $ 3.83 million for financing the required procurement of
homologation equipment.



- 51 -
Annex 3
Page 3 of 8
RAR would, assisted by the consultant specify, procure and supervise the delivery of the vehicle
homologation equipment in accordance with EU-Phare procurement guidelines. RAR has drafted the
Terms of Reference (TOR) for the consulting assignment.
Implementation Schedule
Technical assistance                              9/97-12/97                 $50,000
bilateral aid or
trust fund
|Procurement of equipment                           2/98-6/98               $3,830,000
2.3    DN Traffic safety pilot project: "Bucharest-Ploiesti-Sinaia-Brasov"
The pilot project is composed of (i) studies and analyses of the present traffic safety situation on
the pilot road; (ii) implementation of non conventional low cost activities for addressing the causes for
accidents; (iii) implementation of advanced traffic surveillance and road user information technologies;
(iv) intensified well coordinated accident emergency intervention; (v) local accident board activities; (vi)
installation of a pilot road weather information system (RWIS); (vii) improved preventive winter
maintenance; (viii) traffic safety research and development (R&D); (ix) intensified public traffic safety
campaigns. The pilot will demonstrate and study the impact of the numerous activities and actions on road
user behavior, measure the impact on frequency and consequence of different types of accidents and give
a sound background for traffic safety development by extending the traffic safety experience and know-
how of the participants the SICRS, the NAR, the Traffic Police, the Ministry of Health, the research
institute INCERTRANS and local public authorities. The pilot will be coordinated and monitored by the
ICRS and implemented by the entities responsible for the individual activities. Technical assistance for
planning and execution of the pilot is provided through the twinning arrangement (ref. 2.9).
The proposed loan would provide financing to NAR for procurement of required studies and
analysis, technical design, civil works, equipment/installations, materials and research/reporting. The
financing of the equipment required by the Traffic Police for this pilot to intensify accident intervention
and road user information is expected to be provided by EU-Phare and is part of the planned support
for traffic law enforcement (ref. 2.6). The costs of equipment required to improve accident emergency
intervention and start local accident board activities amounts to $100 000 and would be financed by EU-
Phare.
NAR would procure the consultants' services for studies, analysis, research and reporting from
INCERTRANS which is nominated to be responsible for all local traffic safety study- and research
activities. Supervision of the consultants' services would be a joint undertaking by SICRS and NAR.
NAR would procure and supervise all investment related technical design, civil works, road
equipment/installations and materials required for execution of the pilot. The traffic police would specify
and procure the equipment required to start local accident board activities. The SICRS would with
assistance from the Ministry of Health specify and procure the equipment needed to improve emergency
intervention.



- 52 -
Annex 3
Page 4 of 8
Implementation Schedule
Site description by SICRS/NAR/INCERTRANS         10/97                     NAR
Studies and analysis/pilot design                2/98 - 5/98               GTA
($70,000)
Procurement of equipment                         2/98 - 5/98            $100,000
Improving signs and road markings                5/98 - 10/98         $1,600,000
Implementation of developed technologies         5/98 - 10/98         $1,700,000
Installation of RWIS and adapting preventive
maintenance
Follow up, research and reporting                10/98 - 12/2000          (GTA)
$30,000
2.4    Bucharest traffic safety pilot proiect
The pilot would be composed of (i) studies and analyses of the present traffic safety situation in
an identified residential area and along a main street in Bucharest where the light traffic accident rates
are exceptionally high; (ii) planning and implementation of low cost traffic safety improvements ie.
advanced traffic surveillance, improved signing and guidance of traffic; (iii) improved traffic
arrangements for pedestrians and other non motorized traffic and; (iv) follow up & research. The pilot
would aim at creating models and masterplans for improving the traffic environment of light traffic to
be used generally within urban areas.
EU-Phare would be providing financing for technical design and procurement of the civil- and installation
work. Technical assistance for pilot preparation would be available through the twinning arrangement
(ref. 2.9)
The traffic division of the Municipality of Bucharest would procure and supervise the technical design
as well as the civil- and installation work.
Implementation Schedule
Studies, pilot planning and design                9/98 - 2/99              GTA
Follow up and research                           10/99 - 12/2000      ($150,000)
| Civil works and installations in Bucharest      6/99 - 10/99         $1,100,000



Annex 3
Page 5 of 8
2.5    Linear village traffic safety pilot project
The pilot project would be composed of (i) studies and analysis of the traffic environment for
pedestrians and other non motorized transport in an identified typical linear village; (ii) planning and
implementing cost efficient traffic safety improvements; (iii) testing the feasibility of using advanced
technologies to improve driver conduct in built up surrounding and; (iv) research. The pilot would aim
at creating a model for developing a safer traffic environment for pedestrians and non motorized transport
in locations where the construction of by-passes to separate transit motorized transport from local
motorized and non-motorized transport is not feasible.
The technical assistance required for final studies, pilot planning and technical design as well as for all
pilot related follow up and research would be provided through the twinning arrangement (ref. 2.9).
NAR would procure and supervise the technical design and the civil- and installation work in accordance
with IBRD guidelines for NCB and ICB.
Implementation Schedule
Studies, pilot planning and       2/98 - 8/98                         GTA (US$70,000)
design
Follow up and research           10/98 - 12/99
Civil works and installations     6/98 - 10/98                              $ 1,100,000
2.6    Traffic law enforcement
The driving behavior of vehicle operators is deteriorating. Some part of this could be due to the liberation
from the previous regime and some part due to a steady increase in the number of new unexperienced
drivers (+8%/year). The main reason for driver misbehavior is however increasing ignorance
compounded by lack of efficient traffic surveillance. The project would provide equipment and
accessories to the Traffic Police for general traffic surveillance, road user information, speed control
and alcotesting.
EU-Phare financing of $4.0 million would be requested for the procurement of the equipment
consisting of (i) patrol vehicles; (ii) communication equipment: (iii) speed radars; (iv) mobile information
displays and signs and; (v) alcotesters.
The Traffic Police will specify and procure the equipment. Technical assistance for specifying
the equipment was provided using the Finnish CTF for Eastern Europe.
Implementation Schedule
l Technical specification of equipment             7/96 - 10/96            CTF
Actual                 $ 4,800
Procurement of equipment                          10198 - 6/99          $4,000,000



- 54 -
Annex 3
Page 6 of 8
2.7   Education and driver training: Public school pilot
The pilot would facilitate the start of traffic safety education in 10 pilot schools. The education
would be provided to the pupils attending 3 separate levels starting from the youngest group of pupils.
One part of the pilot would be to prepare for future driver's training to be obtained voluntarily in
connection with public education. The aim of the pilot would be to develop traffic safety education for
children in order to improve children's behavior in traffic and reduce the amount of accidents involving
children and new young drivers.
The costs of the pilot would amount to $200,000 which would be financed by EU-Phare. The
pilot would provide material for traffic safety education. Technical assistance required for pilot planning,
studies, follow up and reporting would be provided through the twinning arrangement.
The SICRS would be assisted by the Ministry of Education, procure and supervise the delivery
of equipment.
Implementation Schedule
Pilot planning and design                      2/98 - 4/98               GTA
Follow up and reporting                        9198 - 12/99       (US$25,000)
Procurement of equipment and material          2/98 - 4/98           $200,000
2.8   Strengthening the secretariat of the ICRS (SICRS)
The capability of the SICRS to prepare the ICRS meetings, to monitor and to coordinate traffic
safety activities is hampered by the lack of experienced staff and equipment. Technical assistance to make
up for the lack of experience, know how and monitoring tools will be provided through the twinning
agreement (ref. 2.9). This component will provide the most urgent equipment required by the secretariat
to enable it to perform properly.
The SICRS would specify and procure the equipment consisting of one vehicle, 4 computers with
modems and one photocopier in accordance with EU-Phare guidelines.
EU-Phare would be requested to finance the procurement amounting to $120,000
Implementation Schedule
|| Procurement of equipment                    | 2/98 - 4/98           $120,0000



- 55 -                            Annex 3
Page 7 of 8
2.9    General Technical Assistance for Traffic Safety (GTA)
The major part of the technical assistance required for the traffic safety component would be
provided as arrangements with established appropriate institutions, administrations and consultants
working in the field of traffic safety. This arrangement would make up for the lack of staff experienced
in traffic safety work in the ICRS, the secretariat for ICRS and all traffic safety entities. The objective
would be to, during the GTA period ending in December 1999, establish the tools and transfer the know
how required for the monitoring of traffic safety on ICRS level and in cooperation with ICRS and the
individual entities produce a Traffic Safety Plan 2000 - 2009 which will reduce the serious traffic
accidents by 40% when implemented completely. The GTA arrangement would provide traffic safety
expertise and related services from a group of entities covering the pluridisciplinar activities related to
improvement of traffic safety from a country with distinguished records of traffic safety achievement for:
(i) institutional development; (ii) reviewing legislation and law enforcement: (iii) monitoring traffic safety
development; (iv) improving driver's training; (v) improving traffic safety education and information; (vi)
design, planning and follow up of pilot projects; (vii) transfer of know how by arranging visits abroad;
(viii) traffic safety research and development (R&D) and (ix) developing and launching the Traffic Safety
Plan 2000-2009.
The total costs of the GTA would amount to $1.7 million and would be financed by EU-Phare.
The technical assistance would consist of expert services (minimum 48 man months), training and
workshops, study tours abroad, equipment and material related to provision of the Services for a period
of 2-3 years.
The ICRS would, using standard EU-Phare procuring procedures, procure and supervise the
technical assistance services defined in the drafted Terms of Reference (ref. annex 5).
Implementation Schedule
Procurement of services                           9/97-12/97                       l
Provision of technical services                   1/98 - 4/2000         $1,700,000
3.  Performance indicators (outcome/impact) for traffic safety development
3.1          Elimination of accident "black spots"
1.   Calculated impact of annual programs financed through the loan ie. reduction of
fatalities and injuries.
2.   Recorded annual reduction of fatalities and injuries in "black spots" after
implementation
3.2          Improvement of technical vehicle standard
1.   Development of homologation
2.   Repair orders issued at random road side inspection



- 56-                                  Annex-
Page 8 of 8
3.3          DN Traffic safety pilot project: "Bucharest-Ploiesti-Sinaia-Brasov"
1.   Recorded annual change in number of fatalities and injuries within the pilot area
2.   Amount of fines and reminders issued to drivers
3.   Amount of R&D project proposals
4.   Level of winter maintenance
5.   Amount and quality of local accident board reports/initiatives
3.4 and 3.5   Bucharest traffic safety pilot and Linear village traffic safety pilot
1.   Change in number of serious accidents involving light non motorized transport
2.   Level of traffic safety knowledge and behavior (based on interviews/questionnaires)
3.   Client satisfaction level (based on interviews/questionnaires)
4.   Amount of R&D proposals
3.6          Traffic law enforcement
1.   Number of fines/punishments for speeding and drunken driving
2.   Number of serious accidents caused by imprudent driving
3.   Number of road side inspections (days/location)
3.7          Education and driver training: Public school pilot
1.   Development of traffic safety knowledge (before/during/after tests)
2.   Number of traffic accidents involving children from the pilot schools
3.8           Strengthening of the secretariat of ICRS
1.   Capacity and efficiency in monitoring traffic safety
- amount and quality of ICRS meetings and TS workshops
2.   TS research development
3.   Change in number of registered traffic accidents
3.9          Twinning services
1.   Level of traffic safety commitment and know how within all traffic safety entities
2.   Availability and quality of the Traffic Safety Plan (TSP) 2000-2009
3.   Quality of Traffic Safety Seminar/launching of TSP 2000-2009
File name: m:\cjl\rom\sar\annex3



- 57 -                                    Annex 4
Romania
Second Roads Project
Monitorable Indicators
BORROWER
Unleaded Petrol Action Plan
A. Prepare and Submit Action Plan by:                          December 31, 1997
by year's end    1997   1998   1999  2000  2001   2002  2003
B. Average Lead Content of Leaded Petrol (gm/L)    0.45   0.30   0.30   0.30   0.30   0.15   0.15
Traffic Safety Programme
by year's end    1997   1998   1999  2000  2001   2002  2003
Number of Black Spots treated (cumulative)        0      10     20     30     40     50     50
% accident reduction at selected treated spots'
1 year after treatment:                       Predicted             50%
Actual
Year      Severe               Fatalities             Total
Overall Accident Rate                1996        620                  200                  7600
in Pilot Study Area2               2000        500                   160                 7000
NATIONAL ADMINISTRATION OF ROADS (NAR)
Axle Load Control
A. Complete installation and commissioning of                  September 30, 1997
nine (9) automatic weight in motion stations
B. Collect data for 12 month period                 from October 1, 1997 to September 30, 1998
C. Make recommendations on a system for axle                   December 31, 1998
load monitoring and control
Road and Bridge Rehabilitation
by year's end    1997   1998   1999  2000  2001   2002   2003
Number of Road Contracts awarded (cumulative)     2      6      9      9      9       9      9
Number of Kilometers completed (cumulative)       0      0      50     75    125   250    300
Number of Bridge Contracts awarded (cumulative)  10      10     20     30     50             0
Number of Bridges rehabilitated (cumulative)      0      6      12     28     30     50     50
Spots will be chosen where good site- and cause-specific "befoic" accident data exist.
2 Bucharest-Brasov Road
m:\qc\rom\sar\annex4 .xis



- 58 -
Annex 5
Page 1 of 14
ROMANIA
SECOND ROADS PROJECT
TECHNICAL SERVICES FOR -
ACCIDENT BLACK SPOT IDENTIFICATION,
- ANALYSIS AND - RECTIFICATION
TERMS OF REFERENCE
BACKGROUND
1.    The road network and trafric
The road infrastructure in Romania, consisting of 113 km of motorways, 14 570 km of
national roads, 26 167 km of county roads and 31 166 km of department roads, is highly deteriorated
due to insufficient funding of required reconstruction and rehabilitation. Budgetary constraints have
lately continued to reduce the resources allocated to roads also leading to a growing backlog of the
rnational and local road network maintenance. Traffic performance is growing steadily due to
increased need for domestic transport of goods, growth of transit traffic and increased car ownership
(8..9% annually). A total amount of 3 million vehicles and 320 000 motorcycles and scooters are
registered. The amount of vehicles is still very low seen against a population of some 23 million and
leaves plenty of room for additional growth in the number of cars.
2.    Traffic accidents
The traffic safety situation in Romania is very poor by international standards. A total of 115
103 accidents were recorded in 1995 and 9 334 of these were rated as serious accidents causing
fatalities or injuries to the victims. The fatality rate is extremely high; 9.4 fatalities per 10 000
vehicles, 37 fatalities per 100 injured and 1.22 fatalities/10 000 inhabitants. The traffic accidents are
estimated to accumulate total costs rising close to 2% of the GDP. A substantial increase (+ 37%) in
the total amount of traffic accidents was recorded in 1995 compared to 1994 although the amount of
serious accidents was slightly reduced (- 3%). The amount of traffic accidents is likely to continue
increasing, due to growing traffic volumes, unless steps are being taken to systematically improve
the traffic environment and reduce all other main causes for traffic accidents within the framework of
a long term Traffic Safety Plan.
3.    Traffic safety development
The institutional framework and commitment for traffic safety improvement exists in Romania
today. The Minister of Transport initiated the establishing of the Interministerial Council for Road
Safety (ICRS) in the beginning of 1995. The Council, chaired by the Minister of Transport,
assembles 4-5 times per year. The meetings are prepared by a Permanent Secretariat (SICRS) headed
by Director Ion Marin. The members of the ICRS are leaders or authorized representatives of 11



- 59 -
Annex 5
Page 2 of 14
ministries, the Department for Local Public Administration and the Local Council of Bucharest
Municipality and the activities of the ICRS are coordinated by the Prime Minister. Representatives of
territorial units of local public administrations and related NGOs may be invited to participate at the
debates of the ICRS and of the S Special Traffic Safety Commissions (S7SC), established in 1995 in
connection with the ICRS. The SICRS with 4 staff members is getting prepared to gradually start
monitoring and coordinating all traffic safety activities. The 5 Special Commissions are composed of
ICRS members and experts of public authorities represented in the ICRS. The commissions debate
and initiate activities within specified individual traffic safety sectors to raise the awareness of the
ICRS of measures required for addressing current traffic safety problems. The ICRS elaborates and
submits priority action programs and proposals for their financing to the decision makers as well as
supervises draft legislation and formulates recommendations in the field of traffic safety. A
preliminary Priority Actions Program for 1996 - 2000 has been drafted based on proposals made by
the commissions and has been debated by the Council.
4.     Traffic safety dericiencies and problems
Defining the objectives and targets for traffic safety promotion, improving the cooperation
between the various entities involved and establishing performance indicators for monitoring traffic
safety activities requires the attention of the ICRS and a clear logical framework. Assignment of
responsibilities needs adjustment to ensure that all major aspects are being covered. A lack of staff
experienced in traffic safety work, lack of necessary equipment and lack of sufficient funds hampers
all systematic traffic safety development in spite of the present efforts of the Traffic Police, the
Romania Automobile Registry (RAR) and the SICRS to in compliance with the Priority Actions
Program.
(i)    improve the quality of accident data (new accident data collection format);
(ii)   increase the availability of accident data (statistics and publications);
(iii)   distribute regular traffic safety information using the press, radio and TV;
(iv)   improve technical vehicle standards (vehicle inspection);
(v)    improve traffic regulations (new road code); and
(vi)   increase visibility of traffic surveillance.
5.     The Romania Second Roads Project
The Government of Romania in cooperation with IBRD, EBRD and EIB is executing a
Transport Project and preparing a Second Roads Project both aimed at improving the physical
condition and the traffic environment of a significant part of the national road network. The costs
of the Romania Second Roads Project will be in the range of $ 500 million. This project is
composed of road rehabilitation, procurement of equipment for maintenance, institutional development
and a comprehensive traffic safety component of $ 24 million. The financing of the traffic safety



- 60 -
Annex 5
Page 3 of 14
component is planned to be a joint undertaking between IBRD, EU-Phare and the main beneficiary
the Romania Road Administration (NAR). The traffic safety component is split into two separately
financed subcomponents.
a)     an investment program financed by IBRD, and
b)     a program of Institutional development and technical assistance for all the entities
involved in traffic safety planned to be financed by EU-Phare.
6.     The Trafric Safety Component
The Traffic Safety Investment Programme of $ 14 100 000 covers the engineering
components of the list of activities proposed to be performed:
(i)    elimination of traffic accident "black spots";
(ii)   installation of intelligent surveillance and information systems along the Bucharest-
Ploiesti-Sinaia-Brasov road (DN/pilot 1);
(iii)   civil works of a pilot project for improving the traffic environment for non
motorized transport in a pilot area of Bucharest and a typical "linear village"
on the Bucharest-Ploiesti-Sinaia-Brasov road (pilots 2 and 3);
(iv)   improving preventive winter road maintenance and installation of a road
weather information system (RWIS) on Bucharest-Ploiesti-Sinaia-Brasov road
(pilot 1); and
The Institutional Development and Technical Assistance of $ 10 000 000 will provide
equipment, material and technical services/assistance for:
(i)    increasing the efficiency of traffic law enforcement and traffic safety
information, improving the standard of driver's training and improving the
quality of road traffic accident reporting and registering (accident data base);
(ii)    developing traffic safety education for school children (pilot 4);
(iii)   improving accident emergency intervention and establishing local accident boards in
the regions along the Bucharest-Ploiesti-Sinaia-Brasov road ( pilot 1);
(iv)   strengthening the secretariat of ICRS by providing equipment for access to accident
data and making available the traffic safety services of renowned traffic safety
consultants and institutions (twinning). The goal of strengthening the secretariat is to
improve its ability to coordinate and monitor the development within the entire traffic
safety sector;



- 61 -
Annex 5
Page 4 of 14
(v)    traffic safety studies and related research & development ( pilots 1, 2 and 3);
(vi)   identification and analysis of accident black spots;
(vii)  assessing the impact of alternative traffic safety measures;
(viii)  planning and design of "safe" environments for non motorized traffic (pilots 1, 2 and
3); and
(ix)   vehicle homologation.
THE TECHNICAL SERVICES FOR BLACK SPOT IDENTIFICATION, - ANALYSIS AND -
RECTIFICATION
7.     Technical assistance shall be provided to the Romanian Road Administration (NAR) for
establishing "short" lists of black spots to be rectified within a proposed $ 8 500 000 program of
civil works. The rectification measures shall efficiently address the identified deficiencies of the
traffic environment in the identified traffic accident black spots on the national road network. Special
emphasis shall be put on determining non-conventional measures to be tested when addressing black
spots on the pilot road Bucharest-Ploiesti-Sinaia-Brasov. Some technical services are also required as
support for supervision of the technical design of rectification measures.
OBJECTIVES
8.     The overall objective of the Technical Services is to:
(i)    establish a well-grounded road traffic accident black spot "long list" and a
related US$ 8.5 million "short list" by providing the experience, the skills and
the methodology required for black spot identification and analysis;
(ii)   identify and propose the effective and cost efficient measures for rectifying the present
deficiencies of the traffic environment in the "short listed" black spot locations;
(iii)   ensure that the design of proposed rectification measures meets the targets and the
required quality standard; and
(iv)   transfer the methodologies, skills and know-how of black spot identification, analysis
and rectification to the client (NAR).



- 62 -
Annex 5
Page 5 of 14
SCOPE OF WORK
9.     The Consultant(s) will provide technical expertise and feasible methodology/systems  for
identifying and analyzing road traffic accident black spot locations using the accident data which is
computerized and available with NAR and the Traffic Police. This data covers the evolution of
accidents on the national road network since 1989. The data is reliable but does not fulfill all the
requirements of a western European accident data base. The accident data base is not yet connected to
a computerized road data bank. The Consultant(s) will work in cooperation with NAR, the Traffic
Police and the SICRS when reviewing and revising existing accident "long lists" and establishing the
"short list". The "short list" shall be composed of the top priority black spots to be rectified and
indicate the planned measures of rectification. The Consultant(s)' services shall include but not be
limited to:
(i)    familiarizing themselves with the general evolution and the causes for road traffic
accidents on the national road network in Romania by studying the available
accident data at NAR, the Regional Road Administrations and the Traffic Police;
(ii)    determining the nature of deficiencies of the traffic environment which are causing
the extremely high rate of severe road traffic accidents in both rural and urban
surroundings in Romania today;
(iii)   reviewing and revising the contents of existing accident black spot "long lists" and
the proposed rectification measures. These have been compiled by NAR and the
Traffic Police;
(iv)   establishing a priority "short list" of black spot locations and rectification measures to
be executed as part of the proposed IBRD financed traffic safety investment program
of $ 8.5 million. The "short list" shall indicate priority order based on assessment of
impact and cost efficiency, describe the proposed measures of rectification and
show the costs of the work to be performed. The consultant(s) shall show that the
program meets the targets of reducing the total amount of fatalities in the targeted
black spot locations by > 40 and the amount of injuries by > 120;
(v)    compiling a $2 million black spot rectification program feasible for execution in 1997
and assisting in supervision of the technical design required for executing the
program. Special attention shall be given choice and design of non conventional
rectification measures to be included in a R&D program. The execution of this R&D
program will be a vital part of traffic safety development to be performed as part of
pilot 1 Bucharest-Ploiesti-Sinaia-Brasov road;
(vi)   specifying the R&D related to above $2 million black spot rectification program;
(vii)  on-the-job training of the NAR counterparts to facilitate transfer of related
methodology, skills and know-how.



- 63 -
Annex 5
Page 6 of 14
PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND WORK PLAN
10.   In order to successfully achieve the targets related to the impact of the Black Spot
Rectification Program and facilitate a smooth procurement and execution of the civil works it is
important that:
(i)    ownership and commitment is strengthened by deep involvement of the counterpart
staff in planning the work to be performed and setting the related targets;
(ii)   the key counterpart staff participate in reviewing the existing programs and take part
in site studies;
(iii)  the counterpart staff resume responsibility for preparation of the required design- and
procurement documents under supervision of the consultant(s); and
(iv)   the SICRS at an early stage is consulted in all matters related to general targets of
the program, determination of priorities and proposals for R&D.
TIME SCHEDULE
11.   The technical services shall commence within 1 month from signing of the contract and be
completed within a period of 36 months.
REPORTING
12.   The Consultant(s) shall provide following progress reports in 5 copies to the client NAR in
Romanian, 2 copies to the SICRS in Romanian and 3 copies to IBRD in English.
(i)    An inception report 4 weeks after commencement of the assignment containing:
-   a time schedule for completing the assignment
-   a draft "long" list of accident black spots
-   a detailed work plan for compiling the $ 8.5 million black spot "short list" and the $2
million rectification program for 1997
-   comments on any issues that might substantially change the targets or influence the
completion of the assignment.
(ii)    A progress report 8 weeks after commencement containing:
-   a final prioritized traffic accident black spot "long list"
-   a draft for a $ 8.5 million black spot rectification "short list"
-   a draft for a $ 2 million civil works program for 1997
-   individual reports on completed site studies.



- 64 -                                      Annex 5
Page 7 of 14
(iii)   A progress report 12 weeks after commencement containing:
-   a final $8.5 million prioritized traffic accident black spot "short list"
-   a final $2 million prioritized civil works program for 1997 addressing deficiencies
in the identified prioritized locations of traffic accident black spots
-   site study reports.
(iv)   A progress report 16 weeks after commencement containing:
-   the progress of design of the civil works to be executed in 1997
-   a draft civil works procurement plan.
(v)    A final report containing:
-   the final $8.5 million traffic accident black spot "short list"
-   impact assessment and cost-benefit analysis of the "short list"
-   the final $2 million prioritized civil works program for 1997
-   impact assessment and cost-benefit analysis of the 1997 civil works program
the site study reports
-   assessment of the design- and procurement documents for the 1997 civil works
program
-   assessment of the transfer of methodology, skill and know-how to the counterparts
R&D proposal.
RESOURCES
13.    The Consultant(s) shall provide the required traffic safety experts and appoint an experienced
team leader to complete the assignment in close collaboration with the Romanian counterparts. The
technical services shall mainly be provided in Romania. The assignment is estimated to require a
minimum of 5-6 man months of expert services. The Consultant(s) shall provide all major equipment
needed by the expert(s).
The client will, free of charge, make office facilities available at the Romanian Road
Administration in Bucharest. These facilities will include task related access to telephone, facsimile
and copying equipment. The client will provide for limited transport and interpreter service free of
charge.
The total financing available for the assignment is $150 000.



- 65 -
Annex 5
Page 8 of 14
ROMANIA
SECOND ROADS PROJECT
GENERAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE SERVICES FOR TRAFFIC SAFETY
TERMS OF REFERENCE
BACKGROUND
1.    The road network and traffic
The road infrastructure in Romania, consisting of 113 km of motorways, 14 570 km of national
roads, 26 167 km of county roads and 31 166 km of department roads, is highly deteriorated due to
insufficient funding of required reconstruction and rehabilitation. Budgetary constraints have lately
continued to reduce the resources allocated to roads leading to a growing backlog of the national and
local road network maintenance. Traffic performance is growing steadily due to increased need for
domestic transport of goods, growth of transit traffic and increased car ownership (8..9% annually).
A total amount of 3 million vehicles and 320 000 motorcycles and scooters are registered. This is still
very low seen against a population of some 23 million and leaves plenty of room for additional
growth.
2.    Traffic accidents
The traffic safety situation in Romania is very poor by international standards. A total of
169 383 accidents were recorded in 1996 and 8 931 of these were rated as serious accidents causing
fatalities or serious injuries and 11 601 causing light injuries to the victims. The fatality rate is
extremely high; 9.4 fatalities per 10 000 vehicles, 37 fatalities per 100 injured and 1.22 fatalities/10
000 inhabitants. The traffic accidents are estimated to accumulate total annual costs rising close to 2%
of the GDP. A substantial increase (+ 37%) in the total amount of traffic accidents was recorded in
1995 compared to 1994 although the amount of serious accidents was slightly reduced (- 3%). The
amount of traffic accidents is likely to continue increasing, due to growing traffic volumes, unless
steps are being taken to systematically improve the traffic environment and reduce all other main
causes for traffic accidents within the framework of a long term Traffic Safety Plan.
3.    Traffic safety development
The institutional framework and commitment for traffic safety improvement exists in Romania
today. The Minister of Transport initiated the establishing of the Interministerial Council for Road
Safety (ICRS) in the beginning of 1995. The council, chaired by the Minister of Transport,
assembles 4-5 times per year. The meetings are prepared by a Permanent Secretariat (SICRS). The
members of the ICRS are leaders or authorized representatives of 11 ministries, the Department for
Local Public Administration and the Local Council of Bucharest Municipality and the activities of the
ICRS are coordinated by the Prime Minister. Representatives of territorial units of local public



- 66 -
Annex 5
Page 9 of 14
administrations and related NGOs may be invited to participate at the debates of the ICRS and of the
S Special Traffic Safety Commissions (STSC), established in 1995 in connection with the ICRS. The
SICRS with 4 staff members is getting prepared to gradually start monitoring and coordinating all
traffic safety activities. The 5 Special Commissions are composed of ICRS members and experts of
public authorities represented in the ICRS. The commissions debate and initiate activities within
specified individual traffic safety sectors to raise the awareness of the ICRS of measures required for
addressing current traffic safety problems. The ICRS elaborates and submits priority action programs
and proposals for their financing to the decision makers as well as supervises draft legislation and
formulates recommendations in the field of traffic safety. A preliminary Priority Actions Program for
1996-2000 has been drafted based on proposals made by the commissions and debated by the council.
4.     Traffic safety deficiencies and problems
Defining the objectives and targets for traffic safety promotion, improving the cooperation between
the various entities involved and establishing performance indicators for monitoring traffic safety
activities requires the attention of the ICRS and a clear logical framework. Assignment of
responsibilities needs adjustment to ensure that all major aspects are being covered. A lack of staff
experienced in traffic safety work, lack of necessary equipment and lack of sufficient funds hampers
all systematic traffic safety development despite the present efforts of the Traffic Police, the Romania
Automobile Registry (RAR) and the SICRS to in compliance with the Priority Actions Program.
(i)     improve the quality of accident data (new accident data collection format);
(ii)    increase the availability of accident data (statistics and publications);
(iii)    distribute regular traffic safety information using the press, radio and TV;
(iv)    improve technical vehicle standards (vehicle inspection);
(v)     improve traffic regulations (new road code); and
(vi)    increase visibility of traffic surveillance.
5.     The Romania Second Roads Project
The government of Romania in cooperation with IBRD, EBRD and EIB is executing a
Transport Project and preparing a Second Roads Project both aimed at improving the physical
condition and the traffic environment of a significant part of the national road network. The costs
of the Romania Second Roads Project will be in the range of $ 500 million. This project is
composed of road rehabilitation, procurement of equipment for maintenance, institutional development
and a comprehensive traffic safety component of $ 24 million. The financing of the traffic safety
component is planned to be a joint undertaking between IBRD, EU-Phare and the main beneficiary
the Romania Road Administration (NAR). The traffic safety component is split into two separately
financed subcomponents:



- 67
Annex 5
Page 10 of 14
a)      An investment program to be financed through an loan agreement between NAR
and IBRD; and
b)      A program of Institutional development and technical assistance for all the entities
involved in traffic safety planned to be financed by EU-Phare
6.     The Traffic Safety Component
The Traffic Safety Investment Program of $14 100 000 covers the engineering components of
the proposed list of activities to be performed:
(i)     elimination of traffic accident "black spots"
(ii)    installation of intelligent surveillance and information systems along the Bucharest-
Ploiesti-Sinaia-Brasov road (DN/pilot 1)
(iii)    civil works required for improving the traffic environment for non motorized
transport in one suburban area of Bucharest and a typical "linear village" on the
Bucharest-Ploiesti-Sinaia-Brasov road (pilot 2)
(iv)    improving preventive winter road maintenance and installation of a road weather
information system (RWIS) on Bucharest-Ploiesti-Sinaia-Brasov road (pilot 1)
The Institutional Development and Technical Assistance of $10 000 000 will provide
equipment, material and technical services/assistance for
(i)    increasing the efficiency of traffic law enforcement and traffic safety information,
improving the standard of driver training and improving the quality of accident
reporting and registering (accident data base);
(ii)    developing traffic safety education to school children (pilot 4);
(iii)    improving accident emergency intervention and establishing local accident boards in
the regions along Bucharest-Ploiesti-Sinaia-Brasov road ( pilot 1);
(iv)    strengthening the secretariat of ICRS by providing equipment improving access to
accident data and technical services of renowned traffic safety institutions through a
twinning arrangement, with the aim of improving the coordination and monitoring of
traffic safety development within all traffic safety sectors;
(v)     traffic safety studies and related research & development ( pilots 1, 2, and 3);
(vi)    identification and analysis of accident black spots;



- 68 -
Annex 5
Page 11 of 14
(vii)    assessing of impact of alternative rectification activities; and
(viii)   planning and design of 'safe" light traffic environments (pilots 1, 2 and 3).
(ix)    vehicle homologation
THE TECHNICAL SERVICES
7.     Technical assistance will be provided through a twinning arrangement between the newly
established traffic safety organization (ICRS) and related entities from the traffic safety sector in
Romania and a team of renowned and experienced traffic safety consultants and
institutions/administrations working in the field of traffic safety from a country with good records of
traffic safety development.
OBJECTIVES
8.     The overall objective of the Technical Services are to:
(i)     make up for the lack of staff experienced in traffic safety work within the ICRS, the
STSC's and the SICRS;
(ii)    transfer traffic safety know-how and experience; and
(iii)    assist in establishing a clear framework for all traffic safety activities and assigning
responsibilities to the various entities involved in traffic safety
The Services will provide experienced guidance and fresh know-how for traffic safety policy
making, organization of activities, development and use of accident data bases, traffic safety planning
and design, activity impact assessment and alternative financing.The twinning arrangement will assist
the ICRS to produce a long term Traffic Safety Plan (2000-2009) by the end of June, 1999. The plan
shall cover the institutional framework for traffic safety, the logical framework for traffic safety
activities, objectives and interim traffic safety targets, a mid term (5 years) program of priority
activities and list of performance indicators required for monitoring implementation of the Traffic
Safety Plan and related programs. The overall target of the Traffic Safety Plan shall be to reduce the
amount of fatalities and injuries in traffic accidents by at least 40% within a 10 year period from the
commencement of implementation of the Plan. This target corresponds to similar targets set in many
Western-European countries.



- 69 -
Annex 5
Page 12 of 14
SCOPE OF WORK
9.      The Consultant(s) will provide technical expertise to all the agencies involved for addressing
problems related to:
a)  the human factor;
b)  vehicles;
c)  road infrastructure
and carry out these services in close co-operation with the ICRS, the STSC's and the SICRS. The
Consultant(s) will establish and throughout the contract keep available links between the SICRS and
the agencies and institutions teamed up with the Consultant(s). The Consultant(s)' services shall
include but not be limited to:
(i)     acquainting themselves with the procedures of the traffic safety sector and the
prevailing traffic safety situation in Romania;
(ii)    initiating and providing flexible expert services to the ICRS, the STSC's and the
SICRS for:
-     establishing logical frameworks for traffic safety development
-     developing traffic safety policies, defining objectives and setting targets
-     developing performance indicators
-     assigning responsibilities
-     reporting and monitoring
(iii)    reviewing and initiating improvements to present traffic safety regulations and traffic
safety related procedures:
- traffic legislation
- law enforcement
- drivers training
- education of school children
- information to road users and the public
- accident data collection and developing/use of accident data bases
- identification of accident black spots
- methods for analyzing causes for accidents and assessing the impact of activities
aimed at addressing current problems
- technical vehicle standard/inspection procedures/harmonization with EU
- emergency intervention
- analyzing of serious accidents/establishing local accident boards
- traffic safety research & development
(iv)    planning and follow up of urban pilot project "Bucharest suburb and "linear village";



- 70 -
Annex 5
Page 13 of 14
(v)    assisting the client in obtaining traffic safety literature and related material;
(vi)    assisting the client in planning and implementing traffic safety training;
(vii)   organizing visits abroad for transfer of skills and know-how;
(viii)   assisting the client in compiling technical specifications for procurement of traffic
safety equipment and related material;
(ix)    assisting the client in improving traffic safety planning and design;
(x)    assisting the client in producing the Traffic Safety Plan (2000 - 2009); and
(xi)    assisting the client in launching the Traffic Safety Plan (2000 - 2009) at a National
Seminar.
PROJECT MANAGEMENT
10.   For the successful development of the Traffic Safety Plan it is important that:
(i)    Initial planning. ownership and commitment: The person(s) responsible for each
traffic safety sector or subsector program is deeply involved in defining and setting
the limits for the tasks he (she) will be responsible, setting the time limits for each
identified step of the sector program and commits him (her)self to the timely
execution of the plan.
(ii)    Project management system: A suitable project management system shall be provided
to enable the management of the Traffic Safety Plan to describe and in detail follow
up and monitor the progress of the plan and its components. The management system
shall generate monthly reports to be issued by the management, describe the overall
progress as well as the progress of each individual subcomponent against the set
targets of the plan.
TIME SCHEDULE
11.   The technical services shall commence within 1 month from signing of the contract and be
completed within a period of         months.
REPORTING
12.   The Consultant(s) shall provide following reports in 10 copies to the client SICRS in
Romania, 3 copies to the PIU of EU-Phare in Romania and English and 3 copies to the World Bank
in English:



- 71 -
Annex 5
Page 14 of 14
(i)    An inception report 6 weeks after commencements including a report of the existing situation,
a revised detailed plan for initiating traffic safety sector improvements, a draft time schedule
for developing the Traffic Safety Plan (2000 - 2009) and comments on any issues that might
substantially change or influence the successful completion of the technical services.
(ii)   Interim progress reports every 3 months on Consultant(s) initiated activities and provision of
services requested by the client describing the situation within each sector.
(iii)   A final report (draft) covering:
-       description of all activities undertaken and service rendered within each traffic safety
sector
-       a summary of the development (changes) within each sector
-       a description of the evolution of traffic safety situation in Romania during the
contract period
-       a summary of traffic safety training and study trips during the contract period
including rate of involvement of the Consultant (s)
-       an evaluation of Traffic Safety Plan (2000 - 2009) including proposals for further
donor involvement in the development of the traffic safety sector
-       a summary of Consultant(s)' conclusions from the Traffic Safety Seminar; and
(iv)    A revised final report one month later, taking into account reasonable comments by NAR and
the World Bank.
RESOURCES
13.    The Consultant(s) shall make available a team of traffic safety experts representing entities
working in the various fields of traffic safety activities headed by a very experienced team leader. The
required services shall be provided as well from the home offices of the team members as in the field
in Romania. The assignment is estimated to require expert services amounting to a minimum off 48
man months. The Consultant(s) will provide all major equipment needed by the team.
The client will, free of charge, make office facilities available at the Ministry of Transport in
Bucharest. These facilities will be provided with access to telephone, facsimile and copying
equipment, the user costs of which will be carried by the Consultant(s). The client will have limited
transport and limited interpreter service available free of charge.
The financing available for all activities within the Technical Services is $ 1 700 000. This amount is
not to be exceeded.
File name: m:\cjl\rom\sar\annex5



- 72 -                                      Annex 6
Page 1of 4
ROMANIA
Ministry of Transports
National Administration of Roads
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
1.    Proiect Obiectives    The primary objectives of the project are:
- to improve the traffic conditions on the national
roads network and bring the geometrical elements and road
structure up to the level of the European standards requirements;
- bridges rehabilitation;
- the endowment with road and bridge maintenance
equipment;
- to provide the technical assistance needed for the
design and execution of works;
- the restructuring and computerisation of the NAR;
- the improvement of NAR's operational, commercial
and financial management.
2.    Proiect Descrivtion   The Project will include the following components:
A. Road rehabilitation works
- The rehabilitation of approx. 1000 km of national
roads through upgrading the road system to the level
of bearing capacity imposed by the expected traffic
volume, the correction of the cross and longitudinal
sections, for bringing them to the required traffic capacity
through the widening of the carriageway to min. 7.00 m
for the roads in the technical class 3 and to 14.00 m for the
roads in the technical class 2, the consolidation and
widening of the shoulders, the arrangement of the pluvial
vater collection and drainage system.
There have also been provided measures for bringing the
bridges on the considered routes up to the European
standards level, both conceming the technical state and
the bearing capacity.
B. Bridae Proaramme
-The rehabilitation of 97 bridges, representing 8,865 L.m,
consisting of the widening of the way on the bridge, the
remake of the footways, the remake of the waterproofing
and the replacement of the pavement on the bridge and of
the expansion joint devices.
C. Black Spots Treatment
The clearing of 52 black spots on the national
roads through the correction of the geometri_al
elements of the curves, the execution of a third lane
in the areas with steep slopes, the provision of
pluvial vater drainage of the road platform.



-73                                      Annex 6
Page 2 of 4
D. Equipment for routine maintenance
Equipment for routine maintenance of roads and
bridges and equipment for the CESTRIN laboratories.
The list of the equipment to be purchased is attached.
E. Traffic Safety
The objective of this component is to reduce traffic
accidents by providing the financing for technical
assistance to the individual traffic safety sectors,
facilitating efficient traffic law enforcement, developing
traffic, safety education and information (Inter-ministerial
Council for Traffic Safety).
F. Technical Assistance
- Supervision of civil works;
- PMS, BMS;
- Construction Industry
G. Civil Works Design
The provision of preliminary studies in viewof selecting
the road sections comprised in the rehabilitation program.
Issue of the Tender Documents for the contracts settled
after the road sections' selection.
Elaboration of the Working Drawings.
3.     Proiect Imdlementation Plan
The PIP includes all essential documents prepared with
NAR, the project beneficiary and implementing agency
that are necessary following up on, and monitoring
progress in project implementation. The PIP includes:
- Detailed Project Description
- Procurement Plan
- Implementation Plan
- Monitorable Indicators
- Reporting Plan



,PR()CURIMEN'r PLAN
Deadlines
Nattire         Number  Procureisient          Tender
Comnponent                       Contract             of                of        m oethbud      docurnmeits          Invitation          Invitation         Contract            Contract
package         Contract                      preparation     Precalilicatlon         Tendering         ' Signature        Colupiction
A.   Road Rehabilitntion Works
I)N6 lticharest-leleomrman country limit            A201           civil works           I           1(11         16 D)ec 1996        15 Oct 1996        01 May 1997        30 Nov 1997        31 Dec 2001
DN6 7elcorman country limit-AlexandriA              A202           civil wotks           I           I lt        16 Dec 1996         15 Oct 1996        01 May 1997        30 Nov 1997        31 May 2001
DN2(E85) Urziceni-lluzau                            A203           civil works           i           ICII         16 llec 1996        15 Oct 1996        01 May 1997        30 Nov 1997        31 Dec 2001
D)N2(E85) Buzau-Rimnicu Sarat                       A204           civil works           I           1(11         16 D)ec 1996        15 Oct 1996        01 May 1997         30 Nov 1997       31 Dec 2001
IDN65(E70) Craiov'a-Olt country limit               AZIS           civil works           I           1(1t         31 Aug 1997         15 Apr 1997        20 Sep 1997        31 Mar 1998        01 July 2001
D)N65(E70) Olt country limit-Slatina                A206           civil works           I           IfCB         31 Aug 1997         15 Apr 1997        20 Sep 1997         31 Mar 1998       01 Sep 2001
DN65(E70) Slatina-Arges country limit               A207           civil works           I           ICH         31 Aug 1997         15 Apr 1997        20 Sep 1997         31 Mar 1998       01 Sep 2001
DN65B(E70) Argescoutrry limit-Pitesti               A208           civil works           I           1(11         31 Aug 1997         15 Apr 1997        20 Sep 1997         31 Mar 1998       01 Sep 2001
D)NI(E60) Cimpina-Comarnic                          A209           civil works           I           ICB          31 Aug 1997          15 Apr 1997       20 Sep 1997         31 Mar 1998       01 Sep 2001
ODN28 Sabauari-lTirgul Frumos                        A210           civil works           I           lUll         31 Dec 1997         31 Jan 1998        30 Jun 1998        31 Dec 1998        31 Dec 2001
DN28 Tirgu Frumos-lasi                              A211           civil works           I          1(W           31 D)ec 1997        31 Jan 1998        30 Jun 1998        31 Dec 1998        31 Dec 2001
*IDN24 lasi-Sculenr                                  A212           civil works           I          1(B11         31 Dec 1997         31 Jan 1998        30 Jun 1998        31 Dec 1998        31 Dec 2001
5DN2(E85) Rimnicu Sarat-Focsani                      A213           civil works           I          IC(:          31 D)ec 1997        31 Jan 1998        30 Jun 1998        31 Dec 1998        31 Dec 2001
JDN2(E85) Focsani-Matasesti                          A214           civil woks            I          1(11          31 DIec 1997        31 Jan 1998        30 Jun 1998        31 Dec 1998        31 Dec 2001
DN2B Oalatl-Oiurgiulesti                            A215           civil works           I          lCII          31 Dec 1997         31 Jan 1998        30 Jun 1998        31 Dec 1998        31 Dec 2001
'DN52 Alexandria-Turnu Mfagurele                     A216           civil works           I          ICB           31 Dec 1997         31 Jan 1998        30 Jun 1998        31 Dec 1998        31 Dec 2001
n.  Bridges Programme                                 BI- B28         civil works           28          NCII         30 June 1997                            31 July 1997       31 Oct 1997        31 Aug 2001
U129- 1151      civil works           23         NCUB          30 Nov 1997                             20 Dec 1997        31 Mlar 1998       31 Dec 2001
Ci - Clt)        civil works          10          NCB          01 Sept 1997                            01 Nov 1997        01 Feb 1998        31 Dcc 2001
C.  Black spots treatment                            Cl I - C21        civil works          I           NCB          Of Aug 1998                             01 Nov 1998        31 Jan 1999        30 June 2001
1).  EquIpment for
-- routine maintenance of roads,bridges.
for CESTRIN laboratory
Multipurpose Road Maintenance Truck                   1)1            goods               I           lUlN         01 May 1997                             30 Junel997        30 Sep 1997        31 Mar 1998
AtmLchmnents for MPRMT                                1)2            goods               I           I(CIJ        15 May 1997                             31 July 1997       31 Oct 1997        31 Mar 1997
llridge Routine Maintenmnce Equipment                 D3             goods               I           lCIl         0f May 1997                            30 June 1997        30 Sep 1997        31 Mar 1998
Duble l)rum VibratIng Compactor 1-1I5to               14             goods               I           RIC          01 Junel997                             31 July 1997       31 Oct 1997        30 June 1998
ILaboratory Equipment                                 1)5            goods               I           1(11 B01 July 1997                                   30 Sep 1997        30 Dec 1997        30 Nov 1998
Bitumen emulsion spreading machine    _               i6             goods               I           ICU          01 June1997                             31 July 1997        31 Oct 1997       30 June 1998
E. 1raflc safety                                       El - E2         civil works          2           NCn          30 Sept 1997                            30 Nov 1997         31 Mar 1998        31 July 2001
F. Technical assIstance for
-- works supervision                                    Fl       consultant services       3           lIl1         30 Nov 1996         16 Dec, 1996        01 May 1997        30 Sep 1997         31 D". 2001
-- PMs                                                  F2       consultant services       I           lUIl                                                                                        30 Mlar 1998
-- IIMs                                                 F3       consultant services       I         TwAr.                                                                     30 Apr 1997         31 Oct 1998
-- construction industry                                F4       consultant services       I           ICU          30 Oct 1997                             05 Jan 1998         31 Mar 1998        31 IMar 1999
t. Road and bridges works design                     (31 - (.3     designer services         2          1(11                                                                     15 IOct 1995       31 Mar 1999
*       = Additional Contrac s proposed by NAR frons founds availlable after tendering.                                                                                       u       
ICII    =  Interntrional Cormpetitive Biddint                                                                                                                                                                            >
NCll   - National Competitve Bidding                                                                                                                                                                                   D
Tw Ar.   T lwinninrg Arrangesiert                                                                                                                                                                                        X
W '



MPLEMENTATON PLAN
~~~~~____!_                                              I_
Component                    No.   Conactr
A.  Road Rehabilitation Works                                                                                                                                                                                               _ _ _ _
ON6 Bucharest-Teloorman conylimit    A201    civil works @                      .
ONEtelormn cunt illt-laondr A   203    Ii works                      .cI
DNZ(ES)BzuimiuSeP04                              cvlwrs                         ..N585) Urziceni-Buzau  _   __202    civil wrk'   lbs *** f 4  h6.  .iy i.    AiI   .   1j; .t   r  b.q  i    t ; i  
tDNES(F7Qi Craova-Olt counE ~t    A 205    civil works                        . .  - .: j  ..I                               A  |ri       i   i   i  1|& . . . . . .  _  _
|ON6$ES  70 OIl cm     rnilm-Stetne       P206    civilworks .     i;t ~--             gdLAt______Ii5i.-_
O)N65(F701 Criopva-CoamcP9                       civil works                                                                                                                             I
DNES70) SIacontryge cont,     i        20      ii  ok
ONES EJO9                             BB *5 C o  C rni-e A2089  Civil works                        j                                                 -;                                                                       IrI
17N28 Sabauars-Tirgul Frmnos             A210   civil woks V
M'D28 Tlrg u Frumos-las,                 A211   clviL wor ks  *j t ,   -               . _           -
ttN24 lasi-Sculev                        A212   ciilwok                                                                                                             4
DN2(E5) Rmnic Sara-Focani     A213   civil works        &
tN2  Gaslat-CGiur i t                                                                                                            t       t
ON52 AJexandra-Turnu Mauce Ara|e6 6    ci               ks
8   Bridges Progrmme                      81 828 civi orks  | |rizii ,                                                   ; .
C, Black spotstreatment                            ci_ii -  works'
iF  Techmentst for                        _;RMTi
-o  tnemitnne Mof rlrloadn dpems.    ____
i or 8 ES R N  laoatr    -3  |__ __ _               sen_c_s    | _     ;     ;_                     -     _;                           ***                           *                                          | |_|  
M-opsurpse oaid  Maitennc Trc              F4        oodMcs ~1        4                              >                                                                                                           1 i        ,t
At tacmnt01sfor| MRM     __ ____          0        goods
risble_Drum Vibrating Compactor l-1S5to    04       sd
Laboratory Equip ment                  _____
Bitumen emulsion spreading machine       06       goods
I ~ ~   ~    ~ ~ ( I
f. Technical assistance for:                                                Extiori
- PEtS                       ______~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ____S __
-ES                                       F3      S Cseiie     $f.
-constucton   inus y                  I   FP4      servCes      _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _. .       .-
0.Rod and b~ridq es wrks des  n          Gl-G3    sie
Loan EffectunesProject CompYleton
* Tende Documents preperston and Precelitication                                                                                                                             N
* Tondeftln                                                                                                                                                              0   7
Contract Evaluation and Negotiations                                                                                                                                    4
* Contec. Execuwion



- 76 -
Annex 7
Economic Analysis
of Road Sections to be Rehabilitated
1. Two consultant teams have prepared detailed feasibility studies of over 2,500 km of
national roads to establish priorities for this project. Consultants' reports are in the project
file. They give very detailed analysis and all the parameters used in the Bank's Highway
Design Model (HDM-III).
2. Below are a few summary tables and a sample detailed cost-benefit analysis for 2 sections
retained for Bank financing.
Table 1 gives the inputs used by HDM to calculate vehicle operating costs.
Table 2 gives the base year (1995) traffic levels, cost estimates and IRR for the sections to
be financed by the Bank and the sensitivity of the IRR in 3 scenarios:
Sensitivity test 1. Increase of the roads rehabilitation costs by 20%. This is applied
to the economic costs of rehabilitation, occurring in the first three years of the
analysis (1997, 1998, 1999). All other parameters are left unchanged.
Sensitivity test 2. Increase of the road maintenance costs by 20%. This is applied to
the annual and recurrent periodic costs, at their economic values. All other
parameters are left unchanged.
Sensitivity test 3. Decrease of the annual savings by 20%. This decrease is applied
to the annual amount of savings in the years of operation of the Project (2000 through
2019), in economic terms. This sensitivity test, applied directly to the savings, takes
into account two factors and the combined effects of their possible decreases (e.g. the
traffic volumes and the amount of the specific savings of the vehicles).
It can be verified that the reduction of the recurrent costs (road maintenance) does not
affect the IRR while some influence of IRR is observed for the increase of the
construction costs and the reduction of the benefits (annual savings). Generally, the
obtained results can be considered stable, as the elasticity factor is less than 1.
Table 3 gives detailed cost-benefit analysis for 2 typical road sections. All other C-B
calculations are in the consultants' report in the project file.
m:\jy\rom\roadtext



- 77                                    Annex 7
Table 1
TAB. 5.4.3 VEHICLE OPERATlNG COST INPUTS
Name                Pan:ercar Utilirt       Bus        j Medium truck Heanz   ArtcuMted
Vehicle Type        1          4            5           8           9         1io
Number of Tires    14          1 4          6           6           10        114
Gross vehicle veight 1.35     1-2.01        13.35       13.38       19.62    14M
Equivalent standard 0.00        0.00        1.48        1.48        1.43      3.6
axdes    v
Axles Der vehicles    _ 2.00    2.00       1 2.00       2.00        3.00     15.00
Vehicle pavload     0.30        0.50        4.00        7.00        12.10    123.67
Driiing Power       30          3 1         134         95          151       193
Desired speed       98.3        94.9        80.00       75.00       75.00 _ 1 8.00
Fuel efficient factor  0.85     0.90        0.90        0.90        0.90      10.80
Reca cost                                                                     40.0
Number of Recap _|-        _-   __ __          _-_                  ,_  *_|I.0
Economic prices
Vehicle(USS x 1,000) 4270       11780       34600       17070       26440      59000
Tire                70.0        130.0       156.9       156.9       193.4    1236.4
Maintenance labour  1.70        1.70        1.66        1.20        1.20      11.58
_Crewcost _0.14                0.90        0.90        0.70        0.70      0.90
Time cost          11.60        0.60        0.60        0.60        0.60     10.60
Interest %         |10.0        10.0        10.0        10.0        10.0      110.0
Petrol/liter       10.195       0.186       1.00                              I  
Annual km driven   115000       30000       33000       33000       33000      50000      I
VehicleLife        110 _10                  15          15 IS      |Ss
HR driven          1250         600         660         660         660       l1000
Hourly    utlization J          0.7         0.7         0.7         0.7       0.7
u       rabo   a     e  0       1           5.          0.           .        I           I
Numnberofpassenger lo.9        I.o         Isoo0         0.5        los5      lo.o  



- 78 -                                            Annex 7
Table 2
Economic Analysis of World Bank Finance and Road Sections
Road Name           Length (    1995 Traffic Average cost  Total link     EIIR %
AADT        USSIkim      cost USS
DN I (E60) Campina-Comnamic     22.2       11,400       894,129     19,849,664    38.50
DN 2 (E85) Urziceni-Buzau     49.8        7,800       380,809     18,964,288     53.90
DN 2 (E85) Buzau-Rm. Sarat     38.6        9,700       469,921     18,127,371    50.80
DN 6 Bucuresti-Alexandria      78         9,800       396,246    30,907,188      61.90
DN 65 (E70) Craiova-Slatina    45.1        7,800       399,726    18,027,643     44.50
DN 65 + DN 65B (E70) Slatina-    70.5       7,700       422,860     29,811,630     45.10
Pitesti Motorway (DN 65B)
TOTALS/AVERAGES    [   304.2                        446,048    135,687,784     49.87
Results of Sensitivity Tests
Base case   Sensitivity 1  Sensitivity 2  Sernsitivity 3
Road Name                         cash nlow    IRR          IR           IRR
_ _ _ _ _ _ _   R R (%_    _    __                 _  _   _
DN 1 (E60) Campina-Comnamic                  38           33           38           32
DN 2 (E85) Urziceni-Buzau                   54          48           5,           46
DN 2 (E85) Buzti-Rm. Sarat                  51           44           51           43
DN 6 Bucuresti-Alexandna                   62           55           62           53
DN 65 (E70) Craiova-Slatina                 45           39           45           38
DN 65 + DN 65B (E70) Slatina-                 45           39           45           38
Pitesti Motorway (DN 65B)
m.:WyomVroads2Isartab2.xIs



- 79 -                                             Annex  7
Link 1 Campina - Comamic                                   Table  3
Year     Increase in  ncrease in  Savings in   Savings in    Base      Sensitiviry   5ens,;z;j   Sens.:ivity
road capital  roal reci rr. existing veh. existing veh.  case     I                      3
costs       costs     ocerating   travel time    cash flov.
1997        -5,75        C,00       0,00        0.00         -5,75       -6.90       -5..5      -5.75
1998        -7,66        0.00       0,00         0.00        -7.66       -9.20       ,7.56        .6
1999        -5,75        0.00       0.00        0,00         -5.75       -6,90       -5.75       -5.,75
2000         0.00        0.00       9,40         0,84        10.24       10.24       '2.2:        S. 19
2001         0,00        0.00       9,61         0,88        10,49       10.49       10.49        8.39
2002         0.00        0,00       9,90         0,92        10,82       10.82       10.82        3.66
2003         0,00        0,00      10,13         0,97        11,10       11,10       11.10        5.86
2004         0,00        0,CO      10,27         1,01        11.26       11,28       11.28        9.O0
2005         0,00        0,00      10.30         1.04        11.34       11,34       11.34        9.07
2006         0,00        0,00      10,28         1,08        11,35       1 1 ,'5     t 1.35       9,e0
2007         0.00        0,00      10,15         1,10        11.25       11.25       t1,25        9.00
2008         0,00        0.00       9,74         1,10        10,85       10,85       10.85        8.68
2009         0,00        0,00       8,69         1,04         9,73        9.73        9,73        7.79
2010         0,00        0.00       6.05         0,78         6,83        6.83        6.83        5.4
2011         0,00        0,00       2.20         0,31         2,51        Z.51        Z51         2.01
2012         0.00        0,00       0,38         0,05         0,43        0,43        0,43        0,35
2013         0,00        0,00       0,40         0,05         0,45        0,45        0.45        0.36
2014         0,00        0,00       0,41         0,06         0,47        0,47        0.47        0.38
2015         0.00        0.00       0,43         0,06         0,49        0.49        0.49        0.3
2016         0,00        0.00       0,45         0.06         0.51        0,51        0.51        0.41
2017         0,00        0,00       0,46         0,06         0.53        0.53        0.53       04
2018         0,00        0,00       0,48         0,07         0.55        0.55        0.55        0.
2019         4,79        0.00       0,50         0,07         5.35        6.31        5.35        5.2
IRR =               38%          33%         33%        32%
Link 2 Urziceni - Buzau
Year     Increase in  Increase in  Savings in   Savings in   Base      Sensitivity   Sensiaroy   Sensitivity
road capital  road rerr. existing veh. existing veh.  case        1          2           3
costs       costs     operating   travel Ume    cash flow
costs       costs
1997        -5,56        0.00       0,00         0,00        -5,56       -6,68       -5.56       -5,56
1998        -7,42        0,00       0,00         0,00        -7,42       -6.90       -7.42       -7.4
1999        -5.56        0.00       0,00         0,00        -5,56       -6,68       -5,56       -5,56
2000        0,00         0.,       13,06         1,04        i4,10       14.10       14,10       tl,23
2001         0,00        0.00       15,53        1,37        16,90       16,90       16,90       13,5
2002         0,00        0,00      16,01         1.4.4       17.45       17,45       17,45       13,96
2003         0,00        O.00      16,41         1,51        17,92       17.92       17,92       14,33
2004         0,00        0,00       16,66        1,57        18,24       18,24       18.23       14,5
2005         0,00        0,00      16,76         1,63        18,39       18.39       18.39       14,71
2006         0,00        0,00      16,85         1,69        18,53       18,53       18,53       14.82
2007         0,00        OC.O      16.87         1,74        18,60       18.60       1 8.60      14,8
2008         0,00        0.00      16,72         1,78        18.50       18,50       1,50       14.8
2009         0,00        0,00       16,24        1.79        18.03        18,03      18.03       14.42
2010         0,00        0,00       15,08        1,74        16.80        16,S0      16.79       13,4_;
2011         0,00        0.00       12,44        1,53        13,97       13,97       13,97       11. 16
2012         0,00        0,00       6,71         0,90         7,61        7,61        7.61.       6.09
2013         0,00        0.00       1,17         0,17         1,34        1,34        1,34        1,07
2014         0,00        0,00       -0,31       -0,04        -0,35       -0,35       -0,35       -0,28
2015         0.00        0.00       -0,32       -0,04        -0,36       -0,36       -0.35       -0.29
2016         0,00        0.00       -0,33       -0,04        -0,37       -0.37       -0,37       -0.30
2017         0,00        0,00       -0,34       -0,44        -0.78       -0,78       -0.78       -0.63
2018         0.00        0.00       -0.35       40,05        -0,40       -0,40       -0.40       -0.32
2019         4,64        0,00       -0.37       -0.05         4,22        5.15        :22         4,3C
IRR          . ,     54%         48%         S4%        46
ROMS SEN.XLS Page I



- 80 -
Annex 8
ROMANIA
SECOND ROADS PROJECT
DOCUMENTS IN THE PROJECT FILE
1.    Detailed Project Description. NAR.
November 1996
2.    Second Transport Project (Regional Group 2). Pre-Investment Study. SPEA - Italy and
Iptana - Search. In 5 volumes, Bucharest.
June 1996
3.    Second Transport Project (Regional Group 1). Pre-Investment Study, Louis Berger
International & Viacons, Consistrans, Relax, Eurometudes. In 2 volumes, Bucharest.
June 1996
4.    La Securite Routiere en Roumanie; Gerondeau and Others.
June 1993
5.    Dinamica Accidentelor Grave de Circulatie 1991-1995 and various other publications.
Ministry of Interior, Inspectorate-General of Police, Bucharest.
May 1996
File name: m:\cjl\rom\sar\annex8



lS
e
GL
t
n
H
-
l o






1ILOMETERS  25-  \~ -,.~' - I                                                                           /&                                                                        IBRD 27751
KILOMETERS                  2-      X2.o                                                                                           /2
25  50   75  10KAIERO AI
0  25  50      75    1001--                                                               U K R A  I N  E              T 11vov        1-   , %                                   R O  M  A  N  I A
0 ;0 20 M3OLESJ0                                                                Kh__-                                                                                   SECOND ROADS PROJECT
4ao sotu < j - - > OSA                                                                                                                                                                                    NETWORK SELECTED FOR
R E S                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NETWORK STUDIED
H U N G A R Y   J                    A M>bat - -x   S U C E A V   X                                    ,    %g  o                                =~~~~~~~~~~~~~ (2,500 km 
HUNGARY  ii-         MARAM~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RE5  '~~~~~~~~~~- ~~REHABILITATED UNDER
01                          PREVIOUS PROJECT
BIS<  a    C. - _  2 0   *(   ( 615TRITA-    >  -   \    <   { -4   \  <    s                         NRA REGIONS
Y           NASAUD/T. Ki,-                                                                                  IASI    HEADQUARTERS
T.                                                                     $                                                                     -                                       - N7eRNI A  BOUNDARIES
Zo                                                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 SELECTED CITIES
*  a r                    _<\            t              ,        2                           =                  A                           '                                     --~~~~~~.1    M 
FEDERALA                                                                                                                                (3S  0   COUNTY (JUDET) CENTERS
U    NATIONAL CAPITAL
N,..         K,,~T.o    -    EXPRESSWAY
f  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~           -    MAJOR ROADS
CLUJ N                                                         -A                                      P~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ AILROADS
(SERBIA/MONTEN EGRO)    !                              "-.X             D cljL J ~                      tGAIUR,G I UL. ) _                         '          -            s,l,,-ovC0SANSTTA'L BOUNDARIES
.ogsn undof Ga World8n Rock iG-\)< ] Aean  Gugi     AC
bounoclon,, color,, deoom,oon,j<,.,eil,L_t/ '' rVoo,   w-    
cod coy oil,., ,clormcOoo sho,cc on ~ ~ ~  ~        Albaful,
In. app do nol aiply. cc ie pcr. of             \u                                                                                                                                    Ov,o,      
Goe World Rank Groip. ony oudgronnt  ~Mgree-\y/ v- '
on edosei.i r OcplncTO    I                                                                                                      oI            2VRA CE
c~~~~~myfiosem~o0cwe0f 2              2         H14BUNEDOARA                                            BRAO                          I.                                A  A                       UmZe Kb RS AOV Ia.e'-7 N,
,och boundor,to                         2                                                                                                                                                               ,*
SEVERIN         -HOV-AI                                                                                                                                                A -              SEPTEM8 9EM









IMAGING
Report No.:          16153   RO
Type:      SAR



