Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4178 RO
Project Agreement
(Second Roads Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
and
 NATIONAL ADMINISTRATION OF ROADS
Dated July 1, 1997 
 LOAN NUMBER 4178 RO
PROJECT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated July 1, 1997, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and NATIONAL ADMINISTRATION OF ROADS (NAR).
      WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between Romania (the 
Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower an 
amount equal to one hundred fifty million dollars ($150,000,000), on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that NAR agree to 
undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement;
      (B)
by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower 
and NAR,  the proceeds of the loan provided for under the Loan Agreement will be made 
available to NAR on the terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement; and
      WHEREAS NAR, in consideration of the Bank’s entering into the Loan Agreement 
with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General Conditions (as 
so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth. 
ARTICLE II
Page  2
Execution of the Project 
      Section 2.01. NAR declares its commitment to the objectives of Parts B, C and D 
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, 
shall carry out Parts B, C and D of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and 
in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and technical 
practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for Parts B, C and D of the Project.
      Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of the Schedule to 
this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. (a) NAR shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of Parts B, C and D of the 
Project.
      (b)
For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, NAR shall:
             (i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the
                    Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than six (6)
                    months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be
                    agreed for this purpose between the Bank and NAR, a plan
                    for the future operation of Parts B, C and D of the
                    Project; and
            (ii)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views
                    with NAR on said plan.
      Section 2.04. NAR shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, NAR shall not take or concur 
in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or 
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
      Section 2.05. (a) NAR shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views with the 
Bank with regard to progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under 
this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other matters relating to 
the purposes of the Loan.
      (b)
NAR shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes or 
threatens to interfere with the progress of Parts B, C and D of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or the performance by NAR of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of NAR
      Section 3.01. NAR shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial and technical practices under the 
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in 
adequate numbers.
      Section 3.02. NAR shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, machinery, 
equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all 
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, 
financial and technical practices.
      Section 3.03. NAR shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or make 
other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such 
amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV 
Financial and Other Covenants
Page  3
      Section 4.01. (a) NAR shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in 
accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
      (b)    NAR shall:
            (i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements
                    (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and 
                    related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in
                    accordance with appropriate auditing principles
                    consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable
                    to the Bank;
           (ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case
                    not later than six (6) months after the end of each such
                    year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for
                    such year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit
                    by said auditors of such scope and in such detail as the
                    Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
           (iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said
                    records, accounts and financial statements as well as the
                    audit thereof, as the Bank shall from time to time
                    reasonably request.
Section 4.02. NAR shall:
      (a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Bank, 
the carrying out of Parts B, C and D of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof;
      (b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about March 31, 2000, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of Parts B, C and D of the 
Project during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
      (c)
review with the Bank, by June 30, 2000, or such later date as the Bank 
shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of Parts B, 
C and D of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter.
Section 4.03. (a) NAR shall collect data on axle loads on the national roads 
network for twelve (12) consecutive months beginning not later than September 30, 
1997; and
(b)
NAR shall submit to the Bank, for its review, a report on its analysis of 
axle loads and its recommendations for a system of axle load monitoring control, not 
later than December 31, 1998. 
Section 4.04. NAR shall maintain the PMU with a sufficient number of qualified 
staff and adequate facilities, as satisfactory to the Bank.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
 Cancellation and Suspension
      Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
      Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of NAR 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify NAR thereof.
      Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Page  4
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
      Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, DC 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
       Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For NAR:
National Administration of Roads
38, Dinicu Golescu
77113 Bucharest, 1
Romania
      Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed under this Agreement on behalf of NAR, may be 
taken or executed by its Director General or such other person or persons as said 
Director General shall designate in writing, and NAR shall furnish to the Bank 
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each 
such person.
      Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/  Kenneth G. Lay
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia
NATIONAL ADMINISTRATION OF ROADS
By /s/  Mircea Geoana
 Authorized Representative
Page  5
SCHEDULE
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A:
General
      Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
      (a)
Prequalification
      Bidders for works on roads, bridges, black spots and traffic safety pilot 
schemes shall be prequalified in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 2.9 and 
2.10 of the Guidelines.
      (b)
Grouping of contracts
      To the extent practicable, contracts for works shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $20,000,000 for roads, $5,000,000 for bridges and $1,000,000 for 
black spots, equivalent or more each.
      (c)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
      The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
      (d)
Dispute Review Board
      Each contract for works estimated to cost $50,000,000 equivalent or more shall 
include the provisions for a dispute review board set forth in the standard bidding 
documents for works referred to in paragraph 2.12 of the Guidelines.
      (e)
Notification and Advertising
      The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures  
1.
National Competitive Bidding
      Works estimated to cost less than $1,000,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $40,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
International Shopping
      Goods estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $3,500,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Direct Contracting
Goods which should be procured as an extension of an existing contract must be 
purchased from the original supplier to be compatible with existing equipment, are of 
a proprietary nature, or must be procured from a particular supplier as a condition of 
a performance guarantee, may, with the Bank’s prior agreement, be procured in 
Page  6
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
      Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to: (i) all contracts for works procured under Section I, Part B of 
this Schedule; (ii) the first two contracts for each category of bridge 
rehabilitation, black spots, linear village, and national road works, procured under 
Section I, Part C.1 of this Schedule; and (iii) the first two contracts for goods 
procured under Section I, Part C.2 of this Schedule, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.   
3.
Post Review
      With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
 Employment of Consultants
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of the “Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency” published by the Bank in August 
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts 
shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants’ services issued by 
the Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where 
no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, other standard 
forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short 
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and 
contracts, shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts for the 
employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent 
each. However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not apply to: (a) the terms 
of reference for such contracts; (b) single-source selection of consulting firms; (c) 
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Bank; (d) amendments 
to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to 
$100,000 equivalent or above; or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment of 
individual consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
