Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4178 RO
Loan Agreement
(Second Roads Project)
between
 ROMANIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated July 1, 1997
LOAN NUMBER 4178 RO
LOAN AGREEMENT 
      AGREEMENT, dated July 1, 1997, between ROMANIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL 
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
      (B)
the Borrower intends to contract from the Fund for Assistance to Central 
and European Countries (PHARE) a grant (the PHARE Grant) in an amount equivalent to 
sixteen million dollars ($16,000,000) to assist in financing Parts A, D and E of the 
Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the PHARE Grant 
Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and PHARE;
(C)
by agreement (the EBRD Loan Agreement), dated November 20, 1996, the 
European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) has agreed to make a loan (the 
EBRD Loan) to the Borrower in an aggregate principal amount equivalent to eighty five 
million nine hundred thousand dollars ($85,900,000) to assist in financing Part B of 
the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in the  EBRD Loan Agreement;
(D)
by agreement (the EIB Loan Agreement), dated October 25, 1996, the 
European Investment Bank (EIB) has agreed to make a loan (the EIB Loan) to the 
Borrower in an aggregate principal amount equivalent to about eighty eight million 
dollars ($88,000,000) to assist in financing Part B of the Project on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the  EIB Loan Agreement; and
(E)
Parts B, C and D of the Project will be carried out by the National 
Administration of Roads (NAR) with the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such 
Page  2
assistance, the Borrower will make available to NAR the proceeds of the Loan as 
provided in this Agreement; and
       WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and NAR;
       NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, with the 
modification set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of 
this Agreement:
Section 6.03 is modified to read:
      “Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Bank.  If (a) the right of
       the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account shall have been
       suspended with respect to any amount of the Loan for a continuous
       period of thirty days, or (b) at any time, the Bank determines, after
       consultation with the Borrower, that an amount of the Loan will not be
       required to finance the Project’s costs to be financed out of the 
       proceeds of the Loan, or (c) at any time, the Bank determines, with 
       respect to any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan,
       that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives
       of the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement
       or the execution of such contract, without the Borrower having taken
       timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to remedy the
       situation, and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of
       such contract which would otherwise have been eligible for financing
       out of the proceeds of the Loan, or (d) at any time, the Bank
       determines that the procurement of any contract to be financed out of
       the proceeds of the Loan is inconsistent with the procedures set forth
       or referred to in the Loan Agreement and establishes the amount of
       expenditures in respect of such contract which would otherwise have
       been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan, or (e)
       after the Closing Date, an amount of the Loan shall remain unwithdrawn
       from the Loan Account, or (f) the Bank shall have received notice from
       the Guarantor pursuant to Section 6.07 with respect to an amount of the
       Loan, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower and the Guarantor,
       terminate the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to
       such amount. Upon the giving of such notice, such amount of the Loan
       shall be cancelled.” 
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
      (a)
“Project Agreement” means the agreement of even date herewith between the 
Bank and NAR, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such terms include all 
agreements supplemental to the said Project Agreement;
      (b)
“Subsidiary Loan Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and NAR, pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the 
same may be amended from time to time;
      (c)
“Subsidiary Loan” means the loan provided under the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement;
      (d)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
      (e)
“NAR Decision” means Government Decision No. 1275, dated December 8, 
1990, regarding the establishment of NAR, and any subsequent modifications thereto; 
      (f)
“PMU” means the Project management unit to be maintained by NAR, in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 4.04 of the Project Agreement, with 
Page  3
responsibility for the overall coordination and supervision of the carrying out of 
Parts B, C and D of the Project and the procurement of the goods and services 
therefor;
      (g)
“ICRS” means the Interministerial Council for Road Safety established by 
Government Decision No. 437, dated June 20, 1995;
      (h)
“SICRS” means the permanent secretariat of the ICRS;
      (i)
“Lead Reduction Action Plan” means the action plan for the phasing out of 
lead in petrol, referred to in Section 4.04 of the Loan Agreement;
      (j)
“National Traffic Safety Action Plan” means the action plan for improving 
traffic safety, referred to in Section 4.06 of the Loan Agreement;
      (k)
“Traffic Safety Program” means the program referred to in Section 4.05 of 
the Loan Agreement; and
      (l)
“Lei” means the Borrower’s currency.
ARTICLE II
 The Loan
      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to one 
hundred fifty million dollars ($150,000,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
      (b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure 
and attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
       Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 2003 or such later date 
as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
       Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
       Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of 
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest 
Period equal to LIBOR  Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
      (b)
For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and
                    including the date of this Agreement to, but excluding,
                    the first Interest Payment Date occurring thereafter, and
                    after the initial period, each period from and including
                    an Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the next
                    following Interest Payment Date.
           (ii)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in
                    Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
          (iii)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the
                    London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in
                    Dollars for value the first day of such Interest Period
                    (or, in the case of the initial Interest Period, for value
                    the Interest Payment Date occurring on or next preceding
                    the first day of such Interest Period), as reasonably
                    determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per
                    annum. 
Page  4
           (iv)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A)
                    one half of one percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus)
                    the weighted average margin, for such Interest Period,
                    below (or above) the London interbank offered rates, or
                    other reference rates, for six-month deposits, in respect
                    of the Bank’s outstanding borrowings or portions thereof
                    allocated by the Bank to fund single currency loans or
                    portions thereof made by it that include the Loan; as
                    reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a
                    percentage per annum.
      (c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.
      (d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in 
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable May 15 and November 15 
in each year.
      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end: (i) shall 
carry out Parts A and E of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative and financial practices and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources needed for 
Parts A and E of the Project; and (ii) without any limitation or restriction upon any 
of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, shall cause NAR to perform in 
accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of NAR 
therein set forth, shall take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision 
of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable 
NAR to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action 
which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b)
The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Loan to NAR under a 
subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and NAR, under terms 
and conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank which shall include the 
following principal terms: (i) the principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan shall be 
repaid in Lei in amounts equivalent (determined as of the date or respective dates of 
repayment, according to Schedule 3 to this Agreement) to the amounts withdrawn from 
the Loan Account or paid out of the Special Account on account of goods and services 
for Parts B and C of the Project, and financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; (ii) 
the principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan shall be repaid over a period of no more 
than twenty (20) years, including a grace period of no more than five (5) years; and 
(iii) NAR shall pay interest and other charges on the principal amount of the 
Subsidiary Loan at a rate equal to the rate applicable to the Loan pursuant to this 
Agreement.
(c) 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and 
to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement 
or any provision thereof.
       Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan  shall be governed by the provisions of the Schedule to 
the Project Agreement.
Page  5
       Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
       (a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the 
future operation of Parts A and E of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.04. The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively), in respect of Parts B, C and 
D of the Project, shall be carried out by NAR pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project 
Agreement.
ARTICLE IV 
Financial and Other Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower 
shall or shall cause NAR to:
      (i)
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with
                    sound accounting practices, records and accounts
                    reflecting such expenditures;
     (ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
                    bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such
                    expenditures are retained until at least one year after
                    the Bank has received the audit report for the fiscal year
                    in which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was
                    made; and
    (iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records.
      (b) 
The Borrower shall or shall cause NAR to:
             (i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a)
                    (i) of this Section including those for the Special
                    Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
                    appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
                    independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
            (ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case
                    not later than six (6) months after the end of each such
                    year the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
                    scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
                    requested, including a separate opinion by said auditors
                    as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted
                    during such fiscal year, together with the procedures and
                    internal controls involved in their preparation, can be
                    relied upon to support the related withdrawals; and
           (iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said
                    records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank
                    shall from time to time reasonably request.
      Section 4.02. The Borrower shall:
      (a)
review with the Bank, not later than November 30 of each fiscal year, the 
Borrower’s proposed budget and expenditure program for its national roads network 
during the following fiscal year and take the Bank’s views into consideration in 
finalizing said program; and
      (b)
thereafter ensure that any investment in its national roads network 
estimated to cost $6,000,000 equivalent or more shall be carried out only if 
Page  6
determined to be economically viable in accordance with criteria agreed with the Bank. 
      Section 4.03. The Borrower shall maintain, at all times until the completion of 
the Project, the ICRS and SICRS with a sufficient number of qualified staff and 
adequate facilities, as satisfactory to the Bank.
      Section 4.04. The Borrower shall: (i) by December 31, 1997, submit (through the 
ICRS) to the Bank a Lead Reduction Action Plan, satisfactory to the Bank; and (ii) 
carry out said Action Plan in accordance with its terms.
      Section 4.05. The Borrower shall: (a) carry out the Traffic Safety Program with 
due diligence and efficiency; (b) review with the Bank, by June 30 of each year, the 
progress achieved in the carrying out of such a program; and (c) within four (4) 
months of each such review, update the program and, thereafter, implement all measures 
required to ensure the efficient carrying out thereof during the period after such 
review, taking into consideration the Bank’s comments on the matter.
      Section 4.06. The Borrower shall: (i) by December 31, 1999, submit (through the 
ICRS) to the Bank, for its review, a draft National Traffic Safety Action Plan; 
(ii) immediately thereafter finalize said Action Plan taking into consideration the 
Bank’s comments on such a draft; and (iii) carry out said Action Plan in accordance 
with its terms.
Section 4.07. The Borrower, through the ICRS, shall:
      (a)    maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Bank, 
the carrying out of Parts A and E of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof;
      (b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about March 31, 2000, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure 
the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and
      (c)
review with the Bank, by June 30, 2000, or such later date as the Bank 
shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Bank views on the matter.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
NAR shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the Project 
Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that NAR will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(c)
The NAR Decision shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed 
or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of  NAR to perform any 
of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
       (d)
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablish\1fment of NAR or for the suspension of 
its operations.
       (e)
The PHARE Grant Agreement shall have failed to become effective by 
December 31, 1998, or such later date as the Bank may agree; provided, however, that 
the provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to the 
satisfaction of the Bank that adequate funds for the Project are available to the 
Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of 
Page  7
the Borrower under this Agreement.
       (f)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
                    (A)
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds
                           of any grant or loan made to the Borrower for the
                           financing of the Project shall have been suspended,
                           cancelled or terminated in whole or in part,
                           pursuant to the terms of the EBRD Loan Agreement,
                           EIB Loan Agreement, or PHARE Grant Agreement, 
                           providing therefor, or
                    (B)
the EBRD Loan or the EIB Loan shall have become due
                           and payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
            (ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the
                    Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that:
                    (A) such suspension, cancellation, termination or 
                    prematuring is not caused by the failure of the Borrower
                    to perform any of its obligations under such agreement;
                    and (B) adequate funds for the Project are available to
                    the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions
                    consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under this
                    Agreement.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
      (a)
the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice thereof 
shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower;
      (b)
the events specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur; and
      (c)
the event specified in paragraph (f) (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (f) (ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
 Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions: 
      (a)
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower 
and NAR; and
      (b)
all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the EBRD Loan Agreement 
and the EIB Loan Agreement have been fulfilled, other than those related to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement.
      Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, with the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
      (a)
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by NAR 
and is legally binding upon NAR in accordance with its terms; and
      (b)
that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified 
by the Borrower and NAR and is legally binding upon the Borrower and NAR in accordance 
with its terms.
      Section 6.03. The date one hundred twenty (120) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General 
Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Page  8
      Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
17 Apolodor Street
Bucharest
Romania 
      Telex:
11230
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
        64145 (MCI)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
ROMANIA
By /s/ Mircea Geoana
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Kenneth G. Lay
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
      Amount of the
            Loan Allocated            % of
            (Expressed in
        Expenditures
Category 
        Dollars)     
to be Financed 
(1)
Works under Part B
125,000,000
100% of foreign
of the Project
       expenditures and 
 
Page  9
                    60% of local
                    expenditures
(2)
Goods under Parts B
 13,000,000
 
100% of foreign
and C of the Project
expenditures, 100%
                    of local expenditures
                    (ex-factory cost)
                    and 80% of local
                    expenditures for
                    other items procured
                    locally
(3)
Consultants’
         4,000,000
       100%
Services under Parts
B and C of the Project 
(4)
Unallocated
         8,000,000
        __________
TOTAL
              150,000,000
       ===========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
      (a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
      (b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the 
equivalent of $15,000,000 may be made on account of payments made for expenditures 
before that date but after November 30, 1996.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) contracts for works on roads 
costing less than $4,000,000 equivalent each; (b) contracts for works on bridges 
costing less than $500,000 equivalent each; and (c) contracts costing less than 
$100,000 equivalent each for the employment of consulting firms, and $50,000 
equivalent each for employment of individual consultants, under such terms and 
conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (i) improve traffic safety and the fitness 
of the vehicle fleet; (ii) continue helping the Borrower to meet the changing pattern 
of demand for land transport infrastructure; (iii) improve the management and 
performance of NAR; (iv) assist the Romanian civil works construction industry in its 
transition to a market economy; and (v) promote the reduction of lead in petrol.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Carrying out of works and provision of goods and consultants’ services to 
improve traffic safety, as well as improve the technical conditions and reduce the 
emission levels of vehicles, including the preparation of a National Traffic Safety 
Action Plan. 
Part B:
Carrying out of works and provision of goods and consultants’ services for: (i) 
the rehabilitation of about 1,000 km of national roads and about 100 bridges; (ii) the 
elimination of accident black spots; and (iii) traffic safety pilot projects on 
national roads.
Page  10
Part C:
Provision of goods and consultants’ services for routine maintenance and for the 
improvement of the management and performance of NAR, including the establishment of a 
bridge management system and a cost accounting system.
Part D:
Provision of consultants’ services, in the areas of contract management, 
financial management and control of enterprises, to assist the Romanian civil works 
construction industry in its transition to a market economy.
Part E:
Provision of consultants’ services to promote the reduction of lead in petrol, 
including assistance in the preparation  of  a Lead Reduction Action Plan.
* * *
      The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 2003.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
 Payment of Principal Date Payment Due
         (Expressed in Dollars)* 
November 15, 2002
3,170,000
May 15, 2003
3,265,000
November 15, 2003
3,360,000
May 15, 2004
3,460,000
November 15, 2004
3,565,000
May 15, 2005
3,670,000
November 15, 2005
3,780,000
May 15, 2006
3,890,000
November 15, 2006
4,005,000 
May 15, 2007
4,125,000 
November 15, 2007
4,245,000 
May 15, 2008
4,375,000 
November 15, 2008
4,500,000 
May 15, 2009
4,635,000 
November 15, 2009
4,775,000 
May 15, 2010
4,915,000 
November 15, 2010
5,060,000 
May 15, 2011
5,210,000 
November 15, 2011
5,365,000 
May 15, 2012
5,525,000 
November 15, 2012
5,690,000 
May 15, 2013
5,855,000 
November 15, 2013
6,030,000 
May 15, 2014
6,210,000 
November 15, 2014
6,395,000 
May 15, 2015
6,585,000 
November 15, 2015
6,780,000 
May 15, 2016
6,980,000 
November 15, 2016
7,185,000 
May 15, 2017
7,395,000
________________________
*  The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid,
   except as provided in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4
 Special Account 
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) to (3) set forth in 
Page  11
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
      (b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equal to $8,500,000 to 
be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equal to 
$1,700,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent 
of $25,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
       (a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit  into the Special Account of an amount 
or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On 
the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or 
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
       (b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower
                    shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the
                    Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall
                    specify. 
      (ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower
                    shall furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence
                    required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
                    payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                    requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank
                    shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
                    Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount
                    as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have
                    been shown by said documents and other evidence to have
                    been paid out of the Special Account for eligible
                    expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the
                    Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible
                    Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as
                    shall have been justified by said documents and other
                    evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
      (a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
      (b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
      (c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Page  12
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
      (b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
      (c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
      (d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
