                                      Documentof
                                  The WorldBank




                                                       ReportNo.: 47414




                  PROJECTPERFORMANCEASSESSMENTREPORT

                                      ROMANIA

                          ROADSTWO PROJECT(LN4178-RO)

                                     March3,2009




Sector Evaluation Division
Independent Evaluation Group (World Bank)

CurrencyEquivalents (annual averages)

Currency Unit =New Romanian Lei (RON)

1997                       US$l.oo
                           US$1.oo                  ROM0.72
1998                                                ROM0.89
1999                                                ROM 1.54
                           US$l.oo
                           US$l.oo
2000                                                ROM2.12
2001                       US$l.oo                  ROM2.94
2002                       US$l.oo                  ROM3.41
2003                       US$1.oo                  ROM3.41
2004                       US$l.oo
                           US$l-00                  ROM3.34
2005                                                ROM2.94
2006                       US$1.oo                  ROM2.82
2007                       US$l-00                  ROM2.45

AbbreviationsandAcronyms

BMS          BridgeManagement System
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
CPS          Country Partnership Strategy
EBRD         EuropeanBank for Reconstruction andDevelopment
EIB          European Investment Bank
ERR          Economic Rate o fReturn
EU           EuropeanUnion
EU-PHARE EuropeanUnionAssistance Programfor Central and Eastern European Countries
GRSP         Global Road Safety Partnership
IBRD         International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR          ImplementationCompletion Report
ICRS         Inter-MinisterialCommittee onRoadSafety
IEG          IndependentEvaluationGroup
IEGWB        IndependentEvaluationGroup (World Bank)
M&E          MonitoringandEvaluation
MTCT         MinistryofTransport, ConstructionandTourism
NAR          NationalAdministration o fRoads
PMS          PavementManagement System
PPAR         Project Performance Assessment Report
RNCMNR Romanian National Company for Motorways andNational Roads
SAR          StaffAppraisal Report
USAID        UnitedStates Agency for InternationalDevelopment



Fiscal Year

Government:               January 1-December 31




Director-General, Independent Evaluation                    : Mr.VinodThomas
Director, Independent Evaluation Group (World Bank)         : Ms.CherylGray
Manager, Sector EvaluationDivision                          : Ms.MonikaHuppi
Task Manager                                                : Mr.PeterFreeman

                                                              i

I  IEGWB Mission: Enhancingdevelopmenteffectivenessthroughexcellence and independenceinevaluation.                   I
 About this Report
        The IndependentEvaluationGroupassesses the programsand activities of theWorld Bankfor two purposes:
 first, to ensurethe integrityofthe Bank's self-evaluationprocessand to verify that the Bank's work is producingthe
 expected results, andsecond, to helpdevelopimproveddirections, policies,and proceduresthrough the
 disseminationof lessonsdrawnfrom experience. As part of this work, IEGWBannuallyassesses about 25 percent of
 the Bank's lendingoperationsthroughfield work. Inselectingoperationsfor assessment, preference is givento those
 that are innovative, large,or complex:those that are relevantto upcomingstudies or country evaluations:those for
 which ExecutiveDirectorsor Bank managementhaverequestedassessments: andthosethat are likelyto generate
  importantlessons.
        To preparea ProjectPerformanceAssessment Report (PPAR), IEGWBstaff examine projectfiles and other
 documents, interviewoperationalstaff, visit the borrowing countryto discussthe operationwith the government,
 and other in-countrystakeholders,and interviewBank staff andother donor agencystaff bothat headquartersand
 in localoffices as appropriate.
        Each PPAR is subjectto internalIEGWB peer review, Panel review,and management approval.Once cleared
 internally,the PPAR is commented on by the responsibleBank department. IEGWB incorporatesthe comments as
 relevant.The completed PPAR is then sent to the borrower for review: the borrowers'comments are attachedto
 the documentthat is sent to the Bank's Board of ExecutiveDirectors.After an assessmentreport has beensent to
 the Board, it is disclosed to the public.

 About the IEGWB Rating System
        IEGWB's use of multipleevaluationmethods offers both rigorand a necessarylevel of flexibility to adaptto
 lendinginstrument,projectdesign, or sectoralapproach. IEGWBevaluatorsall applythe same basic methodto
 arrive at their project ratings. Following is the definitionand ratingscale usedfor each evaluationcriterion
 (additionalinformationis availableon the IEGWBwebsite: http://worldbank.org/ieg).
       Outcome: The extent to whichthe operation'smajor relevantobjectiveswere achieved, or are expected to
 be achieved,efficiently.The ratinghasthree dimensions: relevance, efficacy,and efficiency. Relevanceincludes
 relevanceof objectivesand relevanceof design. Relevanceof objectives is the extentto which the project's
 objectivesare consistent with the country's currentdevelopment prioritiesandwith currentBank countryand
 sectoralassistancestrategiesand corporategoals (expressedin PovertyReductionStrategy Papers, Country
 AssistanceStrategies, Sector Strategy Papers, OperationalPolicies).Relevanceof design is the extent to which
 the project's designis consistentwith the stated objectives. Efficacyis the extent to which the project's objectives
 were achieved, or are expectedto beachieved,taking intoaccount their relative importance.Efficiencyis the
 extent to whichthe projectachieved,or is expectedto achieve,a return higherthan the opportunitycost of capital
 and benefitsat least cost comparedto alternatives.The efficiencydimension generally is not appliedto adjustment
 operations.Possibleratingsfor Outcome: HighlySatisfactory,Satisfactory,ModeratelySatisfactory,Moderately
 Unsatisfactory,Unsatisfactory,Highly Unsatisfactory.
       Riskto Development Outcome: The risk, at thetime of evaluation, that development outcomes(or
 expected outcomes)will not be maintained(or realized). Possibleratingsfor Riskto DevelopmentOutcome: High
 Significant,Moderate, Negligibleto Low, Not Evaluable.
       BankPerformance: The extentto whichservices providedby the Bank ensuredquality at entry of the
 operationand supported effectiveimplementationthroughappropriatesupervision(includingensuringadequate
 transitionarrangements for regularoperationof supportedactivities after loadcredit closing, towardthe
 achievement of development outcomes. The ratinghas two dimensions: quality at entry and quality of supervision.
 Possibleratingsfor BankPerfomance: HighlySatisfactory,Satisfactory,ModeratelySatisfactory,Moderately
 Unsatisfactory,Unsatisfactory, HighlyUnsatisfactory.
      BorrowerPerformance: The extent to which the borrower(includingthe governmentand implementing
 agencyor agencies) ensuredquality of preparationand implementation,and compliedwith covenantsand
 agreements, toward the achievementof development outcomes. The rating has two dimensions: government
 performanceand implementingagency(ies)performance. Possibleratingsfor BorrowerPerformance: Highly                  .
 Satisfactory,Satisfactory, ModeratelySatisfactory,ModeratelyUnsatisfactory,Unsatisfactory,Highly
 Unsatisfactory.


                                                                              ...
                                                                             111



Contents

PRINCIPALRATINGS                    .....................................................................................................................   V


KEY STAFF RESPONSIBLE                          ..........................................................................................................    V


PREFACE      ......................................................................................................................................         vi1


SUMMARY      .......................     ..............................................................................................................     IX


1 .      BACKGROUND                   ..................................................................................................................     1


2 .      PROJECTOBJECTIVESAND DESIGN                                           ............................................................................  2


3 .      IMPLEMENTATION                     ............................................................................................................     5

         ImplementationExperience                           .............................................................................................    5


4 .      MONITORINGAND EVALUATION(M&E)                                             ........................................................................  7

         Design      ................................................................................................................................        7
         Implementation               ..................................................................................................................     8
         Utilization        ...........................................................................................................................      8


5 .      RATINGS          ............................................................................................................................       8

         Relevance           ..........................................................................................................................      8
         Efficacy      ..............................................................................................................................        9
         Efficiency         .........................................................................................................................       15
        Outcome          ...........................................................................................................................        16
        Monitoringand Evaluation                          ............................................................................................     -16
        Risk to DevelopmentOutcome                               ......................................................................................     16
        Bank Performance                    ..........................................................................................................      17
        BorrowerPerformance                        ...................................................................................................      18


6.      LESSONS            ........................................................................................................................        -19


ANNEX A    .BASIC         DATASHEET                 ..................................................................................................     20



This report was preparedby Peter Freeman. who assessedthe project inM a y 2008 Romayne Pereira
provided administrative support             .                                                                               .

                                       iv


ANNEX B. ROMANIANNATIONALROAD ACCIDENT STATISTICS                          ........................................22

ANNEX C. BORROWERCOMMENTS ........................................ .................................................23

                                                V



PrincipalRatings

RomaniaRoads TwoProject (Loan 4319-RO)

                             /CR*                   /CR Review*                     PPAR

Outcome                  Satisfactory               Satisfactory                Satisfactory


Risk to                Negligibleto low              Moderate                    Moderate
Development
Outcome


Bank                     Satisfactory               Satisfactory                Satisfactory
Performance
Borrower                 Satisfactory               Satisfactory                Satisfactory
Performance
 The ImplementationCompletionReport (ICR) is a self-evaluationby the responsibleBank department. The
ICR Reviewis an intermediateIEGWBproductthat seeks to independentlyverify the findings of the ICR.




Project           TaskManagedLeader               Division Chief/              CountryDirector
                                                 Sector Director
Appraisal             Jeremy Lane               RicardoA Halperin              Francois M Ettori
Completion           HenryGR Kerali                Motoo Konishi                Anand K Seth


                                              vii


 Preface

            This is the ProjectPerformanceAssessmentReport(PPAR) preparedbythe
 Independent Evaluation Group (IEG) for the Roads TwoProject, (Loan4178-RO). The
 InternationalBank for Reconstruction andDevelopment (IBRD) loan to the Government
 ofRomania(GOR) was approved bythe Boardo fDirectors on March 6, 1997inthe
 amount o fUS$150.0 million equivalent. At appraisal the total project cost was estimated
 to be US$553.4 million, with US$214.0 millionto be contributed bythe GOR and,
 throughparallelagreements, a loanofUS$85.9 millionfrom the European Investment
 Bank(EIB), aloano fUS$87.5 million from the EuropeanBankfor Reconstructionand
 Development (EBRD), and a grant for US$16.0 million from the EuropeanUnion
 Assistance Program for Central andEasternEuropeancountries (EU-PHARE).

            Inthe event, the grant fundingfromEU-PHAREdidnotmaterialize. The
 IBRDloan, however, was substantially under spent after completionofthe initial
rehabilitation andbridge works, so GORrequested (andthe Bank agreed) to spend the
balance on a new road linkingthe city o fBucharest with the international airport as well
 as the rehabilitation of additional bridges. This extended implementationbynearly three
years, but at project closure all World Bank funds hadbeenutilized. The final total
project cost disbursed was US$486.3 million.

             The project was selected for assessmentbecauseo fthe comprehensive
approach o f its road safety component; its support for roadrehabilitation to assist in
meeting the changing patterns intraffic demand inRomania as it moved towards a
market economy; its support to strengthen the management o fnationalroads; andits
promotiono f a reductioninthe lead content ofpetrol. Some useful lessons canbe drawn
from this project which will be valuable for other similar projects inthe region and
elsewhere, while the healthcomponent (comprising roadsafety and air pollution
improvements) will provide an input into an ongoing IEGreview o fhealth, nutrition and
population.

              IEGprepared this report basedon anexamination o fthe relevant Staff
Appraisal Report (SAR), ImplementationCompletionReport (ICR), legal agreements,
project files and archives, as well as other relevant reports, memoranda, andworking
papers. Discussions were also held with Bank staff inboth Washington D.C. and in
Bucharest. An IEGfield missionvisited Romania inMay 2008, conducted site visits, and
discussedboth the project andthe effectiveness o fBank assistance with relevant officials
andstakeholders. Themissionappreciates the courtesies andattentiongivenbythese
interlocutors as well as the support providedbythe Bank's office inBucharest.

             Following standard IEGprocedures, copies o fthe draft PPARwere sent to
government officials and agencies for their review andresponsesreceivedare attached as
Annex C.


                                                i x


  Summary

          This is the Project PerformanceAssessment Report (PPAR) for the Roads Two
 Project (Loan 4178-RO) which was part o f an ongoing transport programincooperation
 with other internationalagencies, includingEBRDandEIBto assist Romaniato provide
 a transport system that would be appropriate for a marketeconomy andthat would help
 its integrationinto the EU.At an estimated cost o fU S W 3 . 9 million, this was a large
 project andthe Bank's contribution was a loan o fUS$l50.0 million.

          The project had five development objectives: to improve traffic safety andthe
 fitness o fthe vehicle fleet; to continue helping Romaniato meet the changing patterno f
 demand for landtransport infrastructure; to improve the management andperformance o f
 the National Administration o fRoads (NAR);to assist the Romaniancivilworks
 constructionindustry inits transitionto a market economy; andto promote the reduction
 o f lead inpetrol.

         A numbero ffactors affectedtheproject's implementation. Followingurgent
 changes inpriority inits assistanceprogramto Romania, EU-PHARE', one o fthe
 partners, was unexpectedly unable to provide the agreed technicalassistance for the road
 safety andinstitution buildingcomponents. The Governmento fRomania(GOR)
 therefore looked for other arrangementsto help fillthe funding gap during
 implementation. This involved inter alia the participation o fthe Global Road Safety
 Partnership (GRSP) andDutchbilateral assistance.

         InSeptember, 2003, theNARwas reorganized as the RomaniaNationalCompany
 for Motorways andNationalRoads (RNCMNR), a fully state-ownedjoint stock company
withresponsibilityfor the operation andmaintenance o fnationalroads. At the same time
the Ministryo f Transport was also reorganized as the Ministry o fTransport, Construction
 andTourism (MTCT). This reorganization process contributedto delays inthe pending
introduction o fmodern computerized systems and, because it was not carried out in
conformance with established internationalpractice, resulted inaudit problems relating to
the short andlong term financial healtho fthe company. Subsequently, the Bankprovided
further support to help rectify this situationina follow-on project.

         Substantial funds remained inthe loan after completingthe rehabilitationo fthe
Bank-financedportiono froads andbridges andthe GOR urgently requested that the
Bankshouldconsider usingthe savings accrued intheprojectfor the improvement o fthe
Bucharest-Otopeni roadto the Henry Coanda international airport. This was agreedbut
resulted ina project extension o fnearly three years because, althoughthe designwas
ready, no arrangements hadbeenmade to relocate the numerous utilitylines crossing the
route.

        The overall outcome o fthe project, taking into account the achievement o fthe
individual development objectives (two highly achieved, two substantially achieved and


'EuropeanUnionAssistance   Programfor Central andEasternEurope

                                             X



one modestly achieved), together with the overall ratings for relevance, and efficiency,
was considered satisfactory. The nationalrate o f fatalities and serious injuries fell
significantly between 1997 and 2003; the extent o froads andbridges rehabilitated
exceededtargets; over 90 percent o fthe mainroad construction industrywas inprivate
handsbyproject closure, andthe reductions inthe leadcontent o fpetrolwere achieved
over two years ahead o f schedule. The institutionalobjective was less well attained due to
the reorganization takingplace at the time. With an ERRo f 26 percent, the project met
the efficiencycriterion. Riskto development outcome was ratedas moderatebasedon
concerns about the continued impetus o fthe road safety programandongoingproblems
inthe fundingofroadmaintenance.

         Withregardto monitoringandevaluation (M&E) there were measurable output
targets inthe designand all o fthese targets were either exceededor met earlier than
planned. National accident rates were also measured ex post inthe ICR. The indicators
were measuredproperly duringimplementation, where M&Eperformance was
substantial. Only M&Eutilizationwas disappointingbecauseneither the Pavement
Management nor the BridgeManagement Systems hadbeenintroduced due to funding
difficulties. Overall, M&Ewas substantial.

        Bankperformance was satisfactory. The quality ofthe designwas generallygood,
andsupervision missions were incisive at identifyingproblem areas andproposing
measuresto get the project back on track as necessary. The supervision team proved
flexible andreactedwell when crises occurred. For example, the unexpected withdrawal
ofEU-PHAREat inceptioncouldhave spelt disaster, but the team andthe Borrower
worked well together to seek out alternative funding. When unexpected difficulties arose
inthe final stageswiththerelocationo futilities, the Bankworkedwith the Borrower to
develop a new protocol for such eventualities inthe future.

        Borrower performance was also overallsatisfactory. The GORwas strongly
committedto the project and supported the establishment o f a GlobalRoad Safety
Partnership (GRSP) committee as an alternative solution after the expected funding from
EU-PHAREdidnot materialize. After December 2004, however, there were signs of a
wavering inthe commitment to road safety andthe hasty changesinthe re-organization
o fthe road administration resulted indisruption and led to audit queries highlighting
financial management weaknesses. Nevertheless, inspite o f ongoing reorganization, the
newlyformed company remained effective anddisbursements onthe project continued as
planned. All loanconditions were compliedwith, andBank guidelines were followed
throughout. The needto cover the unexpected funding shortfall due to EU-PHARE's
withdrawal requiredthe remainingparties, andespecially GOR, to consider alternative
sources andbecome more directly engaged.

        Thisprojectcoincidedwith Romania's move towards amarket economy. The
continuedsupport for the modernizationo fthe country's road system was important and
necessary, but the most interestingaspects o fthe project concerned the ambitious
attempts to make improvements related to transport andhealththat would help Romania
conform with EUnorms. Although there was anunexpected setback infimding
arrangements, the project was able to accomplishmuchwith the resources at its disposal.
The mainlessons to be taken from this PPAR are:

                                        xi


9 That aholistic approachto roadsafetyisnecessaryinvolvingthethree "Ed'
  engineering, enforcement, andeducation to bringdown the national accident rate.
  IntheRomaniaRoadsTwoprojectthisapproachhashadsomesuccess, butitwas
  found that a good coordinatingbody i s essential to bringtogether departments and
  entities unusedto working together, while continuedpolitical commitment is
  important to sustain the initiative once this process has begun. Inkomania a
  renewed, action-oriented emphasis i s neededto ensure that the positive progress
  achieved to date i s continued.

9 Theroadimprovementprogramwas effective, buttheRomanianexperience
  highlightsthe importance o fforecasting traffic as accurately as possible, o f
  ensuring there is a clear planto fundroadmaintenance activities, ando f ensuring
  that there is an appropriate protocol inplace for the relocationo futilities. Inthe
 RomaniaRoads Two project specific arrangements could havebeenmadeto
 protect small works contractors facing a very steep rise ininflationary costs.
 Although a price escalation clause i s not usually included insuch contracts, it
  couldbe argued thatforce majeure circumstances applied inthis particular case.

P Complex roadsafetyprograms canbenefitgreatlyfiom continuous and
 coordinated partnerships between international organizations over an extended
 time period. The RomaniaRoads Two project exemplifies the manner inwhich
 thepartnerswere able to provide additionalsupport at short noticewhen one of
 the components had a finding shortfall.




                                                        Vinod Thomas
                                                        Director-General
                                                           Evaluation


 1. Background

 1.1       Romania i s a middle income country with a GNIper capita o f USD 4,850 in
 2006.2 With a population o f21.6 million, it is the second largest country inCentral and
 EasternEurope andthe seventh largest among the 27 current members o f the European
Union(EU). Although Romania's transition from a centrallyplannedto a market
 economybeganin 1990, initially the government was hesitant to impose tight fiscal
 constraints andprivatize large loss-makingenterprises. Negative economic growth inthe
 late nineties, however, ledto improved financial discipline andthe adoption o f
macroeconomic policies that encouraged economic growth.

 1.2       Romaniajoined the EUon January lst, prospect o fbecoming an EU
                                                   2007-the
member havingprovided a goodincentive for the transformation o fthe country during
the previousten years. Progress inreforms translated into a robust GDP growth averaging
5-6 percent for seven consecutive years, with inflation declining ~teadily.~However, the
trade deficit remains a cause for concern, andEBRDhasrecentlywarned that a failure to
develop sufficient physical infrastructurein particular, transport infrastructur-ould
act as a brake on economic gr~wth.~   Internationalcompetition andskilled labor shortages
are squeezing traditional industries as demand shifts to higher quality products and
services. The population o fRomaniahas actually fallen by 1.7 million over the last ten
years, due partlyto emigration, but also to a decline inthe country's birthrate.5

1.3        Prior to 1990the road system was neglected as the emphasis was on rail
transport. Trucks andbuses could only operate within district boundaries andall transport
beyond 50 kmhad to be sent byrail. In1990roadtransport was deregulated resulting ina
surge intraffic volumes, especially heavy trucks, which the roads were ill-prepared to
carry; it was estimated at the time that about one thirdo fthe nationalroadnetwork
(approximately 5,000 km) requiredsome form o f strengthening or rehabilitation.
Consequently, the GOR sought assistance from IBRD, EBRD, EIB, andEU-PHARE
resultinginthe Transport Project (Loan 3593-R0), completed in 1998, which began a
process o fmajor rehabilitation o fthe nationalroads, continued inthe Roads TwoProject
(Loan4178-RO), evaluated inthis PPAR. Inthis projectadditional aspectswere
introducedsuch as improving road safety, supportingthe development o fmanagement
systems, andpromoting a reduction inthe lead content o fpetroleum fuels.

1.4       Romania's roadnetwork is about 78,000 kminextent, o fwhich some 14,500
kmare nationalroads andjust 279 kmexpressways. Thesemainroads are administered
andmanagedbytheNationalCompany o fMotonvays andNationalRoads (RNCMNR).
The number of motor vehicles registered inRomaniaincreasedby 9 percent per annum
between 1990 and 1995, then grew more modestly at around 3.3 percent per annumuntil
2006, when the figure grew quickly bynearly ten percent reflecting renewedbuoyancy in



 World Bank databasedonthe GNIAtlas method
 WorldBank,RomanianBusinessDigestReport,March2008
'LaborMinister,Hon.PaulPacuraru,statement
 EBRD, "DoingBusiness-Transition ReportinRomania",March2008
                                          reportedin"Nine 0' ClockNewspaper,"May 15,2008

                                                2


the economy. By2007 there were 4.5 millionvehicles inRomaniaand sales o fheavy
haulcommercial vehicles doubledincomparison to 2006.6An EUstudy in2004 showed
that Romaniawas ranked28thout of 30 Europeancountries for its road safety recordwith
a fatality rate o f 749 persons killedper millionpassenger cars.' Comparativefigures are
France 178, Germany 129 andthe UnitedKingdom 121. Only Latvia 752 andTurkey 820
are worse. The data shows that passenger car density i s inversely proportional to the
number o f fatalities inroadaccidents-the      higher the passenger car density, the `safer'
the country.

2.       Project Objectives and Design

2.1        The objectives o fthe project as laid out inthe Project Appraisal Document
(PAD) andLoanAgreement are as follows:

   i. Toimprovetrafficsafetyandthefitnessofthevehiclefleet;
  ..
  11.    To continue helpingRomaniato meet the changing patterno fdemand for land
         transport infiastructure;

 iii. ToimprovethemanagementandperformanceoftheNationalAdministrationof
         Roads (NAR);

 iv.     To assist the Romaniancivil works construction industry inits transitionto a
         market economy; and

  v.     To promote the reductiono f leadinpetrol.

2.2        For objective (v) the ICRhas added the words: and assist Romania to
harmonizestandards with the EU. This was intendedto clarify the context inwhich the
reductiono f leadinpetrolwas promoted as the original objective was not specific inthis
regard. With respect to objective (iii) NAR was re-organized as the RNCMNR during
                                           the
the implementationofRoads Two, becomingthe administrator andmanager ofthe
nationalroad system.

2.3        Theproject objectives were relevant to the country's priorities o finfrastructure
rehabilitation, harmonization o f standards with the EU, and environmental improvements,
consistent with the Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) o f 2006, which was o f special
significance because o fthe need to strengthen Romania's partnership with the EU,
especially prior to accession.




6Datafiomthe Ministries ofTransport, ConstructionandTourism andthe Ministry ofInterior and
Administrative Reform
'StatisticsinFocus, 14/2007,Eurostat, EuropeanCommunities, 2007

               v!
               0     a*
                     0




   i      z
     N    m    x



               I




w
d
-

                     Y

0
d                    *
                     0



          z          a
          N          00
                  -
          z          a
          N          00




   f           I

                                                   4


2.4       InadditiontotheIBRDloanofUS$l50million, theprojectwastobefinanced
inparallelbyloansfrom EBRDUS$S5.9 millionandEIBUS$67.5 million. Mostofthe
technical assistance andstudies were intendedto befinanced through anEU-PHARE
grant ofUS$16.0 million. The agreeddistribution offinances at appraisalandthe actual
amounts disbursedare shown inTable 2.1:

2.5       The roadsafetyprogramwas relativelybold. According to the SAR, it aimedto
reducethe amount ofroadtraffic accidents at accidentblack spots to an acceptable
"standard level" for WesternEurope andbyincreasingthe efficiency ofeducation and
law enforcementto gradually improve the conduct ofdrivers, passengersandpedestrians
to reducethe nationalrate ofroadtraffic accidents. Theproject would provide the
requiredtraffic safety "know-how" for producing andmonitoring aTraffic Safety Plan
for the ten year period2000-2009, whichwhenimplementedwas expectedto reducethe
numberofserious accidentsbyanambitious 40 percent(saving the lives of 1,100 people
andpreventing3,200 people from sustainingtraffic-related injuries). Theproject aimedat
establishing apermanentframework andaprogram for traffic safetyresearchand
developmentto support further improvements oftraffic safety

2.6       Theroadrehabilitation, procurement of equipment, training, and assistanceto
the local construction industryfollowed on from theprogram commencedunder the
previous transport project. Inboththe previous project andthe current project the target
was the rehabilitation of 1,000 kmofnational roads so the combinedtotal of 2,000 km
would restoreto good condition some 40 percent o fthe national network previously in
poor condition. The expectation for the reductioninthe lead content o fpetrol was to
lower the lead level from 0.60 g ofleadper liter o fpetrol to 0.15 gA by 2003 in
compliance with EUrequirements.See Table 2.2 for target values at appraisal andactual
values achieved.

Table2.2 IndicatorTarget Values at AppraisalandValuesAchieved

Indicator                         ~TargetValue
                                       ~~~~    ~              AchievedValue
Km.ofroadimprovedi)Bank; ii) i)300; ii)1,000                  i)300+newairportaccessroad;
Proiect                                                       ii)1,000
Bridgesrehabilitated                         50                      68
Numberofaxle weight stations                  9                        9
dedoved
Numberofblackspotstreated                    40               38 (+25 as part of road
                                                              upgrading)
% ofaccidentreductionsat black               50                      77
spots
Ave leadcontentofDetrol            0.15 g/l by 12/31/2003     0.15 g/l by 12/31/2002
Source: SARACR

2.7       The project was not reviewedat entry by the Quality Assurance Group, but the
ICR team consideredthe overall Qualityat Entryto besatisfactory basedon the
consistencyofthe project priorities with the CAS as well as with GOR priorities and
sector strategy. The project was classified as Category Bunderthe Bank's Operational
Policy4.01. While IEGis broadly supportive o fthis rationale it questionswhy there was

                                                  5


 an appraisalover-estimate of~ ~ $ 1 5millioninthe IBRDproject cost (later reallocated
                                             . 1
 to the new airport road). This matter is addressedmore fully inparagraph5.3.

 3.      Implementation

ImplementationExperience

 3.1       Supervision and safeguards The RoadsTwo project was approvedon June 3,
 1997 andbecameeffective as scheduledon October 24, 1997.There were three different
task managersprior to 2000, but this discontinuity didnot have an appreciableimpact on
performance. Supervision averagedtwo missions ayear andthe project as originally
conceivedwas almost completebythe end of2002. The roadrehabilitation was mostly
withinthe existingright-of-way andthe impact oftheproject onthe environment was
negligible. Landacquisition onlybecamenecessaryalongthe new airport road(see
paragraph3.5) andexpropriation andcompensationwere conductedinaccordancewith
Bankguidelines. The accounts ofthe roadadministrationNARwere independently
audited annually duringproject implementation andthese audits were satisfactory until
the administrationwas reorganizedas RNCMNR. While the changeinlegal form didnot
affect the project, there were some other issues that neededattention (see paragraph 3.3).

3.2        EU-PHAREfunds. Followingurgentchanges inpriority inits assistance
program to Romania, EU-PHAREunexpectedly reversed its decisionto provide the
agreedtechnical assistance for the road safety andinstitution buildingcomponents.The
GOR therefore looked for other sources of fimding leadingto the participation of the
GlobalRoadSafety Partnership(GRSP) andDutchbilateral assistance. EBRDagreedto
contribute towards the development of a cost accounting systemfor NAR,while USAID
financed a study o fthe road constructionindustry. The GOR, through the NAR,also
financed more ofthe technical assistance activities thanoriginally planned. A Japanese
trust fund grant was usedto finance preparation of the program to eliminate black spots.8
EUsupportfor roadsafetywas re-establishedin2002, with atwo year program and
US$3.2 million equivalent for i)road safety twinningg;ii)generalroad safety technical
assistance; iii)developmento f a traffic and accident database; andiv) assistanceto
strengthen administrative capacity.

3.3        Change in the organizational structure of the NAR. InSeptember 2003,
following a change ingovernment, the NARwas reorganized (without consultation with
the Bank) as the RNCMNR'', a fully state-ownedjoint stock company with responsibility
for the operation andmaintenanceo fnational roads. At the same time the Ministryo f
Transport was also reorganized as the Ministry o f Transport, Construction and Tourism
(MTCT). The reorganizationofNAR and frequent changes intop leadership o fthe new
RNCMNR was disruptive, contributing to delays inthe introduction o fmodem



* The Japanesegrant o f $144,000 (TF027126) was fully disbursed.
 Involves the exchangeof experts between EUcountries to improve roadfreight transport law
loRomania National Company for Motorways andNational Roads establishedunder Emergency Ordinance
8412003 dated September 18,2003

                                                       6


 computerized systems. However, a more serious issue was that the transitionwas carried
 out very swiftly andinone single step, whereas established internationalpracticewas to
 follow a more evolutionary five step process. The result o fthis leapfrogging became
 evident inthe first audit o fRNCMNR in2004 which drew attention to the short and long
term financial healtho f the company as well as other financial management weaknesses.
For example, as ajoint stock company RNCMNRwas legally obliged to have a defined
 income stream expected to cover needed expenditures, andto be audited as a commercial
 entityinaccordancewith Romanianlaw. This ledto a fundamental review o fthe legal
 status, organizational structure and financialposition o fthe company" for which the
Bankprovidedtechnical assistanceinthe follow-on Transport Sector Support Project
 approved on November 2,2006.

 3.4        Financing of main roads When Roads Two commenced, a road fund had
recentlybeen createdI2basedon a 25 percent charge on ex refinery prices ofmotor
vehicle fuels and a 10percent charge on ex-factory prices o fnew vehicles. This
generated about US$200 million a year providing stability for road expenditures.
However, this move was opposedjointly bythe IMFandthe Bank (Poverty Reduction
andEconomicManagement Network) onthe grounds that dedicated funds fiagment the
budgetary process and limit flexibility inthe allocationo fresources. The fundwas
replacedby a vignette,I3 which was to bephased inbetween 2002-08 andused directly
for roadmaintenance administered bythe RNCMNR.

3.5         However, while the phased approach was being implementedthere were
insufficient funds for adequatemaintenance. For example, the vignette system was only
extended to passenger cars in2005. New construction andmajor rehabilitation continued
to be mostly funded byinternational financial institutions and only limitedfunds were
available for maintenance o f county and communal roads. Recently, there has beensome
discussion about establishing private sector concessions for buildingand operatingtolled
motorways, but thus far this has not been supported with political consensus.

3.6        Increased scope and additiona2 contracts Because substantial funds remained in
the loan after completing the rehabilitationo fthe Bank-financedportion o froads and
bridges, the Borrower-faced          withmajor financial difficulties-        urgentlyrequested at the
highest level o f government that the Bank should assist it byusingthe savings for the
improvemento f the Bucharest-Otopeni road linkingBanaesaairport with the Henry
Coanda international airport. This section was experiencing very severe traffic congestion
andahighincidence o froadaccidents; any surplus funds over andabove this
construction were to be used to rehabilitateup to 23 additional bridges. The project
development objectives would remainthe same. The mainreason given at the time for
following this course o f actionwas an indication from the Bank side that it was unlikely
to fund further infrastructureprojects inRomaniainthe short term. (Inthe event this




I'Letter fiom Minister of Transport, September 22,2006
l2RoadFundLaw, October 2, 1996
l3The vignette or "road tax sticker", based on EUpractice, provides a vehicle withthe rightto use the road.
Inthe case ofRomania this was therightto usenational roads.The switchto thevignette systemwas
precipitatedby the financial crisis inthe country, but also enabled Romania to conform to EUpractice.

                                               7


 scenario was reversed after the Bank's Board o fDirectors endorsed an Infrastructure
 Action Planlaunchinga scaling-up o fBankinfrastructure investment).

 3.7       Utility relocation issues The decision to add the additional airport roadto the
 project resulted ina project delay o fnearly three years because, although the design was
 ready, no arrangements hadbeenmade to relocate the numerous utility lines crossing the
 route. The utility companies hadthe right to usetheir own designers andcontractors and
 couldrequire RNCMNR to pay not only for relocation, but also for betterment.
 Moreover, they had little incentiveto process the relocations quickly.

 3.8       Because there was no established protocol for the timely resolutiono futility
 relocationissues, the RNCMNR(encouraged strongly by the Bank)made a proposalto
 the Ministry based on tried and tested Britishpractice to change the laws governing
 utilitylocationandcost sharing. An unexpectedconsequenceoftheprojectwas therefore
 an improvement inthe procedures for handlingfuture utilityrelocation. At project
 closure, on June 30,2006, all Bankfunds hadbeen fully disbursed.

 4.      Monitoringand Evaluation (M&E)

Design

4.1         The S A R dates back to 1997 when less attentionwas givento measurable
project indicators. Nevertheless there were measurable output targets for reducing the
average lead content inpetrol, the number o fblack spots improved, the number o f
kilometers o froad andthe number o fbridges rehabilitated, as well as the number o f axle
weight stations deployed (see Table 2.2). All o fthese targets were either exceeded or met
earlier thanplanned. Other measurabletargets were mentioned inthe S A R relevant to the
overall development objectives, but not mentionedinthe ICR. For example inAnnex 3 of
the SAR there i s reference to aNationalTraffic Safety Planwhereby a reductioninthe
amount o f accidents over a ten year periodcouldbe monitored, with the aim o f achieving
a reduction inserious accidents by 40 percent. The bodiesresponsible for collectingroad
safety and other data were the traffic police, the National Institute for Statistics and the
RNCMNR.

4.2       N o attempt was made to measure outcomes except to reduce the numbero f
accidents andthus improve localizedroadsafety at black spot improvement sites by 50
percent andto ensure that these sites conformedto EUstandards. Itwouldhavebeen
possible to have devised other outcome measures, but this was not done. An example o f
what would havebeenpossible i s demonstrated by the fact that the IEGmissionwas able
to find data on the average level o f leadcontent inchildren's blood due to a reductiono f
the leadcontent inpetrol before and after the project, (see paragraph 5.22 for more
detail). Although two pilot road safety interventionswere agreed, their evaluationdesign
was not addressedinthe SAR andthe detailed designs were completedrelatively late in
implementation.

                                             8


Implementation

4.3      Duringimplementationthe Banksupervision team andthe Borrower
implementation unit are to be commended onthe way inwhich the indicators were                   ,
monitored andrecorded. A study o fthe aide memoires o fthe supervision team shows
plentyo fevidence that progress was properlymonitored.However, itwould have been
beneficialifthe team couldhave added additional information, such as roadroughness
andconditionofthenetwork, becausethis informationwas available. RNCMNRwere
unable to produce evidence that M&Ewas adequately addressedfor the two design
pilots.

Utilization

4.4       Onthe other hand, utilizationprovedsomewhat disappointing. Perhapsbecause
neither the Pavement Management System (PMS) or Bridge Management System (BMS)
hadbeenintroduceddue to funding difficulties, the IEGmissionhadproblems in
accessing the latest information which was stored on various computers. Inat least one
instance some information hadbeenlost because a computer harddrive had "crashed"
andthere was noback-up arrangement. Thispatternis especially evident withregardto
safety statistics, where a project fundedby the EUis under implementation to establish a
traffic and accident data base. Untilthis project is completed the system will remain
defective.

5.      Ratings

Relevance

5.1       The project objectives were relevant to the country's priorities o finfrastructure
rehabilitation, harmonizationo f standards with the EU, andenvironmentalimprovements.
Romania's transport infrastructure hadbeenidentified as abottleneck to the expansionof
economic growth. In1995 the share o fthe GDP spent ontransport infrastructurewas
only 0.3 percent, which comparedpoorly to a norm o f at least 2 percent inmany
developing countries. The objectives remainrelevant today and are embodiedinthe CPS
of2006, which was o fspecial significancebecause o fthe needto strengthen Romania's
partnership with the EU, before accession. The strategy o fthe RomanianMinistry of
Transport was supported by the CPS objectives. Inthe short term the strategy was to
arrest the technical andoperational deteriorationo fthe system; inthe medium term to
renovate the existing transport capacity; and inthe longer term to modernize and develop
the infrastructure, equipment andvehicles to matchthe economic andtechnical level o f
Western Europe. At the same time, the GOR declared that it supported competition
through freedom to set tariffs, free modal choiceby transport users, andinvestment
decisions based on economic analysis. Relevance o fthe project objectives is high.

5.2       The project design sensibly followed the foundation established with the earlier
Transport Project and continuedwith the fruitfblcollaboration with EBRD, EIB andthe
EU.Designstandards addressedRomania's shortfallswithrespect to EUstandards with a
view to Romania's impending accession. Engineering designs for the road andbridge

                                                    9


 rehabilitationwere prepared by two consortia o fconsultingengineers comprised o fboth
 internationalandRomanianfirms. The consortia cooperated effectively with EBRDand
 EIB.Rehabilitationcostswere estimatedbasedonthe conditiono fthe roads, determined
 onthe basis o fdeflection datal4. Work quantities were determined inrelationto the
 conditions, traffic safety considerations, andcompliance with EUstandards, especially
 regarding the width o f shoulders. The quality o fdesign was genetally satisfactory,
 although some designs hadto be revisedjust before implementationdue to unforeseen
 increasedtraffic on some road sections andto ensure consistency with EBRDand EIB
 financed roads. Overall, the cost estimates were on the highside. However, the unit costs
 appear to havebeenbased on actual costs experienced inthe precedingproject, which is
 not, inIEG's view, anunreasonable approach, providing adjustments are made for
 inflation andgeneral market conditions. Inthe event, the higher cost estimate (15 percent
 over actual costs) turned out to be fortuitous as the cost o fthe airport road couldbe
 covered.

 5.3        The project was classifiedas Category B fiom an environmental viewpoint.
 After feasibility studies were completed appropriate measureswere put inplacewith
 regard to mitigationplans for the minor environmental effects anticipated. A number o f
 lessons fiom previous projectswere also taken into account covering the needfor early
preparation o fdetailed terms o freference for the preparation o f actionplans, andthe
 scheduling o fregular reviews o f budgets and expenditures intandem with the supervisory
missions. Project risks were also identifiedrelatingto the adequacy o f funds for road
maintenance, the degree o f commitment to the commercializationo fperiodic
maintenance, anddifficulties inimplementingthe traffic safety component which was
dispersed among different agencies unaccustomed to working together.

 5.4        A focus o fconcern duringthe designphasewas the inadequacy o fthe
coordinationo froad safety activities inRomania. This was resolvedby the appointment
o f an Inter Ministerial Council for Road Safety (ICRS)" established in 1995, which was
also responsible for creating and coordinating a National Traffic Safety Action Plan. The
ICRS was able to bringtogether departments and entities unused to working together.
The relevance o fthe design (takinginto account the shortcomings inM&E)was
substantial, andthe overall relevance o fboththe objectives anddesigntogether i s
substantial.

Efficacy

5.5         Objective i)to improve traffic safety and the fitness of the vehicle fleet.
Substantially achieved. After EU-PHAREreversed its decision to provide the expected
assistance, GORturned to the GRSP for help. Inearly 2000 a GRSP committee was
established inBucharest with various stakeholders assuming responsibility for
engineering, enforcement andeducation. Inadditionto the government (through the
ICRS) andthe internationalfinanciers, other partners inthis endeavor includedinsurance


*'AParticipants
l4   deflectometer measures surface conditions and the overallbearing capacity ofroads
               included the ministriedagencies responsible for transport, works, health, education, interior,
public administration, and localgovernment, as well as NGO's andrepresentatives ofthe private sector
including insurancecompanies andmotoring organizations

                                                10


companies, vehicle manufacturers, oil companies, roadhaulage associations and
motoring organizations. A ten year Safety Action Planwas drawn up inOctober 2001
with awide range o fissues identifiedfor attention. These included short term measures
such as new safety regulations andtheir enforcement, and longer term measures such as
creating a road safety fund and establishing a NationalRoad Safety Institute. While the
longer term items are still outstanding, manyo fthe short term or ongoing measureshave
beentackled. However, there is a lack o f information on which measuresmayhave had
the most impact.

5.6        The year 2002-03 was declared the Year o f Traffic Safety by GOR and .
education campaigns were conducted throughthe media andinthe schools. Meanwhile,
IBRDcompleteditsprogramo fimproving safety at black spots. The mainmessageso f
the campaigns were the needto deter speeding, the importanceo f wearing seat belts and
usingchild restraint devices, as well as the dangers ofdrivingunder the influence of
alcohol, medications and drugs.

5.7        The rate o f fatalities and serious injuries fell significantly between 1997 and
2003, despite the growth intraffic, andthe downward trend is likely substantially due to
the combination o fmeasuresmentionedabove, plus a modernizing, safer nationalvehicle
fleet. However, the rate o fdecline became more uneveninthe last three years as shown
inFigures 5.1 and5.2 (see also Appendix B, Table B.l for actual data). Inspectionof
earlier data (1995 experienced a fatality rate o f 9.8 fatalities/1,000 vehicles and a serious
injuryrateof26.5/1,000 vehicles) indicate that the downwardimprovementbeganinthe
early nineties'andhas beendecreasing ever since. The only major change inthe road
safety situation duringthe early years prior to Roads Two was the improvement o f the
first 1,000 kmo froads under the preceding Transport Project, so the engineering aspect
i s likely a highlysignificant factor inthe overall decline.

5.8        It isnot possibleto determine the attributionnationally betweenthe road
conditionimprovements andthe road safety interventions since 1997 because details
were generallynot kept, except for the accident black spots. It i s also possiblethat rising
fuel prices anda difficult financial climate meant that motorists on average drove less
frequently or for shorter distances.

                                                            11


Figure 5.1 Decline in roadfatalities and fatality rate/1,000 vehicles, as registered vehicles
           1
rose by a quarter

      4500 7
                                              Year of t r M c-
                                              safety20024                                                4,104
      4000



      3500 t




             1997  1998       1999      2000    2001         2002     2003        2004       2005         2006

                  Vehicle registration(000)     0Fatalities            +Fatalities/lOOO      v e h i c l e s


Figure 5.2 Decline inserious injuries and serious injury rate/1,000 vehicles

       8,OOC

                                                                      ,Year     of Tnfflc Safety,
                                                                           2002-2003
       7,000



       6,000



   u 5,000

   .-2 4,000
   .-
    s
    :
   'E
       3,000



      2,000



      1,000



          0
             1997   1998       1999      2000    2001         2002      2003        2004       2005         2006
                           '    OSeriously injured          -@- lnjured/1000 vehicles

Sources: MTCTand GRSPbasedon information fiomthe NationalInstitute o f Statistics and the traffic
police. Dataincludes bothvehicle occupants and pedestrians.

                                                 12


5.9       The Bankwas responsible for financing the black spot program. The cumulative
accident reduction on 38 black spots i s giveninTable 5.1 which shows that the number
o f accidents and serious injurieswas reduced by 77 percent and fatalities by 71 percent.
These figures are for the period 1999-2002, before and after the improvements.
Unfortunately, RNCMNRwere unable to provide any later data, (which shows the
importance o fthe proposed traffic and accident database). Nevertheless, information
fi-om international research indicates that the majority o fblack spot improvements leadto
permanently better accident statistics at the sites concerned.l6



Natureof              Number before                   Numberafter                  % change
accident              improvements(1999)              improvements(2002)

Number of                      409                            93                   -77.3
accidents

Fatalities                      171                           49                   -71.4

Serious injuries                392                           92                   -76.5

 Sources: RNCMNR and ICR

5.10       With regardto the quality o fthe accident statistics, it is mandatory for serious
andfatal accidents to bereportedto thepolice. The statistics are considered byIEGto be
reasonably reliable, but there maybe an element o funderreportingdue to problems o f
definition". For example, some victims die later inhospital andthe cause of death may
not always be attributedto the original accident. The setting up o f a national accident
databasewith EU-PHAREfbndingshould improve the quality andconsistency o f
reportedaccidents.

5.11       A roadweather information system was successfully installedandtraffic law
enforcement equipment provided. Measures were also takento improve the fitness o f the
nationalvehicle fleet through mandatoryvehicle condition and emissions control
inspections. There are now some 370 privately operated vehicle inspection stations to
undertake such inspections andissue certificates. The RomanianAutomobile Register
reported that there hadbeena 25 percent improvement invehicles meeting the required
specifications over the first year after the commencement o f testing (when only 5 percent
o fvehicles met the specifications). Finally two pilot safety projects included inthe
project were delayed because o f doubts about local consultants' experience inhandling
experimental designs. One was onnationalroadDN1near Bucharest where the number
o f accidents was excessive, while the other was ina linear village and aimed at reducing


16 Newstead SV andCorbenBF 2001Evaluation of the 1992-96TransportAccident Commission-firnded
Accident Blachpot Treatment Program in Victoria, MonashUniversityAccident Research Center;
Australia National Road Safety Strategy, 2001Evaluation of theBlack Spot Program, Report 90, CR172,
Bureauo f Transport Economics, UniversityofAdelaide
`'See for example Aeron-Thomas, A 2000 Under-reporting of Road Traffic Casualties in Low-income
CountriesReport PRmJT/199/00 TRL Ltd, Crowthome

                                                 13


 the number o f collisions between motor vehicles andpedestrians. The former hasrecently
 been implementedandwas visited bythe IEGmission. The roadsection has beenre-
 designed to reduce traffic speed andimprove facilities for pedestrians, but the focus has
 beenmore on engineering improvements rather thanmonitoring and evaluation. Thus far,
 the pilot has not been inoperation longenough to establish whether there are changes in
 the accident rates.

 5.12      The linear village traffic safety pilot project is to be located ina scenic area
 where pedestrians (many o fwhich are tourists) pose a traffic hazard. It has been designed
 to increase the visibility o f andprotectionto pedestrians, but hasbeenput onholdbythe
 Ministry pendinga decisionon the type o f design for the overall nationalroute (it may be
 anexpressway). At the time o fthe IEGmissionthe safety pilot hadnot been
 implementedandthere is some doubt as to whether or not it will go ahead.

 5.13      Objectiveii)to continuehelpingRomaniato meetthe changingpatternof
 demandfor landtransport infrastructure.HighZy achieved.Boththe 1,000 kmof
 rehabilitationo fnationalroads for the project as a whole andthe 300 kmfor the IBRD
 component were achieved. Inaddition the target o f 50 bridges identifiedat appraisal was
 exceeded; and 68 hadbeenrehabilitated at closure. The funds unusedinthe IBRDloan
 were also utilized to construct a new road givingaccessto the international airport at
 Otopeni; and a further 23 bridges were rehabilitated, making91 inall. The works
 observed by the IEGteam were o f goodquality andsatisfactorilymaintained.

 5.14      Follow-on Bankprojects such as the Transport RestructuringProject, tackled
 railway operational andfinancial performance, ensuring there i s a balance and effective
 modal inter-connectivity inthe provision o f landtransport infkastructure inRomania. A
 protocol for the handlingo futility relocationwas also introduced duringimplementation
 o fRoads Two. The comprehensive deployment o f axle weight analyzers will help to
 preserve the road system fiom the effects o foverloaded vehicles. Prior to this deployment
 10percent o fRomania's truck traffic were overloaded. No figures are yet available to
 measure the effectiveness o fthe truck weight control measures, butbased on experience
 inother countries suchcontrols yieldpositiveoutcomes''.

 5.15      Objectiveiii)to improvethe managementandperformanceof the National
Administration ofRoads(now RNCMNR).Modestly achieved.Until1993 road
maintenance hadbeenperformedentirely bydepartmental force account, but with the
support o fthe Bank andits partners, and especially inthe Roads Two project, good
progress was made inprivatizing such activities. Except for a few activities related to
emergency repairs and flood protection all periodic maintenance i s now contracted out,
while routine maintenance is evolving inthe same direction. There were also
improvements inthe management andperformanceo fthe agency as the service delivery
andsupply functions were tendered to the private sector. This more commercialapproach
to roadprovision has meant that the roads are managedmore like a business. A Road
Council with stakeholder participationhas also been established to help ensure that roads
needingattention are correctlyprioritized. Twenty two automatic weight-in-motion

'*For example, see the seminalresearchby Small, KA et al, 1989Road Work:A New Highway Pricing and
InvestmentPolicy, BrookingsInstitute

                                                14


stations were also installedas against nine proposed at appraisal. The GOR thus complied
witha covenant to recommend andimplement a system for axle loadmonitoringand
control.

5.16      But, several items were to havebeenfinancedbyEU-PHARE andconsequently
computerizationo fthe agency, general management support for planningand legislation,
andthe establishment of apavement management system (PMS) andabridge
management system (BMS) were cancelled or postponed. The PMS andBMS are now
being further developed under the follow-on Transport Restructuring project.

5.17      As discussedunder paragraph3.3 the hastyreorganization processofthe former
NAR andfrequent changes intop leadership o fthe newRNCMNRwere disruptive
events that led to certainfinancial management weaknesses, now being addressed
through technical assistanceunder the Transport Sector Restructuringproject. There also
remains a short term problem with the adequacy o f funds for maintenance, althoughthe
vignette system i s expected to provide more funds inthe mediumterm. Inthe meantime
the RNCMNRhadto resort to short term commercialloans for roadmaintenance.
Securing sufficient engineers to fill keypositions remains a critical issue as there i s
growing concern about skilled labor that is being attractedto Western Europebyhigher
wages.Ig

5.18      Objectiveiv) to assist the Romaniancivilworks constructionindustryinits
transitionto a marketeconomy2'.Substantiallyachieved. The origin o fthis objective is
to be found inthe preceding transport project (Loan 3593-RO) inwhich technical
assistancewas provided for a constructionindustry study for the preparationo fRoads
Two. Itrecommended measuresto improve the business and contracting climate. New
public procurement rules basedon competitive biddingwere introducedandreinforced
under Roads Two, andby the time that the project closed over 90 percent o f the road
constructionindustry for mainroads was inprivate hands. Equipment to the value o f $39
millionwas procuredfor routinemaintenance and as assistancetowards the
commercialization and eventual privatizationofroadmaintenance. The system put in
place was a lease facility whereby enterprises for roadrepair andworks would be able to
lease equipment, with the capital cost being recovered over time from the works
contracted.

5.19      However, some lesser important measures such as technical assistance for
training incontract and financial management, and establishment o f a technical
secretariat inthe Association o f Romanian Contractors were dropped following the
cancellationo fthe EU-PHAREfunds. On-the-job training nevertheless did occur
initiatedby the project implementation unit, andthere were considerable opportunities for
skills transfer where there were joint ventures between foreign and local contractors. This
resulted inseveral Romaniancompanies becoming capable o fbiddingfor andwinning
internationalcontracts both inside andoutside the country.




  See for example, Understandingthe transitionprocess in Romania, UNDP 2002
20Not ratedinthe ICR Reviewbecause ofinsufficientevidence inthe ICR.

                                                   15


 5.20       Objectivev) to promotethe reductionofleadinpetrol.Highly achieved. At
the time ofprojectpreparationin1997Romanianrefineries were adding0.60 go flead
per liter ofpetrolas aninexpensive way to enhancethe octane levelsto meet the needsof
the country's motor vehicle population. This amount was relatively highincomparisonto
neighboring countries, andfar above EUstandards o f 0.15 g/l. The primary concern was
the strong correlationbetweenleadexposure andhealtheffects, such as increasedblood
pressure leadingto cardiovascular conditions inadults, andneuro-developmental effects
inyoung children.21A working group was establishedwithrepresentatives o fgovernment
 andthe private sector (motor vehicle manufacturingandpetroleum industries). The group
 originally planned to reach the target threshold of 0.15 g/1by 2003 and, with the backing
 o fthe Bankandits partners, a LeadReductionAction Planwas drawn up which included
technical options and an analysis o fthe economic implicationsfor the refinery, the effects
 o freduced leadedpetrol on the existing fleet, pricingpoliciesrelatedto providing
 incentives inusingunleaded petrol, andpublic awarenesso fthe benefits o fusing such
petrol. The reductions were achieved on a phasedbasis, first to 0.32 g/1in 1998 andthen
to 0.15 g/1by September 30,2000, over two years aheado f schedule. Meeting these
targets fulfilled a covenant inthe loanagreement.

 5.21       Measurement o fthe concentration o f leadinblood i s recorded inmicrograms
per deciliter, (pg/dl). Information from the EuropeanEnvironmentandHealth
Information System22showed the average level o f lead inchildren's blood in 11countries
at different times between 1990and2006. In1999 the level measured inRomania for
childreno f 9 years or younger was 10.40pg/dl. Based on measurements inthree urban
areas inRomaniain2005, this figure, according to research for the Commission o f
EuropeanCommunities incollaborationwith WHO, had already improved to 6.84pg/d1,
which was largely attributable to the phasingout o f leaded gasoline which was the only
significant variable duringthe periodinquestion, although a reductiono f industrial
emissions andthe use o f leadinpaint may have playeda smaller role. Inreality, the 2006
data may understate the true improvement since childreninrural areaswould likely be
less exposed to leadhealthhazards.

5.22        Overall eflcacy is substantial. Two o f the objectives were highly achieved, two
substantially achieved andone modestly achieved.

Efficiency

5.23        Efficiencyis substantial. The most significantportion o fthe project cost was
the rehabilitationcomponent which comprised 85 percent o fthe IBRDloan. At appraisal
the ERRaveraged 50 percent and at completionthe average was recalculatedat 26
percent. This i s still a good ERR,but the mainreason for the sharp drop was the lower



"  Several studies have confinnedthe connection between leadedgasoline and adverse health conditions
including the California Air ResourcesBoard"Proposed identification of inorganic lead as a toxic air
contaminant-Part B -Health Assessment', 1997, andLovei, M"Phasingout leadfiom gasoline:
worldwide experience andpolicy implications", World Bank Technical Paper 397, PollutionManagement
''Series,1998.
  EuropeanEnvironment andHealthInformation System, Blood lead levels in children, country case
studies, May 2007

                                               16


than expectedrate o ftraffic growth between 1995 and2006 due to the economic
stagnationexperiencedduringthat period. The IEGmission estimatesthat this ERR, if
re-calculated today, would show areturncloser to 30 percentbecauseo fthe recent strong
growth intraffic as the economyhas improved. The figures also representaweighted
averageo fERRSfiom eachsectionofroadandthe impact o fthe late addition ofthe new
airport road is probably understated. The 1,000 kmo froadto be rehabilitated for the
project as a whole were selectedout of 3,000 kmanalyzed indetail to determine that they
were indeedthe highest priorities. With regardto the improvement ofblack spots, 38
were selected from 53 possible locations. The sites chosenhadthe worst accident
records.

Outcome

5.24       The overall outcome, taking into account the achievementofthe individual
development objectives (two highlyachieved, two substantially achieved andone
modestly achieved), togetherwith the overall ratings for relevance, efficiency andM&E
i s satisfactory.

MonitoringandEvaluation

5.25       The project design allowed for anumber o foutput indicators, which were all
either met or exceeded, but there was a limitedattempt to measureoutcomes andno
attempt to measure institutional performance. The road safetypilot schemeswere also not
conceived ina designframework with measurableindicators. However, the ICR, ex post,
usednational accident statisticsoftraffic fatalities andserious injuries as ameasureand
IEGwas able to extendthis information. M&Eduringpreparationwas relatively
substantial giventhe practice at the time. There was regular andadequatereporting on the
chosenoutput indicators throughout implementation. M&Eduring implementation was
therefore substantial.Utilizationwas disappointing becausethe requireddata systems had
not beenfunded-M&Eutilization was therefore only modest. The M&Efor the project
overall, taking into account design, implementation andutilizationwas substantial.

Riskto Development Outcome

5.26       The quality o f constructionis good andthe latest traffic growth figures indicate
that the streamo fbenefits is likelyto continue inthe foreseeable future. IEGagrees with
the assertionmade inthe ICRthat the commercializatiodprivatization initiative andthe
improvements inthe constructionindustry are likely irreversible. Modernmanagement
methods are also gradually takingholdandtogether with better information systems such
developmentsare expectedto bringefficiencies inoperation. The continued support o f
the Bank infollow-onprojects andthe continuing cooperationandsupport ofother
development partners, with the backing ofthe EU, make it likely that the trend towards a
gradual improvement will continue. Two areas, however, are flagged inthis PPAR as
causes for concern; one i s the continuity o fprogressbythe road safety program andthe
other is the adequacyo f funds for roadmaintenance.

5.27       It is likely that further attentionandimpetuswillhaveto begiven to the road
safety effort to ensure that the positive direction is continued. The levelingoffo fthe

                                               17


 former positive trends inaccident statistics needs to be taken seriously; the likelihood of
 achieving the targeted decreaseo f40 percent inserious injuryaccidents between 2000
 and2009 now looks doubtful. While there isno single reasonwhy the fatality andserious
 injurycurves areflatteningout, discussionswithofficials inthe ICRS, theRNCMRand
 users inthe private sector suggest that there i s likely a combinationo freasons for this
 trend. Perhaps the most important is a decline inpolitical commitment to do something
 about the problem. After the Year o fRoad Safety ended road accident issueshave had
 less prominencebothwith the public andthe government.

 5.28       The December 2004 elections resultedina reduced status for the ICRS, which
 was downgraded from a formal directorate to a service department andthe number of
 employees was reduced. A plannedRoad Safety Institute was postponed becauseof
 competing fbndingpriorities, while law enforcement equipment to control speed and
 alcohol abuse remains inshort supply. Other germane factors include the recent sharp
 increase inthe vehicle populationandproblems inthe effective collection o ftraffic fines.
 Although a new Traffic Code is inforce coveringmotor vehicle speeds, drivingunder the
 influenceo f alcohol, seatbelt usage andrestrictionsregarding the use o fmobile phones
 while driving, this will not be fully effective untilthe traffic police have sufficient
 equipment to enforce the law andthe traffic fine collection system i s made more
 effective. The IEGmissionalso observes that Romaniahas as yet no legislationto
 prevent the growing number o f accesspoints to nationalroads andthere i s also no special
 initiative to tackle the interactionbetweenthe numbero fhorse-drawn carts, especially in
 rural areas, andthe highertraffic speeds on the improvedroads. Road safety issues are
 still beingpursued insubsequent Bank financed follow-on projects such as the Transport
 RestructuringProject. For example, concerning an aide memoire on a supervision
 missioninApril, 2008, IEGnotes that a Bankrequirement is to insist on an updated road
 safety actionplan.However, it i s also clear that road safety has a lower status now than
 accorded inRoads Two where it was a formal objective andcomponent. This likely
reflects the lower priority currently accorded to road safety by the GOR.

 5.29      The other area o f concern is the lack o f funding for maintenance andthe
 shortage o f skilled engineers. This has preventedthe roadmaintenance, particularly o fthe
lower order roads from beingas effective as it should be. The vignette system is not yet
delivering the amount o f fbnds necessary to meet the needs imposed by a modernizing
country, a growing economy and arapidly expanding vehicle population. Fortunately, the
average distance travelled inRomania is somewhat less thaninother eastern European
countries, but the desire to own a motor vehicle is already firmly entrenched. Although
membership o fthe EUwill unlock resources that will assist the country to overcome
these areas o fweakness, for the time being a problemis still evident and for this reason
the risk to development outcome ratingis moderate.

BankPerformance

5.30      Project preparation was carried out inclose consultation with the EIB, EBRD
andEU-PHAREandfollowing-on fiom thepreviousprojectwith thesepartners a good
level o fcooperation had already been established. The roads selected for rehabilitation
were agreedby all to be the highest priorities onthe basis or rigorous cost benefit
analysis. Lessons from previousprojectswere also taken into account andmost project

                                               18


risks were considered. The quality o fthe design was generally satisfactory, but some
expected costs were overestimated. Quality at entry was satisfactory.

5.3 1     There were two supervision missions per year on average andthe teams were
generally good at identifying problems andproposingmeasuresto get the project back on
track. The supervision team proved flexible andreacted well when crises occurred. For
example, the unexpected withdrawal o f EU-PHAREat inceptioncould have spelt
disaster, but the team andthe Borrower worked well together to find alternative funding.
Although not every item was covered to the same extent and depth as originally planned,
most areas were inthe end addressed, which was a signal accomplishment inthe difficult
operating environment.

5.32      Similarly, the team's efforts to accommodate the Borrower's request to use
unspent loan funds on the airport road showed considerable diligence. While the decision
to extend the loan (as it turned out for a further three years) inhindsight was probably not
the best optionthat could havebeenpursued (a new project wouldhavebeenpreferable),
itwas nonethelessa logical decisioninthe circumstances prevailingat the time, when a
follow on project was indoubt. When unexpected difficulties arose inthe final stages
withthe relocationo futilities, the Bankworkedwiththe Borrower to develop anew
protocol for such eventualities inthe future.

5.33      One areawhere the Bank couldhave made animprovement was inensuringthat
specific arrangements were made to protect small works contractors facing a very steep
rise ininflationary costs. Although a price escalation clause is not usually included in
such contracts it could be argued thatforce majeure circumstances applied inthis
particular case. (Small works are typically found inblack spot elimination programs).
The procurement process took too long to reach a no objection at a time o frapidly
escalating prices which meant that manyworks couldnot be finished untilafter the
winter season. Some emerging contractors didnot survive. This said, however, overall
the performance o fthe Bank was satisfactory.

Borrower Performance

5.34      The GORwas already familiar with the Bank, its co-financiers, andtheir
procedures fiom the precedingproject andthis helpedto ensurethat preparationwent
relatively smoothly. GOR was also strongly committed to the project for the most part
andsupportedthe establishment ofa GRSP committee as analternativesolutionafter the
expected funding from EU-PHAREdidnot materialize. After December 2004, however,
there were signs o f a wavering inthe commitment to road safety after a change in
government. The hasty changes inthe re-organization o fthe NAR also resultedin
disruption, delays to the introduction o f computerized systems, and financial management
weaknesses. GORperformancewas moderately satisfactory.

5.35      The original implementing agency was NAR andduring implementation it was
transformed into the RNCMNR as mentioned above. Inspite o f ongoing reorganization
the company remained effective anddisbursements on the project continued as planned.
All loanconditions were compliedwith, andBankguidelines were followedthroughout.
The fact that EU-PHAREpulledout o fthe financial arrangements actually increased

                                              19


commitment to the project becauseall those involved were forced to work together to
finda solution and, asthere was alittle fundingfor consultants, manyo fthe officials had
to undertakethe work themselves andthis increasedownership o fthe project. Taken
together the performance of all agencies involved inthe project was satisfactory and, on
balance, the overall performanceo fthe Borrower was satisfactory.

6.      Lessons

6.1       This project coincidedwith Romania's move towards amarketeconomy. The
continued support for the modernizationo fthe country's road system was important and
necessary, butthe most interestingaspects ofthe project concernedthe ambitious
attempts to make improvements relatedto transport andhealththat would helpRomania
conform with EUnorms. Although there was an unexpected setback inhding
arrangements, the project was able to accomplish muchwith the resourcesat its disposal.
The project also provides a good example o fongoing partnershipandcooperation
betweeninternational funders. There is, however, a danger that ifthe GOR lacks resolve
inits future support for roadsafety, itwill fall shortofits aspirations.Themainlessonsto
betaken from this PPARare:

       That a holistic approachto road safety is necessaryinvolvingthe three "Ed'
       engineering, enforcement andeducationto bringdownthe national accidentrate.
       Inthe RomaniaRoadsTwo Project this approachhashadsome success, but itwas
       found that a good coordinatingbody is essentialto bringtogether departmentsand
       entities unusedto working together, while continued political commitment is
       important to sustainthe initiative once this processhasbegun. InRomania a
       renewed, action-oriented emphasisis neededto ensure that the positive progress
       achievedto date is continued.

       Theroad improvement programwas effective, but the Romanianexperience
       highlights the importance of forecasting traffic as accurately as possible, of
       ensuringthere is a clear planto fundroadmaintenanceactivities, andof ensuring
       that there i s an appropriateprotocol inplace for the relocation o futilities. In the
       RomaniaRoadsTwo project specific arrangementscould havebeen madeto
       protect small works contractorsfacing avery steep rise ininflationary costs.
       Although aprice escalationclause is not usually included insuchcontracts it
       couldbe arguedthatforce majeure circumstancesapplied inthis particular case.

       Complex road safetyprograms canbenefit greatly from continuous and
       coordinatedpartnershipsbetweeninternational organizations over an extended
       timeperiod. The RomaniaRoadsTwo project exemplifies the mannerinwhich
       the partnerswere able to provide additional support at short notice when one of
       the componentshad a fundingshortfall.

                                      20


AnnexA. BasicDataSheet

ROADS     TwoPROJECT(LOAN   4178-RO)

Key ProjectData(amounts in US$million)
                                   Appraisal      Actual or      Actual as % of
                                   estimate    current estimate appraisal estimate
Total projectcosts                   553.4          486.3             87.9
Loan amount                          150.0          150.0           '100.0
Cofinancing                          189.4          156.1             82.4
Cancellation

ProjectDates
                                         Original                 Actual
Appraisal                               10/14/1996              10/14/1996
Negotiations                            04/21/1997              04/21/I997
Board approval                          06/03/1997              06/03/1997
Signing                                 07/01/1997              07/01/1997
Effectiveness                           10/28/1997              10/24/1997
Closing date                            09/30/2003              06/30/2006


StaffInputs:NODATAAVAILABLE

                                       21


MissionData

                                          Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
          Stage of Project Cycle                               $ Thousand(including
                                         No. of staff weeks    travel and consultant
                                                                       costs)
Lending
                  FY95                            -                    15.84
                  FY96                            -                   140.06
                  FY97                            -                   153.81
                  FY98                            -                     0.00
                  FY99                            -                     0.00
                  FYOO                            -                     0.00
                  FYOl                            -                     0.00
                  FY02                                                  0.00
                  FY03                            --                    0.00
                  FY04                                                  0.01
                  FY05                            -                     0.00
                  FY06                            -                     0.00
                  FY07                            -                     0.00
                                  Total                               309.72
SupervisionllCR
                  FY95                            -                     0.00
                  FY96                            -                     0.00
                  FY97                            -                     2.93
                 FY98                             -                    81.23
                 FY99                             -                    85.43
                 FYOO                            28                    96.62
                 FYOl                            19                    69.43
                 FY02                            14                    72.32
                 FY03                            14                    67.76
                 FY04                            14                    69.64
                 FY05                             6                    37.55
                 FY06                           ,12                    63.64
                 FY07                             1                     7.56
                                 Total:         108                   654.11

                                      22


Annex B. RomanianNationalRoadAccident Statistics

TableB.l RomanianNationalRoadAccident Statistics1997-2006

Indicator       1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003        2004 2005   2006
Vehicle         3,128 3,286 3,302 3,485 3,598 3,700 3,829 3,985 4,045 4,104
registration
(000)
Fatalities      2,863 2,778 2,505 2,499 2,461 2,398 2,235 2,301 2,491 2,436
(number)
Fatalities/1,000  9.2   8.5   7.6   7.2   6.8   6.5   5.8   5.8   6.2   5.9
vehicles
Seriously       7,451 7,221 6,601 6,315 5,963 6,777 5,538 5,343 5,637 5,281
injured
(number)
Seriously        23.8  22.0  20.0  18.0  16.6  18.3   14.5  13.4  13.9  12.9
injured/1,000
vehicles

                                  23

Annex C. BorrowerComments




MINISTRY OF PUBLICFINANCE




                            The World Bank
         InternationalBankfor Reconstructionand Development
                  InternationalDevelopment Association

                          To Mr. Peter Freeman

     Re: Romania-Roads TwoProject (Loan 4178-RO)
          Draft Project PerformanceAssessment.Report

     With respect to the letter dated December 8, 2008 related to the
Draft Project Performance Assessment Report to the Finance Loan
mentioned above and, consequently to the discussion that the Ministry
of Public Finance (MPF) had with the Ministry of Transport and
Infrastructure(MTI) over the issue#fromabove, we are in the position of
communicating you the following conclusion:
     -  there are no objections to the content of the Performance
Assessment Report:
     - according  to the shared opinion of MPF and MTI, the Roads Two
Projectwas successfully finalized.


                             Yours sincerely,




cc:  Monika Huppi, Manager
     Sector Evaluation Division
     IndependentEvaluation Group




