Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 23491
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION NOTE
TURKEY
PRIMARY HEALTH CARE PROJECT
(LN. 4201-TU)
January 15, 2002
Human Development Sector Unit
Turkey Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank Authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of January 15, 2001)
Currency Unit = Turkish Lira (TL)
US$1         TL1,370,000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ICN - Inplementation Completion Note
MEER - Marnara Emergency Earthquake Reconstruction Project
MOH - Ministry of Health
NGO - Non-Governmental Organization
OECD - Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
PCU - Project Coordination Unit
SPO - State Planning Organization
UNICEF - United Nations Children's Fund
Vice President: Johannes F. Linn, ECAVP
Country Director: Ajay Chhibber, ECCO6
HNP Sector Manager: Armin H. Fidler, ECSHD
Program Team Leader: Betty Hanan, ECSHD
2



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TURKEY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION NOTE
PRIMARY HEALTH CARE SERVICES PROJECT (LOAN 4201-TIJ)
A. Introduction
1.    This is the Inplementation Completion Note (ICN) for the Turkey Primary Health Care
project, for which the Bank's Board of Directors approved Loan 4201-TU in the amount of US$ 14.5
million in June 1997. The Loan Agreement was signed in September 1997 and the Loan became
effective on December 18, 1997. After twenty one months of inactivity and zero disbursements, the
project was restructured and the loan's entire amount was reallocated towards financing emergency
health interventions in the provinces affected by the earthquakes which shook Turkey's Marmnara
region in August and November 1999. The reallocation of funds was approved by the Bank's Board of
Directors in September 1999, within the framework of an overall reallocation of US$ 262.3 million
from eight existing loans to help provide immediate financing for repairs, reconstruction and provision
of social services in the aftermath of the Marmara earthquakes. The loan was closed as stipulated in the
"-e'led TLoan agreement on June 30, 2001, and an undisbursed balance of UJSS 1 3.9?9,522.22 was
cance lied in August 2001.
B. Background
2.     The Primary-Health-Care Services Project was the Bank's third health sector project in Turkey.
The Bank's initial intervention, the First Health project, was approved by the Board of Directors in
May 1989. It prepared the grounds for the Second Health Project, approved in September 1994, and
for the Primary Health Care Services Project. Both the First and the Second Health projects were still
active when the Primary Health Care Services Project was approved.
3.     After decades of neglect and underfunding, the Government of Turkey began to increase health
allocations and evaluate the performance of its health care system in the late 1980s. The Government
recognized that its health sector strategy in the past two decades had largely failed to provide adequate
health services to the vast majority of Turkey's population. Basic health indicators, such as infant and
maternal mortality, life expectancy and deaths due to preventable causes fell significantly below OECD
averages and below  those of many countries with comparable income levels.  Aside from
underfunding, the key deficiencies which plagued and continue to plague Turkey's health sector are (i)
unequal access to health services, with the population in rural areas and in eastern Turkey having
substantially less access to health care than those in urban areas and the central and western part of the
country; (ii) over-emphasis on hospital care, with concurrent failure to develop an effective primary
care system; (iii) lack of an effective referral system operating between primary and higher order care,
(iv) vertical fragmentation and ineffective allocation of resources which, coupled with highly
centralized decision making along programmatic lines, largely prevents effective coordination and
service delivery, and (v) low utilization rates both doctor contacts and hospital admissions per 10,000
population, which fall substantially below OECD averages.
4.     The Basic Law on Health Services adopted in 1987 was to lay the ground for much needed
reforms in the health sector. The Bank's First Health Project, which followed the adoption of this law,
intended to initiate sectoral reforms and lay the ground for future Bank operations to help deepen the
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



reforms. The First Health Project helped develop three major pieces of legislation that were to anchor
the reform program and set the legal basis for a restructured and more efficiently operating public
sector health care system. The draft legislation included the Law on the "Establishment and
Organization of Health Financing Institutions", the Law on "Hospitals and Health Enterprises" and the
law on "Primary Care Services and Family Physicians". All three pieces of draft legislation provided
for piloting in two selected provinces. While funding to pilot the systems envisaged under the first two
pieces of draft legislation was available under the Bank supported First and Second Health projects, a
financing gap to pilot the new primary health care system envisaged in the third draft law was
identified. The Primary Health Care Services Project was thus specifically designed to fill this gap and
to allow for testing of a new primary health care system. However, most of the draft legislation was
never submitted to Parliament and none of it was ever adopted. This had a major bearing on the
implementation of the Primary Health Care Services project.
C. Project Objectives
5.     The Primary Health Care Services project's original objective was to improve access to and
quality of primary health care in two provinces and to serve as the basis for extending the tested
primary care health reforms nation-wide. Specifically, the project aimed to (i) develop a primary
health care system based on family physicians and an effective referral system supported by financial
incentives and improved infrastructure; (ii) evaluate the developed primary care system in view of
nationwide replication and, (iii) develop a capacity for health economic analysis in the Ministry of
Health (MOH).
D. Project Design
6.     The project was to be implemented in two phases. The first phase was to develop the
necessary human and physical infrastructure for an effective primary care system in the project
provinces by providing training, technical assistance, computer hard and software, medical equipment,
furniture, teaching materials, civil works and incremental operation costs. The second phase, to be
initiated upon adoption of the legislation on Primary Care Services and Family Physicians, was to
include the piloting of financial incentives in support of the family physician model and an effective
referral system from primary to higher order care. The project was to be implemented over a three year
period and had three components: (i) improvement of primary care services through the establishment
of a system of family physicians and public health centers in the two project provinces; (ii) monitoring
and evaluation of the new primary care service system in view of subsequent nation-wide replication
and, (iii) development of institutional capacity for health economic analysis in the MOH. Under this
last component the project was to provide training and mentoring for four health economists to be
located initially in the Project Coordination Unit (PCU), where their skills could be applied to
evaluating and developing health reform alternatives.
7.     The project was to be managed integrally with the First and Second Health projects by a PCU
that had been established in the MOH when the First Health Project was launched. The PCU was to
work with MOH's technical and line departments as well as with health directorate staff of the project
provinces to assure effective project implementation. The PCU at one point comprised some 190
people. The PCU had been established to coordinate and in fact implement the Health I Project.
Significantly, it was a structure parallel to, and separate from the Ministry of Health. As a result, the
Ministry had no "ownership" of the projects and in fact saw the PCU as an entity competing with
MOH.
4



8.     These arrangements have now been changed under Health II as it was not conducive to the
Bank's desire to engage the Ministry and the Government in a dialogue towards improving the
performance of the sector. During the past two years, great efforts have been displayed by the Bank to
encourage transferring responsibility of the project to the Ministry and reducing the role of the PCU
(and its excessive complement of staff) to one primarily of project coordination. The Ministry of
Health is now fully committed to the Health II Project, both for itself and for the opportunities it is now
providing to have a broader dialogue with the Bank on comprehensive reforms in the health sector.
E. Project Implementation
9.     Following Loan effectiveness in December 1997, the project was formally launched with a
workshop attended by Bank staff in July 1998. Prior to and following the project launch workshop a
limited amount of training on primary health care issues was carried out in the project provinces. The
training was essentially an extension of training initiated under the Second Health project and did not
require any Bank financing under the Primary Health Care Project. Apart from this limited training,
the project remained largely inactive and no funds were disbursed in the twenty one months following
loan effectiveness. The project's inability to take off was due to three main factors:
(i)    The project concept, in particular the development of family practitioners, found little
support in MOH outside the PCU. It in fact faced marked opposition from the concerned
MOH line department, the Turkish Medical Association and other stakeholders, including
physicians in the project provinces who feared losing job security if they were to become
independent family physicians.
(ii)   The Law on Primary Health Care Services and Family Physicians, as well as other health
reform related legislation was never submitted to Parliament because it had limited support
in the Government in general and in the MOH in particular. Because of political
instability, the Parliament was not likely to adopt any legislation that would have required
deep-rooted reform that inevitably would have involved winners and losers. Following the
elections in the Spring of 1999, the Law would have needed to be redrafted and submitted
to a new Parliament according to Turkish law. The new coalition Government and in
particular the new MOH leadership were, however, not willing to push ahead with health
reforms and thus never initiated the process of redrafting and submitting the legislation to
Parliament. Without the law, the key element of primary health care services reform to be
supported and tested under the project, namely the establishment of a system of family
physicians, could not be implemented.
(iii)  Growing tensions and rivalries between the PCU and MOH, particularly the line
department concerned with this project (Primary Health Care General Directorate)
prevented effective implementation even of those activities that would not have required
passage of the law on primary health care. These tensions were brought about by changes
in Government and political affiliations. They were further fuelled by the fact that the
PCU had access to considerable funding and staffing capabilities and that many of its
consultant staff were paid significantly higher salaries than MOH line department staff, all
of which MOH line department staff resented. These tensions resulted in the PCU largely
operating in a vacuum, without the necessary support from MOH staff to effectively move
ahead with project activities. While this issue also affected implementation of the First
and Second Health projects, it seemed to particularly paralyze the Primary Health Care
Services project. Coupled with the lack of necessary support for the project concept in
MOH, it led the PCU to focus its efforts increasingly on implementation of the other two
5



projects and ignore the Primary Health Care Services Project. The question also arises
whether concurrent management of three health projects by the same PCU, particularly
under a setup whether the PCU also carried out much of project implementation, was not
overtaxing the capacity of the PCU.
10.   From the time of the project launch workshop, the Bank supervision team recognized the
dangers which the absence of legislation on primary health care services posed for the successful
implementation of the project. Efforts were made to identify worthwhile primary care activities which
the project could have tested and implemented in the project provinces in the absence of the law.
Although supervision missions repeatedly urged MOH to develop an alternative implementation plan,
the latter never materialized - a reflection of the limited support the project enjoyed in the Ministry.
F. Project Restructuring
II.   In August 1999, a major earthquake hit Turkey's Marmara region and caused significant
damage and loss of life. A second quake followed suit in November of the same year. After an initial
cross-sectoral damage assessment by the Government and the Bank, it was decided that US$ 262.3
million from eight existing loans would be reallocated towards financing reconstruction, repairs and
provision of basic social services on an emergency basis in the provinces affected by the earthquake.
In the health sector, the Marmara Emergency Health Program aimed to re-establish an effective health
care system in the earthquake region as quickly as possible. Bank financing for emergency activities in
the health sector amounted to US$37 million, of which US$22.5 million were reallocated from the
Second Health Project (Loan 3802-TU) and US$14.5 million (the entire loan amount) from the Primary
Health Care Services project. Reallocation of the entire amount of the loan from the Primary Health
Care Services project was justified by the fact that the project had essentially remained inactive for
twenty one months and the situation was unlikely to change given the lack of commitment to health
sector reforms.
G. Revised Project Objectives
12.   The key objective of the restructured project was to re-establish effective provision of health
services at all levels in the provinces affected by the 1999 Marmara earthquakes.
H. Revised Project Design
13.   Funds from the Marmara Emergency Health Program were to finance the following activities
in the region affected by the Marmara earthquakes: (i) reconstruction, rehabilitation and refurbishing of
public sector health facilities; (ii) purchase of medical equipment, ambulances, mobile health units,
emergency medical supplies, including drugs and vaccines and; (iii) the establishment of an
epidemiological surveillance system. Project activities were to be implemented by the provincial
governments with the support of concerned MOH line departments and the PCU.
I. Implementation of the Revised Project
14.   Although the Marmara Emergency Health Program was designed to respond to an emergency
situation, project implementation proceeded significantly more slowly than planned. With the
exception of vaccines procurement through UNICEF, little progress was made with the implementation
of foreseen activities during the year following the earthquake and most activities remained unfinished
when the loan closed almost two years after the earthquakes. Slow implementation was due to four
main causes:
6



(i)    Cumbersome procedures surrounding the adjudication of land and the provision of land
titles for sites on which new health facilities were to be constructed resulted in significant
delays in the reconstruction of health facilities. In the absence of final site allocation and
land titles, activities such as topographical surveys, architectural designs and procurement
of works could not be initiated and without a works procurement schedule, the
procurement of replacement medical equipment for these facilities could not go ahead.
The land allocation issue was finally resolved in late 2000, but by the June 2001 loan
closing date the tender for reconstruction of health centers had still not been launched.
(ii)   MOH's 2000 budget needed to be amended to allow for financing of the emergency
activities supported under the project. Due to cumbersome procedures and red tape, the
amendment was only finalized in late August 2000, thus resulting in implementation delays
of almost one year.
(iii)  The purchase of mobile health units and ambulances was delayed by Government austerity
measures. An exception to the austerity measures needed to be granted by the Ministry of
Finance and the State Planning Organization (SPO). The exception was only obtained in
late 2000.
(iv)   Due to frequent staff turnover and internal turmoil, the PCU needed to be restructured and
its overall management, procurement and financial management capacity strengthened
when the Marnara Emergency Health Program was initiated. This resulted in a lack of
proactiveness on the part of the PCU. Coupled with a relatively heavy procurement
schedule under the Second Health project, the lacking proactiveness translated into the
PCU not moving ahead with the preparation of any procurement documents as long as the
above outlined issues were not resolved. This despite strong encouragement from Bank
mission, which urged the PCU to prepare documents in advance of amendments/approvals
discussed above to ensure that procurement could be launched as soon as the approvals
were obtained. Consequently, procurement of goods and works could not move ahead at
full speed once the budget and land allocation issues had been resolved.
15.   By the time of the June 30, 2001 loan closing date only a small share of the activities foreseen
under the program had been completed. In particular, some replacement medical equipment for
hospitals and vaccines had been procured, but in fact most of these were financed under Health II. The
topographical and geological surveys of sites for new health centers had also been completed. Overall,
just over US$ 1 million of the initially reallocated US$ 37 million had been disbursed. Of these, only
about US$ 350,000 had been funded from the loan of the Primary Health Services project.
16.   In the face of slow progress by the Marmara Emergency Health Program, some of the needs for
reconstruction, equipment, medical supplies and drugs were met by other donors, primarily bilateral
agencies and NGOs. Their procurement regulations proved less cumbersome and they did not require
land titles for the establishment of mainly prefabricated replacement health units, nor did they need
MOH budgetary revisions. The financial needs of the Marmara Emergency Health Program were thus
quite substantially reduced.
17.   Given slow implementation progress and reduced financial needs, Bank management decided
to not grant an extension on the loan closing date and the loan was closed as originally foreseen on
June 30, 2001. An amount of US$ 13.93 million was cancelled following loan closure. Procurement of
goods and services which had been initiated before loan closure will be financed from the reallocated
7



portion of the loan for the Second Health project. Reconstruction of and equipment for public sector
health facilities will be financed under the Marmara Emergency Earthquake Reconstruction project
from which funds have recently been reallocated for this purpose.
18.   Significant efforts were undertaken by the Bank task team to help overcome the constraints
faced during the implementation of the revised project and to help establish improved working
relationships between a restructured PCU, concerned MOH line departments and provincial
governments. While these efforts had only a limited impact on project implementation prior to loan
closure, their benefits have become more visible in recent months. Both, implementation of the
Marmara Emergency Health Program and that of the Second Health project (which suffered from some
of the same problems) has now accelerated considerably. US$7 million worth of medical equipment
have recently been purchased and installed at medical facilities in the Marmara region and procurement
of ambulances and mobile health units is well advanced. Given the low progress in project
implementation, however, despite more evident progress right before the closing date, the Bank team
decided with management that the closing date should not be extended, but rather that activities, which
procurement was advanced, should be funded under Health II and with proceeds from the Marmara
Emergency Earthquake Reconstruction Project (MEER) which had unallocated funds. Accordingly,
architectural and engineering designs for the civil works is about to be completed. Civil works and
additional procurement of medical equipment for the medical facilities will be financed under MEER.
J. Project Outcome
19.  The originally intended development objectives for the Primary Health Care Services project
were clearly not achieved, which is why the loan was reallocated towards the Marmara Emergency
Health Program. Slow implementation progress under the latter resulted in unsatisfactory ratings of
implementation progress at the time the loan was closed. However, the project was given a satisfactory
rating for the achievement of revised development objectives. While health services in the region
affected by the Marmara Earthquake appear to be operational again, this is largely due to programs
other than that financed by World Bank funds. Given the limited achievements under the Marmara
Earthquake Emergency Program at the time of loan closure, it is questionable whether the achievement
of development objectives can be rated as satisfactory. A full evaluation of these activities will have to
await the completion of the entire program and will need to be carried out during the Implementation
Completion Review of both the Second Health project and the relevant component under the MEER
Project.
K. Lessons Learned
20.    Both the experience of the unsuccessfully launched Primary Health Care Services project and
that of the Marmara Emergency Health Program provide some valuable lessons for future interventions
in the health sector in Turkey:
*  Projects in support of sectoral reform can only be successfully implemented if they enjoy
widespread support among key stakeholders both inside and outside govermnent. The
experience of the Primary Health Care Services project has clearly shown that even pilot
reform activities are bound to fail if they are initiated with only limited support and if they are
cariTed out by a unit such as the PCU, which is largely separated from the concerned line
agency departments.  Strong support from a wide range of stakeholders is particularly
important in an environment where there are frequent government changes. Changing political
leaderships tend to disown what was done by their predecessors and reform initiatives have a
8



higher chance of survival when they benefit from support among a wide range of stakeholders
at different levels of the system. Consensus building is an ongoing process; which needs to go
beyond the design and continue to the implementation phase.
*  Adoption of legislation necessary for successful project implementation should be made a
condition of project appraisal or of Board presentation. Allowing a loan to become effective
without the necessary legal framework in place is too risky in a situation where the laws in
question call for deep-rooted reform.
*  Sole reliance on a PCU for project implementation is unlikely to lead to successful results,
particularly in the case of reform projects. While a PCU may be required to assure overall
project coordination (including procurement), concerned line agencies and other stakeholders
need to be involved in project design and implementation.
*  The mixed experience of the Marmara Emergency Health Program raises questions as to how
effectively World Bank loan funds can be used to help provide emergency repairs and services
in the aftermath of natural disasters. Procedures and requirements (particularly with respect to
procurement), applicable to World Bank financed investment loans do not seem to lend
themselves to provide a quick response in emergency situations.  This suggests that
reallocation of funds for emergency interventions under ongoing projects is of questionable
value when quick action is needed. In this case, however, the delays in procurement were due
to cumbersome Government procedures, rather than Bank's lengthy procurement guidelines.
9



ANNEX 1
BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS
Planned         Revised         Actual
(US $000)       (US $000)      (US $000)
Stage of Project Cycle                                     __
Preparation to Appraisal                --             --           40,000.00
Appraisal                                                           55,000.00
Negotiations through Board Approval                                  5,000.00
Supervision                                                         226,000.00
Completion                                                           1,800.00
Total                     --              -           327,800.00
10



