Page  1
September 28, 1999
The Under Secretary of the Treasury 
Inonu Bulvari 
Emek-Ankara Republic of Turkey
Re:
TURKEY - Loan No. 4201-TU
(Primary Health Care Services Project)
Amendment of the Loan Agreement    
Dear Sir:
We refer to the Loan Agreement (Primary Health Care Services Project ) dated 
September 22, 1997 between the Republic of Turkey (the Borrower) and the International 
Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank). Pursuant to your request dated 
September 13, 1999 to address the needs of the emergency created by the Marmara 
earthquake of August 1999, the Bank has agreed to amend the Loan Agreement as follows:
1.  
Section 1.02 is revised to read:
"Section 1.02  Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms 
defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the 
respective meanings 
therein set forth and the following additional terms have 
the following meanings:
a)  
"MOH" means the Borrower' Ministry of Health, and includes any 
successor thereto;
b) 
 'PCU' means the Project Coordination Unit established within MOH;
c) 
"Project Provinces" means the Borrower's  provinces of Bolu, 
Kocaeli (Izmit), 
Istanbul, Sakarya, and Yalova; and
d)  
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 
(b) of this 
Agreement. "
2.  
Section 2.03 is revised to read:
"Section 2.03  The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2001, or such later 
date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower 
of such later date."
3.  
Schedule 1 of the Loan Agreement is revised as per Attachment 1 to this letter.
4.  
Schedule 2 of the Loan Agreement is revised as per Attachment 2 to this letter.
5.  
Schedule 4 of the Loan Agreement is revised as per Attachment 3 to this letter.
6.  
Schedule 5 of the Loan Agreement is revised as per Attachment 4 to this letter.
7. 
Paragraph 1 (a) of Schedule 6 of the Loan Agreement is amended to read:
"(a)  the term "eligible Categories " means Categories (1), (2) and (3) 
set forth in  the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement ."
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing by signing, dating and 
returning to us the enclosed copy of this letter. Upon receipt by the Bank of the copy 
of this letter duly countersigned by you, this amendment will become effective as of 
the date of the counter signature.
Very truly yours, 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
Page  2
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Ajay Chibber 
Country Director 
FYR of Macedonia and Turkey 
Europe and Central Asia Region
AGREED: 
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
By /s/ Inonu Bulvari
Authorized Representative
Date: 9/28/99
ATTACHMENT
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to sustain and restore health services to 
population affected by Marmara earthquake of  August 1999 and to maintain public 
health particularly among the population dislocated from their homes by said 
earthquake.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Pilot Primary Health Care Services
1.
Provision of technical assistance to support the health care services in the 
Project Provinces, to address the needs created by the earthquake of August 1999.
2.
Provision of technical assistance to establish an epidemiological surveillance 
system to monitor morbidity and mortality in persons displaced due to provincial and 
national disasters, and to support relief policies for such disasters.
3.
Improve access to essential health care services through rehabilitation, 
refurbishing and equipping selected public health facilities in each Project Province.
4.
Provision of computerized information systems and technical assistance to the 
provincial health care Directorate in the Project Provinces to support the 
epidemiological surveillance system and disaster response capacity.
Part B:
Monitoring and Evaluation
1.
Provision of technical assistance and equipment to set up a monitoring and 
evaluation system, to undertake systematic outcome evaluation of the implementation of 
the Project.
2.
Provision of technical assistance to PCU to manage the implementation of the 
Project.
* * *
The Project is expected to be complete by December 31, 2001.
ATTACHMENT 2
SCHEDULE 4 
Page  3
Procurement 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this 
Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
Preference for domestically manufactured goods and domestic contractors
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures  
1.
National Competitive Bidding 
Goods/works estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $11,400,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the 
Guidelines. 
2.
National Shopping 
Pre-fabricated health centers and hospitals may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Procurement from UN Agencies Drugs and vaccines may be procured from UNICEF in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions 
of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract to be procured pursuant to Parts B and C of 
Section 1 of this Schedule and estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract to be procured in accordance with the 
procedures referred to in Part C.2 above and estimated to cost the equivalent of less 
than $100,000, the following procedures shall apply: 
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier under shopping procedures, 
Page  4
the Borrower 
shall provide to the Bank a report on the comparison and 
evaluation of 
quotations received; 
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under shopping 
procedures, the 
Borrower shall provide to the Bank a copy of the 
specifications and the draft 
contract; and 
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services for technical assistance, including 
epidemiological surveillance under Part A.2 of the Project, estimated to cost less 
than $200,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants  
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for PCU may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
Page  5
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
ATTACHMENT 3
SCHEDULE 5 
Implementation Program 
1.
The Borrower shall assign overall responsibility for the carrying out of the 
Project to the PCU, which shall, under the overall supervision and guidance of the 
MOH, carry out the Project in accordance with the project implementation plan, agreed 
with the Bank on May 22, 1997. 
2.
The Borrower shall ensure that PCU is maintained with adequate staff, funds, 
facilities and other resources required to carry out the Project in a manner 
satisfactory to the Bank.
3.
The MOH shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators agreed upon between 
the Borrower and the Bank, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof;
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about June 30, 2000, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure 
the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Bank, by September 30, 2000, or such later date as the 
Bank shall request, the report referred to in subparagraph (b) of this paragraph, and 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Bank views on the matter.
