Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-4151-GUT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
OF SDR 3.7 MILLION
(AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US¢3.9 MILLION)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
FOR A
MINERAL SECTOR MANAGEMENT PROJECT
November 4, 1985
This documest as a resticted distibIon and my be sed by reieu  ody in the performance of
thir oScial dude. lt clets em  not idherwe be disdeued without Wodd Bnlk   botion



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS 1/
Currency Unit    = Syli (GS)
US$1    = Sylis 250
Sylis 1 = US$0.004
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
CBG       -   Compagnie des Bauxites de Guin6e
DGMG      -   General Directorate of Mines and Geology
GOG       -   Government of Guinea
LAMCO     -   Liberian American Swedish Minerals Co.
MPRN      -   Ministry of Planning and Natural Resources
OBK       -   Office des Bauxites de Kindia
ton       -   Metric ton
m         -   Million
tpy       -   tons per year
.
1/ This exchange rate is being used for a specific number of foreign
exchange transactions since September 30, 1985. Hence all costs have
been converted using this rate. The official exchange rate at
appraisal in February 1985 was US$1 = 4 sylis.



FOR OFFICLU USE ONLY
GUINEA
MINERAL SECTOR MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:                Republic of Guinea.
Executing Agency:        Minisntire du Plan et des Ressources Naturelles
(MmR)..
Amount:                  SDR 3.7 million (US$3.9 million equivalent).
Terms:                   Standard.
Cofinancing:             Possibly from Canadian International Development
Agency (CTDA) (see para. 44).
Projection Description:  The project would finance technical assistance to
help the Governnent of Guinea (COG) manage its
mining shareholdings, undertake geological work
and exploration promotion, improve the mining
sector's regulatory framework, and strengthen
institutional efficiency through administrative
reform. Technical assistance would be provided
for (a) Shareholding Management: conceptual
studies for the Mifergci iron ore project to
determine cost competitive project configuration;
assistance to GOG in the review of its bauxite
interest in Compagnie des Bauxites de GuinAe (CBG)
and Office des Bauxites de Kindia (OBK), and in
identification of a plan of action for
restructuring Mifergui; (b) Exploration
Promotion: development of new and upgrading of
old geological data for Guinea through geological
field work and rehabilitation of existing maps and
other documents so as to make all data readily
available to potential investors, and subsequent
preparation of exploration promotion packages for
minerals with good prospects; (c) Regulatory
Control: an efficient inspectorate for monitoring
mining sector activities and for ensuring
compliance with the mining code and associated
regulations; a separate component for the
Reorganization of General Directorate of Mines and
Geology (DGKG) is integrated into COG's program of
administrative reform, would define DGMG's
staffing requirements, and would administer tests
I This document has a reszriccd distnibution and may be used by reipients only in the performance of 
their official duties. Its contents nay not otherwise be discoed without World Bank authorization



-ii-
to its staff to provide the basis for implementing
regrading and redundancy policies. Terms of
reference for consultant services include
on-the-job training of local counterpart staff
and, in addition, ten fellowships would be
provided for training abroad.
Benefits:                The project would help both to attract private
sector investment and to preserve foreign exchange
earnings and tax revenues from ongoing mining
operations by assisting Guinea in effectively
representing its economic and commercial
interests. Diversification of mineral production
would be advanced both by preinvestment work on
the Mifergui iron ore project and by establishing
the geological data base necessary to attract more
exploration capital. Practical geological
know-how would be transferred tbrough the field
work. Inspection and monitoring capabilities
would be improved by establishment of an effective
mines inspectorate. The basis for improving
DGMG's efficiency would be created.
Risks:                   The exploration promotion component is subject to
the normal risks associated with geological work,
and has therefore been phased with clearly defined
review stages so as to miniFize these risks.



-iii-
Cost Estimates:
Local      Foreign       Total
-  USS'000    …
1. Shareholding Management
a. PPF I (Mifergui)                       -          500         500
b. PPF II (CBG, Mifergui, OBK)            -          400         400
2.  Exploration Promotion                   240        1,780        2,020
3.  Regulatory Control                        65         380          445
*         4.  Administrative Reform                       -         140          140
Total Base Cost                         305        3,200        3,505
Physical Contingencies                    30         230          260
Price Contingencies                      55          430          485
Total Financing Required                390        3,860       4,250
Financing Plan
IDA                                       -        3,860       3,860
Government                              390            -          390
Total                                    390       3,860        4,250
Disbursements
IDA FY:                           86 a/    87        88      89       90
- - - - - US$ million - - - - - -
Annual                           0.90      0.63     1.45    0.64    0.28
Cumulative                       0.90      1.53     2.98    3.62    3.90
a/ Including refinancing of PPF advances.
Rate of Return:            Not applicable.
Staff Appraisal Report:   No separate report has been prepared.
MSp: IBRD 19166



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO TUE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
FOR A MINERAL SECTOR MANAGEMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Development Credit to the Republic of Guinea for SDR 3.7 million (US$3.9
million equivalent) on standard IDA terms to help finance a Mineral Sector
Management Project.  The Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA)
is considering providing additional financing for the project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1,
2.        An Economic Memorandum (Report No. 4690-GUI) was discussed with
the Government in November 1983 and distributed to the Executive Directors
in February 1984. This section summarizes its contents, focusing on
changes in Guinea's economic situation and policies in recent years. More
specifically, the change in Government following the death of President
S&kou Toure in March 1984 has resulted in a radically different political
orientation which enlarges the possibilities for close collaboration
between Guinea and the Association.
3.        Despite its mineral and agricultural potential, Guinea saw
declining economic performance from Independence in 1958 until about
1973-74.  Stimulated briefly by the mining sector, the economy grew rapidly
between 1973 and 76, but subsequently slowed to a rate well below that of
population growth. Today, most of Guinea's 5.8 million inhabitants live at
the margin of poverty. With a per capita income of about US$300 in 1984,
Guinea belongs among the least developed countries as classified by the
United Nations. Life expectancy is only 44 years, infant mortality is
about 17 percent, 80 percent of the population has no access to safe water,
and similarly 80 percent of the adult population is illiterate.
4.        In the late 1970s, Guinea began reexamining its development
policies, institutions and relations with the outside world. Important
first steps were taken towards improved economic management and
decentralization of the economy. However, only under a new Government,
which took office in April 1984, has Guinea embarked upon a far-reaching
economic reform program (para. 16). The present Government explicitly
recognizes the need for economic pricing of resources. It further
recognizes the country's need for technical assistance for planning,
investment programming, and project preparation and execution. State
retail trade has been discontinued. Price controls have been permitted to
lapse, thus liberalizing and encouraging the agricultural sector in
particluar. Private investment in all forms is being encouraged, including
1/ This part is identical to the President's Reports for the Gueckectou
Agricultural Development and the Agricultural Services Projects.



-2-
foreign direct investment and the return of expatriate Guinean capital.
Private enterprises are nov allowed to import and export most goods, for
example, and to borrow and hold foreign exchange. Towards building the
country's human resource base and tailoring skills to the needs of the
economy, primary education is to be revamped and strengthened, while
enrollment in higher education has been severely reduced and vocational
training expanded.  Manpower planning is being introduced, and the policy
of guaranteeing state employment to school graduates has been reappraised
to curtail increases in public employment and the wage bill. These
measures represent fundamental changes from past policies and reflect a
significant and broadly based attempt to address the deep-seated problems
which underlie Guinea's poor economic performance.
Recent Performance
5.        Output of the economy is estimated to have grown at an average
annual rate of 1.5 percent in real terms over the five-year period up
through 1984. Although economic growth has fluctuated modestly in that
period, it has consistently remained below the rate of population increase
of nearly 3 percent per annum. A temporary upturn in 1982-83 was moreover
narrowly based, resulting from a rise in construction activity due chiefly
to preparations for the OAU conference that was to be held in Conakry in
May 1984. Much of the economy produces at levels well below potential.
The primary sector, while the most important in the economy (more than 40
percent of GDP), produces below potential due to inadequate price policies
and other incentives. Apart from mining, secondary activity (more than 20
percent of GDP) is similarly weak. In particular, the manufacturing
sector, constituted mainly of public enterprises, produces at less than 15
percent of capacity and registers heavy losses. The tertiary sector
accounts for a relatively heavy 35 percent of GDP.
6.        Although Guinea has consistently realized a surplus on trade
account, these surpluses have been more than offset by rising net service
payments and private transfers abroad, important official transfer receipts
notwithstanding. Net capital inflows have not been sufficient to offset
the resulting current acc-unt deficits. An important factor is heavy
capital flight from the country, the exact magnitude of which is
unrecorded. Guinea has consequently suffered continual reductions in net
foreign assets since 1979, estimated net reserves having dropped to a
negative $205 million as of end 1984. In addition, Guinea has incurred a
massive accumulation of external debt arrears. At US$223 million as of end
1984, these arrears represented more than 40 percent of annual merchandise
export earnings.
7.        The Government's own financial situation has been seriously
eroded since 1980, at which time it was in approximate equilibrium. The
erosion is attributable chiefly to poor performance in the parastatal
sector. Receipts from enterprises from taxes and from customs duties on
food and services in particular have declined as the private sec_or has
grown to dominate consumer trade. Similarly, non-tax revenue in the form
of transfers from the parastatals to the capital budget have dropped
sharply, this due largely to reduced profits of IMPORTEX, the State trading



-3-
company, as its de jure monopoly has been undermined by private importers.
Government revenue has consequently stagnated in nominal terms at a level
of GS 10-11 billion annually in all but one year over the period 1980-84.
In 1984, despite drastic reductions in subsidies to the public enterprises
and a cut in capital outlays to half their level only two years earlier,
the overall bugetary deficit climbed steeply in 1984 to GS 3.0 billion,
equivalent to nearly 30 percent of receipts.
8.        Other than the enclave mining projects, nost investment in Guinea
is undertaken by public and parapublic nature. During the 1973-78
development plan period, public investment amounted to a cumulative US$478
million (55 percent of planned expenditure), equivalent to 10 percent of
GDP. Private investment amounted to a further 5 percent of GDP. The
subsequent 1981-85 plan projected a more than doubled rate of investment
and favored collectivized agriculture (31 percent) and industry (14
percent). During the 1981-84 period, actual public investment averaged
less than US$200 million per year, however, a significantly lower
proportion of GDP than in the previous plan exercise. Many of the proposed
projects remain in preliminary stages of preparation, and their financing
is unlikely. The new Government, with the help of the Association, is
reassessing its project priorities. Pending the outcome of this
assessment, the Government decided in April 1985 to limit investment te
on-going, viable projects with assured foreign financing. Under the
recently approved Technical Assistance Project for Economic Management
(Credit 1559-GUI), the Government will completely revamp its public
investment plan and will introduce in 1986 a three-year rolling program
based on a thorough review of sector and macro priorities.
9.        Recognizing the need to improve maintenance and utilization of
existing capital assets, the Government has increased the proportion of its
its recurrent budget for equipment and supplies, including provision for an
important road maintenance program partly supported by the Association. It
is also undertaking a serious examination of the viability of state
enterprises. The least successful ones (including the entire network of
retail trade enterprises outside Conakry) are being closed down. Others
have embarked on rehabilitation programs, mostly with external assistance.
Restructuring of the public industrial sector has started with a major
divestiture and liquidation exercise. Policies in the parapublic sector
aim at making parastatals financially self-sufficient, autonomous in their
management, responsive to market mechanisms and more receptive to technical
assistance.
Foreign Assistance and External Debt
10.       Since the mid 1970s, Guinea has been diversifying its sources of
foreign assistance through renewed ties with the Western industrialized
countries and through expanded relations with Arab nations and multilateral
institutions. Although Guinea successfully negotiated a Stand-by with the
IMF in 1982, the arrangement lapsed owing to the Government's inability to
meet some of the agreed performance criteria and to reach an understanding
with the Fund on exchange rate adjustment. A new Stand-by with the IMF is
expected to be concluded shortly.



-4-
11.       The accumulation of foreign debt to finance investment in
infrastructure and public enterprises has resulted in a burden of foreign
obligations which is excessive in relation to Guinea's debt servicing
capacity. Outstanding public external debt has reached US$1.6 billioa as
of the end of 1984, of which US$1.2 billion was disbursed. Service
obligations on this debt are projected to average US$132 million per annum,
as against average annual payments of only US$83 million in the 1982-84
period. In 1984, the ratio of scheduled service obligations to export
earnings in 1984 was 20 percent of export receipts. Moreover, scheduled
debt service on private non-guaranteed debt of an estimated US$300 million
outstanding represented an additional 11 percent of 1984 export earnings.
12.       It is evident that Guinea's already heavy payments arrears will
continue to rise substantially in the absence of a major, across-the-board
debt rescheduling. In the past, the Government addressed the debt problem
through bilateral rescheduling and measures to improve debt management by
the External Debt Department in the Central Bank, to which the Association
provided technical advice as part of its economic work. Further technical
assistance is underway at the Central Bank and a report to the Paris Club
and other creditors for a multilateral debt rescheduling is anticipated
once an IMF Stand-by arrangement is in place, tentatively early 1986. The
Governmeat has also undertaken strict control of public borrowing abroad to
ensure that it is contracted exclusively for priority investment projects
and on fully concessional terms. Guinea will in fact have to rely on
substantial amounts of foreign assistance on concessional terms during the
next few years. This will be needed not only for investment purposes,
including local cost and recurrent cost financing, but also to provide
foreign exchange for intermediate and consumer goods imports which are
vital to relieve supply constraints and stimulate economic activity,
particularly in the rural sector.
Prospects
13.       Guinea's long-term development possibilities based on it
agricultural, mineral and hydroelectric potential are substantial.
However, given modest national savings (7 percent of GDP in 1984), and
acute shortages of foreign exchange, the exploitation of this potential
hinges on the country's ability to provide appropriate incentives to
producers and to attract foreign capital for investment in mining,
agro-industry and, possibly, petroleum development.
14.       To correct Guinea's excessive dependence on bauxite mining for
its foreign exchange, diversification of its mineral production is a key
element in the country's longer-term development strategy. A new diamond
mining operation was started up in 1984. Iron ore mining is a further
possibility now under active investigation, as are oil exploration and
development of other minerals. In the agricultural sector, following a
major Sector Review (GUI-4672, April 15, 1984) organized by the Bank with
the support of several other agencies (CIDA, USAID, CCCE, IFAD, UNESCO),
the Government has launched an important reform of its agricultural
policies. A long-term strategy and investment program are now under
preparation with the Association's assistance.



-5-
15.       These initiatives notwithstanding, Guinea will continue to face
serious foreign exchange constraints through the 1980s.  Prospects for
foreign exchange earnings in th= mining sector will remain governed by
international bauxite markets, which confront a difficult outlook through
at least the medium term. The downward trend in agricultural exports
experienced in recent years will not be easily reversed, even with imminent
correction of price distortions associated with the highly overvalued
exchange rate. Similarly, expanded domestic production of foodstuffs
sufficient to substitute for a significant share of Guinea's presently high
level of imports can be expected to take place only over the medium term.
16.       To help Guinea realize its longer term development potential, the
Association and the IMF are assisting the Government in formulating and
implementing a comprehensive economic reform program. The program aims at
encouraging private sector development, while at the same time increasing
the efficiency of the public sector. The program indeed represents a
dramatic reversal of the previous regime's economic policies by greatly
reducing the Government's involvement in directly productive activity and
opening up the economy as a whole to the private sector. Particularly
crucial will be a major devaluation with accompanying measures to correct
price distortions throughout the economy. The first steps in the
devaluation have already been taken. These include the opening of a
'Second Window- for limited foreign exchange operations at a
market-determined exchange rate. The authorities have also tightened
budgetary controls and rationalized the programming of public investment.
A total overhaul of the banking system, including the liquidation of the
existing specialized Government banks and the start-up of operations of
foreign-assisted banking institutions, will substantially improve support
for trade and other private sector activity. Also underway is a broad
scale public enterprise divestiture program. Finally, to alleviate its
burden of external debt, Guinea plans to seek a multilateral debt
rescheduling in early 1986, as mentioned in para. 12, and to limit its
foreign borrowing to that which can be secured on appropriately
concessional terms.
17.       The Association has recently appraised a structural adjustment
program and is assisting the Government in mobilizing other donors in
support of the economic reform program. This support, together with an IMF
Stand-by arrangement, will be crucial for Guinea in easing the balav-- of
payments situation in the medium term transition period and contributing to
a gradual realization of the country's considerable development potential.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN GUINEA
18.       The first Bank Group operation in Guinea comprised two loans in
FY68 and FY71 for the profitable bauxite mining project at Bok6. This
project was followed by IDA credits in the mid-1970s for pineapple
production and the rehabilitation of roads. Encouraged by the first
results of these projects, the Bank Group began to diversify and expand its
lending program, based upon broad priorities agreed with the Government:



-6-
(i) rehabilitation and maintenance of basic infrastructure; (ii)
improvement of human resources; (iii) mining development; and (iv)
development of the rural sector. IDA operations in each of these areas
have been approved, with particular emphasis on sectoral planning,
institution building and training. The FY79 First Education Project was
very satisfartorily implemented, and provided a sound basis for the
on-going Second Education Project, which is proceeding well.  The First
Power Project (FY81), cofinanced with France and Germany, began the
rehabilitation of the Conakry power system, and following the conclusions
of the UNDP-financed Water Resources Master Plan, for which the Bank was
executing agency, a Second Power Engineering and Technical Assistance
Credit (Credit 1595-GUI) has recently begun. It would help prepare a
long-term electric generation and transmission program to exploit Guinea's
substantial hydroelectric potential. A Water Supply project (FY79)
provides similar assistance, and was partially the precursor of the Conakry
Urban Development project (FY84), which assists the Government in managing
urban growth in the capital region. The Second Highway Project was
successfully completed in 1984 and Highways III (FY84), which includes the
reconstruction of the country's first priority road link, continues with a
third phase of maintenance and rehabilitation under a revamped highway
organization. Implementation of the renovation works under the Conakry
Port Project (FY83) is also on schedule. Public enterprise re'iabilitation
programs under the Industrial Rehabilitation Promotion Project (FY81) have
begun. Recent operations to assist efforts to promote private investment,
a first IFC loan and investment for the AREDOR diamond mining company, and
the Petroleum Exploration Promotion Project (FY84), have also started
well. The uncertain climate for private sector activity before the change
of Government, and the absence of operatiihg financial institutions, have
nevertheless limited efforts to promote small and medium private
enterprise.
19.       It is in the rural sector that the Government has experienced the
greatest difficulty in harnessing the country's development porential.
Support for small private producers has been almost nonexistent in such
areas as marketing and financial incentives, and access to modern
technology and applied agricultural research. To deal with these
funaamental problems, the Association has supported interventions in two
subsectors with substantial growth potent'al. The Livestock Development
Project (FY81) aimed at strengthening the national livestock planning
institutions, improving animal health and productivity and training
livestock sector staff. However, the continuation of enforced government
cattle purchasing created significant implementation problems and the
Credit was cancelled on September 12- 1983. The new Government has removed
these obstacles, and a Second Livestock project has been appraised. The
Rice Development Project (FY80) stresses national institution-building and
introduces pilot low-cost improved rice production methods in an area with
high potential, and a follow-up project has recently been negotiated. In
addition, as part of the intensive dialogue between the Bank Group and the
Government, the Agricultural Sector Review (para. 16) provides the focus
for new directions for agricultural development and policy formulation.
The Government has accepted the need for improved incentives and the
absolute priority of smallholder agriculture.  These discussions will be
supported by the Association's lending program. A long-term strategy and



-7-
agricultural investment program is now under preparation with the
Association's help. Three new agricultural projects reflecting the
Government's decision to emphasize and promote smallholder agriculture will
be presented to the Executive Directors in the coming months.
20.       Bank Group operations in Guinea now include sixteen IDA Credits
totalling US$202.7 million, and two Bank loans totalling US$73.5 mil"lion.
Guinea's disbursement rate (disbursements in relation to the undisbursed
balance) compares very favorably with that of other countries at similar
levels of per capita income and development. Its disbursement profile
matches the Regional profile.
21.       Current Assistance Strategy.  The proposed Bank Group lending
program, supported by an expanded program of economic and sector work, is
based on a scrategy of encouraging key policy reforms at the national,
project and sector levels. These will improve existing economic
mechanisms, promote market forces and thus begin the structural adjustment
of the Guinean economy, and promote growth through support to the directly
productive sectors. Specific targets are: (a) providing balance of
payments support for key imports needed to increase production, in support
of the structural adjustment aspects of the overall economic reform program
(para. 16); (b) giving priority to policy-based projects that increase
production; (c) introducing technical assistance directed towards policy
reforms, improvea economic management and resource allocation; (d)
improving absorptive capacity in those social and infrastructure sectors
which support the productive sectors, through rehabilitation, and technical
and managerial training; and Ce) improving capital flows through the
promotion of private investment and increasing the level of cofinancing.
During the preparation of the economic reform program, the Association will
also help the Government mobilize the necessary increased financial support
from other donors.
22.       Now that the government has decided to create the needed
incentive structure for smallholder agriculture through devaluation and
price adjustment, we plan to expand agricultural operations in the context
of a long-term strategy for agricultural development, which is under
preparation. It is equally important for the Bank to deepen its
understanding of the industrial sector through additional sector work and
policy discussions, possibly leading to a second industrial promotion
operation once the Government has defined its industrial policy and reduced
the role of public enterprises. Through the proposed project, the
Association would provide technical advice to Government for diversifying
mining activities, including promotion of secondary minerals as well as the
proposed Mifergui-Nimba iron ore project. In line with the general
assistance strategy described above, the proposed project would support
policy reforms in the mining sector aimed at improving the environment for
private investment, maximizing the Government's return from mining
investments, and strengthening its ability to enforce an appropriate
regulatory framewo-k.
23.       The Bank Group's share of Guinea's external debt (public and
private guaranteed) at the end of 1984 stood at about 13 percent (including
undisbursed). Its portion of external debt disbursed is expected to be 11



percent by 1987 compared with 8 percent in 1981; its share of debt service
on public debt and private debt guaranteed, 6.6 percent in 1980, ts
expected to decline to 3.5 percent by 1987.
PART III - THE MINING SECTOR
Mineral Resources and Prospects
24.       The mineral resources of Guinea are considerable, yet only in the
early stages of full appraisal and exploitation. The industrial mining
sector consisting principally of bauxite and alumina production plays an
important role in the Guinean economy. During the last five years, it
generated 12 percent to 16 percent of GDP, 96 percefit to 99 percent of
export revenues and 26 percent to 33 percent of total Government revenues.
The contribution of the sector to the economy is shown in Table 1 below.
Table 1: !HIing Sector - Value Aidd, Eqxots anad Fscal -onibuticm
(US$ mlon - arent tms)
Auea
1980    1981    1982    1983    1984   1980-84
Valm Added Pkodued                    225      273     261     255      256      254
Sare cf GDP(Z)                         13      16       15      13       12      14
Exports
BajiLte                             322      335     327      368     385      347
Ablna                               144      137     121      J:)     131      131
Di                                    1       3        7       5       12        6
Total                             467      475     455       93              484
Share of dnea Exorts ()                96      98       99      99       99      98
Fiscal CUtribution
Bawd ±elAlimflr  Taxs a/            156      153     152      160     172      159
Diand Taxs b/                         0       1        1        1       2        1
Total                              156     154      153     161      174     160
Sbare of Total Goverrmmnr Rvemis (Z)   29      28       26      33       31      29
a/ Special Mx, Irmoe Tar, Misc. Tms
i/ Prodctioa Tax, Export Tax
25.       Production of bauxite and alumina is from three operations in
which the Government is a shareholder (para. 30), and statistics are shown
in Table 2 below.  Bauxite exports were between 10.2 and 11.8 mtpy during
the 1980-84 period, making Guinea second only to Australia as a bauxite
exporter. Alumina exports decreased from 710,000 tons in 1980 to 570,000
tons in 1984, mainly due to technical and maintenance problems at Friguia,
the main producing company. These are currently being corrected and by
1987 it is expected that Friguia's capacity wi  have been restored to a



-9-
level of 700,000 tpy. Due to the depressed international bauxite and
alumina markets, Guinea has been and will be facing pressures to remain a
competitive producer. The companies' tax structure will come under
discussion and while major short term changes in revenues are not expected,
a strong effort will be necessaryr by both GOG and the companies to preserve
the subsector's revenue generating capacity over the medium term.
Table 2:  wiuxite and Altmdn Prndction ai Exports, 1980-84
(MillO  Of tDD5)
1980       1981       1982       1983      1984
Bamite Productim
COG                 9.94        9.56       8.18      8.49      8.52
OK                 1.80        1.50       2.37       2.70      3.05
Total               11.74      11.06      10.55      11.19     11.57
Bamte   ots
CBG                 9.11        8.65       7.78      8.48       8.83
OBK                 1.88        1.50       2.44       2.54      2.95
Total              10.99       10.15      10.22      11.02     11.78
Alunina Prduction
ftla                0.69        0.63       0.53      0.57      0.58
Atzldna Ehxports
Frgiu[a             0.71        0.61       0.55      0.58       0.57
26.       Diamonds have been produced intermittently for fifty years from
alluvial deposits. An industrial scale project with a capital cost of
US$96 million was implemented in 1984 by AREDOR, 50 percent owned by the
GOG. The IFC has an investment of US$14.8 million in this project, 16
percent of project cost.  When fully on stream, the project is expected to
produce 120,000-130,000 carats per year. This should realize annual sales
of approximately US$23 million. There is also an active artisanal gold
mining sector estimated to produce about 1.5 tons of gold per year (worth
about US$15 million), all of which is reportedly sold through informal
channels.
27.       Mineral exploration in Guinea has been minimal in recent years.
Two important projects have, however, been undertaken. First, a major
airborne geophysical survey of the country was undertaken in 1979-80 but
pending the resolution of contractual difficulties between GOG and the
contractor, which are presently being arbitrated before the International
Chamber of Commerce, the results have not yet been made available to GOG.
Second, a major synopsis of all available geological information for Guinea
was undertaken by Bureau de Recherches Geologiques et Minieres (BRGM) of
France with funding from IDA. 2/ Some mineral exploration is currently
underway. Two groups, Chevanling Mining and BRGM, are carrying out
2/ Petroleum Promotion Exploration Project (CR-1438) of January 31, 1984.



-10-
methodical, well organized exploration programs with the primary objective
of locating economic gold deposits. The remaining half dozen or so
concession holders appear to have the primary objective of speculating with
their exploratory permits and they are making minimal contributions to the
augmenting of the geological data base. Under current legal arrangements,
these firms are to produce, by January 1986, feasibility studies detailing
mining exploration programs, or relinquish their concessions. Overall
there is a lack of exploratory activity by technically qualified, well
funded groups who would bring to Guinea's mining sector the much needed
expertise and capital. The absence of competent mining groups reflects
both the lack of a clearly defined, stable investment framework and Mining
Code together with an inadequate and poorly presented geological data
base. A further deterrent is the absence of an Investment Code defining
the rights and obligations of foreign investors.
Institutional and Legal Framework
28.       The General Directorate of Mines and Geology (DGMG), within the
Ministry of Planning and Natural Resources (MPRN), is responsible for all
mining activities, including management of government shareholdings in
mining companies. Within DGMG there are four departments: (i) the Geology
Department in charge of geological mapping, exploration, hydrogeology,
geotechnical and geophysical work; (ii) the Laboratory Department; (iii)
the Mines Department with 23 regional offices for control and inspection of
mining activities; and (iv) the Bureau d'Etudes, which monitors the four
operating mining companies, represents Guinea in international
organizations such as the International Bauxite Association and negotiates
and administers exploration permits.
29.       DGMG's staff numbers about 1,000, of which about 320 are higher
level staff, mostly engineers and geologists. The staff's practical
experience is very limited as budgetary funds to carry out geological and
other field work are lacking. DGMG's overall staffing levels are too
high. The Government intends to curb further employment growth and
introduce redundancy policies consistent with its objective to reduce
public sector employment. Following a redefinition of the role of DGMG by
GOG, and consultation on this role with IDA, the proposed credit would
finance consulting services to improve DGMG's staffing efficiency as part
of GOG's administrative reform program (para. 46).
30.       The Government is a major shareholder in the four existing
operating mining companies, holding 49 percent each in the Companie des
Bauxites de Guinee (CBG), Guinea's largest bauxite mine, and in Friguia, an
alumina producer; 100 percent in the Office des Bauxites de Kindia (OBK), a
bauxite mine managed under Soviet technical assistance; and 50 percent in
AREDOR, a diamond mine.
31.       Guinea has recently promulgated a Mining Code and associated
regulations which, together with the Investment Code (now being revised),
provides for a standardized and predictable legal framework in the mining
sector while leaving some flexibility for individual negotiation of certain
contract terms in line with the economic value of the mineral deposit



-1 1-
(para. 35). IDA staff commented on several successive drafts. A revised
Investment Code acceptable to IDA is expected to be promulgated by June 30,
1986.
Development Strategy
32.       Guinea's first strategic priority in the mining sector is to
maintain the benefits derived from the bauxite and alumina subsector whose
foreign exchange generation and tax contributions are of crucial
importance. In light of weak world aluminum markets and the resulting
competitive pressures on bauxite and alumina, present GOG policy correctly
focusses on preserving the economic incentives for their production in
Guinea. The Government has to be responsive to a series of business
proposals made by its foreign multinational partners in the mining
companies, and at the same time effectively represent its own interests, a
difficult and delicate task.
33.        Guinea's second strategic priority is to increase exploration
work by the private sector, a precondition for eventually diversifying
mineral production through implementation of new mining projects.
Exploration work is undertaken on the basis of identified geological
targets, and while Guinea's geological potential is favorable, its data
base is too narrow to produce the number of specific targets necessary to
mobilize a substantial, sustained flow of exploration capital. To broaden
its geological data base, the Government intends to initiate basic
geological field work, including geological mapping. DGHG plans to carry
out such field work in selected areas with perceived potential. Specific
targets identified in the process would be promoted for exploration, and,
as appropriate, for further preinvestment work to be funded by third
parties.
34.       Geological and promotional efforts will have to focus primarily
on high value/low bulk minerals such as gold and diamonds. This is because
the majority of Guinea's geologically promising (non-bauxite) areas are
located several hundred kilometers from the sea and are poorly provided
with physical infrastructure. This makes the development of bulk minerals
highly unlikely in the near and medium term (with the possible exception of
the Mifergui-Nimba iron ore deposit, located within 18 km of an operating
Liberian railroad to a port). Base metals, therefore, will have only
long-term potential and as a rule do not warrant any special effort in the
foreseeable future.
35.       Complementing its objective of attracting exploration capital
through informative geological data, the Government also intends to improve
the sector's regulatory environment. The Mining Code (para 31) has
established a standardized and predictable legal framework and in
particular modified Guinea's participation policy. In the past the
Government sought to obtain a 50 percent up front ownership in any
exploration and subsequent mining venture in return for the mining rights
to a deposit yet to be explored. The policy of acquiring 50 percent of the
shares without cash or equivalent capital contributions was feasible for
the bauxite projects of the early 1970s, but generally acted as a deterrent
to private investors elsewhere in the mining sector because under such
arrangements the return on their (cash) equity was generally unacceptably
low.



-12-
Under the new Code, the Government will retain the right to become a
shareholder in all mining ventures, but its ownership percentage will be
negotiated after the exploration phase and on a case by case basis taking
into account the economics of a particular deposit. Similarly, DGMG plans
to strengthen its capacity for effectively carrying out regulatory
functions. These include processing of applications, negotiation of work
programs, issue of permits, monitoring of field work and other contractual
obligations, and ensuring that all exploration and mining activities comply
with the provisions of the Mining Code and associated regulations.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
36.       In 1983 a Bank mission carried out a preliminary assessment of
the mining sector in Guinea, following up on a geological review by
consultants earlier during that year. A preparation mission in
October/November 1984 reviewed the mining sector in depth, initiated
project design discussions and commented extensively on the Mining Code
then under preparation. The proposed project was appraised in
February/March 1985 and a follow-up mission visited Guinea in June 1985.
A PPF advance of US$500,000, later increased to US$900,000, financed
conceptual studies of different production configurations on the Mifergui
project as well as initial advice on the management of mining shareholdings
(paras. 39 and 40). Negotiations were held in Paris on October 28 and 29,
1985, with a Guinean delegation led by Captain Jean Traore, Minister of
State for Planning and Natural Resources. There is no separate Staff
Appraisal Report. A credit and project summary is given at the beginning
of this report. A supplementary project data sheet, including special
conditions, is attached as Annex III and an implementation schedule as
Annex IV.
Objectives
37.       The first objective of the project is to help strengthen Guinea's
capabilities to represent, as shareholder, its economic and commercial
interests in ongoing and new proposed mining activities so as to maximize
benefits from these operations. The second objective is to improve the
mining sector investment climate to accelerate mineral development, in
particular the flow of exploration capital. This implies as subsidiary
objectives a broadening of the geological data base and the establishment
of an effective regulatory framework. The third objective is to increase
DGMG's efficiency first to meet the above two objectives, and second as an
integral part of Guinea's national program of administrative reform.
Project Description
38.       The project is divided into four components: (i) management of
shareholdings in mining companies; (ii) exploration promotion; (iii)
regulatory control; and (iv) reorganization of DGMG.



-13-
39.       Mining Shareholding Management.  This component, responding to
current needs, is already being initiated under PPF funding. Twenty-four
staff-months of investment banking consulting services, that have been
recruited according to IDA guidelines, are being provided. These will
assist DGMG in defining a new corporate strategy for OBK and in responding
to various tax restructuring, marketing, staffing and productivity issues
and proposals that have been raised by CBG's foreign partners. Work
started in October 1985 and will continue through April 1986 and beyond on
an ad-hoc basis with project funding. IDA will be afforded an opportunity
to review and comment on the recommendations.
40.       The consultants will also develop a plan, which will be submitted
to IDA for review and comment, to restructure the Mifergui iron ore
project, an essential prerequisite for a viable project proposal.
Technical studies, financed under the PPF advance, tave identified a cost-
effective production configuration. It is based on utilization of Liberian
facilities, in particular railroad and port infrastructure presently owned,
used, and maintained by LAMCO, a Liberian iron ore company. LAMCO's
developed iron ore deposits, located across the border from Mifergui at a
distance of about 18 km, will be depleted by end-1989. LAMCO's operations
will cease thereafter and unless the Mifergui project can be mounted
quickly, the deteriorating infrastructure will not only erase Mifergui's
competitive advantage, but postpone project implementation indefinitely.
41.       Exploration Promotion.  This component will focus on the
development of new and the upgrading of old, geological data for Guinea.
In view of the need to stimulate short- to medium-term exploration
investment in Guinea, the program will concentrate on those minerals which
can be marketed and which will not require major investments in
infrastructure. Exploration contractors will design, manage and execute a
phased exploration program and, if warranted, prepare exploration promotion
packages for distribution to potential investors. The program, which will
require approximately 80 staff-months of professional services over a
two-year period, will consist of several distinct activities. The first
phase will consist of an initial six-month period which will be utilized to
identify the minerals and specific areas which have potential for mineral
exploration and development in the short- to medium-term. An important
starting point for this work will be the report of BRGM and any geophysical
data that becomes available (para. 27). Before proceeding to the second
phase, incorporating significant field work, a review of the prospects and
proposed project activities will be undertaken jointly by NPRN and IDA.
42.       Following this review and agreement with IDA on the second phase
a major program of field work including mapping, trenching, pitting and
sampling will be carried out by the contractors in the identified
prospective areas. This program is expected to take approximately one and
a half years. The laboratory of DGMG will be refurbished and resupplied as
appropriate to support the field program. In the event that specialist
analytical services beyond the scope of expertise of the DGMG laboratory



-14-
are required, samples will be shipped abroad for testing. Following
completion of the field work a series of technical reports will be
prepared. These will integrate all the newly acquired data with the data
obtained previously by others. As a part of this process the poorly
preserved, and in many cases unique, copies of old maps/reports will be
redrafted/copied and a geological data center will be established. In
addition, assistance will be given to the Government to procure previously
obtained geophysical data (para. 27) to a value of US$250,000, should it be
appropriate to the prospects under consideration. In this way all
geological data, including those from the project, will be made readily
available to all interested parties at fees designed to recover only
reproduction costs.
43.       During the execution of the exploration program, MPRN and IDA
will periodically review and approve the technical conclusions. If
warranted, a third phase for the preparation and marketing of promotion
packages incorporating both commercial and technical data will be
immediately undertaken. Throughout the program, training of Guinean
counterparts will be integrated into the work program. This on-the-job
training will be supplemented both by the provision of overseas training
for six Guinean professionals for a period of six months each and by the
holdiag of seminars in Guinea on specialized aspects of exploration and
mineral prospect marketing.
44.       Regulatory Control.  Technical assistance, approximately 24
staff-months by a resident advisor, will be provided to DGMG to enable it
to fulfill its regulatory functions. This assistance will permit DGMG to
ensure that contractual exploration commitments undertaken by companies/
individuals are in fact fulfilled in a manner which optimizes the benefits
to Guinea. At the same time, DGMG will be given assistance to build up an
efficient inspectorate for monitoring all activities in the mining sector,
so as to ensure compliance with the Mining Code and associated
regulations. In order for Guinean staff to more fully understand the
regulatory function and to augment the on-the-job training, financial
provision has been made for four Guinean counterparts to spend three months
each working with an inspectorate. It is planned to provide the technical
assistance for this component by a twinning arrangement with an
inspectorate in another country. To this end, discussions are underway
with the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA) who have
expressed interest in bilateral financing and who have contacted the
Government of the Province of Quebec.
45.       Reorganization of DGMG. At present the role of DGMG within MPRN
is poorly defined. Furthermore DGMG's present payroll of about 1,000 staff
is far above the requirements of the mining sector as well as above
Guinea's capability to provide funding other than for salaries to assure
that assigned tasks can be properly carried out. The educational
background of DGMG's personnel is uneven, often theory oriented, and there
has been little or no opportunity to acquire relevant practical
professional experience. GOG intends therefore to regrade DGMG's staff as



-15-
a function of their actual professional competence. It also intends to
reduce, as appropriate, the total number of staff to a level compatible
with available funds and reorient the remaining staff to a fully
operational role.
46.       Following agreement reached with GOG at negotiations on the role,
scope of the functions and overall organization of DGMG, about 8
staff-months of personnel consulting services will be provided. These will
be used to assess DGMG's staffing needs based on sector requirements, and
administering tests to DGMG's employees to determine their qualifications
and experience. The results of the analysis and recommendations, on which
IDA will comment, would be forwarded to Guinea's Ministry for the Civil
Service and Administrative Reform, which is charged with the implementation
of staff regrading and redundancy policies. At that level, specific
recommendations for the mining sector will be integrated into Guinea's
overall efforts to increase public sector efficiency, in which IDA is
involved through its Technical Assistance Project (CR-1559 of March 1985)
and the proposed Structural Adjustment Credit. Consistent with the overall
program of staff reduction in the public sector, a timespecific program for
staff reduction and redeployment in the mining sector would be submitted
for IDA's approval by December 31, 1986.
Implementation
47.       The project would be implemented under the authority of rHPRN over
a three year period. A Guinean project administrator, acceptable to IDA,
already appointed will be responsible for overall project coordination and
training programs. He will manage the accounts of the project and the
procurement and disbursement functions. Two internationally recruited
consulting groups and an exploration contractor appointed on terms and
conditions acceptable to IDA, would carry out the respective project
components. Functional counterparts reporting to the Director of DGMG,
will be appointed for each component and be responsible for all technical
aspects of Guinean participation in the execution of the consultants' work
programs.
48.       An investment bank has been retained to advise MPRN on the
management of its mining shareholdings. Exploration contractors with
experience in the promotion of mining prospects will be recruited to carry
out the exploration component. To fulfill the regulatory consulting
function it is planned to seek a twinning arrangement with an active mining
inspectorate (oara. 44). Personnel consultants will be retained to
undertake the administrative reform component.
49.       Terms of reference for the consulting contracts and for the
exploration contractor have been agreed. Short lists are under preparation
and will be submitted to IDA by November 30, 1985. Requests for proposals
will be issued in December 1985 and contracts signed by July 31, 1986. For
those items to be procured prior to implementation of fieldwork,
invitations to bid are under preparation by DGMG. The invitations will be
issued in December 1985 and contracts signed in the first quarter of 1986.



-16-
Project Cost and Financing
50.       The total project cost is estimated at about US$4.3 million
equivalent of which USS3.9 would be in foreign exchange. Detailed cost
estfmates are shown in the Credit and Project Summary. Most of the foreign
exchange costs would be incurred in the exploration promotion component
(US$1.8 million), and in the refinancing of the two PPFs (US$0.9 million).
Project cost estimates are based on June 1985 prices and include 10 percent
for physical contingencies. Price contingencies are based on assumed
annual inflation rates of 20 percent for 1986, and 12 percent for 1987-89
for local expenditures, and 7 percent for 1986-87, 7.5 percent for 1988 and
7.7 percent for 1989 for foreign expenditures. The project would be
exempted from identifiable taxes and duties.
51.       The proposed Credit of SDR 3.7 million (about US$3.9 million
equivalent) would cover 100 percent of the estimated foreign exchange costs
or 90 percent of total project cost. The balance of project expenditures
in local currency, estimated at US$0.4 million, would be financed by the
Government. Government funding would be channelled through an account
which would be operated by DGMG at a commercial bank. The initial deposit
of US$50,000 equivalent in local currency would be a condition of Credit
effectiveness. The account would be replenished quarterly.
Procurement and Disbursement
52.       The selection of consultants and exploration contractors for the
project would be in accordance with IDA Guidelines. The minor amounts of
goods and supplies included in the project totalling about US$0.5 million
would be procured largely through Limited International Bidding (LIB) by
inviting quotations from at least three suppliers. Limited purchases to an
aggregate value of US$100,000 would be made by shopping. The documents
relating to the initial three packages to be procured both by DGMG and by
the exploration contractors which are estimated to cost more than US$50,000
would be pre-reviewed by IDA. Any procurement of existing proprietary
geophysical data (para. 27) would be undertaken on the basis of a
negotiated price. There is a provision of US$250,000 for this purpose.
53.       The Credit would be disbursed against 100 percent of foreign
expenditures. Proceeds of the Credit would be disbursed in four
categories: (a) equipment, vehicles and spare parts (US$0.40 million); (b)
consultants and technical services (US$1.80 million); (c) purchase of
geophysical data (US$0.25 million); (d) training (US$0.20 million). After
refinancing the PPF advance of US$900,000, US$350,000 would remain
unallocated. To facilitate purchases of foreign items a Special Account to
be administered by DGMG would be established in a commercial bank. An
initial deposit of US$100,000 from the IDA Credit would be used for
equipment and spare part items. This account would be replenished on the
basis of documentary evidence provided to IDA by MPRN as to payments made
from the account for goods and services required for the project.



-17-
Reports and Audits
54.       DGMG, through the project administrator, would maintain separate
project accounts which would be audited annually by an independent auditor
acceptable to IDA. DGMG would submit progress reports to the Association
within 45 days of the end of each quarter. At the end of the project, MPRN
would submit a Project Completion Report to IDA within three months of the
closing date of the Credit.
Benefits and Risks
55.       The advisory assistance provided for managing the mining
shareholdings will provide DGMG with the business expertise needed to
conduct effectively forthcoming discussions with its partners on the tax
regime applicable to CBG (see para. 25) and to forwulate its strategies for
advancing the Mifergui project and restructuring OBK. The active
representation of its economic and commercial interests will help GOG to
preserve the benefit flow from the existing mining operations and to
advance preparatory work on Mifergui, a major sector diversification
project. At the same time, a sound business basis will be developed to
create a climate suitable for the protection of Guinea's long term
interests in the sector.
56.       The principal benefit of the exploration promotion component for
Guinea would be an increasing awareness in the international mining
community of the geological potential for the production of minerals other
than bauxite and iron ore. This awareness could translate into increased
exploration activity, and hopefully, a diversification of mineral
production. Subsidiary benefits would be the augmentation of the mineral
resource inventory, the establishment of an efficient, operating geological
data center where potential investors may review available data; and the
upgrading of the experience and expertise of Guinean professional staff in
DGMG.
57.       The benefits of establishing an effective mines inspectorate
would include the supervision of all activities taking place under the
Mining Code and associated regulations as they pertain to both exploratory
and extractive phases of the industry; the ability to monitor ongoing
exploration work to ensure its compliance with contractual agreements; the
establishment of uniform standards across the industry; and the training of
Guinean personnel in this vital function of a sovereign state.
58.       The component for the reorganization of DGMG will establish the
basis for increasing DGMG's operating efficiency by suggesting staffing
levels that are consistent with the requirements of the mining sector and
compatible with GOG's funding ability for a fully operational DGMG. The
component is consistent with GOG's overall reform program and contributes
to the macro-objective of improving public sector efficiency.



-18-
59.       There is a risk associated with the proposed exploration
promotion component that attractive prospects may not be located by the
project. To minimize the risk of ill-advised expenditures, the various
phases of the promotion component of the project would only be undertaken
following a careful review of the results of the preceding phase (paras 41
and 42).
RECOMMENDATION
60.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association and I recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed Credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
Washington, D.C.
November 4, 1985
Attachments



ANNEX I
-19-                                             ACz E   of  6
CUINEA                - SOCIAL IWO MITA SH
GUIN                               WCI       GUPS (UitElCr  AVERwS7 I-
M                        (OT RECENT ETMATE) lb
396~~/b  gppIb     ____      LOW 11013 AFRICA         MIDDLE INoNS
1960L/-b    19741-/b- rsTuZlirLib  sOUT1e OF SAMARA     AFRIcA S. or SANA
Am  ("Mmis   SQ. C0-
TOTAL                             265.9      245.9       245.9
ACdICLtURAL                        44.0       45.7        45.7
Cp    CAPA (oS)                        ..         ..        300.0             230.3                   1063.8
ga: coSTNES Paz CAPLTA
(KILOGMS OF OIL zqUrvAum)          35.0       58.0        54.0              62.3                    581.5
OULAnml AM  TMa STATSEMCB
POPULATIONA,D-TEAR (THOUSANDS)   3850.0     490.0    5S30.0
URBAN POPULATION (0 or TOTAL)       9.9       13.9        26.0              20.1                    32.0
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEA 2000 CHXLLI                           8.3
STATIONARY POPLATION CHILL)                             25.0
conuxane   mrwo                                          1.8
POPULATION DEWITT
PER sq. Km.                      15.7       18.3        Z3.7              33.2                    65.1
PER SQ. Km. ACRI. LAND           87.5       98.2       125.0             112-8                   124.8
POPULATION AGE STRUCiutE CI)
0-14 YRS                        42.0       42.5        43.6              46.0                    45.6
15-64 YRS                        55.1       54.6        53.2              50.8                    51.5
65 AND AbE                        2.5        2.8         3.1               2.9                     2.7
POPULAON GROE RATE (E)
TOTAL                             1.1        1.5        2.0                2.3                     2.9
URBA                              7.0        4.9        5.1                6.4                     5.1
CaUM DIRTS RATE (PE DHWS)          46.0       46.0       47.0              47.2                     47.0
CRUDE DUETH RA  (PER m10S)         30.3       28.9       26.7               17.8                    15.0
GROSS RBROOCON RATE                 2.8        2.9        3.2                3.3                     3.2
FASLY PLANING
ACCEPTORS. AUaL (THOs)            ..
USiRs CS OF 1A    D  W*)          --         --          1.0               3.3                     6.4
POOD AMOflXM
INDEX OF POOD PRO. EA CAPrTA
(1969-71-100)                      97.0      101.0       64.0               33.3                    U2.9
PeR CAPrIA SUPPLY o0
CALoRtIS (z OF RQuIBNTS)         70.0       79.0       80.0               37.7                    98.5
PROTEINS (GRAS  PER DAY)         34.0       37.0        38.0              51.9                    55.4
OF W1XCH ANIML AND PUlSE         7.0        6.0        7.0 Ic            13.7                    16.5
CWLD (ArES 1-4) DEH RATE           57.7       68.3        36.0              23.1                    16.6
LUE MXPECT. AT 3u11 (YEARS)       36.7       35.4       37.3              47.8                     52.0
INrANr ICC. RATE (PER rwS)        207.5      186.5       158.0             119.5                   103.8
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (CWoP)
TorAL                             ..          .         17.0              27.1                    42.4
URB"N                             ..        68.0       69.0               63.5                    67.5
RmtAL                             .                     2.0 E             19.3                    35.8
ACCESS TO EflETA DISPOSAL
(C OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                       13.0        13.0 Id           26.5                    28.9
URBAN                                       70.0       54.0              65.4                     57.7
_RDURL                                       2.0        1.0              20.8                     20.7
POPULATINW PER PHYSICIAN        33770.0    35510.0    17110.0 Ic         27901.7                 11791.7
POP. PER NURSING PERSON          604D.0     2Z20.0     2570.0 7;7        3303.4                   Z439.8
POP. PER HOSPrrAL ED
TOTAL                           6ID0.0     670.0      660.0 tI          1273.6                   931.1
-                URBAN                           260.0       260.0      400.0 7T          42Z.2                    368.8
RURAL                          2760.0      960.0      760.0 7;         3292.5                   4371.9
ABMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL ED          .         16.0        ..                ..                      27.2
AVER   SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                             ..         ..         .                  ..
URBAN
*                  RUL .R. .L
AVEVRE NO. OF PERSONS/ROOe
TOTAL                             ..         ..
mN,                                           .. ..                     ..
FlIRAL
PERCCIFCE OF DWELLIXCS WITH ELEcr.
URTIA.                                       ..             ..                                     ..
RURAL                             .          -.



ANNEX r
-20-                                              PA022 of  6
aulNi                  - SOCIAL INDICATRS DATA SeET
CUzuM                                EZFRPUSN  amou. (CEIGHMT  AVmgS) IA
left                     CHOST EcuNT ESTDIATO) lb 
ESCRUT     LOW I11CO3 AMRC&         NIU=L iicts
19..-b-    1970Lb E'STINAIL         SOUTO OF SAJIRA       AFRIC  S. OF SANARLA
In.CAMo
ADJUSTED ENUOLUIKN RATIOS
PRIMARZ:  TOTAL.                  20.0       33.0        23.0 id           67.8                      95.7
HALE                   44.0        45.0       45.0  4            77.6                    100.0
PENLEL                 14.0        21.0       22.o 7i-           54.9                     82.2
SECONDIAT: TOTAL                  2.0        13.0        16.0 id           11.5                      17.3
NALK                    2.0        21.0       23.0 r             17.9                     25.0
FWIAL1L                 ..5.0                  9.o 73-            9.1                     14.8
VOCATIONAL (20 OF S31048!)         21.7         3.2         2.7 id           12.2                       5.9
PIIIL-TEAOIER RATO
PR1AXT41                         64.0        44.0        36.0 Id           44.9                      41.1
sucomuDX                          26.0       22.0        24.07             27.4                      25.5
?Asseas   CANSIIUOUSPJD PFM         1.4        242         3..8                                       20.
RAXDI UEEVR/TOSI W                  10.2       20.23        6.               55.6                     107.8
TV                   FMZVR/NUSI  O    ..                    l.A                2.6                     20.8
NEWSAPER C"DAIL CUEZMAL
I]M3dTERS) CIMATION
PER INOOSANID POPIILATMO            0.2        1.1         3.7 L&            5.0                      18.A
cIumI ANiuAL ArIUHgNaWCAIIA          ...                                       0.5                      0.4
LABOR
TOTrAL LABOR PrSEz (TO0M)         1910.0      2140.0     2527.0
IEUIAI (FUSES?T)                 40.4        4043        4L16              34.2                      36.2
AGRICULTUS (PRucMIT)              85.0       83.0        82.0              77.5                      54.5
DM JSRT(PERCENT)                  6.0         8.0        11 .0 __41         9.7                      13.3
PARTICIPATION RATZ (PERCENT!)
TOTAL                             49.6       47.7        43.3              39.3                      36.8
RULE                              59.4       57.4        52                50.9                      47.1
11*1.5                           39.9        38.1        33.3              28.1                      27.2
ESlMOICDEPENCY RATIO              0.9         1.0         1.1               13                        1.3
P9    1  tST OF PR2VATE                          .2tI5
uzcw 8!z
HIGHST 52 01 HOUSUMOLDS            .
a IGES 200 or OousEDl
LOWEST 2020 OF OUSEUOLDS           .
rAsee  40 OFcRsED2                 ..OSA 20.
ESTIsM     AuSOLunZ roumRr IOMm
LEVEL CUSS NMR CApITA
U0D30                              ..         ..          ..               165.5                    590.7
AL                                                                            __ .. *.  .O          275.3
Z-DAE FJATM   ov=nT INMm
LEMVE  (US        CAPITL)
ram                                                      70.0 If           I13 .                    545A.
NIRAL                              ...                     .6746                                    201.1
ESTUMAE  PMW. BELOW ABSOLUT
POVERT INCOM LEVEL (Z)
CDlm                               ..         ..          ..                36.6
RURAL                              .0         ..          ..                61.8
NOT AVAXLABLE
* NO APPLICABLE
fl~~~~~~~~~ C.0 T                     .         110 S.                                       I
la  Tl.e grouap averages foc each Lailcato  armp9lt4mulhe ar1tbet1 eemam. Coverage of emuattlee
swung che lndiecaor. depeude on avaLlablllty of data .d Le not unnUouu
lb Unless otbetwUle meted. 'Data for 1960 refer to any yoea batons. 1959 a"d 1961; "Deat for 1970"' between
1969 anod -1971; and data for "Neat Recent E.tIa.t. butw... 1961 ami 1933.
Ic  1977; Id 1980;. /a 1976-: /f 1976: L  1979.
JUNE. 1985



-21-                                            AIINEX  I
Page 3 of 6
DEFINMONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
No,s= Although the data areodravn fretm sourcns scnealgyjudged the most authontiave and relabil at should also be noted that thcy may not be nternauonally
compamble becuse of dthe lack or standartized definitions and concepts used by difrerent countrLes in colecting the data. The data are, noneheless useful to
dAenbe ordes o manitude, indicate trends, and Lbafctenre certain major differenc between counmries.
Thc rferene groups am t 1 the same country group of tde subject country and 12) a country group with somewhat higher average income than the country
I   Wgofthe suject country cezrpe for -High IncomeOtI Exponrers- group where -Middle Income Nortn Africaand Middle East- ischoicn because of stronger
soco-clturn ahlinsties) In the reference group data the aweapg are populatuon wghted anthmeuc means for each indicator and shown only when majorty   I
ofthe countries in a group has dau for that indicator Since the covege ofcountries among the idicatorsdepends on Lhc avilability of data and s not uniform.
cauton must be csercessd In relaunig avenaes of onc indicator to another Thecs averages are only uscefl in comparing dhi valuc t one ndicator at a sime among
the country and reference grpa.
AREA (thousand sq.krn.)                                          Crude lnk Rare (per thonsad-Number of live births in the year
Tedi-Total surface area comprising land area and inland waters   per thousand of mid-year population: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                        Crue Dearth Rate (per rkousand)-Number of deaths in the year
AgriEkarnl-Estimate of agricultural area used temporarily or     per thousand of mid-year population: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
permanently for crops. pastures market and kitchen gardens or to  Grass Repodatin Rarte-Average number of daughters a v.oman
lic falow. 1960. 1970 and 1982 data.                             will bear in hcr normal rcproductive period ir she expcriences
present age-spefic fertility rates: usualy fivc-year averages ending
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)-GNP per capita estimates at current         in 1960. 1970. and 1983.
market prices calculated by same conversion method as ovrld      fily Plani-Acepmtr, Anul (thousands-Annual num-
Bannk Atla (1981-83 basis): 3983 data.                           ber of acceptors of birth-control devices under auspiers of national
ENERGY CONSUMPTION  PER CAPITA-Annual apparent                   family planning program.
consumption of comnmercial primary energy (coal and lignite      Faiy Plui'(a (percent of married  Joun-The percen-
petroleum. natural gas and hydro-. nuclear and geothernal dec-   tage of married women of child-bearing age who are practicing or
tricity) in kilograms of oil equivalent per capita: 1960. 1970. and  whose husbands are practicing any formn of contraception. Women
1982 data.                                                       of child-bearing age are generlly women aged 1549. although for
some countrics contraceptive usage is measured for other age
POPULATION AND VITAL SATISICS                                    groups
Total Population. Mid-Year tresorands)-As of July 1:1960.1970.   FOOD AND NUTRION
and 1983 data
UldexofFood ProducionPerCapit (1969-71 =100-Indexof7per
Urban Populationw  (psrear of retatl-Ratio of urban to total     capita annual production of aD food conunodities. Production
population; different definitions of urban areas may affect compar-  exdudcs animal feed and seed for agriculture. Food commodities
ability of data among countrim; 1960.1970. and 1983 data         include primary commodities (eg. sugarcane instead of sugar)
Phtwi.n Projections                                              which are edible and contain nutrients (e.g. coffee and tea are
Popularion in year 2000-The projection of population for 2000.   exduded): they comprise cereals. root crops. pulses. oil seeds.
made for each economy separately. Starting with information on   vegetables, fruits. nuts. sugarcane and sugar beets. livestock. and
total population by age and set fertility raLes. mortality rates. and  livestock products. Aggregate production of each country is based
international migration in the base year 1980. these parameters  on national average producer price weights 1961-65. 1970. and
were projected at five-year intervals on the basis of genralized  I982 data.
assumptions until the population became stationary.             p/"c Capita Sapplp ofCaloris (per ofreqinws)-C Coiput-
Statiornary popuaion-Is one in which age- and sex-specific mor-  ed from calorie equivalent of net food supplies available in country
tality rates have not changed over a long period, while age-specific  per capita per day. Available supplies comprise domestic produc-
fertility rates have simultaneously remained at replacment level  tion. imports less exports. and changes in stock. Net supples
(net reproduction rate = 1) In such a population. the birth rate is  exclude animal feed. ieeds for use in agiculture. quantities used in
constant and equal to the death rate the age structure is also   food processing. and losses in distribution. Requirements were
constant, and the growth rate is zero. The stationary population  estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for normal activirv
size was estimated on the basis of the projected characteristics of  and health considering envirosnmental temperature. body weights.
the population in the year 2000. and the rate of decline of fertility  age and sex distribution of population. and allowing 10 percent for
rate to replacement level.                                       waste at household level: 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
Popularion Montenrum-Is the tendency for population growth to    Per Capta Supply of Prtein (grams per day)-Protein content of
continue beyond the time that replacement-klvel fertility has been  per capita net suppiy of food per day. Net supply of food is defined
achieved; tbat is. even after the net reproduction rate has reacbed  as above. Requirements for all countries established bv USDA
unity. The momentum of a population in the year r is measured as  provide for minimum allowances of 60 grams of total protein per
a ratio of the ultimate stationary population to the population in  day and 20 grams of animal and pulse protein. of which 10 grams
the year 1. given the assumption that fertility remains at replace-  should be animal protein. These standards.are lower than those of
ment levd fromn wear t onward. 1985 data.                         75 grams of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an
Pop-l-io Density                                                 average for the world. proposed bv FAO in the Third World Food
Per sq.kns-Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hec-    Supply: 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
uares) of total area; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.                  Per Capita PFroren Sapply Frot Aimen mad  idlse-Protem supply
Per sq.km. agricultural land-Computed as above for agricultural  of food derived from animals and pulses in grams per day: 1961-65.
land only. 1960. 1970. and 1982 dam.                              1970 and 1977 data
Fbpalton Age Stratre (perenr)-Childrcn (0-14 years). work-        ChlM (ages 1-4) Death Rare (per thansand)-Number of deaths of
ingage(15-64years). and rtired (65 years andover)as percentage    children aged 1-4 years per thousand children in the same age
of mid-year population: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data                 group in a given year For most developing countries data derived
Pbppultion Growth Rate (percenrj-total-Annual growth rates of     from life tabls: 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
total mid-year population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83.      HEALTH
Population Growh Rare (percen)-arbart-Annual growth rates         Life Erpecrawy ar 8irnh (years-N umber of years a newborn
of urban population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83 data.       infant would live if prevailing patterns of mortalitv for all people



-22--                                          ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
at the time of of its birth wcre to stay the same throughout its life:  Pupd-techer Rorto - prLnmay. and secondary-Total students en.
1960, 1970 and 1983 daa                                       rolled in primary and secondary level divided by numbtm  of
In fat Mearty Rae (per rthonand)-Number of infants who die    teachers in the orresponding levels.
befoe reaching one year of age pea thousnd live birhs in a given
year, 1960. 1970 and 1983 datL                                CONSUMPToN
Accss to Soft  Wa  (pect of p.ploidJ--total. wrb, and         Pane Cas (per *oumd p.pulatioaj-Passenger car com-
rural-Number of people (total, urba  and rurl) with resonable  prise motor cars seating less than eight persons: excludes ambul-
ae. to safe water supply (Includa trated surface water or     ancs. hearses and military vehides.
untreated but uncontaminuted water such as that from protected  Radil Recevs  (per thousand popwWea )-AI1 types of mecivers
borehole sprn  and samitary wells) as percentage of their trpec5  for radio broadcaist to general public per thousand of populadon:
tive populaions. In an urban a  public fountain or standpost  excludes un-licensed rceiven in countries and in years when
located not more than 200 meters from a house may be considered  mistmtion oradio ses was in effect: dta for recent years may
as being within resLonable access of that house. In rural ares  not be compable since most countrie abolished Liczrsing
reasonable access would imply that the housewife or members of the  T becmparable sincepostunTr abolis lirensing     s
bouselhold do not have to spend a disproportionate part of the day  to Recera  (per thousandpopulaJ-TV  receives for broadcast
in fetchig the family's water need                           to general public per thouisand population, excludes unlicesed TV
receivers in countries and in years when registrtion of TV xts was
Acces to Excrt Dispta (pcent of pepslation)-total,  *         in efrect
ad nwal-Number of people (total. urban, and run-l) served by    w     rv           (per tousandpopaladon)-Sbows the aver
eacreta disposal as percentages of their respective populations.
Exre  disposal may include the coUection and disposal with or  age circulation of -daily general interest newspaper.' defined as a
without treatment, of human excreta and waste-water by water-  perodcl publcation devoted prinarily to recording gneral nws
borne systems or the use of pit privies and sindiar instaelations.  It is considered to be 'daily if it appears at klst four dmes a week.
Popultiam per Phyuician-4bpulation divided by number of prac-  CGne  A _u Auttend-we per Capa pe  Ye-Based on the
tising physicians qualified from a medical school at university level,  number of tickets sold during the year. including admissions to
Pop eaon per NuAn Person-Population divided by number of      drive-in cinemas and mobile units.
practicing male and female graduate nurses, assistant nurse   LWsR FORCE
practical nurses and nursing auxiliaries.                     To8t Labor Force (rhousandr)-Eeonomicallv actve persons, in-
PopLuia pot Hspiua Red-toral, urban, 4nd nuL-Populatioi       cluding armed fores and unemployed but excluding housewives.
(totaL, urban. and rural) divided by their respective number Of  students, tc.. covering population of all ages. DeOng tions in
hospital beds available in public and private, gneral and specialzed  Srutens etc .cosaren  comparablo 1o0 a 9 and18 data.
hospitals and rehabilitation centers. Hospitals arc           vanous countrics are not comparable 1960. 1970 and 1983 daeb n
pemanently staffed by at least one physcian. Establishments prov-  Femak  (pere)-Fealc labor force as percentage of total labor
iding principally custodial care are not included. Rural hospitals  fome.
however include hcalth and medial centers not permanently staffed  Agricuture (percet)-Labor force in farning. forestry, hunting
by a physcian (but by a medical assistant, nurse, midwife, etc.)  and fishing as percentage of total labor force: 1960. 1970 and 1980
which offer in-patiet accommodation and provide a limited range  data
or medical faciliies.                                         Iaistry (percenr)- Lsbor force in mnining, construction. nanu-
Admiions per Hospitd Bed-Totl number of admissions to or      facturing and electricity. water and gas as percentage of total labor
discharges from hospitals divided by the numlber of beds.     force; 1960. 1970 and 1980 data.
Patpao Rae (perer)-totl4 mck -dfeuek-Prticipaton
HOUSING                                                      or activity rates are computed as total. male, and female labor force
Are-.e Sie of HousehoaW (peons per household)-toral, urban,   as percentages of total male and female population of all ages
adawra-Ahouseholdconsi  oagropofindividuals whoshaare          drespc,tivly. 1960. 1970. and 1983 data. These are based on ILOas
iiving quarters and their main meals. A boarder or lodger may or  parficipation raes rlecting agsex structure ofthe population. and
may not be included in the household for sutistical purposes.  long time trend. A few estinates are from national soumm.
Aerage Nmber of Perww per Roorm- .oal, urban. cad  rual-      Econo,ic Dependency Ra-Ratio of population under 15. and
Average number of persons per room in all urban. and rural    65 and over, to the working age population (those aged 15-64).
occupied conventional dwelings, respectively. Dwellings exclude
non-permanent structures and unoccupied parts.                ICOME DISTRIBLTTION
Percentage of Dwelings with Ekerriciy-total, urban. and rural-  Percentage of Total Disposable Income (borh in cash and kind)-
Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quarters as percen-  Accruing to p-rrcenilc groups of households ranked b; total housc-
tage of total. urban and rural dwellings respectively,        hold income.
EDUCAIT0i4                                                    POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Adjaed E     i et ds                                          The following estimates are very approximate measures of poverty
P1imay school - total male and Jferak-Gro  totaL male and     levels. and should be interpreted with considerable caution.
femal enrollment of all ages at the prinary levd as percentages of  Etimated Absolut, PoPerty income Level (US per capita-urban
respective prinary school-age populatons. While many countes  and rural-Absolutc poverty income level is that income  level
consider primary school age to be 6-11 years. others do not. The  below which a minima! nutritionally adequate diet plus essential
differences in country pracaices in the ages and duration of school  non-food requiremnents is not affordable.
are reflectd in the ratios given. For some countries with universal  Erimated Reltive Poermy ncome Level ( USS per capital-urban
education gross enrollment may exceed 100 perent since some   and rurm'-Rural relative poverty income level is one-third of
pupils are below or above the country's standard primary-school  averagc per capita personal income of the country. Urban levd is
age.                                                         derved from the rural level with adjustment for highcr cost of
Secondary school - totol. maLe andfmaak-Computed as above;    living in urban areas.
secondary education requires at least four years of approved pri-  Estimated Population  Below Absolute PIoerry Incore Levd (per-
mary instruczion; provides general vocationai. or teadcer training  eent)-urban and rural- Percent of population turban and rural
instrtions for pupils usualy of 12 to 17 years of agc; correspond-  who are "absolute poor."
ence courses are generally eduded.
Vocational EnroQbwni (percent of.secondary)-Vocational institu-         Comparative Analvsis and Data Division
tions include technicaL industriaL or other programs which operate   Economic Analysis and Projections Department
independencly or as deparanents of secondary institutions                            June 1985



-23-                                 maT
aws of6
REPULI OF WU
NArOAL PKIX1IN 1986 kmlA Rce of Gouth (Z, ccstea pices)
uS lian         Z     1973-77    1977481    1973481    1981-45
Projce
GM4 at Nkt Pdces            1758        100       4.59       -0.22       2.16        2.00
t    Dmstlc  Tmesit          195         11      -6.55        7.09       0.04        7.00
Gm- Natiind Saizip           173         10      -3.44        0.01      -1.70          -
C(rrat re   ut hIm           -22         -1      21.25      -39.77      -4.92          -
Eorp   of t , NRS            52V71       30      30.41        2.35      15.53        1.C0
liqts of Goods. IFS         -4281       -24     -20.03        3.46       11.44         -
am. sBM NFAND ESwnrIY in 1983
Valua                        Labor Force                 VA per ttn
UFSn           z              ,os3             z           Ms            z
AgriolnAu           710         42.36           2022            82.00         351          51.85
LTaery & Mldg    383            22.86           271             10.99        1343         198.38
services           582          34.75            173            7.02         3445         508.86
TosljADgnre        1675        100.o0          2466            100.00         677         100.00
G*VR_  FBLNZ
Centml Ceant
Blim Sylis                             Z of GOP
1981      1982       1983      1984      1981     1982    1983       1986
Ozraz RaceIpts           11.52      15.35      10.23     10.74    32.68    40.98    23.17    21.0
Onrent ExpsAitmI           7.04      9.09       7.80      9.92     19.97    24.27    17.67      19.4
Qzrnt Surpls   2/         4.48       6.26       2.43        83     12.71    16.71      5.51     1.6
Cpital BTsdImre            5.73      4.34       2.93      3.85     16.25    11.55      6.65     7.5
leml  Aseisrar             1.80      08         0.83      -.22      5.12     2.21      1.88     -.4
ICE!. Qtf AM PRRZ
Biflice Sy;Ss
Dec. 1980          Dec. 1981          Dec. 1982          Dec. 1983
lNey and qmaslrcno                 12.50              17.19               16.16             17.55
Bar Credit to PtbUc Sector         18.50              18.28               15.59             17.78
faik Credit to Privace Sector       1.21               1.02               0.59              0.63
199D               1981               1982              1983
Niny ad quasimq    as % of G.    77.4                 49.69               39.86             40.28
rUMI Price m  let (1981-100)       91.9              100.0               104.4             116.4
AmlZ Ca48in:-
Bant Credit to PRblic Sector    114.9               -6.65              -10.00             14.34
Bank Credit to Private Secor     60.3              -16.00              62.16               6.71
Ottder 22. 1985



-24-                     zwes s
Page 6 of 6
REPULIC OF GUINEA
TUADE PAYETS AID CAPITAL noUS
BALANCE OF PATISNIS
1979k   1980    1981    1982    1983   1984
CIJFTHIU.!iW                   (Eat.)
Exports of Goods                        366     596     493      446     503    527
Imports of Goode                       -335    -395    .455   -380    -380   -428
Trade Balance                            31      101      48      64     123     99
Services and Private Transfers (net)   -97    -99    -128    -124    -140  -140
Interest K 6 L/T Debt                -23     -23     -22     -25      -21    -21
Investment Inc.ee                    -18    -40      -56     -54      -70    -69
Other Services (not)                 -49    -28      -41    -36       -40   -40
Workers' Ricttances                   -7      -e      -9       -9     -9    -to
Official Transfers (net)                  9      17       16      26      18    19
BalSnce  n Current Account              -57      19    -64       -34       1   -22
Direct Foreign Invetuenc                 17      22       30      26      31    34
Not IILT lorroving                       37      14      58       20      62   -25
Dihburamente. Public horroving       131     119      142      57      92     79
Amortization. Public Borrowing       -65     -73     -61     -53    -46    -S4
Subtotal. Public Borrowing            66      46      81       34     46    -5
Private Sector Cnet)                 -29    -32      -23     -14   ' 16   -20
other Capital (nect,                     -1        1      11      31     -3   -12
Other Item. n3... -                     -82     -90     -99      -56    -153    -88
Change in Reservee (- - Increase) -      29      34      72       11      62     63
Crose Reservee ( end year)               65     101      92      133     129
Net Reserves (end year) 5/             _204   -240      -76 ±1  -87   -142  -205
Fuel, and Related ?sterials
IMports                               56      84      97      86      83     87
of which: Petroleum                   56      84      97       86      83     67
Exports                                   0       0       0       0        0      0
RATIS OF ECWNCGE
1975    1976    1977  1978   1979   1980   1981   1962   1983   tQ84
SyiSUSS   20.33   21.38   21.14  19.72  19.11  18.97  20.93  22.36  23.37 *6.29
IERCEANDISE EXPORTS (Average 198045)         EXTERNUL DEBT. December 31  1984
Fin constant 1982 price.)
US  nu      x                                       USS an
Baxite              334.4      70.1          Public Debt
Alumina             127.0      2S.6          Incldintg 1ndiSbursed       1570.4
Diamonds              6.6       '.4          Outstanding 6 Disbursed    1167.3
Agricultural
Coamoditie.         9.2       1.9
Total               477.2    100.0           DEBT SERVICE RATIOS FOR 1984
laRD/IDA LENDING (Hercb 31. 1985)            Scheduled Service Payents  44.3
USS mln               Public                     34.0
TEND       IDA            Privace Debt Non
Guaranteed              11.3
Outetanding 6
Disbureed          41.5    108.3
Undieoured          0.0      86.4
Outetanding
including
undlebursed        41.5    194.7           Accual SevIce Payments
Public Debt                19.9
Private Debt Non Cuarant'd na.m
1/ Nerchandie exports/imPorta onlvy
2/ Including capital tranfer. to. and investcMt on bebalf of. etee
enterprses.
3/ GDP implicit deflator.
5/ Ineludee error, nd  mieuions. and SK allocations in 1980 end 1981.
5/ Diecrapaciaas due to different exchange rates.
6/ Debit balance of $213 dillio under bilateral payment arrangemento
converted 1981-82 to NLT logn.
7/ Period gaonetric average.
8/ Debt service as a percentage of merchandise export.
October 22. 1985



-25-                              agelof
Page 1 of 2
ME R ECF UI
Arn~RL SEM:S PRW
SrI aF WDN[D BAN   EA          IN GMINFA
A. Statemnt of  ik loans maI  cwlits (as of Se        er 30. 19   *
(US$ minidon)
Imber        Year   Borrower                                       Bank      Mk 1/ Uodisbirsed I/
'No loans axd thee Credits have been fully dibursed              73.50     28.99
8704-I       1979   Qdxe         Fizst Wter Supply and Swdtation            1250         0.74
952-I        1980   Qdnea       Rice Deelnpmelt                             10.40        1.53
953-I1       1980   Qire         Second1 Ri.y                               13.00        0.26
1063-(0I     1981   Qduea       Livestodc De1eopmet                          2.11       0.15
1085-QJI     1981   Qdnea        boer                                       28.50       0.66
1m34-all    1982   QiTi         Ihistrlafl RebibilUt9t.                     19.00       12.03
and! Promixitn
1341-4lI    1983   Qite         Secon Edwation                              11.00       8.55
1382aMI      1983   Qdmea      CGmaky Port                                  13.00       4.25
1438-40l     1984   Qurea       Petwme  Bilortic  Pmmoti                     8.00       5.81
1457-alI    l9B4    rinea       Trd RW=E Y                                  28.00      26.07
146f-QGJ     L984   Gufnea      Coiakxy Urba Developzmt                     10.70       9.55
1559-all    1985   Qdnea        T.L for Fgzo!c                               9.50       9.29
1595-I -   1985   Qfnea         Se        Pam  & Tedi AssIstaIce             8.00       8.00
Total                                        73.50    202.70       86.89
of which has bee rpaid                     34.04       0.00
Total nw bheld by Bak and Thk 3/             39.46    202.70
Total unxlsbrsed                              0.0       86.89      86.99
1/ Begig with (redit 1063-M, Crdits have been dwiratad in  peclal DrawYg Rights. De dollar
wanlts In these cohms repesenlt the doUar equvlent at the time of crdit negtations fo the
ML ammts and the dolar equivalents as of Septier 30, 1985, for the mIsbursed almonts.
(1 SUR = US$1.05940).
2/ Not yet effective.
3  Prim to eto bge adjstmuts.
*  The status of the projecs 1   ate in  a   As   c      In a a                     Bank /mA
financial project in eawitlm, 'bich is updated twice yearly ad circulated to the Iecutive
Directors on Apx21 30 and October 31.



-26-I
agie 2 of 2
B. Stament of IhC IwsbHmts (as of Septber 30. 1985)
Fiscl Year      0                                    p                  Loi                    Total
1983         Soa1kt Nfxte, Aredor Qin6e, SA.  Dlaixd Nlzxg           13.6        1.2         14.8
Total Gmss Cczudtimnts                                  13.6        1.2         14.8
Lem Cancellatiws, TerAd=IdtW,
RApym   and Sals                                        0.1         -           0.1
Total Caudtments iwr held by IFC                        13.5        1.2         14.7
Undisbrsed Blalme                                        0.0        0.0          0.0



-27-
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
GUINEA
MINERAL SECTOR MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project: 12 months
(b) Project prepared by: Government, Consultants and IDA Staff
(c) Date cf first presentation to IDA and date of first IDA mission
to consider the project: October 1983
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission: February 14, 1985
(e) Date of completion of negotiations: October 29, 1985
(f) Planned date of effectiveness: January 1986
Section II: Special IDA Implementation Actions
An IDA Project Preparation Facility Advance of US$900,000 is
financing preparatory conceptual studies and start-up of
investment banking advice.
Section III: Special Conditions
The Mining Code and associated regulations acceptable to IDA,
have been published (para. 31), and the project administrator
has been appointed (para. 47).
Prior to effectiveness, the revolving account for local project
financing shall have been established and an initial local
currency deposit equivalent to US$50,000 shall have been made
(para. 51).
The Government has also agreed that:
(1)  an Investment Code satisfactory to IDA will be promulgated
by June 30, 1986 (para. 31).
(2) IDA be afforded the opportunity to review and comment on
restructuring plans proposed for Hifergui and OBK under the
mining shareholding components (paras. 39 and 40).



-28-
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(3)  MPRN would not initiate any work under the exploration
promotion component for (i) the geological field work, and
(ii) prepartion of promotion packages without prior
consultation with and approval of the respective programs by
IDA (paras. 41 and 43).
(4)  in the context of its promotion program MPRN would make all
geological data obtained during the project readily
available to the public at nominal fees designed to recover
reproduction costs (para. 42).
(5)  IDA would be afforded the opportunity to review and comment
on the staffing requirements and tests proposed under the
administrative reform component (para. 46).
(6)  Staff rationalization in DGMG would be undertaken in
accordance with a program to be submitted to IDA by December
31, 1986 and consistent with the overall program of staff
reduction in the public sector (para. 46).
(7) MPRN would sign the consulting contracts for the
exploration, regulatory and administrative reform components
by July 31, 1986 (para. 49).



- 29 -
AME IV
flMMATIM SCEUE
1985          1986           1987          1988           1989
1. Exploration Promotion
a) Data Review
b) Field Progra
c) Prcaotia  Activities
2. Regulatory Cotrol                                                   .
3. AddiMstrative Refonn
4. mifergui cmcptua1i
Study (PPF I)         --
5. Sbari.ig
grt (PPF II)



IBRD Will
"  Lr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
G UlN EA -K~                                                                                         m
L as
S A U                                                                  A=l
'--.5_  Y   MINERAL OEVELOPMENT t1MINERAi DEVp LOvES
t>n    S~~AURITANIA Et'-                                         h                   A>
N ENGAL           AAAAtI       .'2 Reim
; <w>IE                 Xv"easr i  -3"R-.M 
"U~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A A                                    T 1






