Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16289
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
JAMAICA
POPULATION AND HEALTH PROJECT
(LOAN 2851-JM)
FEBRUARY 3,1997
Jamaica Resident Mission
Human and Social Development Group
Country Department III
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performnance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit      =     Jamaican Dollar (J$)
(April 1987)
J$1.00             =     J$5.50
US$0.1818          =     J$1.00
(December 1995)
J$ 1.00                  J$40.00
US$0.025           =     J$1.00
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CPS                Contraceptive Prevalence Survey
CSM                Contraceptive Social Marketing
GOJ                Government of Jamaica
IEC                Information, Education and Communication
MOH                Ministry of Health
NFPB               National Family Planning Board
PIOJ               Planning Institute of Jamaica
SLC                Survey of Living Conditions
UDC                Urban Development Corporation
UNFPA              United Nations Fund for Population Activities
UNICEF             United Nations Children's Fund
Vice President:           Shahid Javed Burki, LAC
Director:                Paul Isenman, LA3
Manager:                 Julian Schweitzer, LASHC
Task Manager:             Sarah Adam, LA3JM



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Table of Contents
PREFACE
EVALUATIONSUMMARY                                                                   i
PARTI - PROJECT IMPLEMENTA TIONASSESSMENT                                           1
A. Project Objectives                                                               1
B. Achievement of Project Objectives                                                2
C. Key Factors Affecting Project Implementation                                     6
D. Project Sustainability                                                           8
E. Bank Performance                                                                 8
F. Borrower Performance                                                             9
G. Assessment of Project Outcome _10
H. Future Operations                                                               10
I. Key Lessons Learned                                                             10
PARTH- STATISTICAL TABLES                                                          12
APPENDIX
A: Borrower's Contribution to the ICR
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
JAMAICA
POPULATION AND HEALTH PROJECT (Ln. 2851 - JM)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Population and
Health Project in Jamaica, for which Loan 2851 - JM in the amount of US$10 equivalent
was approved on June 16, 1987 and made effective on December 15, 1987.
The closing date was December 31, 1995, one year after the original closing date
of December 31, 1994. Final disbursement took place on December 17, 1996 when the
loan was closed and a balance of US$3.8 million was canceled. Cofinancing for the
project was provided by the United Nations Fund for Population Activities (UNFPA).
The ICR was prepared by Sarah Adam of the Jamaica Resident Mission and the
Human and Social Development Group of the Latin America and Caribbean Region and
reviewed by Van Pulley, Resident Representative/Country Team Leader, Julian
Schweitzer, Country Sector Manager, and Robert Crown, Project Advisor. The Borrower
provided comments which are summarized in Appendix A to the ICR. An evaluation of
the training component prepared by the UNFPA is in the Project Files.
Preparation of the ICR is based on material in the project file and interviews in
Washington, DC and Jamaica. The Borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR
by preparing its own evaluation of the project's execution and by commenting on the
draft ICR.






POPULATION AND HEALTH PROJECT
(Ln. 2851 - JM)
JAMAICA
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    Jamaica was among the first countries in Latin America and the Caribbean to become actively
concemed with population policy. The Jamaica Family Planning Association and other voluntary
agencies introduced family planning services in the 1930s. In 1967, the National Family Planning Board
(NFPB) was established by the Government to promote family planning and deliver related services.
2.    Prior to the Population and Health Project, the Bank financed two projects in the population,
health and nutrition sectors in Jamaica totaling US$8.8 million: the Family Planning Project (Ln. 690-
JM) and the Second Population Project (Ln. 1284-JM). The first loan provided assistance for the
expansion of postpartum family planning services in support of Government's single purpose family
planning program and revealed that women preferred integrated services rather than single purpose
family planning clinics. The second project successfully instituted and operated integrated family
planning, nutrition and primary health care services in 58 new health centers financed by the project and
introduced the use of Community Health Aides (CHAs) for outreach work that combined family
planning counseling and nutrition education. The Administrative Reform Program (Technical Assistance
Project Ln. 2507-JM) was expected to contribute to reforms in the Ministry of Health's personnel
system.
3.    Concurrent with the Population and Health Project, the Bank-funded Social Sector Development
Project (Ln. 311 1-JM) also supported the Government of Jamaica's (GOJ) efforts to improve the
efficiency, delivery and management of primary education and primary health care, including the
rehabilitation and construction of health centers and staff residences and the procurement of medical,
surgical and dental equipment and pharmaceuticals (Table 2).
Project Objectives
4.    The main objectives of the Population and Health Project (Ln. 2851-JM) were to: (i) achieve the
objectives of the National Population Policy (1983), namely fertility reduction and the integration of
population concerns in the public and private sector development projects; and (ii) develop a more cost-
effective health services delivery system in line with its Health Policy (1984). It sought to expand and
improve family planning services, address the future financing of health services and increase the
efficiency of the delivery of health and family planning services through civil works, the procurement of
furniture, medical equipment, vehicles and ambulances, and technical assistance and training. Total
project cost was US$12.4 million. The UNFPA provided grant cofinancing for the training component
of the project.
5.    The objectives, though clearly stated and consistent with Government's sector policies, were
broad and the strategies to achieve them resulted in a complex project comprised of multiple components
involving many diverse activities implemented by three separate agencies with limited capacities (Part I,
paras. 1-3).



ii
6.     Special loan covenants expected to promote the achievement of project objectives included: (i)
maintaining key project staff; (ii) establishing and maintaining review and steering committees; and (iii)
preparing an Information, Education and Communications (IEC) strategy. Significant gaps in the project
manager and accountant positions occurred during the project and negatively affected implementation.
The review and steering committees met regularly and the steering committee fostered inter-institutional
collaboration in addressing implementation obstacles. The IEC strategy was not completed until four
years after the original fulfillment date, thus significantly delaying important project activities and an
assessment of impact (Part I, para. 21).
Implementation Experience and Results
7.     Although technically sound, because of implementation constraints described below, project
objectives were only partially achieved. The project did expand population and family planning
programs through the renovation and equipping of 20 health centers, furnishing and equipping of 280
health centers, training of health workers and family planning volunteers, and studies and IEC activities.
In terms of increasing the efficiency of the health sector, the project built and equipped a new
comprehensive health center and designed and implemented a referral system. Technical assistance and
fellowships to strengthen the Ministry of Health (MOH) and address health care financing were not
utilized (Part I, paras. 4-20). The project has a high probability of maintaining the achievements
generated by the family planning training component and the widespread dissemination activities
executed by the Planning Institute of Jamaica (PIOJ). The sustainability of the NFPB's family planning
program and the delivery of services in MOH health centers is dependent on continued financing from
Government and other sources (Part I, para. 29).
8.     The project was implemented over an eight-year period, including a one-year extension. Few of
the project activities planned for the first three years were implemented on time. Three years into
implementation only 10 percent of the loan had been disbursed compared to the appraisal estimate of 50
percent. After a one-year extension of the project closing date, 38 percent of the loan was canceled.
Three main factors negatively affected implementation: (i) the long delay between project appraisal and
loan effectiveness; (ii) fiscal constraints and cumbersome administrative procedures which affected
project financing, procurement and staffing; and (iii) the limited institutional capacities of implementing
agencies.
9.     Bank performance. Bank performance during the project cycle suffered from deficiencies
attributable to two main factors. First, the design of the project did not adequately incorporate lessons
learned from the previous two projects in the sector. Lessons included the importance of: (i) establishing
a clear hierarchy of objectives and indicators to monitor impact; (ii) paying attention to institutional and
bureaucratic arrangements and familiarity with the decision-making structure; (iii) addressing underlying
constraints in addition to implementation symptoms; and (iv) assessing Government's capacity to
implement a third project. Second, changes in task management between appraisal and effectiveness and
then five more times during the eight-year project negatively affected implementation. Technical
preparation of the project was sound and thorough. A comprehensive Implementation Volume included
job descriptions, terms of reference, training courses, equipment to be procured and some preliminary
architectural plans. However, because of a two-year delay between appraisal and effectiveness and
significant lags in implementation, parts of the manual were quickly outdated. The project design failed
to accurately address the limitations of the institutional capacities of the MOH and NFPB. The
Implementation Volume did not detail the institutional framework for decision-making nor the
administrative arrangements to carry out the project. The time required to build capacity was not



iii
considered and thus implementation schedules were unrealistic. The size and scope of the technical
assistance component exceeded the implementing agencies' capacities to recruit and manage consultants
and GOJ's willingness to borrow for consulting services. Performance during implementation was
uneven: obstacles were identified, but underlying constraints not addressed; inputs were closely
monitored, but project impact was ignored; prudent flexibility was demonstrated in responding to
changing circumstances and priorities, but the decision to add a complicated procurement component
only 18 months before the end of the project proved unsound (Part I, paras. 30-33).
10.   Borrower performance. Borrower performance varied during the course of the project, by
implementing agency and by activity. Ministry of Health officials participated extensively in the
preparation phase, drafting a document considered thorough and timely. Difficulties hiring and
considerable turnover in key management positions within MOH and NFPB occurred throughout
implementation. Inter-institutional coordination was weak, although it improved during the final years
of the project as did the pace of implementation. The performance of PIOJ merited the additional funds
it received to carry out more activities than originally envisioned. The Ministry of Health rectified some
of the performance difficulties experienced by the Urban Development Corporation in executing civil
works, but long delays prior to contract signing and insufficient supervision continued. Procurement of
equipment proved even more problematic, in part due to turnover and technical weaknesses of project
staff (Part I, para. 34).
11.   Project Outcome. The overall project results were unsatisfactory. The project only partially
achieved its main objectives, expanding population programs to achieve further reductions in fertility
and increasing efficiency of delivery of health and family planning services, and did not address the
future financing of health services (Part I, para. 35).
Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned
12.   With the closing of the Social Sector Development Project (Ln. 311 1) in December 1996, the
Bank is not currently preparing or implementing a health sector operation. The Bank recently approved a
Social Investment Fund Project which will rehabilitate and equip primary health centers in poor
communities, using a new institutional mechanism to execute civil works. Also in September 1996, the
Bank approved a Public Sector Modernization Project which includes a component to strengthen
procurement and contract management practices throughout government (Part I, para. 36).
13.    Six key lessons emerge from the project: First, project design must reflect the institutional
capacity of the implementing agency. Second, to ensure readiness for implementation, institutional
capacity should be built during preparation. Third, although all health centers and other facilities were
eventually completed, the Ministry of Health did not perform well in contracting or managing civil
works. The practice of placing the responsibility of civil works in ministries whose comparative
advantage is in other areas should be seriously considered. Fourth, the complexity of government
procurement procedures is evident in this project and other Bank-financed interventions and requires
system-wide rather than project-by-project solutions. Fifth, successful project implementation requires
not only continued commitment on the part of Government, but also effective, continued and coordinated
supervision by the Bank. Changes in task management during the course of the project, particularly one
experiencing difficulties, should be minimized. Finally, specific project outcome and impact measures
in addition to input and output indicators should be established during design, evaluated as part of the
project and consistently monitored to determine project achievement and impact (Part I, para. 37).






PART 1 - PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Project Objectives
I.    The Population and Health Project (Loan 2851 -JM) sought to enable Government to meet its
long-term demographic and health objectives by increasing the coverage and improving the quality of
population and family planning programs and improving resource utilization and performance in the
health sector. The principal objectives of the project, by definition consistent with Government's sector
policies, were to assist the Government of Jamaica (GOJ) to: (i) achieve the objectives of the National
Population Policy (1983), namely fertility reduction and the integration of population concerns in the
public and private sector development projects; and (ii) develop a more cost-effective health services
delivery system in line with its Health Policy (1984). The approaches outlined under these policies were
broadly concordant with the Bank's country assistance strategy of supporting Government's economic
adjustment program and mitigating the cost of adjustment on lower income groups through increased
efficiency in the social sectors, including better targeting of social programs.
2.    The objectives, though clearly stated, were broad and the strategies to achieve them resulted in a
complex project comprised of multiple components involving a number of diverse activities
implemented by three separate agencies with limited capacities. The project combined civil works,
procurement of furniture, equipment and supplies, and technical assistance and training inputs in three
main parts:
(a) strengthening of the institutional capacity of the National Family Planning Board (NFPB), the
Planning Institute of Jamaica (PIOJ) and the Ministry of Health (MOH) to plan and implement
expanded population/family planning programs in the public and private sectors by:
*  renovating, extending, furnishing and equipping about 30 primary health centers and
extending the NFPB building;
*  providing a total of six vehicles for PIOJ and NFPB;
*  furnishing and equipping the Information, Education and Communication Unit (IEC)
of NFPB, the Population Unit of PIOJ and about 280 primary health centers;
*  providing 87 staff-months of consultant services, 45 staff-months of fellowships and
in-service training of 1,400 family planning volunteers, 2,000 family planning
service providers and 700 distributors of contraceptives; and
*  financing incremental recurrent costs for about 18 staff, including salaries, operating
costs, medical and office supplies and vehicles.
(b) improving MOH's capacity to plan and operate the health services delivery system and provide
specific support for the analysis and adoption of measures to improve the financing of health care by:
*  constructing, furnishing and equipping the Montego Bay Health Center;
*  providing 11 vehicles, including ambulances;
*  furnishing and equipping the management support units of MOH, referral system
and the project management unit;
*  providing 138 staff-months of consultant services to develop and institute a referral
system, strengthen the management support units and prepare studies in health



2
financing, 108 staff-months of fellowships and training of about 385 staff in the new
referral system;
financing incremental operating costs and salaries for about 4 incremental staff.
(c) supporting innovative subprojects to improve health and family planning programs.
3.     The project was modest in size in terms of the overall planned public sector investment program
and took into account the activities of other donors in the sector. In order to minimize the impact on
Government's budget during a period of severe fiscal constraint, Government's contribution to the
project was limited to 15 percent of total project cost and the impact on recurrent costs was minimized.
At appraisal, the total project cost of US$12.4 million was distributed as follows: civil works, US$2.0
million; equipment, furniture, vehicles and supplies, US$2.7 million; technical assistance and training
US$3.0 million; innovative activities, US$260,000; recurrent costs, US$1.4 million and unallocated,
US$3.0 million. The unallocated portion of the budget, relatively large at 24% of total project cost, was
to cover physical and price contingencies and provide flexibility for the project to respond to changes in
circumstances and priorities during implementation. The UNFPA provided grant cofinancing for the
training component of the project.
B. Achievement of Project Objectives
4.     The project only partially achieved its primary objectives of expanding population programs to
achieve further reductions in fertility, increasing efficiency of delivery of health and family planning
services and addressing future financing of health services. Most physical targets, which were revised
downward during project implementation, were achieved. Implementation performance, however, varied
by implementing agency and type of activity. Despite significant implementation delays in the first three
years of the project, all civil works were completed; almost all furniture, equipment and vehicles detailed
in the Project Implementation Volume were procured; and training targets were exceeded. Funds for
fellowships and consultant services, however, were significantly underutilized and medical equipment
under the Innovative Activity component was not procured. As a result of project inputs, the institutional
capacity of PIOJ was significantly strengthened while the capacities of MOH and NFPB were only
partially enhanced, due to difficulties recruiting and retaining staff and other implementation constraints
described below.
5.     The extent to which sectoral objectives were achieved is more difficult to assess for two main
reasons. First, specific outcome/impact indicators for the project, as distinct from the sectoral program,
were not included in project documents nor measured during implementation. Furthermore, it is difficult
to isolate the effects of the project on program indicators from those of other sector interventions or
establish a causal link between project results and program achievements. Second, implementation
delays resulted in a significant number of activities being completed only in the last two years of the
project and thus their impact cannot yet be accurately determined. With the above caveats, available
program indicators reveal a range of achievement from substantial (increased contraceptive prevalence)
to negligible (addressing the future financing of health services).



3
Expanded Population and Family Planning Programs (Original Base Cost: US$6.3 million)
6.    Ministry of Health. The original project documents envisioned renovating 29 primary health
care facilities. The long lag between appraisal and loan effectiveness (26 months) and delays during the
first years of implementation resulted in lack of progress on civil works, significant cost escalations and
the need to scale back activities. As a result, five health centers were transferred to other externally-
financed projects and the remaining four were excluded for various reasons. Despite further delays
preparing designs and awarding contracts which necessitated a one-year extension of the project closing
date, all 20 remaining health centers were successfully renovated, furnished and equipped, enabling them
to provide a range of family planning services. Furniture and equipment were provided to an additional
280 health centers which deliver family planning services as originally targeted.
7.    Training activities did not commence until May 1991, more than three years after envisioned,
once a team comprising a training administrator, three training officers and four clinical training
supervisors was hired. By mid-1995 when the UNFPA component ended, however, a total of 4,771
physicians, nurses, midwives, ancillary staff, managers, social workers, pastors and others had been
trained, exceeding the target of 4,367. The system established to monitor the training was excellent and
annual in-house evaluations combined with two external evaluations served to increase the effectiveness
of the training. In contrast, only approximately six of the programmed 25 staff-months of fellowships
for clinical trainers were completed in part due to lack of funds available through GOJ's budget system.
The 25 staff-months of consultant services to strengthen the planning and evaluation systems for family
planning service delivery were not used.
8.    National Family Planning Board The headquarters of the NFPB was extended to provide office
and service areas for the expanded information, education and communication (IEC) program. The IEC
Unit was furnished and equipped and provided with five vehicles as planned. In-service training in
family planning counseling was transferred to the Ministry of Health as described above. The NFPB
training unit trained a total of 11,287 teachers, pastors, family planning volunteers, peer counselors,
parents, male motivators, pharmacists and doctors, greatly exceeding the target of about 1,400
volunteers.
9.     The technical assistance activities were not as successful. An IEC strategy to be prepared by
NFPB by June 30, 1988 was not submitted until the end of 1991 and then found unacceptable. The
revised strategy was adopted in June 1992 and incorporated in a comprehensive plan of action. The
achievements of the communications unit were mixed. The NFPB succeeded in providing some more
specific information about different contraceptive methods through the development of new brochures
and printing of 160,000 copies and limited radio advertising and use of print media. Development of a
critical of mass media campaign aimed primarily at adolescents and the production and dissemination of
educational materials for family planning programs, however, were not completed until the very end of
the project. The development of a curricula for in-service and community training was not finished.
Activities related to the social marketing of contraceptives, including training and promotional efforts,
were delayed and then largely stopped based on a policy decision backed by USAID and adopted in
September 1993 to divest contraceptive social marketing to the private sector. There were serious
difficulties recruiting and retaining project staff throughout the project. Sixteen of 26 staff were
absorbed by the NFPB at the end of the project.
10.   Planning Institute of Jamaica. Activities implemented by PIOJ recorded a consistently high rate
of achievement during the project which resulted in the allocation of additional funds. Implementation
success was in part due to the fact that all four core project posts were filled during the first year of



4
project implementation. Additional positions created during implementation and periodic vacancies
were also filled on a timely basis. Furthermore, all posts were formally established and remain filled one
year after the close of the project. Funds for training of staff were increased. All training courses
identified in the Implementation Volume or similar ones were attended and considered useful and of high
quality.
11.    Research was carried out in a number of important areas, including: determinants of fertility;
population information needs; knowledge and needs assessment of the IEC program and a situational
analysis of the aged which informed the development of a Policy on the Aged (Table 7). Several studies
originally identified were carried out with grant funds provided by other sources. Technical assistance
funds were used to evaluate the report on determinants of fertility, evaluate the National Population IEC
Program, and successfully computerize the demographic library and secure an international affiliation.
12.   IEC activities resulted in the development of annual inter-sectoral IEC strategic action plan; the
execution of many national activities; the production of a variety of IEC materials; and outreach
programs which successfully created awareness of population issues. Annual evaluations and planning
workshops of the IEC Subcommittee were institutionalized. Demographic liaison activities included the
integration of demographic projections in most major national development projects and policies;
revision and adoption of the National Population Policy, preparation of a National Population Plan and
the development of an action plan; and an analysis of legal emigration from Jamaica. Workshops
involved a total of almost 400 participants and helped increase collaboration between government and
non-governmental organizations.
13.   The project expanded not only the size, but the quality and effectiveness of PIOJ's Population
Unit in planning and monitoring the National Population Policy and Program. The IEC Subcommittee
provided and instituted a mechanism for monitoring and coordination and has largely succeeded in
informing the target audience on population issues. The unit is also better able to interpret its research
topics as modules in the Survey of Living Conditions (SLC), eliminate duplication of research and adopt
more relevant research projects as a result of greater collaboration among agencies in the planning and
execution of the population census, the SLC, Contraceptive Prevalence Survey and related studies.
14.   Although impact of the project is difficult to assess as noted above, there is evidence of
expanded coverage, improved quality of service and a greater range of contraceptive choices being
offered by the Ministry of Health: 97 percent of public health centers offer some family planning
services and about 45 percent of family planning users receive services from the MOH. The 1993
Contraceptive Prevalence Survey (CPS) shows an increase in the contraceptive prevalence rate from 55
percent in 1989 to 63 percent four years later and the goal of 70 percent by 2000 appears attainable.
Public awareness increased for most methods and in some cases substantially. The trial of contraceptives
increased from 72% in 1989 to 77% in 1993. Any impact of the mass media campaign and the new
education materials will not be evident until the next CPS in 1997.
15.   However, there are also some troubling signs. Knowledge of traditional contraceptive methods
such as withdrawal and the rhythm method has increased while knowledge of vasectomies and inter-
uterine devices continues to be low. The lowest level of awareness is still among adolescents. The total
fertility rate remains unchanged and the age specific fertility rate for 15-19 year olds has increased. The
mass media campaign has not yet increased demand and health workers continue to serve mostly the
converted.



5
Health Sector Improvement (Original Base Cost: US$2.8 million)
16.   Strengthening Health Management Systems. Of the 104 staff-months of consultant services in
planning and evaluation, epidemiology, health information and general administration and services, only
48 staff-months was utilized. No assistance in planning and evaluation was provided at all. None of the
108 staff-months of fellowships in the same areas as the technical assistance were utilized. The
underutilization of the technical assistance allocation was due to the scope of the component, the lack of
capacity of the Ministry to manage it and Government's reluctance to use loan funds for consultant
services.
17.   Restructuring the Referral System. Five years after it was originally tendered and four years
later than the estimate made following effectiveness, the construction of the Type V health center in
Montego Bay was completed and the center furnished and equipped. Recent usage rates indicate an
improvement in the utilization of health resources. In 1994-5, the Montego Bay Health Center recorded
243,21 1 cases while the nearest tertiary facility, Cornwall Regional Hospital, served 100,654 patients. A
new referral system to govern the movement of patients between primary, secondary and tertiary care
levels was successfully designed and country-wide implementation of the system was launched in April
1995. Over one thousand health workers were trained in the new system compared to a target of 385.
Radios, computers, vehicles and ambulances were also provided. The impact of the system, however,
has been compromised by the lack of policy decisions regarding the decentralization of health care to
which the referral system is designed to respond.
18.   Improving Health Financing. Despite the critical importance of health financing issues
identified during appraisal and which was the sole subject of two missions following appraisal, no funds
were utilized under the project to identify more effective cost recovery and health insurance mechanisms.
This lack of assistance was due in part to the availability of grant funding from USAID. The Ministry's
response to inadequate health financing, however, has been piecemeal and the financing of health care
was again identified as the key issue facing the sector in the Bank's 1994 health sector review.
Innovative Activities (Original Base Cost: US$260,500)
19.   The project originally provided approximately 2 percent of total project cost for the
implementation of innovative activities to be defined during project implementation. Criteria to evaluate
proposals included: (i) relevance to appraised program activities; (ii) innovativeness; (iii)
appropriateness of loan as a source for financing the relevant activity; (iv) feasibility of administrating
and evaluating the activity and (v) replicability. Despite indications in February 1988 that the budget for
this component might prove inadequate, the first completed proposal was not submitted until July 1991.
The activity sought to combat the high incidence of cervical cancer among Jamaican women. The
project successfully renovated and equipped the Cervical Cancer Unit at Victoria Jubilee Hospital and
related facilities and funded four fellowships.
20.   After reformulation of the project in August 1993, almost all unallocated funds (US$2 million)
were reallocated to a second "innovative activity". This activity involved the upgrading of operating
theaters in 13 hospitals through the provision of new equipment and spare parts. Because of the late
stage in which the component was added to the project and complications in the limited international
bidding procurement and despite a one-year extension of the project, only 15 of the 22 spare parts
contracts were completed and only a minimal amount of new equipment was procured.



6
21.   Special Loan Covenants. Among the most important Loan Agreement covenants (Table 10)
expected to promote the achievement of project objectives were: (i) maintaining a project director,
manager and accountant (LA. 3.01 i); (ii) the establishment of review and steering committees during the
entire project implementation period (LA. 3.01j); and (iii) the preparation of an IEC strategy (LA. 3.01d).
The project director, manager and accountant were in place by effectiveness, but important gaps in the
project manager and accountant positions occurred during the project. The review and steering
committees functioned during the project, and the steering committee in particular helped maintain
coordination among implementing agencies and identify implementation obstacles. The NFPB's IEC
strategy was not completed until four years after the original fulfillment date, thus significantly delaying
important project activities.
C. Key Factors Affecting Project Implementation
22.   Project implementation and, relatedly, the achievement of project objectives were negatively
affected by three main factors: (i) the long delay between project appraisal and loan effectiveness (26
months); (ii) fiscal constraints and cumbersome administrative procedures which affected project
financing, procurement and staffing; and (iii) the limited institutional capacities of implementing
agencies. Three years into implementation, only 10 percent of the loan had been disbursed compared to
the appraisal estimate of 50 percent. After a one-year extension to the project, almost 40 percent of the
loan was canceled (Table 4).
23.   Factors Not Subject to Government Control. While the project was appraised in September/
October 1985, the Board did not approve it until June 1987, almost 20 months later, in part due to the
temporary suspension of Bank lending to Jamaica and internal Bank debate about lending program
priorities. The twenty-six month delay between appraisal and effectiveness and resulting loss of
momentum significantly affected the readiness of the project at implementation and the accuracy of cost
estimates. In October 1987, two months before the project was declared effective, cost overruns on the
civil works program represented over 40 percent of the appraised cost of this component, eventually
contributing to the reduction in the number of health centers to be upgraded from 29 to 20 and a
reduction in scope of the Type V health center. The preliminary design work on the health centers done
in mid-1985 was outdated and had to be redone during implementation. The delay also made it
necessary to reevaluate the technical assistance component due to the availability of grant funds and the
activities of other donors. Forecasts of courses and numbers of trainees were revised due to delays in
training activities and shortage of staff to attend.
24.   Factors Subject to Government Control. A difficult fiscal environment combined with
cumbersome budgetary and other administrative procedures disrupted the pace of project
implementation. Insufficient and delayed budgetary allocations, resulting from Government's
stabilization program and identified as a key risk during project preparation, affected the project during
its first five years of implementation. The unavailability of local counterpart funds was compounded by
Government's practice of prefinancing all project expenditures, regardless of the source of financing.
The uneven flow of funds from the Ministry of Finance to the Ministry of Health, also due to inadequate
and untimely planning by the MOH, resulted in delays in the signing of civil works contracts and the
postponement of some training activities. Government's requirement that all contracts above relatively
low thresholds be submitted to Cabinet for approval, combined with uncertainty regarding the
availability of funds, also contributed to significant delays in contract signings.



7
25.    Project implementation was hindered substantially by difficulties in recruiting and retaining
qualified project staff. The requirement that all project appointments, including fixed-term project staff
and long-term consultants, be subject to classification and grading by the Ministry of Public Service both
delayed appointments and often resulted in remuneration packages insufficient to attract required
personnel. The Project Implementation Unit was not fully staffed until a year and a half after project
effectiveness and thereafter suffered from significant turnover, including the absence of an effective
project manager from September 1991 to February 1993. No training activities took place until half way
through the project due to the failure to hire training staff. The agency most successful in hiring and
retaining staff, the PIOJ, had the best implementation record.
26.   Factors Subject to ImplementingAgencies Control. Responsibility for project implementation
and supervision was vested in the existing organizational structure and staff of the Ministry of Health
rather than in an independent unit established solely for the project. The Principal Medical Officer in
charge of Primary Health Care was named Project Director with responsibility for project supervision.
This position was later assumed by the Director of Projects of the Central Projects Unit, created in late
1989 to coordinate the management of all externally-financed projects. A Project Manager was to assist
the Project Director with the routine administration of the project with the help of civil works and
procurement assistants. The Project Manager was to be supported by the following MOH staff: an
information officer, procurement officer, accountant and architect. Project Administrators at the
Planning Institute of Jamaica and the National Family Planning Board were responsible for the
implementation of activities by their respective agencies. Day-to-day implementation of the civil works
component was first subcontracted to the Urban Development Corporation (UDC), a public sector entity,
but shifted to MOH in mid-1990 when it was agreed that UDC did not have the requisite practical
experience. Equipment, vehicles, furniture and medical equipment were procured originally through
UNICEF. UNICEF procedures, however, proved slow with delays of over one year common and in mid-
1993, responsibility for the procurement of remaining goods was transferred to the Project Management
Unit. A Review Committee was formed to act on policy-level decisions affecting implementation and a
Steering Committee was to address working-level issues.
27.   Insufficient institutional capacity of the Ministry of Health and the National Family Planning
Board substantially affected project implementation. Notwithstanding efforts to strengthen capacity, the
management and executing capacities of the MOH and NFPB remained inadequate, characterized by a
continued lack of coordination between the agencies and uneven flow of funds to the NFPB; insufficient
communication among the three implementing agencies, the Bank and other participating organizations;
a lack of internal Ministry agreement on implementation matters; inadequate and untimely planning;
irregular reporting of project progress; poor accounting practices at NFPB; insufficient technical
leadership and supervision of project activities; and minimal monitoring and evaluation. Improvement in
some areas was noted with the appointment in 1993 of a Project Manager who remained until the project
closed. The Urban Development Corporation and, perhaps to a lesser extent, the Ministry of Health
proved ill-equipped to conduct the bidding exercises and supervision activities under the civil works
component which resulted in the re-tendering of seven of the 23 construction contracts awarded under
the project. The time between tender opening and contract signing averaged 20 to 30 weeks. Reliance
on UNICEF to procure equipment during the first five years of the project meant that Project
Management Unit staff were not adequately prepared to conduct efficiently the procurement of
remaining goods using international competitive bidding.
28.    The achievement of project objectives was partially affected by the lack of timely policy
decisions in the health sector. Plans to decentralize oversight of the health services delivery system and
strengthen the health services delivery system which underpinned the justification for the development of



8
the referral system have still not been realized. Financing of the health care system was not addressed by
the project and remains perhaps the most critical issue confronting the sector. Outside the control of the
MOH, the effectiveness of the IEC Subcommittee was affected by the lack or inadequate development of
IEC programs in some sector ministries and agencies signaling the limited resources and priorities given
to population and related programs in these organizations.
D. Project Sustainability
29.   The project has a high probability of maintaining the achievements generated by the family
planning training component given its high rate of participation, the positive evaluations of participants
and training of trainer workshops held during the last year of the project. PIOJ's impressive institutional
capacity, enhanced by the absorption of all project staff, will likely sustain the widespread recognition
among government and the general public of population issues and contribute to the attainment of the
country's population policy goals. The continuance of NFPB's family planning program requires
institutional strengthening and is highly dependent on government and external financing to sustain the
wide acceptance of contraceptives. Measures were established to help ensure sustainability of the
referral system, including impressive documentation, training and the purchase of a duplicating machine
to ensure a continued supply of forms, but its impact can only be realized following Government's
decisions to reform the health care system. The continued serving of family planning clients in MOH's
health centers which improved under the project will depend on the provision of adequate funds for
maintenance.
E. Bank Performance
30.   Although aspects of the Bank's performance during the project cycle were satisfactory, it
suffered from deficiencies attributable to two main factors. First, the design of the project did not
adequately incorporate lessons learned from the previous two projects in the sector. Lessons included
the importance of: (i) establishing a clear hierarchy of objectives and indicators to monitor impact; (ii)
paying attention to institutional and bureaucratic arrangements and familiarity with the decision-making
structure; (iii) addressing underlying constraints in addition to implementation symptoms; and (iv)
assessing Government's capacity to implement a third project. Second, changes in task management
between appraisal and effectiveness and then five more times during the eight-year project negatively
affected implementation.
31.   During identification, preparation and appraisal, the Bank team agreed with the Ministry on the
main objectives of the project which were concordant with Government's sector strategies. Consistency
with Government's national development priorities and with the Bank's country strategy, however, were
not confirmed until a year into project preparation as discussions had been limited to MOH counterparts
and divisional colleagues. Technical preparation was thorough in many aspects as evidenced by a
comprehensive Implementation Volume which included job descriptions, terms of reference, descriptions
of training courses, equipment to be procured and some preliminary architectural plans. However, the 26
month delay between appraisal and effectiveness, during which the project was not reappraised, meant
parts of the Implementation Volume were quickly out-dated and momentum built during preparation
dissipated. Furthermore, although the design incorporated important technical lessons from previous
projects, it failed to accurately address the limitations of the institutional capacities of the MOH and
NFPB. The Implementation Volume did not detail the institutional framework for decision-making nor
the administrative arrangements to carry out the project. The time required to build capacity was not
considered and thus implementation schedules were unrealistic. The size and scope of the technical



9
assistance component exceeded the implementing agencies' capacities to recruit and manage consultants
and Government's willingness to borrow for consulting services. Finally, and again despite documented
lessons, broad sectoral objectives were not translated into project-level outcome or impact indicators and
thus project achievement cannot accurately be determined.
32.   Bank performance during implementation was uneven. Supervision missions consistently
identified obstacles to implementation, but underlying constraints were not always diagnosed or
addressed reflecting some lack of understanding of the decision-making structure in budgeting, staffing
and policy-making. Project inputs were closely monitored, but evaluation of project impact was ignored.
Extensive consultations with donors active in the sector continued and some activities were dropped
when donor resources became available. However, in health care financing, which was viewed during
appraisal as key to the long-term viability of the project and a primary component of Government's
Health Policy, this withdrawal significantly affected the achievement of project objectives and the issue
continues to confound the sector. Prudent flexibility was shown in some cases by shifting resources to
emerging priorities and to the Planning Institute of Jamaica, which demonstrated capacity to utilize them.
But the addition 18 months before the closing date of a new "innovative activity", estimated at 20
percent of total project cost, which involved a complicated international procurement of medical
equipment and did not meet most of the criteria for evaluating proposals, appears difficult to justify.
Most likely, this activity was viewed more as a means to utilize remaining funds rather than an
"innovative activity" that would contribute to project objectives. Although early missions noted the need
to consider reducing and concentrating project activities, an agreement on reallocating funds was not
reached until two years after the mid-term review and only eighteen months before the original closing
date. The reallocation increased funding for civil works by 70 percent, reduced the goods and equipment
line-item by 35 percent, and allocated the remaining $2 million to the new "innovative activity". A one-
year extension of the project closing date was granted primarily to complete remaining civil works and
the new "innovative activity" procurement. While the civil works were finished, little of the new
equipment was procured due to technical issues and time constraints. At the end of the project, 38
percent of the loan was canceled, resulting in the payment of unnecessary commitment fees.
33.   Project implementation was marked by frequent changes in task management. Only the architect
on the first supervision mission had participated in project design. Despite an unsatisfactory
implementation ranking, no supervision mission was carried out between December 1991 and December
1992. Task management changed five times during the last five years of implementation. All new task
managers required an initial period of several months to acclimate themselves to the project before
recommending major changes or practical solutions to obstacles. During the last five years, no public
health or population specialist accompanied the missions (Table 13). No formal project launch
workshop, with disbursement and procurement training was held.
F. Borrower Performance
34.   The performance of the Borrower varied during the course of the project, by implementing
agency and by activity. Ministry of Health officials participated extensively in the preparation phase,
drafting a document considered thorough and timely. MOH submitted the proposal directly to the Bank,
however, without informing the Ministry of Finance which caused some confusion and delay.
Difficulties in hiring and considerable turnover in key management positions within MOH and NFPB
occurred throughout implementation. For 18 months, from September 1991 to February 1993, the
project was without an effective manager. Inter-institutional coordination was weak, although it
improved during the last final years of the project, as did the pace of implementation. The actions of the



10
training coordinator were key to the level and diversity of participation in the training courses. The
Steering Committee proved effective in identifying constraints, but technical leadership to be provided
by the Review Committee and Project Director was inconsistent. PIOJ's performance merited the
additional funds it received to carry out more activities than originally envisioned. There was little
monitoring and evaluation to examine attainment of intermediate objectives as detailed in the project
documents. The MOH rectified some of the performance difficulties experienced by the Urban
Development Corporation in executing civil works though delays prior to contract signing and
insufficient supervision continued. Procurement of equipment proved even more problematic, first
because of delays with UNICEF procedures and then due to turnover and weaknesses of project staff in
preparing proper technical specification and tender documents. The Borrower eventually complied with
all legal covenants, although the submission of certain deliverables was delayed significantly (Table 10).
G. Assessment of Project Outcome
35.   The overall project results were unsatisfactory. The project only partially achieved its main
objectives, expanding population programs to achieve further reductions in fertility and increasing
efficiency of delivery of health and family planning services and did not address the future financing of
health services. Nevertheless, because of implementation delays, the project may not yet have yielded
some development results. Positive accomplishments were achieved by the training program which
exceeded appraisal estimates and is expected to continue with similar results, the rehabilitating and
equipping of 20 health centers and by the Planning Institute's Population Unit.
H. Future Operations
36.   During the second to last year of project implementation, the Bank conducted a comprehensive
review of the health sector which assessed its current status and detailed future options for reforming
health care provision and financing. Following the sector strategy, it was agreed that the Inter-American
Development Bank would prepare a health sector reform project and the Bank would focus on education.
Two recently-approved Bank projects incorporate lessons learned from the Population and Health
Project. The Social Investment Fund Project includes on its menu of eligible subprojects the
rehabilitation and equipping of primary health centers and is exempt from the procurement and
disbursement procedures which negatively affected this project. The Public Sector Modernization
Project includes a component to strengthen procurement and contract management practices throughout
government.
I. Key Lessons Learned
37.   The key lessons learned from the implementation experience of this project follow:
(a) Although technically sound, the project proved unsatisfactory largely because of the lack of capacity
to implement a project made complex by the multiplicity of parts and components, diversity of
activities and number of implementing agencies. Project design must reflect the institutional
capacity of the agency to execute the activities. While a project must be flexible enough to respond
to changing circumstances and priorities, the addition of new activities must be weighed against
increased demands on capacity.



11
(b) To ensure readiness for implementation, institutional capacity should be developed during
preparation. Hiring key staff during the design phase contributes to realism in design and helps
prevent delays throughout the project cycle.
(c) Although all health centers and other facilities were eventually completed, the Ministry of Health did
not perform well in contracting or managing civil works. Issues relating to civil works consumed an
inordinate amount of attention of senior MOH staff, thereby detracting from other project
components and sector priorities. The practice of placing the responsibility of civil works in
ministries whose comparative advantage is in other areas should be seriously considered.
(d) The complexity of government procurement procedures, for both goods and civil works, is evident in
this project and other Bank-financed interventions and requires system-wide rather than project-by-
project solutions. The new Public Sector Modernization Project could improve significantly the
efficiency of government procurement practices. The new Social Investment Fund Project is piloting
a streamlined mechanism for implementing small, community-based civil works, including primary
health centers.
(e) Successful project implementation requires not only continued commitment on the part of
Government, but also effective, continued and coordinated supervision by the Bank. Changes in task
management during the course of the project, particularly one experiencing difficulties, should be
minimized. Consistency in staff should help ensure greater familiarity with the decision-making
structure within the country and underlying constraints, enhance relationships with counterparts and
otherwise contribute to improved implementation.
(f) Specific project outcome and impact measures in addition to input and output indicators should be
established during design, evaluated as part of the project and consistently monitored to determine
project achievement and impact.



12
PART II - STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:      Summary of Assessment
Table 2:      Related Bank Loans
Table 3:      Project Timetable
Table 4:      Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:      Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:      Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7:      Studies Included in Project
Table 8A:     Project Costs
Table 8B:     Project Financing
Table 9:      Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10:     Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11:     Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12:     Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13:     Bank Resources: Missions



Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives       Substantial    Partial     Negligible   N/Applicable
Macro policies                      1             I           L             I
Sector policies                    13            A13 03
Financial objectives
Institutional development                                    13 I
Physical objectives                 0            0            0             0
Poverty reduction                                            MI           
Gender issues                       El           L            1
Other social objectives             1            0I           1             1
Environmental objectives             I           Li            3 
Public sector management            1LI                        A            13
Private sector development          1                         3             IA
B. Project Sustainability               Likely            Unlikely         Uncertain
Training and outreach                 nI                                   LI
Referral system                         l                El               ElI
Civil works                           n                  E]               El
C. Bank Performance                Highly Satisfactoy     atisfactorv      Deficient
Identification thru appraisal          13                L                 0
Supervision                           El                 0                 I
D. Borrower Performance            Highly Satisfactory   Satisfactor       Deficient
Preparation                            E]                                  E l
Implementation
MOH                                1                  1                 IA
NFPB                               1                  1                 IA
PIOJ                               E3                 1
Covenant compliance                    1                 1                 IA
Highly                                          Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome     Satisfactory    Satisfactory    Unsatisfactorv  Unsatisfactoyr
13            13             IA 



Table 2: Related Bank Loans
Year of
Loan Title                       Purpose                  Approval        Status
Preceding operations
1. Family Planning      Supporting Govemment's single purpose     1970    Completed. Loan
Project (Ln. 690-JM)    family planning program through the                fully disbursed in
expansion of postpartum family planning            1977 after three-
services.                                         year extension.
2. Second Population    Supporting provision of integrated family  1976    Completed. Loan
Project                 planning, maternal/child health and nutrition      closed in 1983 after
(Ln. 1284-JM)           education services in Cornwall County.             two-year extension
with 12%
undisbursed.
3. Social Sector        Supporting qualitative improvements in the  1989    Completed. Loan
Development Project     delivery and management of pre-primary             closed in 1996 after
(Ln. 311 1-JM)          and primary education and primary health           two-year extension.
care.
Following operations
1. Social Investment Fund  Supporting poverty reduction by increasing  1996    Ongoing.
Project                 resources to basic social and economic
(Ln. 4088-JM)           infrastructure and social services through a
new delivery mechanism.
2. Public Sector        Supporting the continued rationalization and  1996    Ongoing.
Modernization Project   reform of the public sector and strengthening
(Ln. 4083-JM)           GOJ procurement policies and procedures.



Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle           Date Planned                 Actual Date
Identification                   October/November 1983       OctoberlNovember 1983
Preparation                            April 1984            March 1984 - June 1985
Appraisal                             June 1985/'            September/October 1985
Negotiations                        November 1985/l               October 1986
Board Presentation                  February 1986/l               June 16, 1987
Signing                                  N/A                      June 24, 1987
Effectiveness                        August 1987/4             December 15, 1987
Midterm Review                      April/May 1991               July 8-12, 1991
Project Completion                   June 30, 1994/               June 30, 1995
Loan Closing                      December 31, 1994/s          December 31, 19954
IProject Brief dated May 17, 1985.
2Memorandum of the President dated May 28, 1997.
3 Staff Appaisal Report dated May 1, 1987.
4Final disbursement: December 17, 1996.
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
FY              88     89     90     91    92      93      94    95    96    97
Appraisal Estimate       .9    2.5    4.9    7.1    8.5    9.4   10.0
Actual                   .5    .8    .9    1.8   2.2    2.7    3.5   4.8   6.2   6.2
Actual as % of Estimate    55%    32%    18%   25%   26%    29%    35%   48%   62%   62%



Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Key implementation                    Estimated                          Actual
indicators in SAR/MOP
1. Civil Works
a) Renovation and extension   about 30 primary health centers  20 completed; 10 eliminated
during implementation
b) Extension               NFPB headquarters                 NFPB headquarters
c) Construction             one Type V health center         Montego Bay Health Center
II. Furniture, Equipment,
Vehicles and Supplies
a) Furniture and equipment   about 30 primary health centers  20 completed; 10 eliminated
for renovated health centers                                 during implementation
b) Furniture and equipment    about 280 primary health centers  280 primary health center
for existing delivery points
c) Furniture, equipment,   MOH, NFPB, PIOJ                   MOH, NFPB, PIOJ
materials, supplies
d) Vehicles                 17 vehicles                      25 vehicles
III. Technical assistance,
studies, fellowships and
training
a) Consultant services      MOH: 25 staff-months for         none
monitoring family planning delivery
MOH: 104 staff-months for health   48 staff-months
management systems
MOH: 12 staff-months for referral   24 staff-months
system
MOH: 22 staff-months for         none
healthcare financing
PIOJ: 5 staff-months for studies  10 staff-months
NFPB: 57 staff-months for IEC    30 staff-weeks
development
b) Fellowships              MOH: 25 staff-months in family   6 staff-months
planning
MOH: 108 staff-months in         none
planning and evaluation,
epidemiology, health info. and
general admin.
NFPB: 5 staff-months             4 staff-weeks
PIOJ: 15 staff-months            20 staff-months
c) Studies                  PIOJ: 6 studies                  5 studies
d) Training                 MOH: in-service training for 4,367   4,771
NFPB: 1400 family volunteers     11,287 volunteers
MOH: 385 staff in referrel system  about 1,000 staff



Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
1. No indicators for project operations were defined in the
SAR. They were not required as standard procedure at the
time of appraisal.
2. No future operation indicators were defined at project
completion.
Table 7: Studies Included in Project'
Study                            Status             Impact of study
1/2. National Survey on and Evaluation of   Completed as module of SLC,  Substantial
Socio-economic Determinants of Fertility in  1989
Jamaica
3. Determinants of Infant Mortality in  Completed in 1993 with grant  not applicable
Jamaica                                funds provided by UNICEF
4. Economic Demographic Model           UNFPA funding discontinued   not applicable
after sector models found
more promising
5. Mating Patterns, Educational Levels and   Not undertaken due to lack of  not applicable
Employment Status of Males              accurate data.
6. Internal Migration Trends            Funded by CARICOM           not applicable
7. National Survey on Population        Completed 1989.             Substantial
Information Needs2
8. National Survey on Knowledge and    Completed 1995.              Substantial
Needs Assessment of National IEC Program
9. National Survey on the Aged2         Completed as module of SLC,  Substantial
1994
10. Situational Analysis of the Aged2  Completed 1995.             Substantial
IPurpose of studies not defined at appraisal.
2 Added during implementation.



Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate                 Actual
Item                    (US$ million)                 (US$ million)'
Local    Foreign     Total    Local   Foreign   Total
1. Civil Works               .786       1.179     1.965      n/a       n/a  2.682
2. Equipment, furniture,      .154      2.497     2.651       n/a      n/a  1.062
vehicles, educational
materials and supplies                                                              l
3. Technical Assistance,     1.236      1.838     3.074       n/a      n/a  2.019
training and fellowships                                                            l
4. Innovative Activities      .195      .065       .261       n/a      n/a  .655
5. Recurrent Costs           1.067      .382      1.449       n/a      n/a  1.372
6. Unallocated               1.061      1.929     2.991       n/a      n/a
TOTAL PROJECT                4.500      7.891    12.390       n/a      n/a  7.790
l Figures cover period June 1987 to September 1995. Unable to determine breakdown
between actual local vs. foreign costs.
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)  ]         Actual (US$M)
Local    Foreign                Local    Foreign
Source            Costs     Costs      Total      Costs     Costs      Total
IBRD                         2.60      7.40       10.00       n/a        n/a     6.22
|TNFPA                       0.60      0.05        0.65       n/a        n/a      .47
Government                   1.30      0.45        1.75       n/a        n/a      1.10
TOTAL                      4.50      7.90       12.40       n/a        n/a     7.79
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
No economic rate of return was calculated at
appraisal. Project benefits were expressed in terms
of increased quantity and quality of family planning
services, increased contraceptive use and improved
efficiency of basic health care services.



Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Original      Revised
Covenant           Fulfillment    Fulfillment    Description of covenant
Section   type       Status   date          date                                 Comments
Loan Agreement
3.01(b)    5         C        1/31          on-going     Annual Training Plans    Done
Each Year                  submitted to the Bank
3.01(c)    5         C        1/31                       NFPB Marketing          Social marketing divested
from NFPB.
3.01 (d)   7         CD      6/30/88        6/92         IEC strategy/plan for   Done
the IEC Unit of NFPB
3.01 (e)   4         CD      6/30/88       5/91          NFPB to hire training   8 of 14 project-funded
staff                  positions absorbed by
NFPB.
3.01 (f)   7         CD       10/31/88     4/95          Plan for new referral   Pilot Program tested 12/93.
system                 Island-wide launch
commenced 4/95.
CD      1/31/88       2/93          TOR for management     Done.
consultant to develop
referral plan
3.01 (g)   7         C       6/30/89        1995         Complete policy and     Additional studies added
program studies        during implementation.
3.01 (h)   6         CD      End of CY      12/90; 8/93    Submit innovative     Cervical cancer project
activity proposal (s)  submitted in 12/90.
Equipment maintenance
submitted in 8/93.
3.01 (i)   4         CP      From           12/87        Maintain project        Significant gaps in
effectiveness              director, manager and   management during
accountant             project.
3.01 (j)   4         C       From           on-going     Est. & maintain Review    Steering Committee met
effectiveness              & Steering Committees    monthly, Review
Committee periodically.
3.01 (k)   2-3       C        1/31         on-going      Submit annual work      Done
program & budget per
Each Year                  component
3.01 (1)   5         C        12/31/90      7/91         Mid-term evaluation     Done.
4.01 (b)   I         CD      By 9/30        on-going     Annual audit            All audits submitted. Final
audit received 10/96.
Key                                     6 Project implementation not covered by categories 1-5
Convent Types:                          7 Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/regulatory/institutional action
I Accounts/audit                        Status:
2 Flow and utilization of project funds  C  = covenant complied with
3 Counterpart funding                   CD = complied with after delay
4 Management aspects of the project     NC = not complied with
5 Monitoring, review and reporting      CP = complied with partially



Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
There was compliance with all pertinent Bank Operational
Manual statements throughout the project cycle.
Table 12. Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of           Planned              Revised             Actual
project cycle    Weeks   US$(000)   Weeks   US$(000)   Weeks   US$(000)
Through appraisal        n/a       n/a       n/a       n/a     197.7     374.4
Appraisal-Board          n/a       n/a       n/a       n/a      16.4      38.5
Board-effectiveness      n/a       n/a       n/a       n/a       n/a       n/a
Supervision              n/a       n/a       n/a       n/a     119.0     298.4
Completion               6.0      11.6                  .        6.0      11.6
TOTAL                    n/a       n/a       n/a       n/a    339.1      722.9



Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance
Rating
Days in
Stage of Project Cycle   Month/   No. of     Field    Specialized Staff   Impl.     Devt.       Types of
2
Year    Persons    (total)         Skills        Status    Objs.       Problems
Represented*
Identification           10/83       3         21           PH/PP
Preparation               3/84        1         5             PH
10/84      3         39           PH/PP
Preappraisal              2/85       4         48          PH/PP;OP
5/85       4         20         PH/PP; AR
6/85       2         12          AR; EC
Appraisal                 9/85       6         60       PH/PP; MG; AR;
PH; PP: OP
12/85      2         10           PH; HF
2/86       1         4            PH/PP
Supervision: I            10/87      3         15         OP; PH; AR         1          1          F; L
II (inc. Project "Lunch")    2/88    2         10          PH;AR             1         1            PR
III             5/88       2         12           PH/PP            2         1          PR; M
IV             11/88       1          5           PH/PP            2         1          PR; M
V              6/89        1         10            AR             --        --
VI              1/90       1          9           PH/PP           2/3        2          M; PR
VII             6/90        2         10          OP; AR          2/3         2          M; PR
VIII            12/90       3         15       PH/PP; PL; EC        2         2
IX              2/91       2         n/a          EC; AR           --        --        Review of
HRDP
X              3/91        1         5              P             --        --       Procurement
__________ __________   _________  ________  ___Sem inar
XI              7/91       3         15         EC; OP; AR         2         2           F; D
(Mid-Term Review)
XII             12/91       3         30        EC; OP; AR         3          2         M; PR; F
XIII            No mission: Form 590 update.                        3         2           M; F
XIV             12/92       4         20       EC; OP; AR; PP       3         2         PR; M; F
XV              7/93        3         15        EC; OP; AR         2          2           PR
XVI              1/94       2         22          OP; AR            2         2            D
XVII             8/94       2          8           OP; AR           S         S            PR
XVIII            5/95        3      ongoing       OP; EG; F          S         S           PR
Completion                6/95       2       ongoing        EG; F            U         S          M: PR
* AR = architect; EC = economist; EG = engineer; EP = epidemiologist; F = financial analyst;
HF = health financing specialist; L = legal; MG = management specialist; OP = Operations Assistant/Specialist;
P = procurement specialist; PH = public health specialist; PP = population specialist.
* PLW = Project Launch Workshop
Ratings: I/HS = no problem; 2/S = moderate problems, 3/U = significant problems.
2Types of Problems: L = legal; M = management performance; F = availability of funds; D = disbursement;
PR = procurement.



APPENDIX A: BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO ICR
LESSONS LEARNED
The multi-faceted nature of the Jamaica Population and Health Project I (JPHP 1) resulted in:
a)    the introduction of numerous new elements which are critical to the implementation of any health
sector project; and moreso
b)    the devising and introduction of strategies that will influence the effective and efficient monitoring
of programmes and projects that attract international financing.
Five key lessons were learned in respect of the implementation of the JPHP I and these in essence are
directly related to the following Project components:
a)     Civil Works;
b)     Technical Assistance;
c)     Training;
d)     Project "Start-up Costs" vis-a-vis Commitment Fees:
e)     Evaluation and Review Procedures.
CIVIL WORKS
The inflexibility of the Funding Agency's guidelines, required that contracts be awarded to the lowest
tenderer. Invariably the contractor so chosen, was unable to meet the "bond requirements" or to finance the
project. This resulted in unnecessary delays and the failure to complete the projects within the time
specified.
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
For future consultancies preference should be given to local consultants to the extent that they have the
relevant expertise; that language and socio-cultural differences are critical to the "factors for award of
contract"; and a combination of local and international consultants may be beneficial to the success of
projects; also, preference should be given in cases where international expertise resides overseas.
PROCUREMENT
In the area of procurement (goods and services): future projects should be given the option to shop locally
or otherwise, to the extent that pieces are competitive. Local procurement which proved to be of a very
high quality, and had with timely delivery, should be encouraged; and international brokers who proved to
take months and in some instances, years, should be competitive.
TRAINING
More emphasis should be placed on medium to long-term training; also that "higher-level training"
increases bargaining power for higher remuneration and related benefits. It is the considered opinion that
medium to long term training also has implications for the rate of implementation of projects.
COMMITMENT FEES
Exorbitant sums are spent on consultants' fees and Commitment Fees and delays experienced are often the
direct result of other significant commitments by overseas consultants. This was the experience both in the
areas of Civil Works and Family Planing. On the other hand scant regard is given to all the groundwork
that should be done prior to the singing of a Project Agreement with the result that large sums are spent on
commitment fees while delays exceeding two years are experienced before the Project actually gets off the
ground.



2
EVALUATIONS
An annual evaluation of a Project with such diverse components is critical to the implementation process.
The Aide Memoire Tool, although useful, is basically inadequate in terms of the evaluation process which
dictates a totally objective review.
OVERALL PROJECT ACHIEVEMENTS
The following were achieved under the Jamaica Population and Health Project 1:
CIVIL WORKS
Construction of the Type V Health Centre in Montego Bay.
Construction of the Headquarters for the National Family Planning Board.
Renovation of Twenty (20) Government Health Centres.
Renovation of the Cervical Cancer Ward; the Chest Clinic and the Physiotherapy Unit at the Victoria
Jubilee Hospital.
PROCUREMENT
The procurement of furniture, equipment and supplies for Health Centres and Hospitals islandwide.
The procurement of Motor Vehicles and Ambulances.
INKAGES
The establishment of a Linkages System between all levels of Health Care Providers.
The upgrading of the Radio Communications Network islandwide.
FAMILY PLANNING
The Development of a National Strategic Plan
The Projection of Four Manuals and related Family Planning Materials.
The launch of a successful Mass Media Campaign which has been institutionalized.
Training at all levels.
The development of a National Population Policy.
Institutional Strengthening at the Planning Institute of Jamaica.
COMPUTERIZATION
Introduced at four major Government Hospitals.
BACKGROUND
The Jamaica Population and Health Project was approved in June 1987 at a cost of US$12.241 million of
which the World Bank's loan component was US$9.9 million.
The objectives of this project included among other things, the coordination and implementation of a more
cost effective and sustainable family planning service in an effort to improve the reproductive health of the
nation. The project involved the development and improvement of Family Life Education and Clinical
Services to adolescents and young adults as well as the provision of surgical services for consenting men
and women.



3
The four sub-components under this Project are:
a) Demographic and Population programs carried out by the Planning Institute of Jamaica;
b) Family Planning, undertaken by the National Family Planning Board; which focussed on the
containment of the population size, to a number not exceeding 3,000,000 by the year 2000, in an effort
to achieve favourable conditions for social and economic development;
c) Civil Works; and
d) Institutional Strengthening which two sub-components were the responsibility of the Ministry of
Health. These latter components sought to improve the physical facilities of the clinics, provide family
planning services as well as improvement in the quality, quantity of/and accessibility of the delivery of
family planning services.
Initially, implementation of this project was very slow, especially in the areas of Civil Works and
Institutional Strengthening. Up of the fifth year of the Project Life disbursement by the World Bank stood
at less than 25% as compared with the project target of 90%. This resulted in a major reformulation
exercise recommended by the World Bank in 1991 and implemented in 1993. It also witnessed the
reduction of the total project costs from US$12.241 million to US$10 million with a new total projected
expenditure of US$7.5 Million and unallocated sum of US$2.5 million which sum was later earmarked to
procure spare parts for hospital equipment islandwide.
ADMISTRATIVE FEATURES
The Project was developed within the framework of the National Health Policy, which sought, at the time,
to establish a comprehensive health service; incorporating both public and private sectors, while at the same
time providing the means whereby all Jamaicans could have access to services, supplies and facilities which
assure the enjoyment of good health. Against this background, a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) was
established within the Central Projects Unit/Ministry of Health with a Project Manager, Civil Works
Coordinator, Accountant, Procurement Officer, and other key personnel.
In addition, very early in the Project Life, process monitoring of the Project was introduced to examine the
attainment of the intermediate objectives. The Planning Institute and the National Family Planning Board
had the distinct roles of monitoring the quality and quantity of population information and dissemination to
key Ministries and other organizations.
Finally, at the administrative level, a Steering Committee was established to monitor the Project and address
working level issues which affected Project Implementation. A World Bank Mission also monitored the
Project through frequent site visits, quarterly, semi-annual and annual reports and day-to-day/weekly
telephone interventions. (See Organizational Chart attached).
RELATIONSHIPS
1.    THE WORLD BANK
Earlier in this report it was pointed out that the JPHP 1 Project was developed within the framework of the
National Health Policy, which sought, at the time, to establish a comprehensive health service;
incorporating both public and private sectors.
Against this background, a Project Implementation Unit (PIU), financed by the loan, was established within
the Central Projects Unit/Ministry of Health. Simultaneously, very early in the Project Life, process



4
monitoring of the Project was introduced by the World Bank to examine the attainment of the intermediate
objectives.
Six-monthly reviews of the Project by the Bank's Staff followed by an Aide Memoire which addressed
salient issues greatly helped to bring the focus needed for the successful implementation of the Project.
Added to this was the critical link established by the Monitoring (Field) representatives of the World Bank
whit the Project Manager and the key personnel in the Ministry of Health (MOH). The relationship
established is aptly described by the then Permanent Secretary (MOH), Mrs. Sadie Keating in her letter of
August 30, 1994:
"Let me first of all acknowledge the "marathon" job that has been accomplished by Ms. Maria Lister and
Mr. Brest van Kempen since their assignment to the above-mentioned Project. They have displayed a
tremendous understanding of, and appreciation for, the tasks at hand and moreso for the staff with whom
they have been working. They have indeed demonstrated a sense of professionalism which is second to
none".
THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE LOCAL WORLD BANK OFFICE
The establishment of this office in Kingston, Jamaica, has served to enhance the implementation strategies
initiated by Lister and van Kempen.
2. THE PLANNING INSTITUTE OF JAMAICA AND THE MINISTRY OF HEALTH
The Planning Institute together with the Ministry of Health and the National Family Planning Board had the
distinct roles of monitoring the quality and quantity of population information and dissemination to key
Ministries and other organizations.
The Ministry of Health under whose aegis this Project fell facilitated the expeditious handling of all
contracts and matters pertaining to the Loan Agreement.
During the early years, the Project was hampered by the inadequate pre-implementation preparation;
staffing problems which were due primarily to the low levels of remuneration; and an untimely flow of
funds from the National Budget.
A quick change in management strategies which was introduced by the Permanent Secretary and supported
by the Planning Institute of Jamaica and the Ministry of Finance led to the reformulation of the project in
late 1992/early 1993. This brought about increased momentum in the rate of implementation.
The concerted effort between Ministry Officials and the Project Staff in moving the Project forward, helped
in the acceleration of implementation. This resulted ultimately in an eighty-percent (80%) completion of
project activities within the last three years of the Project as opposed to the very few deliverables in the
years prior to reformulation.
EVALUATION AND AUDIT PROCEDURES
Audit procedures were established very early in the Project Life as one of the main tools for monitoring the
financial flows to, and expenditure levels of the Project. These audits also addressed any perceived
"irregularities" and/or bottlenecks in the financial process. Five such Audits were undertaken for the



5
Financial Years March 1990 - March 1991 through March 1994 - March 1995 (copies attached as Appendix
11)
The Audit Process included visits to the Central Bank in respect of Special Account Transactions; the
confirmation of Bank Balances; and the review of Bank Reconciliation. The "recurring decimal" in the
Auditors' Reports over the years, was the failure in the adjustment to, and/or reconciliation of the sources of
funds and expenditure.
The Bank's Aide Memoire served as the basic six-monthly Evaluation Tool.
FINANCIAL FLOWS AND CONSTRAINTS
A detailed Statement of Expenditure covering the period June 1987 through September 1995 is attached as
Appendix I.
The total "reconciled expenditure" for that period, showed the World Bank's contribution as
US$5,819,594.21 and the Jamaican Govemment's contribution as US$55.016.59.
The total amount loaned to the JPHP 1 was US$10 million. the balance on loan funds at the time indicated
was US$4,170,194.99.
A Final Report covering reconciled accounts up to the end of the Project Life is attached as Appendix IA.
SUMMARY OVERVIEW OF ACCOMPLISHMENTS BY CATEGORIES
PART A: POPULATION AND FAMILY PLANNING
The strengthening of the institutional capability of the Ministry of Health, the National Family Planning
Board and the Planning Institute of Jamaica, to plan and implement expanded population and family
planning programmes in the public and private sectors was accomplished through five (5) activities or sub-
components.
These were:
-      i)    Civil Works;
-      ii)    Technical Assistance;
-      iii)   Purchase of Commodities;
-      iv)    Procurement of Vehicles; and
-     v)    Incremental/Recurrent Costs.
i)    Civil Works
The Civil Works undertaken under Part A of the Project included the refurbishing of 7 Service Delivery
Points in rural and urban parishes; the construction of a Type 5 Health Centre in Montego Bay as well as the
National Family Planning Board (NFPB) Headquarters in Kingston. This phase of the project was managed
by the Urban Development Corporation (UDC) and the Ministry of Health (MOH).
The construction/refurbishing activities completed under Part A/ Phase 1 of the Project were the NFPB's
Headquarters, the Balaclava, Edna Manley, Lacovia, Maroon Town and Myersville Centres.



6
Delays were experienced in the implementation of the civil works. This resulted in the Glen Vincent and
Rollington Town Service Delivery Points and the Type V Health Centre being completed in January 1994,
May 16, 1994, January 31, 1994, during Phase II of the Project Life.
Current Impact of the Montego Bay Type V Health Centre
For the calendar year 1994 the Cornwall Regional Hospital recorded 44,936 cases; while for the calendar
year 1994 it recorded 55,718 cases; making a total of 100,654 cases for the two year period. By contrast,
the Type V Health Centre recorded 121,570 cases for 19944; and 122,641 cases for 1995.
CONSTRAINTS
The problems encountered in the Civil Works component included:
a)    the inflexibility of the Funding Agency's guidelines, which required that contracts be awarded to
the lowest tenderer. Invariably the contractor so chosen, was unable to meet the "bond
requirements" or to finance the project. This resulted in unnecessary delays and the failure to
complete the projects within the time specified.
b)    the initial lengthy delays experienced in receiving Warrant Releases. These delays which initially
affected the timely payment of contractors and consultants and further guaranteed delays in the
completion of construction activities; were however, swiftly corrected by direct intervention for the
Ministry of Finance; and
c)    the ultimate removal of the Waterford Service Delivery Point, from the list, because of the
unavailability of the previously designated site.
Attached as Annex I, is a summary report of all the Civil Works activities which have all been successfully
completed.
ii)    Technical Assistance
The technical assistance provided included:
a)    consultants' services for population planning; demography; and social and economic studies and
analyses; for the Planning Institute of Jamaica.
b)    the strengthening of the planning, monitoring and evaluation systems; and
c)    the provision of fellowships and training in demography, computerized library studies and
management; as well as training in Information, Education and Communication (IEC) with respect
to family planning services.
Success was recorded in the most of the areas identified above. All the staff required for the Unit, were
hired. In the area of Research and Investigation the following were successfully undertaken:
-     the National Survey on the Socio-economic Determinants of Fertility in Jamaica/Module in Survey
of Living Conditions (SLC).
-     National Survey on Population Information Needs.
-     National Survey on Knowledge and Needs Assessment of the National IEC Programme.



7
-     Situational Analysis of the Aged in Jamaica based on SLC data.
-     National survey on the Aged.
-     Development of Economic Demographic Model.
It should be noted that, in a limited way, five (5) specific research activities were not undertaken as planned,
because they ... a) had been or ...b) were being carried out.
The consultants' services identified in "a" above were successfully completed. However, recommendations
relating to future consultancies included the following: a)... that preference should be given to local
consultants to the extent that they have the relevant expertise; ... b) .....that language and socio-cultural
differences are critical to the "factors for award of contract"' and ... c) .... .a combination of local and
international consultants may be beneficial to the success of projects; also, preference should be given in
cases where international expertise resides overseas.
DEMOGRAPHIC LIAISON ACTIVITIES
The integration of demographic objectives into policy and planning in Government and Non-government
sectors was not fully achieved as envisioned.
Constraints
The main constraints were the slow pace in revising the National Population Policy and the development of
a National Plan of Action on Population and Development. These are two essential components in an
effective liaison programme. it is expected however, that a more systematic approach and mechanism will
be developed now, since the Policy and Plan of Action have been finalized.
The "On-line Access" of the Demographic Library through the multi-user system is still to be accomplished.
This is so because the multi-user system for the Division was not fully established. However this activity
should be completed shortly.
INFORMATION, COMMUNICATION, EDUCATION ACTIVITIES (IEC)
The Population and Planning IEC programmes, prior to the Project, were unstructured and lacked
coordination. However, the Project's Sub-committee provided and instituted a mechanism for monitoring
and coordination.
The most notable achievements under this component were:
-     the development of an annual inter-sectorial IEC Strategic Plan of Action; and
-     the coordinated planning and execution of major national activities such as:
-     World Population Day;
-     National Population Month; and
-     the UNFPA International Poster Competition.
Recommendations
It is recommended that for future IEC activities:



8
much more resources should be allocated to national projects for the production of education
materials, with long-term rather than short-term viability.
less emphasis should be placed on bumper stickers, fliers, etc., and much more emphasis should be
placed on "folk drama", docu-drama, magazines and newsletters.
Procurement
In the area of procurement (goods and services), it is recommended that:
future projects should be given the option to shop locally or otherwise, to the extent that prices are
competitive.
Local procurement which proved to be of a very high quality, and had with timely delivery, should
be encouraged; and
International brokers who proved to take months and in some instances, years, should be
competitive.
Evaluation
The annual evaluation and planning workshops are now an institutional feature of the National
Population/IEC programme.
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE - EPIDEMIOLOGY
This component focussed on:
-     Epidemiological Methods in Planning;
-     Chronic and Communicable Diseases;
-     AIDS/STD Surveillance/Control; and
-     Operational Research and Private Sector Involvement and Training.
Workshops and seminars were the main tools used in implementing the four areas identified above. Details
of these are given in the Report overleaf. At the Policy level, the Epidemiology Unit participated in several
policy fora with other Ministries and Agencies.
Surveillance/Disease Control
Initiatives were also taken to involve the private and public sectors with respect to surveillance and disease
control.
AIDS/STD
At another level a comprehensive programme promoting AIDS/STD control was also undertaken. This
included components such as Community Intervention; STD Control; Communication for Behaviour
Change, Training and Administration.
Chronic Diseases
Workshops were held pertaining to the above, foremost among which, was the Annual one-day
Epidemiology Workshop which included the preparation of regional and parish action plans.



9
Training
Training under this programme was integrated into all main Workshops conducted by the Epidemiology
Unit. The participants included Health Staff, Clinicians, Post-graduate students, Contract Investigators,
Medical Students and journalists.
PROCUREMENT
Procurement of goods has been carried out in accordance with the Loan Agreement and the Financial
Administration and Audit Law of Jamaica.
All items listed in the project Implementation Document with the exception of the Dental Equipment for the
Type V Health Centre Montego Bay, and the Portable screens for Service Delivery Points have been
procured and distributed in keeping with the Project Document.
In the interest of expected benefits from "bulk purchasing", the Dental Equipment and portable screens were
included with the new equipment which should have been bought under the Innovative Activity II.
Unfortunately, this aspect of the Innovative Activity II suffered delays which resulted in non-
implementation as at the end of the Project December 31, 1995.
Motor vehicles were bought and distributed as follows:
PIOJ                       -      2
NFPB                       -      5
MOH (Health Mgmt)          -      1
MOH (Linkages)             -      9 (ambulances)
MOH (PMU)                  -      1
MOH (Fam. Plan/trgn)       -      1 (26 seater bus)
MOH (Innov. Actvty)        -      6
INNOVATIVE ACTIVITY 1- CERVICAL CANCER
The Cervical Cancer Sub-project was introduced in 1991. This was born out of the need to improve the
facilities to Combat the high incidence of Cervical Cancer among Jamaican women.
The World Bank gave its "No Objection" to a budget of US$202,000 in November 1991. That budget
should have been disbursed over the three-year period 1991/92, 1992/93, and 1993/94 in the sums of
US$67,250; US$87,500; and US$46,500 respectively.
The budget covered:        -      Technical Assistance;
-     Training;
-     Procurement of Equipment; and
-     Renovation of facilities.
Technical Assistance/Training: The following participants received training:



10
2 Cyto-technicians - Trained locally
2 Doctors - Cervical Pathology and Colposcopy Fellowships
Procurement: All equipment procured for this sub-component are detailed in the Procurement Brochure.
Civil Works: The civil works aspect of this sub-project was subject to unavailable delays because of a
"space problem which involved the Chest Clinic and the Physiotherapy areas". The Chest Clinic was
occupying space belonging to the Physiotherapy Unit which itself was temporarily (because of a fire) being
housed in space earmarked for the Cervical Cancer/Colposcopy Ward. A "three-way move" was therefore
indicated. In 1994 the World Bank agreed to fund the renovation of all three units. This resulted in an
increase form the original sum of US$202,000 to US$250,000. Despite a delay of nine months this sub-
component was successfully completed in March 1996.
INNOVATIVE ACTIVITY II
Innovative Activity II was approved by the World Bank after the reformulation of the JPHP 1 in 1993. The
Government of Jamaica, felt at the time, that there was a great need for the facilities in the operating
theatres in 13 hospitals islandwide, to be upgraded; and where necessary, new equipment purchased and
installed. Provision would also be made for "hands-on training" to hospital technicians and medical
personnel.
At a time when communicable diseases and particularly sexually - transmitted diseases were on the rise
worldwide, adequate sterilizing capacity in the govemment hospitals and health centres represented a major
priority. In this regard the World Bank was asked to fund the Innovative Activity II using the un-allocated
funds under the Project.
Integral to this proposal was the requirement that the GOJ provide US$1.0 million to match the US$1.0
million of unallocated loan monies, to preserve the World Bank's 80% share under this project, for this new
activity.
Accomplishments
Spare Parts:         Fifteen of the Twenty-two
Contracts totalling approximately J$ 13 million have been fulfilled.
New Equipment:       A minimal amount of new equipment was procured. (Details in Procurement
Brochure).
General Remarks: Regrettably, this component of the Project did not go as planned and at December 31,
1995, procurement of the new equipment was not realized.









IMAGING
Report No.: 16289    16289
Type:      ICR



