Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER  4745 -
CHA 
 
Project Agreement 
 
(Hubei Shiman Highway Project) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
and 
 
HUBEI PROVINCE 
 
Dated October 11, 2004  
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 4745 -CHA 
PROJECT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated October 11, 2004, between INTERNATIONAL BANK 
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and HUBEI 
PROVINCE. 
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the 
People’s Republic of China (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make a 
loan to the Borrower in the  amount of two hundred million  Dollars ($200,000,000), on 
the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that 
Hubei Province agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in 
this Agreement; and 
WHEREAS Hubei Province, in consideration of the Bank’s entering into the 
Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in 
this Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
Definitions 
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General Conditions (as so 
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth. 
ARTICLE II 
Execution of the Project 
Section 2.01. (a) Hubei Province declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out 
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, engineering and economic practices, and social and 
environmental standards acceptable to the Bank, and shall provide, or cause to be 
provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required 
for the Project. 
Page  3
-
2
-
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Bank and Hubei Province shall otherwise agree, Hubei Province shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.02. (a)  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement, as said provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan.  
(b) 
Hubei Province shall update the Procurement Plan in accordance with 
guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish such update to the Bank not later than 12 
months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plan, for the Bank’s approval. 
Section 2.03. (a) Hubei Province shall carry out the obligations set forth in 
Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement. 
(b) 
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, Hubei Province shall: 
(i) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and 
furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing 
Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose 
between the Bank and Hubei Province, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and 
(ii) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
Hubei Province on said plan. 
Section 2.04. (a) Hubei Province shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange 
views with the Bank with regard to progress of the Project, the performance of its 
obligations under this Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan. 
(b) 
Hubei Province shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of 
the purposes of Loan, or the performance by Hubei Province of its obligations under this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Page  4
-
3
-
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 3.01. (a) Hubei Province shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, in accordance with 
consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect 
resources and expenditures in respect of the Project. 
(b)  Hubei Province shall: 
(i) 
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the 
Bank) audited, in accordance with auditing standards acceptable 
to the Bank, consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;  
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year (or such other 
period agreed to by the Bank), (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section, 
for such year (or such other period agreed to by the Bank), as so 
audited, and (B) an opinion on such statements by said auditors, 
in scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts and the audit of such financial statements, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
 
Section 3.02.  (a) Without limitation upon Hubei Province’s reporting obligations 
set out in paragraph 11 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, Hubei Province shall prepare 
and furnish to the Bank financial monitoring reports, in form and substance satisfactory 
to the Bank, which set forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both cumulatively 
and for the period covered by each said report, showing separately funds provided under 
the Loan, and explain variances between the actual and planned uses of such funds. 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after 
the end of the first calendar semester after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period 
from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first 
calendar semester; thereafter, each financial monitoring report shall be furnished to the 
Bank not later than 45 days after each subsequent calendar semester, and shall cover such 
calendar semester. 
ARTICLE IV 
Effective Date; Termination; 
Page  5
-
4
-
Cancellation and Suspension 
 
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective. 
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of Hubei 
Province thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall 
terminate in accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify Hubei 
Province thereof. 
Section 4.03. All this provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE V 
Miscellaneous Provisions 
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly 
given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telex or facsimile to the 
party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at 
such party’s address 
hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall have designated by 
notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. Deliveries made by 
facsimile transmission shall also be confirmed by mail. The addresses so specified are: 
 
Page  6
-
5
-
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, NW 
 
Washington, DC 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
   Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 248423 
(MCI) 
or 
 (202) 
477-
6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
For Hubei Province: 
 
c/o Hubei Provincial Communications Department 
 
428
Jianshe Avenue 
 
Wuhan, Hubei 
People’s Republic of China 430030 
 
Facsimile: 
 
(86-27) 83460754 
 
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of Hubei Province 
may be taken or executed by the Governor or any Vice Governor of Hubei Province or 
such other person or persons as such Governor or Vice Governor shall designate in 
writing, and Hubei Province shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority 
and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person. 
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument. 
Page  7
-
6
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Beij
ing, People’s Republic of China, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By  
/s/ David Dollar  
 
Authorized Representative 
 
HUBEI PROVINCE 
 
By 
 /s/ Zou Jiayi 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  8
-
7
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Procurement 
Section I
.
General
A. 
All goods, works and services (other than consultants’ services) shall be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with 
the provisions of this Schedule.  
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Sections I and IV 
of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers” dated May 2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this 
Schedule. 
C. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts, have the 
meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as 
the case may be. 
Section II
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services 
(other 
than Consultants’ Services
)
A. International 
Competitive 
Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of this Section, contracts shall be awarded 
on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.  The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 
2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines, providing for domestic preference in the evaluation 
of bids, shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower (other than 
goods manufactured in the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region and the Macau 
Special Administrative Region of the Borrower). 
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent per contract and works 
estimated to cost less than $15,000,000 equivalent per contract, except works under Part 
Page  9
-
8
-
A.1 (a) of the Project, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of National 
Competitive Bidding and the following additional provisions: 
 
The procedures to be followed for National Competitive Bidding under Part C.1 
of this Section shall be those set forth in the Law on Tendering and Bidding of the 
People's Republic of China promulgated by Order No. 21 of the President of the People's 
Republic of China on August 30, 1999, with the following clarifications required for 
compliance with the Guidelines: 
 
(i) 
All invitations to prequalify or to bid shall be advertised in 
a
newspaper of national circulation in the Borrower’s 
country, except for civil works contracts that are estimated 
to cost less than $2,000,000 equivalent each and for goods 
contracts that are estimated to cost less than $300,000 
equivalent each, which may be advertised in a provincial 
daily newspaper. Such advertisement shall be made in 
sufficient time for prospective bidders to obtain 
prequalification or bidding documents and prepare and 
submit their responses.  In any event, a minimum of thirty 
(30) days shall be given to bidders between the date of 
advertisement in such newspaper and the deadline for 
submission of bids, and the advertisement and bidding 
documents shall specify the deadline for such submission.   
(ii) 
Qualification requirements of bidders and the method of 
evaluating the qualification of each bidder shall be 
specified in detail in the bidding documents. 
(iii) 
All bidders that meet the qualification criteria set out in the 
pre-qualification document shall be allowed to bid and 
there shall be no limit on the number of pre-qualified 
bidders. 
(iv) 
All bidders shall be required to provide security in an 
amount sufficient to protect the Borrower or Hubei 
Province, as the case may be, in case of breach of contract 
by the contractor, and the bidding documents shall specify 
the required form and amount of such security.    
(v) 
The time for opening of all bids shall be the same as the 
deadline for receipt of such bids. 
Page  10
-
9
-
(vi) 
All bids shall be opened in public; all bidders shall be 
offered an opportunity to be present (either in person or 
through their representatives) at the time of bid opening, 
but bidders shall not be required to be present at the bid 
opening. 
(vii) 
No bid may be rejected solely on the basis that the bid price 
falls outside any standard contract estimate, or margin or 
bracket of average bids established by the Borrower or 
Hubei Province, as the case may be. 
(viii)  Each contract shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated 
responsive bidder, that is, the bidder who meets the 
appropriate standards of capability and resources and 
whose bid has been determined (A) to be substantially 
responsive to the bidding documents and (B) to offer the 
lowest evaluated cost. The winning bidder shall not be 
required, as a condition of award, to undertake 
responsibilities for work not stipulated in the bidding 
documents or otherwise to modify the bid as originally 
submitted. 
(ix) 
Each contract financed with the proceeds of the Loan shall 
provide that the suppliers and contractors shall permit the 
Bank, at its request, to inspect their accounts and records 
relating to the performance of the contract and to have said 
accounts and records audited by auditors appointed by the 
Bank. 
(x) 
Re-bidding should not be allowed solely because the number of 
bids is less than three (3). 
2. Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Shopping. 
Section III
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Page  11
-
10 - 
 
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.   
Page  12
-
11 - 
 
B. Other 
Procedures
1. 
Selection Based on Consul
tants’ Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 
3.7 and 3.8 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. Individual 
Consultants
Services for assignments that meet the requirements set forth in the first sentence 
of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured under contracts awarded 
to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 
of the Consultant Guidelines.  Under the circumstances described in paragraph 5.4 of the 
Consultant Guidelines, such contracts may be awarded to individual consultants on a 
sole-source basis. 
Section IV
.
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
Except as the Bank shall otherwise determine by notice to the Borrower, the 
following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Bank: (a) each contract for 
goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or more, and works and services 
(other than consultants’ services) estimated to cost the equivalent of $5,000,000 or more; 
and (b) each contract for consultants’ services provided by a firm estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $100,000
 
or more.  In addition,  the record of justification referred to in 
paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines for each contract for the 
employment of individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more 
shall be subject to Prior Review by the Bank. All other contracts shall be subject to Post 
Review by the Bank. 
Page  13
-
12 - 
 
SCHEDULE 2 
Implementation Program
 
1. 
In carrying out Parts A and B of the Project, Hubei Province shall: 
(a) 
take, or cause to be taken, all necessary actions to minimize to the extent 
possible any involuntary loss by persons of shelter, productive assets or access to 
productive assets or of income or means of livelihood, temporarily or permanently;  
(b) 
carry out the EMPs, RAPs and the Resettlement Policy Framework, in a 
manner satisfactory to the Bank; and 
(c) 
furnish any proposed revision of the plans and the Resettlement Policy 
Framework referred to in sub-paragraph (b) above to the Bank for its prior approval. 
2. 
In carrying out Parts A and B of the Project, Hubei Province shall: 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, the 
carrying out of the EMPs, RAPs, the Resettlement Policy Framework, and the EMDP, if 
any; and 
(b) 
prepare under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank: 
 
(i) 
an annual summary environmental monitoring report, by 
January 31 of each year, commencing January 31, 2005, and 
until completion of the Project; 
 
(ii) 
a semi-annual environmental monitoring report by 
January 31 and July 31 of each year, commencing January 31, 
2005, and until completion of the Project; 
 
(iii) 
by  January 31 and July 31 of each year until completion 
of the Project, commencing January 31, 2005, an internal 
monitoring report prepared by the appropriate agencies of Hubei 
Province on the implementation and impact of resettlement 
activities during the preceding one year or  six-month period, as 
the case may be; and 
Page  14
-
13 - 
 
(iv) 
 by January 31 and July 31 of each year until completion 
of the Project, commencing January 31, 2005, an external 
monitoring report prepared by an independent entity acceptable 
to the Bank on the implementation and impact of resettlement 
activities and the EMDP, if any, during the preceding year. 
3. 
In carrying out Parts A and B of the Project, Hubei Province shall prepare, and 
provide to the Bank a quarterly progress report, in form and content satisfactory to the 
Bank, on the progress of civil works and highlighting any environmental issues, 
commencing January 14, 2005, and until completion of the Project. 
4. 
In carrying out Part A of the Project, Hubei Province shall, by June 30, 2007, or 
such later date as the Bank shall otherwise agree, prepare and furnish to the Bank for its 
review and comment, an analysis and recommendations on the structure of toll rates on 
the Shiyan-Manchuangan Expressway, taking into consideration the results of other 
studies on toll-rate structures under Bank-financed highway projects in China and the 
experience with toll rates on major roads in China. 
5. 
In carrying out Part A of the Project, Hubei Province shall furnish to the Bank, 
by December 31, 2007, an operations risk management plan, acceptable to the Bank.  
6. 
In carrying out Part B of the Project, Hubei Province shall, prior to commencing 
works on any local road section selected pursuant to paragraph 7 of this Schedule, 
prepare in a manner and substance satisfactory to the Bank: 
 
(a) 
using indicators acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank for its 
prior approval, an economic and social benefits analysis and a technical analysis, 
including alternative engineering designs, proposed work plans and estimated costs; 
 
(b) 
an environmental impact assessment and, if necessary, an EMP; and 
 
(c) 
if necessary, and without limitation to the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
this Schedule: 
(i) 
for any local road section which requires the acquisition of land, 
temporarily or permanently,  prepare and implement a 
resettlement action plan satisfactory to the Bank, in accordance 
with the principles and procedures set forth in the Resettlement 
Policy Framework; 
(ii) 
furnish the same to the Bank for its approval; 
Page  15
-
14 - 
 
(iii) 
conduct a social assessment, satisfactory to the Bank to 
determine, inter alia, the necessity of an EMDP; 
(iv) 
if necessary, prepare and carry out such EMDP in a manner 
satisfactory to the Bank; and 
(v) 
furnish any proposed revision of the plans referred to in this 
paragraph to the Bank for its prior approval. 
7. 
In carrying out Part B.1 of the Project, Hubei Province shall select local road 
sections for rehabilitation and upgrading in accordance with criteria acceptable to the 
Bank, including the following: 
 
(a) 
the current condition of the road; 
 
(b) 
the lack of alternative transport infrastructure; 
 
(c) 
minimum daily existing traffic volume at least at: (i) 400 Medium Truck 
Equivalent (MTE) for Class IV roads; (ii) 500 MTE for Class III roads; and (iii) 600 
MTE for Class II roads; 
 (d) 
expected impact of the rehabilitation/upgrading on: (i) the population’s 
access to education, health and other social activities; and (ii) the economic development, 
including facilitation of production and commercialization of local products; 
 
(e) 
contribution to Hubei Province’s plan to improve the functional 
responsiveness of the highway network; 
 
(f) 
strong support by the local government and the local residents; 
(g) 
an expected economic rate of return higher than 12%; and 
(h) 
minimizing to the extent possible any involuntary loss by persons of 
shelter, productive assets or access to productive assets or of income or means of 
livelihood, temporarily or permanently. 
8. 
In carrying out Part B.1 of the Project, Hubei Province shall furnish to the Bank, 
by December 31, 2008, an assessment of the social impacts of the Project activities under 
such Part of the Project. 
Page  16
-
15 - 
 
9. 
In carrying out Part C.1 of the Project, Hubei Province shall: 
(a) 
carry out the training in accordance with a training program acceptable to 
the Bank; and 
(b) 
shall furnish to the Bank by January 31 of each year, commencing 
January 31, 2005, and until completion of the Project, a report on the training carried out 
over the preceding year.  
 
10. 
In carrying out Part C of the Project, Hubei Province shall: 
(a) 
carry out the study on group management of projects by January 31, 
2006, and, thereafter, furnish the recommendations of the study to the Bank, for 
comments, if any; 
(b) 
carry out the study on new technologies in maintenance by June 30, 
2007, and, thereafter, furnish the recommendations of the study to the Bank, for 
comments, if any; 
(c) 
carry out the study on capital mobilization by December 31, 2007, and, 
thereafter, furnish the recommendations of the study to the Bank, for comments, if any; 
(d) 
carry out the pilot study on expressway asset management by December 
31, 2007, and, thereafter, furnish the recommendations of the study to the Bank, for 
comments, if any; 
(e) 
carry out the study on the safety of commercial transport operations by 
December 31, 2007, and, thereafter, furnish the recommendations of the study to the 
Bank, for comments, if any; and 
(f) 
by December 31, 2007, prepare the highway safety management plan, 
acceptable to the Bank. 
Page  17
-
16 - 
 
11. Hubei 
Province 
shall: 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Bank, the 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, on or about January 31 of each year, commencing January 31, 2005, and until 
completion of the Project, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation 
activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in 
the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of said report and 
setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project 
and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and 
(c) 
review with the Bank, by March 31 in each year, or such later date as the 
Bank shall request, commencing March 31, 2005, and until completion of the Project, the 
report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures 
required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and 
the Bank’s views on the matter.
 
