                                                Document o f
                                           The World Bank

                                      FOR OFFICIAL USEONLY




                                                                                Report No: 27681-CHA




                                PROJECTAPPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                                   ONA

                                           PROPOSEDLOAN

                               INTHEAMOUNT OFUS$200MILLION

                                                 TO THE

                                  PEOPLE'SREPUBLIC OF CHINA

                                                  FORA

                               HUBEISHIMANHIGHWAY PROJECT

                                              May 25,2004




Transport Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region

This document has a restricteddistributionand may be usedbyrecipients only inthe performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                         (ExchangeRate Effective May 2004)
                           CurrencyUnit = RMB
                              RMB 1.00 = US$0.12
                                 US$l.OO = RMB 8.28

                                   FISCAL YEAR
                              January 1 - December 31

                       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AAA    Analytical and Advisory        HPHAB      HubeiProvincialHighway
       Services                                  Administration Bureau
CAS    Country Assistance Strategy    HPHDI      HubeiProvincialHighway Design
CITC   China International Tendering             Institute
       Company                        HPSEC      Hubei Provincial Shiman
EIA    Environmental Impact                      Expressway Company Ltd
       Assessment                     HPSECH     Hubei Provincial Shiman
EMDP   Ethnic Minorities                         Expressway Construction
       Development Plan                          Headquarter
EMP    Environmental Management       ICB        International Competitive Bidding
       Plan                           LRIP       Local Roads Improvement Program
E&M    Electrical andMechanical       LIBOR      LondonInterbankOfferer Rate
F M S  FinancialManagement             MOC       Ministry of Communications
       Specialist                      MOF       Ministry of Finance
FSL    Fixed-Spread Loan               NDRC      NationalDevelopment andReform
GDP    Gross Domestic Product                    Commission
GOC    Government of China             NTHS      NationalTrunk Highway System
HCTC   Hubei Communication             OED       Operations EvaluationDepartment
       Technical College               RAP       Resettlement Action Plan
HERO   HubeiExpressway                 SCCB      Shiyan City Communications Bureau
       Resettlement Office             Sh4E      Shiyan-Manchuangan Expressway
HPCD   HubeiProvincial                 TBL       Tendering and RiddingLaw of China
       Communications Department       TOR       Terms of Reference
HPFD   HubeiProvincialFinancial        VSL       Variable-Spread Loan
       Department                      WBFPO     World BankFinanced Project Office




                           Vice President:   Jemal-ud-din Kassum
               Country Managermirector:       YukonHuang
                          Sector Manager:    Jitendra N.Bajpai
                       Task Team Leader:     Michel Bellier

                                                                                        FOROFFICIAL USEONLY

                                                                 CHINA
                                            HubeiShimanHighwayProject

                                                            CONTENTS

                                                                                                                                                   Page
    A STRATEGIC CONTEXT AND RATIONALE
     .                                                                          ...................................................................  1
      1. Country and sector issues....................................................................................................               1
     2.  Rationale for Bank involvement .........................................................................................                    1
                                                                                                                                                     2
    B PROJECTDESCRIPTION
     .3. Higher level objectives to which the project contributes ....................................................
                                               ...................................................................................................   2
      1. Lendinginstrument .............................................................................................................             2
      2. Program objective and Phases ............................................................................................                   2
      3. Project development objective andkey indicators..............................................................                               2
      4. Project components .............................................................................................................            3
      5. Lessons learned andreflected inthe project design............................................................                               5
                                                                                                                                                     6
    C IMPLEMENTATION
     .6. Alternatives considered andreasons for rejection..............................................................
                                      ............................................................................................................   7
      1. Partnership arrangements (ifapplicable) ............................................................................                        7
      2. Institutional and implementation arrangements..................................................................                             7
      3. Monitoringand evaluation o f outcomesh-esults..................................................................                             8
      4. Sustainability.......................................................................................................................
               . . .                                                                                                                                 9
      5. Critical risks andpossible controversial aspects.................................................................                           9
                                                                                                                                                     10
    D APPRAISALSUMMARY
     .6. Loadcredit conditions and covenants...............................................................................
                                             ...................................................................................................    11
      1. Economic and financial analyses ......................................................................................                      11
      2. Technical...........................................................................................................................        12
      3. Fiduciary ...........................................................................................................................       12
      4. Social.................................................................................................................................     13
      5. Environment......................................................................................................................           14
      6. Safeguard policies        .............................................................................................................     15
      7. Policy Exceptions and Readiness......................................................................................                       15


 This document has a restricted distribution andmay be used by recipients only in
Itheperformance of their official duties I t s contents may not be otherwise disclosed
                                                                 .
 without World Bank authorization                        .

Annex 1: Country and Sector or Program Background                                ........................................................      16

Annex 2: Major RelatedProjectsFinancedby the Bank and/or other Agencies                                                         ................24
Annex 3: Results Framework and Monitoring                       ........................................................................       26

Annex 4: Detailed Project Description            .....................................................................................         35

Annex 5: Project Costs...............................................................................................................          46

Annex 6: Implementation Arrangements                   ................................................................................        47

Annex 7: Financial Managementand DisbursementArrangements                                               ....................................   49

Annex 8: Procurement  ...............................................................................................................          56

Annex 9: Economicand FinancialAnalysis                    .............................................................................        63

Annex 10: SafeguardPolicy Issues           ...........................................................................................         84

Annex 11:Project Preparationand Supervision                        ...................................................................       101

Annex 12: Documentsinthe Project File                 ...............................................................................        103

Annex 13: Statement of Loans and Credits                  ...........................................................................        105

Annex 14: Country at a Glance       ...............................................................................................          109


MAPS
      IBRD33072
      IBRD32920
      IBRD32921

                                        CHINA

                         HUBEISHIMANHIGHWAYPROJECT

                           PROJECTAPPRAISALDOCUMENT

                               EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC

                                        EASTR

Date: May 25,2004                            Team Leader: Michel Bellier
Country Director: YukonHuang                 Sectors: Roads and highways(97%);Sub-
SectorManagermirector: JitendraN.Bajpai      nationalgovernment administration(3%)
                                             Themes: Infrastructure servicesfor private
                                             sector development (P);Rural servicesand
                                             infrastructure(P);Administrative andcivil
                                             service reform(P);Trade facilitation and
                                             marketaccess (S);Injuries andnon-
                                             communicablediseases (S)
ProjectID: PO81749                           Environmentalscreeningcategory: Full
                                             Assessment



[XILoan     [ ] Credit [ ] Grant  [ ] Guarantee   [ ] Other:

For Loans/Credits/Others:
Total Bank financing (US$m.): 200.00




RECONSTRUCTIONAND                      I                 I                 I
DEVELOPMENT
Total:                                        329.00           200.00             529.00

Borrower:
People'sRepublic of China
China

ResponsibleAgency:
HubeiProvincialCommunicationsDepartment
No. 428, JianShe Ave.
Hankou
Wuhan
Hubei

China
430030
Tel: (027) 8346-0753 Fax: (027) 8386-0754
projectoffice@hbjt.gov.cnn

                          Estimateddisbursements(BankFY/US$m)
FY               5        6          7         8        9          0        0        0         0
Annual           60.0C    60.0C      40.0C      30.0C   1O.OC       0.OC     0.OC     0.OC      0.oc
Cumulative       60.0C    120.0C     160.0C,   19O.OC  200.0C    200.0C   200.0C    200.0C    200.0(
Project implementation period: Start July 1,2004 End: December 31,2008
Expectedeffectiveness date: October 29,2004
Expectedclosingdate: June 30, 2009
Does the project depart from the CAS incontent or other significant respects?
Ref. PAD A.3                                                                       [ ]Yes [XINO

Does the project require any exceptions from Bank policies?
Ref. PAD 0.7                                                                       [ ]Yes [XINO
Have these been approved by Bank management?                                        [ ]Yes [ IN0
I s approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?                       [ ]Yes [XINO
Does the project include any critical risks rated "substantial" or "high"?
Ref. PAD C.5                                                                       [ ]Yes [XINO

Does the project meet the Regional criteria for readinessfor implementation?
Ref. PAD D.7                                                                       [XIYes [ ]No

Project development objective Ref. PAD B.2, TechnicalAnnex 3
The main objective of the project i s to support socioeconomic development of Hubei province by
enhancing its access to other provinces, particularly the western region of China, improvinglocal
mobility within poor, remote western parts of the province, and strengtheninggovernanceof the
provincialroad sector.

Project description [one-sentencesummary of each component] Ref. PAD B.3.a, Technical
Annex 4
The project has three components: highwaycapacity investment (the SME), the LocalRoad
Improvement Program (the LRIP), and institutionalstrengthening, policy development and road
safety initiatives. These activities aim to strengthenHPCD's capacity to manage the provincial
highway network efficiently and improve the sustainability of provincialhighway sector
financing. Expected improvements inthe quality of roads will leadto lower transport costs
throughout the province and lower life-cyclecosts for roadmaintenance. Adopting more
efficient practices for managing road will promote effective use of public funds, thereby
enhancing the contribution of the highway network to economic development and its
responsivenessto social needs. Finally, roadtraffic safety initiatives will reduce accident rates,
thereby saving lives and addressingnegative road impacts.

Which safeguardpolicies are triggered, if any? Ref. PAD D.6, TechnicalAnnex 10
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)
  Cultural Property (OPN 11.03, beingrevised as OP 4,ll)Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP
4.12)

Significant, non-standard conditions, if any, for:
Ref. PAD C.7
Boardpresentation:


Loadcredit effectiveness:
Issuanceof acceptable legal opinions

Covenants applicable to project implementation:
- Quarterly reports on the progress of S M E andLRIP works and highlightingany environmental
issues.
 - Annual report on results of monitoringandevaluation activities andprogressof the project.
 - Semi-annual and annual environment monitoringreports.
 - Semi-annual and annual internal resettlementmonitoringreports, and semi annual and annual
external resettlement monitoring reports.
 - Analysis andrecommendations on the structure of toll rates on the S M Eby June 30,2007.
 - Operations risk managementplanon the S M E by December 31,2007.
 - Social assessment and if necessary Resettlement Action Plan andEthnic Minorities
Development Plan on eachLRIP road section.
 - Annual report on training activities by January 31of each year commencing inJanuary 2005.
 - Study on group managementof projects by January 31,2006.
 - Study on new technologies inmaintenanceby June 30,2007.
 - Study on capital mobilizationby December 31,2007.
 - Pilot study on expressway asset managementby December 31,2007.
 - Study on the safety of commercial transport operations by December 31,2007.
 - Highway safety managementplanby December 31,2007.


A. STRATEGICCONTEXTAND RATIONALE
1. Countryandsector issues
Despite the significant expansion of China's National Trunk Highway System (NTHS) in
support of domestic market integration since the 1980s, the road network i s sparse and logistics
costs are high compared to developed countries because of inadequate modal integration and
service sector response. Furthermore, western and central regions continue to suffer from poor
accessibility, causing isolation andincome inequality. Finally, sector governance at both national
and provincial levels needs strengthening to make institutions responsive to market needs for
transport services, able to better manageroad assets, develop a sustainable financing mechanism,
and address externalities of the sector such as safety and environment.
The length of Chinese highway has doubled since 1980, reaching 1.76 million km in 2002. Yet
the highway network remains one of the sparsest inthe world (0.19 kmper square km) and does
not meet trade and transport needs. Logistics costs in China, at 18 percent of GDP (2000), are
high in comparison to developed countries like the United States (9.5 percent in the mid-l990s),
and transport costs make up about 50 percent of logistics costs-twice     the percentage of those in
developedeconomies.
Despite China's accomplishments in reducing poverty in the past 20 years, more than 200
million people still live on less than $1 a day. In addition, economic growth has not been equally
distributed among China's regions-the         per capita income in the 12 western and central
provinces i s less than half that in the coastal provinces. Many people in the lagging regions lack
access to basic health and education services becausetransport infrastructure i s inadequate.
China has increased road sector funding significantly in recent years-to       approximately $167
billion during 1997-2002. However, current funding sources-taxation         and issuance of public
debt-cannot meet demand for the highway network, and these modes of financing are not
sustainable.
China is likely to face major reconstruction costs in the future if funding for periodic
maintenance continues at the current low level. Provincial communication departments need to
transform themselves into managers of road assets providing more cost-effective construction
and operation services to roadusers.
Finally, the combination of fast expansion of the highway system, increasing traffic, and a lack
of coordinated safety efforts led to almost 110,000 traffic fatalities in 2002, three times the U.S.
figure but with a fraction of the number of vehicles. Without improved safety measures, fatalities
are estimated to increase by more than 90 percent inthe next 20 years.
2. Rationalefor Bankinvolvement
The Bank's involvement in the highway sector at the provinciallevel aims at:
        sharing global knowledge and improving provincial road sector governance in resource
        management, project selection, design and quality of execution, asset management,
        externality management (safety and environment), and sector regulations to better serve
        emergingmarket needs; and

        supporting the government's effort to develop western and central provinces by further
        integrating these economies with the rest of the country.

The Bank's steady involvement over time is essential for improving the province understanding
o f highway management issues and building institutional capacity and ownership for change, so
that best practices can have demonstration effect on other provinces. This project builds on the
results o fthe three previous Bankprojects inthe Hubeihighway sector.
3. Higher level objectivesto which the projectcontributes
The Bank's Country Assistance Strategy for China calls for:

    0   improving the business environment and helping accelerate the transition to a market
        economy;

    0   addressing the needs o fpoorer and disadvantaged people and regions; and

    0   facilitating an environmentally sustainable development process.
Furthermore, the Country Assistance Strategy identifies the strengthening o f regional integration
and competitiveness through a well-functioning multimodal transport system as a key objective,
entailing the facilitation o f trade and support to the development o f lagging western regions.
Within that framework, the Bank's highway strategy is to help the government meet its transport
sector objectives and at the same time support the achievement o f the Millennium Development
Goals. The project will facilitate trade, support China's transition to a market economy, address
the transport needs o f less-developed areas, and help open up western provinces by increasing
road capacity to meet demand for road transport and enhancing the efficiency o f the highway
sector.
B. PROJECTDESCRIPTION
1. Lendinginstrument
The Bank will finance the project through a specific investment loan. The Borrower has selected
the variable-spread loan (VSL) option in which the spread over LIBOR i s reset every semester.
The Borrower's mainreason for selecting a VSL rather than a fixed-spread loan (FSL) is because
FSL charges are slightly higher than VSL charges and because the Borrower does not foresee
using the conversion options o f the FSL. VSL repayment terms are govemed by standard country
terms.
2. Programobjectiveandphases
Not applicable
3. Projectdevelopmentobjectiveand key indicators
The main objective o fthe project i s to support socioeconomic development o f Hubeiprovince by
enhancing its access to other provinces, particularly the westem region o f China, improving local
mobility within poor, remote westem parts o f the province, and strengthening govemance o f the
provincial road sector. The project will produce the following outputs:

        The construction o f Shiyan-Manchuangan        Expressway (SME), which will increase
        transportation capacity ina corridor connecting Hubeito westem provinces.

    0   A program o flocalroadimprovements (LRIP) inthe poor northwesternpart ofHubei.

    0   A series o f institutional strengthening and policy development activities for road
        management and improvements inroad safety inHubei.



                                                 2

The following key results indicators havebeen selected:

   0   SME: traffic levels on the expressway and on the parallel national highway (NH316);
       percentageof long distance traffic andbreakdown by users category on SME.

   0   LRIP: average daily traffic, transport costs and daily bus-services on improved local
       roads, numbers of days they are closed, GDP per capita, employment rate and population
       underpoverty threshold inareas servedby LRProadsections.

   0   Institutionalactivities:
       -Increasedskills of HubeiProvincialCommunication Department (HPCD) staff
            through skills assessment
       -Adoptionofassetmanagementprinciples ensuringbetter managementofHubei
            expresswaynetwork
       -SustainablemodelforfinancingtheHPCDroadnetwork
       -Adoptingnewtechnologiestoimprovetheefficiencyandeffectivenessofhighway
            management and operations
       -Improvedmanagementofnewhighwayprojectsthroughinstitutionalchanges
       -PercentageofClass1andClass2roadssystematicallytreatedinaccordancewiththe
            HPCD safety managementplan
       -Percentageofroadfreightandpassengertransportenterprisessystematicallyscreened
            in accordancewith the safety review processes.
4. Project components
The project has three components: highway capacity investment (the Shiyan - Manchuangan
expressway), the Local Road Improvement Program, and institutional strengthening and policy
development and road safety initiatives. These activities aim to strengthen HPCD's capacity to
manage the provincial highway network efficiently and improve the sustainability of provincial
highway sector financing. Expected improvements in the quality of roads will lead to lower
transport costs throughout the province and lower life-cycle costs for road maintenance.
Improved sustainability of financing will promote effective use of public funds, thereby
enhancing the contribution of the highway network to economic development and its
responsiveness to social needs. Finally, road traffic safety initiatives will reduce accident rates,
thereby saving lives and addressingnegative roadimpacts.
Highway Capacity Investment (US$414.88 million)
The project will improve highway capacity innorthwestem Hubei province with the construction
of the 105.1 km long Shiyan - Manchuangan expressway (SME) between Shiyan in
northwestem Hubei and the border with Shaanxi province. In Shiyan, S M E will link to the
Xiangfan-Shiyan (Xianshi) Expressway, which opened for traffic in December 2003, thereby
completing the corridor between Hubei capital, Wuhan, and Shaanxi. There S M E will connect to
an expressway section planned to reach Xi'an, the Shaanxi capital, and eventually Yinchuan in
Ningxia province farther north.
S M E will support and integrate urban and rural economic activities in Hubei. Moreover, S M E
will facilitate interregional trade and passenger movement to and from western provinces by
makingshorter itineraries possible, thus reducing transport costs for long-distance traffic.




                                                3

Local Road Improvement Program (US$50.70 million)
The LRIP aims to improve the competitiveness of the local economy and bring socioeconomic
benefits to roadside communities by enhancing people's mobility and ability to access education,
health, and other social service. A series of Class 111, Class IV and unclassified roads will be
rehabilitated or upgraded in Shiyan City, which i s comprised of several poor counties, in a
remote area in the mountainous northwest of Hubei province. That area was selected becauseof
the low-income (in 2002 GDP per capita was RMB 2,201 [US$266] outside urbanized zones in
2002, 26 percent of the provincial average), the condition of local roads, the high priority the
province gives to improving accessibility in this area, and the potential for leveraging the
benefits of the SME, which will traverse Shiyan City.
The LRPcomponent will have two phases. The first phase, estimated to cost $21.3 million, has
been identified: the upgrading of Baoxia-Zhushan road (85 km) to Class I11standard and the
construction of the Jiangjunhe bridge over the Han River. Additional local road sections
comprised into a secondphasewill be identifiedduring project implementation.
Institutional strengthening, policy development and road safety (US$6.36 million)
The Bank has supported a number of institutional strengthening and roadmanagement initiatives
in its ongoing highway projects in Hubei province, and this project will build on that work. It
will assist HPCD in adopting more efficient practices for managing the road network. The
following activities will be undertaken:
        Trainingprogram. The project will finance a program of domestic and overseas training
        for staff from HPCD, dependent organisms, and entities involved in the project, in areas
        identified during a training-needs assessment review, with the support of the Hubei
        Communications Technical College (HCTC).
        Pilot study on expressway asset management. HPCD will pilot-test total asset
        management for an expressway. This study will cover the complete range of asset
        management issues, address the applicability of asset management in Hubei Province,
        and identify the steps necessary to implement that approach on the entire HPCD road
        network.
        Capital mobilization study. This study will determine a strategy for mobilizing capital for
        meeting highway sector needs for construction, maintenance, and management at 5-, lo-,
        and 20-year horizons.
        Study on new technologies for road maintenance. This study will identify and test
        technologies that offer possibilities for improving the quality and efficiency of road
        maintenance.
        Study on Expressway Project Group Management. This study will investigate ways for
        the HPCD to improve the efficiency of executing large projects by consolidating
        activities, streamlining operations, or usingnew IT solution.
        HPCD safety managementplan for Class 1 and Class 2 roads. The project will prepare
        an HPCD safety management plan that sets out its road safety goals, objectives, policies,
        and priorities for Class Iand Class I1 roads and the organizational processes and
        measuresthat it i s taking to effectively implement them.



                                                   4

        Safety review processfor road freight and passenger transport enterprises. The project
        will develop a safety review process for road freight and passenger transport enterprises
        inHubei Province, specifying mandatory safety requirements, proceduresandmonitoring
        arrangements for the granting, continuation and removal of freight and passenger
        transport operating licenses.

        Procurement of equipment. The project will procure equipment for (i)construction
        quality control and environmental monitoring, (ii)    operation and maintenance of S M E
        after opening and the highway network, (iii)    strengthening the institutional capacity of
        HPCD.
5. Lessons learned and reflected inthe project design
Operation Evaluation Department (0ED)'s assessments of the Bank's highway portfolio in
China highlight a high level of client satisfaction with investment components that have
contributed to the fulfillment of many of the sector and macroeconomic objectives of the Bank's
assistance strategy. Nevertheless institutional initiatives of projects undertaken with provinces
have hadless impact. Issues with coordination among ministries and levels of governments, such
as for road safety matters, have been found especially detrimental to the policy agenda. OED's
evaluation and the Bank's earlier road projects also have found issues with the design of some
projects. The following lessons are reflectedinthe designof the current project.
Develop innovations in project design. The development and testing of an asset management
approach on part of the provincial expressway network could introduce a way for road agencies
to transform themselves into policymakers and regulators.
Ensure client ownership of institutional components. HPCD has built on its experience under
the ongoing highway projects to determine the priorities of the institutional strengthening, policy
development, and road safety component. For example, the asset management study draws on
the results of a roadmaintenance study and the development of roadinformation systems funded
by the Bank.
Avoid giving sole priority to the construction of expresswaysbecause that affects provinces'
financial capacity to improve roadaccessibility in poor areas and the condition of existing roads.
S M E will serve a remote and less-developed area of Hubei province and the LRIP will
rehabilitate andupgrade lower-class local roads inone of the poorest areas of Hubei.
Avoid design changesand variations during construction. In many past projects in China, the
technical complexity of highway construction and operation was underestimated, which led to
substantial cost overruns and construction delays. To address technical risks, especially high for
SME, which will cross a mountainous area, HPCD has followed a highly interactive process in
designing alignment alternatives, assessing technical, environmental, and social impacts, and
cross-validating design results by engineering firms and other experts.
Implement resettlement operations on time. HPCD established the project resettlement
organization at the beginning of feasibility studies and carried out comprehensive field surveys
to prepare the resettlement action plan (RAP), and resettlement operations have started.
Avoid setting toll rate levels too high. High toll rates deter would-be users from diverting from
other roads to the toll expressway and affect the economic and financial viability of the project.
During preparation, an economic and financial evaluation of the impact of toll rates on the



                                                 5

project's economic return concluded that the rate considered by HPCD, U S cents 6.02 per km, is
inthe rangeof similar projects inChina (see SectionD.1andAnnex 9 for more details).
Internalize and disseminate study recommendations. HPCD and the Bank held an in-depth
dialogue during project preparation that led to a good understanding of issues and of how to
tailor the scopes of institutional studies. The studies are a compromise between improved
approaches with potential for scaling up (asset management study and road safety management
plan) and pragmatism aiming to take the local situation and institutional constraints into
consideration.
6. Alternatives considered and reasons for rejection
Project objectives. To enhance development impact, the scope of the project includes a local
mobility component for poor areas and a program of institutional strengthening and road safety
initiatives along with the originally proposed expresswayconstruction.
S M E design. At the request of the Bank, HPCD compared a Class Ior I1highway alternative to
the expresswayoption. HPCD retained the expressway standards for the following reasons:
         Maintain consistency with sections already built or planned on the rest of the Wuhan-
         Yinchuangan corridor, which serves provincial capitals;
         Meet the medium- to long-term demand forecast by HPCD (and confirmed by a Bank
         study), although lower standards may be sufficient inthe first years of operation;

     0   Avoid revisitingthe long-termneed for an expressway, when building a Class Ior I1road
         instead of an expressway saves relatively little compared to overall construction costs
         because of the mountainous terrain and other topographic constraints;

     0   Maintain the project's economic benefits, which will be achieved only with higher
         (expressway) vehicle speeds.
HPCD also assessed the feasibility of a phased construction of SME. However, doubling the
numerous tunnels and bridges in the mountainous terrain and organizing civil works with traffic
on the completed carriageway would pose technical challenges and raise costs. Furthermore,
attempts to phase works inother provinces have increasedroadaccidents significantly.
S M E alignment. In the feasibility study, HPCD compared two main corridors: one along the
valleys where the existing provincial Class IIhighway runs, and a more direct alignment across
remote and less-populated areas more to the south. The first alternative was found to be a better
compromise in terms of servicing urban areas and reducing environmental impact and
investment costs. Furthermore, HPCD and its design institutes have progressively refined the
alignment of the S M E through several rounds of identifying and comparing alternatives
according to economic, technical, financial, environmental, and social criteria.
Private financing. S M E will be a toll facility and will generate income from users. HPCD
discarded the private financing alternative at the feasibility study stage because the financial
assessment showed that the project could not be viable without a large government contribution
to investment costs; the level of traffic expected at opening and during the early years of
operation is too low to make project returns high enough to attract private investors. Thus,
HPCD made the decision to provide the infrastructure from public funds, establish a




                                                 6

government-owned company to operate the expressway, and pursue the possibility of
commercializing the asset when income increases.
Area for the LRIP. HPCD decided to improve rural road sections in Shiyan City, a poor and
remote area in western Hubei Province because the other area where development lags-Ens'hi
prefecture-has   benefited in the past three years from significant highway investments under
national programs to support westernregions.
Institutional strengthening, policy development and road safety. The main institutional
alternative considered was to apply asset management to the full HPCD network and use the
results to prepare a business plan for HPCD. Although this i s a desirable outcome, the Bank and
HPCD decided it was too difficult for HPCD to undertake in a single step. Pilot-testing asset
management while conducting complementary studies will bring together efforts and greatly
improve HPCD's management of the network. As for road safety, the following alternative
components drawing on outputs of ongoing projects were appraised, taking into account the
acknowledged need for a long-term vision and strategic objectives for safety improvements in
the province: safety at road-works sites, safety audit procedures for improved road management,
road safety villages, speed monitoring tools for expressways, and truck and bus safety. The first
three were rejected as duplicative of previous projects' objectives, and the fourth because it did
not fit comfortably within the scope of HPCD's responsibilities and spheres of influence.
Furthermore, a highway safety managementplan component was addedto integrate and optimize
the safety components of previous and ongoing projects andbringthe necessarylong-term vision
and strategic focus to HPCD roadsafety initiatives.
C. IMPLEMENTATION
1. Partnershiparrangements(ifapplicable)
Not applicable.
2. Institutionalandimplementationarrangements
HPCD, the provincial agency responsible for road management in Hubei will implement the
project. The Bank-Financed Project Office (WBFPO), an HPCD department that has worked on
three ongoing Bank-financed highway projects, i s responsible for coordinating project
preparation and will remain the Bank's main counterpart during implementation. Similar
arrangementshave proven effective under the previous projects.
HPCD has created a dedicated project headquarter, the Hubei Provincial Shiman Expressway
Construction Headquarter (HPSECH), to implement and manage the SME. HPCD has also
established the Hubei Provincial Shiman Expressway Company Ltd. (HPSEC) to operate the
expressway after its opens; HPSEC will assist HPSECH during the project implementation.
HPCD has hired experienced domestic design institutes to carry out SME design studies.
HPSECH, as the client and project management office, will manage construction works with the
assistance of a supervision organization made up of domestic firms and an international
consultant. HPSEC will take over the operations of S M E after it opens.
With respect to resettlement, a dedicated Hubei Expressway Resettlement Office (HERO) has
been established and will lead resettlement operations under the oversight of the provincial
resettlement leading group. The HERO has prepared the Resettlement Action Plan (RAP). The
resettlement organization also comprises resettlement local units established along the alignment
with local governments at City, countyhanner, and township levels, whose staff will receive


                                                 7

training under the project. Other provincial agencies will also be involved according to their
responsibilities. HPCD will issue regulations for the approval and use of resettlement funds and
streamline the payment process to avoid the allocation of funds to other purposes.
On environment, the Environmental Management Plan (EMP) includes the practical and cost-
effective measures necessary to mitigate project-related impacts and specifies monitoring plans,
training, institutional arrangements, implementation schedule, and budget needs. An
environmental unit of HPCD will supervise the implementation of the EMPs with the
cooperation of environmental protection agencies during construction. The Borrower has
developed ample in-house capacity to address environmental issues under previous projects.
With respect to the LRIP, the HubeiProvincial Highway Administration Bureau (HPHAB), the
HPCD agency in charge of managing the provincial highway network, i s responsible for
identifying and preparing specific projects with the assistance of a design institute selected on
S M E for design issues and WBFPO for safeguard issues. HPHAB has designated the Shiyan
City Communications Bureau (SCCB) as the implementing entity for the LRIP. For the
procurement of contractors this bureau will report directly to HPSEC which is preparing tender
documents. SCCB will be assisted by domestic firms for the supervision of works. The
implementation of EMPs prepared on each road section will also be supervised by the
environmental unit of HPCD under the oversight of the WBFPO.
Finally, the WBFPO is preparing the institutional strengthening, policy development, and road
safety component and will coordinate the implementation of these activities. Other HPCD units
may contribute to some of them.
The Bank loan will be signed between the People's Republic of China and the Bank through the
Ministry of Finance (MOF), and on-lending arrangements will be signed between MOF and the
Government of Hubei Province. Hubei Provincial Finance Department (HPFD) will make funds
available to HPCD and one special account will be established at HPFD.
The Bank's financial management assessment concluded that the project will have in place an
adequateproject financial management system.
3. Monitoringand evaluation of outcomes/results
Under the coordination of WBFPO, monitoring and evaluation data will be collected by HPCD
or other project agencies during project implementation, with the assistance of firms hired
specifically for some instances. Baseline information and target values were agreed with HPCD
during preparation (see Annex 3). Result indicators and their evaluation, when required, will be
provided to the Bank in the annual progress reports that HPCD will prepare. No task will entail
specific costs to be financed by the project
S M E
HPSEC will provide information about the progress of S M E works. The WBFPO will coordinate
the collection of traffic data, to be provided by HPHAB for counting stations on highways and
by HPSEC for S M E after it opens to traffic. Environmental monitoring will be entrusted to the
environment unit reporting to WBFPO, which i s also responsible for coordinating the
preparation of information on resettlement required by the RAP; in addition, HPCD will hire an
external resettlement monitoring entity.




                                                8

LRIP
Indicator data will come from three sources:

    0  WBPFO for overall implementation indicators andcivil works progressreports
    0  Stations managedby HPHABor local communications authorities for traffic count
    0  Provincial statistics bureau or county statistics bureau for social indicators.
Institutional strengthening, policy development,and roadsafety
WBFPO will provide monitoringresults for all activities.
4. Sustainability
The sustainability of project financing is ensured by the strong support from both Hubei
provincial government and central government agencies, including the Ministry of
Communications (MOC), National Development and Reform Commission, and MOF. The
project i s specified in Hubei province's Tenth Five-year Plan and has been approved by the
provincial government. S M E i s also included in one of the eight high-priority expressway
corridors planned by MOC to foster the development of western provinces and therefore will
benefit from an MOC grant. Finally, the State Council approved the project feasibility study in
February 2004.
HPCD has assembleda strong team to prepare and implementthe project. HPSECH, responsible
for S M E and overseeing the procurement of LRIP works, i s managed by experienced staff
transferred from the Xiangfan - Shiyan Expressway headquarters. Finally, the WBFPO,
responsible for institutionalactivities, has very good experience with Bank-financed projects.
Toll revenues are expected to reimburse the debt incurred to finance SME, which representsthe
bulk of project costs. Ingeneral, the level of maintenanceof toll highways financed by the Bank
at openinghas been adequate for initial volumes of traffic, andincreasing operating expenses can
be financed easily from toll income when traffic grows. Furthermore, the financial assessment
has concluded that toll income will be sufficient to service S M E debt.
5. Critical risksand possiblecontroversial aspects
Events may adversely affect Hubei province's ability to meet project financial commitments.
Nevertheless, experience from completed and ongoing Bank-financed highway projects indicates
that counterpart funds for capital investment components are generally available on time. In
addition, the Bank conducted a comprehensive financial analysis of the project and reviewed
HPCD's budget forecasts duringproject preparation.
The risk that the expressway section in Shaanxi province reaching the border with Hubei is not
constructed on time i s mitigatedby the province's confirmationthat it plans to open that section
at the same time as SME, as well as by MOC support.
Special attention has been given to traffic risks on SME, of special concern for this project
because another expressway between Xi'an and Hefei through Henan i s planned and will run
about 150 km north of SME. Many feasibility studies from other expressway projects have made
optimistic traffic forecasts and overestimated diversion rates from alternative roads. However,
HPCD traffic forecasts were thorough and based traffic projections on the current situation, past
development, best estimates of future provincial and national economic trends, and planned
network capacity investments. In addition, a Bank-hired consultant assessed traffic studies


                                                  9

preparedby Hubei and Henan provinces for the Xi'an-Wuhan-Hefei          corridor and concluded that
Hubei's assumptionsfor traffic growth anddiversion ratesto SME are acceptable.
To address the risk that design standards and cost estimates of S M E are not relevant, HPCD
conducted the preliminary design on a larger scale than usual on the basis of detailed
geotechnical investigations. Specific traffic safety risks, due to the long, steep and curvy slopes
found in mountainous sections, will be addressed by emergency facilities, like parkingbays or
emergency deceleration gravel bed and reinforced signaling. Fire risks in the long tunnels will be
mitigated by a series of design features, specific equipment and through operating procedures
agreed with fire fighters. To identify resources required for managing the expressway and
address operating risks, HPCD will prepare an operations risk management plan. Experts hired
by HPCD and the Bank successively reviewed the engineering design before appraisal and
confirmed the relevance of design options, and tendering documentation i s based on the
completed detailed engineering design.
The financial evaluation confirmed that toll income will generate enough revenue to finance
S M E operation and maintenance and allow HPCD to repay the loan. Furthermore, HPCD has
confirmed its full financial support to the expresswaycompany.
On institutional activities encompassing policy development, especially the expressway asset
management initiative and road safety management plan, the risk of ineffective implementation
i s reduced as study goals have been determined by HPCD and discussions with the Bank have
identifiedrealistic objectives.
6. Loadcredit conditions andcovenants
The effectiveness condition is the issuanceof acceptable legal opinions.
The legal covenants specify the following stipulations:

     0  The proceeds of the loan will be on-lent to Hubei Province on the same terms and
        conditions as the Bank loan, with the province bearing the foreign exchangerisk.

     0  The following reports will be submittedto the Bank for its approval andcomment:
        -ForSME
            o EMPandRAPon S M E andconnecting roads.
            o Quarterly reports on the progressof works and any environmental issue.
            o Analysis and recommendation on the structure of toll rates on SME by June 30,
               2007.
            o Operations risk managementplanbyDecember 31,2007.
        -ForLRIP
            o Beforecommencing works on any rural roadsection
               >>>  An EIA andEMP
                    Incase landacquisition is required, aresettlement action plan
                    A social assessment to determine the necessity of a Ethnic Minority
                    Development Plan (EMDP), and if necessary,the EMDP.
            o Quarterly concise reports on the progressof works and any environment issues.
            o Assessment of the social impacts of the LRIPby December 31,2008.
        -Forinstitutionalstrengthening,policydevelopment,androadsafetycomponent
            o Annual trainingreport.


                                                 10

            o Study on expressway group managementof projects by January 31,2006.
            o Study on new technologies inmaintenanceby June 30,2007.
            o Study on capital mobilizationbyDecember 31,2007.
            o Pilot study on expressway asset managementby December 31,2007.
            o Study on the safety of commercial transport operations byDecember 31,2007.
            o Highway safety managementplanby December 31,2007.
        -Reportingandmonitoring
            o Semiannualenvironmental monitoringreport
            o Semiannual and annual internal and independent monitoring reports of the
               resettlement activities
            o Semiannual progress reports on the implementation of all project components.
            o Annual monitoringand evaluation report of project implementation.

    0   Hubei Province must maintain a financial management system and provide semiannual
        unaudited project consolidated financial statements in accordance with accounting
        standards acceptable to the Bank. Hubei Province also must meet standard annual
        auditing requirements.
D. APPRAISAL SUMMARY
1. Economicandfinancial analyses
Economic (Cost benefit)
ERR = 16.9%; NPV =US$222.6 million
The economic evaluation covered two project components: the 105.1kmSME and the first phase
of the LRIP. The principal measuredbenefits of the project are savings in vehicle operating costs
(VOC), time savings for vehicle occupants, and enhanced road safety. The estimated overall
economic internal rate of return (EIRR) for the project i s 16.9 percent. The ERR for the S M E is
16.5 percent and for the LRIP, 24.3 percent. The overall economic net present value (NPV),
based on a 12 percent discount rate, i s estimated at RMB 1,847.5 million, of which the S M E is
estimated to contribute RMB 1,795.7 million and the LRIP, RMB 244.2 million. The expected
traffic on the S M E in 2009 ranges from AADT 3,674 to 6,329 assuming ari annual growth rate of
five percent until 2009. The evaluation results are summarized inthe following table.

                              Summary of Economic Evaluation Results
                                                 EIRR ("A)              NPV (RMB million,12%)
             SME
                Section 1: Shiyan-Yunxian                   14.4              211.3
                Section 2: Yunxian-Yunxi                    16.5              767.2
                Section 3: Yunxi-Manchuanguan               17.5              755.9
             Subtotal                                       16.5             1,795.7
             LRIP                                           24.3              244.2
             Total                                          16.9             1,847.5


A detailedassessmentanda description of the methodusedare providedinAnnex 9.




                                                11

Financial
FIRR= 1.1%; NPV=US$ -152.3 million
S M E construction constitutes about 91 percent of total project cost. HPCD i s planning to use the
toll revenue from S M E to cover amortization charges of the Bank and domestic loans. Although
the highway will generate enough total revenue over the loan period to finance operations,
maintenance, and debt service, profits will be low in the early years of operation. The traffic
levels at project opening combined with high construction costs (because of the mountainous
terrain) affect the financial rate of return of the investment, expected to be about 1.1 ercent. As
the proposed toll rate is in the upper range in China and its affordability rate compares                P
unfavorably to other countries, increasing it further would adversely impact traffic diversion to
SME. For the non-revenue-earning LRIP, the financial evaluation confirmed the availability of
sufficient counterpart funds and the capacity of HPCD to finance operating expenses. All
indicators show that financial risks are modest. A detailed assessment i s providedin Annex 9.
2. Technical
S M E design and standards are the result of in-depth technical and traffic studies reviewed by the
Bank; standards have taken into consideration the difficult mountainous terrain of the project
area. The following issues need special attention from a technical point of view:
         proper review of traffic safety and fire hazards introduced in the final design and
         development of an operations risk management plan, especially given the long steep
         slopes andnumerous tunnels;
         sufficient geological investigations on technically challenging locations to minimize the
         risk of encountering major problems at the construction stage, given the mountainous
         terrain; and
         fully operational electrical andmechanical works at the opening of the highway to traffic,
         especially given the length of tunnels.
The design was reviewed by an international consulting firm under a Spanish Trust Fund grant
and was found satisfactory. Cost estimates reflect December 2003 prices and are based on the
latest available engineering studies, prevailingunit rates for civil works checked against effective
rates in similar works under Bank-financed projects in Hubei and other provinces in China,
recent costs of foreign experts from highway projects, and recent price quotations for equipment.
Costs also include physical contingencies, calculated at 8 percent of the baseline cost of civil
works, and price contingencies at 4.9 percent of all baseline costs (excluding land acquisition) on
the basis of forecasts of domestic andforeign inflation rates during project implementation.
3. Fiduciary
Financial Management
The Bank concluded, on the basis of guidelines issued by the Financial Management Sector
Board June 30, 2001, that the project meets minimum Bank financial management requirements
(stipulated in BP/OP 10.02). The assessment found that the project will have in place a project


'To assess toll rates and quantify toll affordability for road users, the Bank has developed an affordability indicator.
The rate is the cost for a private car to travel 1,600 kmon toll roads as apercentageof the average annual income
per person. A higher value means that the toll level is less affordable and will discourageuse of the road.


                                                            12

financial management system that can provide, with reasonable assurance, accurate and timely
information on the status of the project in the reporting format agreed with the Bank (see Annex
7).
Procurement
A procurement capacity assessment of the implementing agencies was carried out during
appraisal (Annex 8). The assessment concluded that the overall risk of the procurement process
i s average.
HPCD and dependent involvedentities have allocated adequate resources, including experienced
staff, to implement the project. These agencies are familiar with Bank procurement procedures.
An action plan to strengthen the procurement capacity of the implementing agencies has been
discussed with HPCD and agreed on. The plan calls for the preparation and dissemination of a
project-specific procurement manual, training workshops, and measures to avoid excessive cost
overruns and improve procurement economy and efficiency. Ways in which the Tendering and
Bidding Law (TBL) of China differs from Bank guidelines were addressed in the assessment,
and clarifications for the procedures to be followed for Bank-financed NCB procurement have
been included into the Loan Agreement.
4. Social
The major social impacts of the project stem from land acquisition and residential demolition
associated with S M E construction. The project will affect 46 villages and 9 townships in 4
counties or districts, through (i)the permanent acquisition of 12,605 mu (840 hectares) of land.
In addition, structural demolition of private residential housingi s expectedto total 41,256 square
meters, with 1,619 households (6,699 individuals) affected. A total of 3,683 households with
 14,477 individuals will be affected only by land acquisition. A detailed landreclamation plan has
been designed. It calls for the use of construction waste materials to create new landequaling 43
percent of the required farmland. HPCD preparedthe RAP to mitigate resettlement impacts. It
summarizes applicable policy principles and regulations, determines measures for restoring the
income of affected people when necessary, compensation rates, and the resettlement budget; it
also identifies institutionaland monitoring arrangements.
The upgrading of the LRIP road sections is not expected to involve land acquisition or house
demolition. Nevertheless, HPCD has prepared a resettlement policy framework, and a RAP
would be developed for any road section that might end up requiring land acquisition
A social assessment has beenconducted by BeijingUniversity on the SME and first phase of the
LRIP. It has not found any minority community affected by the expressway, and therefore no
Ethnic Minorities Development Plan (EMDP)is required.. Social assessments will be carried out
on the second-phase road sections for LRIPwhen they have been selected. If an assessment finds
that national minority communities are affected, EMDPs will be prepared.
Information dissemination. The RAP, social assessment, and resettlement policy framework
were advertised in the major local newspaper, Changjiang Daily, on January 13, 2004.
Information is also available at the Hubei provincial library, in local counties served by the
project and at Shiyan county public library. Project information has beenprovided to the affected
villages through newspaper reports, posters, and public meetings. A resettlement information
booklet will be distributedto affected people before resettlement operations.




                                                  13

Participation strategy. During project preparation, village committees and farmer groups were
consulted about the planning of resettlement operations, among other things. Local views on
resettlement impacts and preferred mitigation measureswere taken into account in the RAP, and
the majority of potentially affected persons agree that rehabilitation measureswill be adequate.
Local banks in each county will be involved in the implementation of resettlement operations
and will supervise the use of land compensation funds. The resettlement program will be
monitored regularly, and the living standards of project-affected people will be evaluated during
the course of project implementation. Internal and independent monitoring reports will be
preparedtwice a year.
5. Environment
The project involves major expressway construction on a new alignment, at-grade connecting
roads to be upgraded partially on a new alignment and partially on existing ones, and the
rehabilitation of local roads. The environmental impacts will involve occupation of both fertile
and barren land by the expressway; an increase in dust, noise, and motor vehicle emissions;
disposal of excess waste material; community severance; soil erosion; resettlement; and safety.
Alignment selection. DuringS M E design, three long distance corridors were evaluated to select
the most environmentally and socially benignalignment in Hubei. The selected corridor had the
least land occupation andresettlement; relatively stable geology with lower soil erosion; and the
least cuts and fills, resulting in minimal disturbance and lower disposal requirements. The
corridor hadalso received the widest support from local people and governments.
Within the selectedcorridor, two alignments were selected and compared according to technical,
economic, environmental, cultural property, political and social factors. The preferred alignment
was selected considering less soil erosion, land requirement, biodiversity impact, biomass
disturbed, river crossing and in-water construction, cuts and fills, and tunnels resulting in less
disposal material, and low impact on culturalrelics.
Nonetheless, the alignment has a higher number of sensitive receptors to noise and higher
numbers of housing relocation and displaced persons. However, it will result in less community
severance and social impact during construction and operation and has received more support
from local governments. To further minimize environmental and social impacts, nine sub-
alignments were identified, analyzed, and compared with their corresponding main-line sections.
Inthe final analysis, some sub-alignments were selectedbecausethey: (i)     minimized disturbance
to the existing highway (G209); (ii)  shifted the alignment away from the Qinglongshan dinosaur
egg reserve; (iii)accommodated the growth needs of Qingqi township while reducing
resettlement; and (iv) reduced spoils, avoided unstable geological condition, and reduced land
occupation.
As regards the LRIP, rehabilitation works will involve strengthening and minor widening and
realignment of existing roads.
Public consultation. A first round of public consultation followed the preparation of the terms
of reference for the environmental assessment (EIA), and a second round took place during the
preparation of the draft of the EIA. The public participated either through filling in one of the
2,759 questionnaires or by attending one of the 21 public meetings or 85 group interviews.
Appropriate compensation for land acquisition, resettlement and relocation; timely rehabilitation
andor restoration of damaged irrigation systems; construction safety; noise at schools; better


                                                 14

access to and exits from SME; and sufficient passagewaysto cross the expressway were some of
the main environmental and social concerns that the public had. The rural public was concerned
about road blocks and access to services during road works, as well as the safety of studentsand
convenient links with access to SME.
Project design responded to these concerns by: (i)developing plans for irrigation system
restoration; (ii)conducting public education programs and erecting warning signs for
construction safety; (iii)constructing passageways and crossings for pedestrians and farm
vehicles at about every 740 m to mitigate community severance; (iv) installing safety barriers at
selected locations along the rural road to provide protection to students, residents, and livestock;
(v) installing noise insulation windows and plantingtrees to minimize the impacts of noise; and
(vi) situating access ramps and interchangesinthe most practical places.
To mitigate environmental concerns, the stand-aloneEnvironmental Management Plan (EMP) on
S M E includes environmental standards, mitigation measures, monitoring plans for the
construction and operation phases, health and safety measures including to detect and control
possible diseases (SARS, HIV...) on the construction field, and an environmental training and
institutional building and strengthening plan. The implementation of the EMP will be supervised
by the Environmental Office of the Ministry of Communications, HPCD, the WBPFO, and
HPSEC. The State Environmental Protection Administration and the local Environmental
Protection Bureaus inthe project area will also monitor EMP implementation. EMPspreparedon
each local road also include mitigation measures on noise, soil erosion, surface water and air
pollution, health and safety, and monitoringplans.
6. Safeguard policies

  Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project                                              Yes                     No
  Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                                                 [XI                     [ I
  Natural Habitats (OPBP 4.04)                                                              [ I                    [XI
  PestManagement (OP 4.09)                                                                  [ I                    [XI
  Cultural Property (OPN 11.03, beingrevised as OP 4.11)                                   [XI                     [ I
  InvoluntaryResettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                                                     [XI                     [ I
  Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20, being revised as OP 4.10)                                    [ I                    [XI
  Forests (OP/BP 4.36)                                                                      [ I                    [XI
  Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                                               [ I                    [XI
  Projects inDisputedAreas (OPBP/GP 7.60)*                                                  11                     [XI
  Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)                                       [ I                    [XI


7. Policy Exceptions and Readiness
The project will comply fully with Bankpolicies. The project meets regional criteria for
implementation.




* By supporting theproposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice thefinal determination of theparties' claims on the
disputedareas.


                                                              15

                    Annex 1: Country and Sector or ProgramBackground
                            CHINA: HubeiShiman Highway Project


Country and sector issues
Studies undertaken by the East Asia and Pacific Region and Operations Evaluation Department
of the Bank in the past five years have highlighted several issues in the highway sector in China:
capacity bottlenecks in the highway network affecting its ability to meet increasing transport
demand; difficulties created by geography hindering the provision of basic road access,
particularly in poor inland areas and western provinces; the prospect of insufficient funding of
the highway sector; necessity of maintaining the assets of a rapidly growing road network ;and
the need to strengthen sector governance, especially by developing the role of the market and
improvingroadtraffic safety.
Highway Capacity Expansion to SustainDevelopment, Trade, and Regional Integration
For the past 20 years, the Chinese economy has grown remarkably fast, averaging 8 to 10percent
per year, which enabled the country to join the WTO in 2001. As a result of that growth,
increases in the number of motorized vehicles and traffic have put a heavy demand on
infrastructure. The number of registered vehicles, currently 20.5 million, i s expected to reach 34
million by 2010, and both passenger and freight traffic have grown rapidly-7.1          percent (in
passenger-km) and 5.5 percent (inton-km) respectively per year inthe past five years.
Such rapid economic development has created a need for an appropriate road network. The
length of highways has doubled since 1980 to 1.76 million km, including a 25,130 km
expressway network located mainly in the coastal areas and on the heavily traveled north-south
corridors in eastern and central-eastern China. During the past five years, the length of
expressways has tripled, the length of Class Iroads has almost doubled, and the length of Class
I1roads has increased by more than half. At the core of the government highway policy is the
construction of the $150 billion NTHS,a 35,000 kmexpressway network connecting China's 100
major cities to be completed by 2007.
Despite China's massive investment in the construction of new highways (an average of 2.8
percent of GDP per year during the 1997-2002 period), funding resources are still insufficient to
meet increasing demand. The road network still ranks among the sparsest in the world in terms
of both geographic area and population (0.19 km per square kilometer and 1.38 km per 1,000
population). Furthermore, expressways and Class Iand I1roads account for only 14.1 percent of
the whole network, yet carry most of the traffic.
Bottleneckfor Trade, and Regional Integration
The road transport sector constitutes a serious obstacle to sustainable economic growth, and
domestic and international trade. InChina, logistics costs, at 18 percent of GDP (2000), are high
in comparison to those in developed countries like the United States (9.5 percent in the mid-
1990s), and transport costs are higher, about 50 percent of total logistics costs in China-twice
the percentage of those in developed economies. Reducing logistics costs to 15 percent of GDP,
a feasible target for a five-year period, would generate more than $30 billion annually in direct
savings.




                                                16

Inthe coming years, economic growth and the risingmodal share of roadtransport will continue
to place heavy demands on the highway network and intensify the need for capacity expansion.
Furthermore, and especially for western and central provinces, highway networks have to
connect large urban centers and rapidly developing areas to coastal regions to integrate lagging
provinces into the mainstreameconomy.
Therefore, China intends to maintain heavy investments in the road sector. B y 2010, the length
of the entire Chinese road network should exceed 2.1 million km; in the following decade the
length of the highway network is extended to reach 2.6 million km and the expressway, 70,000
km,to link all cities with populations of 200,000 or more.


Road Sector Bottleneck in Hubei Province
Hubei province, with a population of 59.9 million people, is located incentral China. Hubeiis a
communication node for north-south and east-west traffic, and a gateway to the less-developed
western provinces. Since 2000, passenger traffic (in passenger-km) has increased by 3.2 percent
per year. Road transportation accounts for 94 percent of passenger traffic (inpassengers) and 74
percent of freight volume (intons).
The length of the highway network in Hubei has increased by 62 percent since 1998, reaching
86,000 km in 2002. The provincial network includes a total length of 943 km of expressways,
822 kmof Class Iroads, and 11,105 kmof Class I1roads (2002). The total length of expressways
and Class Iand I1roads has increased by 71 percent since 1998 and accounted for 14.9 percent
of the provincialroadnetwork in2002, a figure close to the national average.
Despite significant investment in the construction of new highways (an average of 2.3 percent of
Hubei's GDP per year for the past two years), funding i s still insufficient to meet demand for
both construction and maintenance. Road density by population i s comparable to the national
average, although road density by area (0.46 kmper square kilometer) i s more than twice that of
the whole country because the large western provinces are significantly under-equipped in
comparison to easternand central provinces.




                                                17

                                                                                 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002
Basic Provincial Data
Total population                                                  1,000people    59,072 59,38059,60059,746 59,880
As proportion of China's population                              %               4.8% 4.7% 4.7% 4.7% 4.7%


Rural population                                                  1,000people    42,81742,93542,92742,850 42,946
Rural population as proportionof total population                 %              72% 72% 72% 72% 72%
Urban population                                                  1,000people    16,25616,44616,67316,89616,934
Urban population as proportionof total population                 YO             28% 28% 28% 28% 28%


GDP                                                               millionUS$     44,74246,60451,65656,37660,165
As proportionof China's GDP                                       %              4.7% 4.7% 4.8% 4.8% 4.7%
GDP per capita                                                    US$             757    785   867   944 1,005
As proportionof China's GDP per capita                            %               99% 99% 101% 102% 102%


Road Length
Length of roads                                                   km             52,98955,38957,85085,75786,098
As proportionof China's road network                              %              4.1% 4.1% 3.4% 5.1% 4.9%


Length of Expressways                                             km              428    538   569   805    943
Length of Class I roads                                           km              502    557   611   812    822
Length of Class II roads                                          km             6,580 7,326 7,911 9,152 11,105
Length of Class 111 & IV roads                                    km             31,02735,69938,97155,27954,420
Length of Other roads (<Class IV)                                 km             14,45211,269 9,788 19,70918,808


Expresswaysas proportionof total road network                     %               0.8% 1.0% 1.0% 0.9% 1.1%
Class Iroads as proportionof total road network                   %               0.9% 1.0% 1.1% 0.9% 1.0%
Class IIroads as proportionof total road network                  %              12.4% 13.2% 13.7% 10.7% 12.9%
Class 111 & IV roads as proportionof total road network           %              58.6% 64.5% 67.4% 64.5% 63.2%
Other roads (<Class IV) as proportion of total road network       %              27.3% 20.3% 16.9% 23.0% 21.8%


Road Density
Road density in terms of land area                                km/ 1,000km2    285    298   311   461    463

As proportion of China's road density in terms of land area       YO             208% 206% 173% 253% 245%

Roaddensity in terms of total population                          km/ 1,000people 0.9     0.9   1.0   1.4    1.4

As proportion of China'sroad density interms of total population  %               88% 87% 73% 108Yo 105%

Road density in terms of rural population                         km/ 1,000people  1.2    1.3   1.3   2.0    2.0

As Droportionof China'sroaddensity in terms of rural population   YO              79% 78% 65% 95% 91%
Sources: China Statistical Yearbooks, and China Transport & Communication Yearbooks

Improving Road Accessibility in Low-Income Areas
The benefits of rapideconomic growth have not been distributed equally among eastern, central,
and western areas of China. In the 12 underdeveloped western and inland provinces, the per
capita income is less than half that of the more developed coastal provinces. One reason for the
disparity i s the lack of capacity on a series of major interprovincial trade corridors linking
western provinces to the more economically dynamic central and eastern areas. The government
gives high priority to accelerating development in lagging regions: by 2010 the expressway
network should include a grid of five north-south and seven east-west trunk lines meant to




                                                                18

encourage economic growth, reduce disparities between rural and urban areas, and accelerate the
opening up of western regions.
Despite the impressive accomplishments China has made in reducing poverty in the past 20
years-accomplishments      that have lifted hundreds of millions of people out of absolute
poverty-more    than 200 million people still live on less than $1 a day. Many of these people live
inremote andresource-poor areas inthe western andinterior regions and often lack basic access
to health and education services becausetransport conditions are inadequate. Many remote areas
are too far from the main highway network to benefit from feeder roads that connect to the main
provincial and national networks. In2002, 99.5 percent of townships and 92.3 percent of villages
inChina were made accessibleby road, but still more than half of townships andvillages without
access to rural highways are located inthe west.
Road transport contributes directly to reducing poverty by improving poor people's basic access
to education, health, and social services and to markets and employment opportunities. It also
indirectly contributes to alleviating poverty by improving the efficiency of resource allocation,
enhancing the performance of markets, and fostering economic growth. In China, central and
local governments recognize the roles that providingbasic transport access in remote areas plays
in stimulating growth and meeting the mobility needs of the poor. But ensuring that access is an
enormous task that requires significant public resources.


ZmprovingAccessibility in Hubei Province
Hubei has experienced sustained economic development during the past 10 years, and its GDP
per capita ($1,005 in 2002) is comparable to the national average ($989). However within the
province, significant differences remain between the developed eastern area near Wuhan, the
provincial capital, and the western areas where GDP per capita i s still less than RMB 2,000
($242), and as little as RMB 1,000 in some counties.
Among the 71 counties in Hubei, 38 are classified as poor on the provincial scale, and 25 on the
national scale. All but one of these counties are in the mountainous western part of the province.
The lack of infrastructure has been identified as a major constraint to their development: 2,500
villages in these counties were without highway access in 1995. There i s a strong demand for
improvements incommunication infrastructure to ensure all-weather access, which i s a challenge
inmany places becauseof the mountainous terrain.


Resource Mobilization
Sector funding has increased significantly during the past few years in response to financial
stimulus. Cumulated investments in the construction of new highways for the 1997-2002 period
reached $167 billion, with an annual budget of $39 billion in 2002, more than twice the annual
budget in 1997. About 60 percent went to high-grade highways (including 30 percent for the
NTHS), 25 percent to the improvement of existing roads and 15 percent to rural roads. In the
coming years, investment levels in the road sector are expected to be maintained; road
expenditures have been estimated at $205 billion for the Tenth Five-Year Plan (2001-2005) and
$260 billion for the subsequentfive years.
Although private sector participation in the growth of China's highway system is advanced in
terms of development models and private capital flows, it contributed less than 10 percent of


                                                 19

China's total commitment to new construction during the 1980s and 1990s. More significant
private investment will require that several conditions be met: further development of the legal
and regulatory framework for private participation; development of the domestic bond market,
which would open long-term funding sources to commercialized toll-road entities; and a wide
range of public-private partnership models. As a consequence, the bulk of financing for the
coming years will have to come from public funds, either through taxation or issuance of public
debt.
However, traditional funding resources are insufficient to meet increasing demand, and this
mode of financing i s not sustainable. In China, road user charges include the vehicle purchase
tax ($4.5 billion in 2002), the road maintenance fee ($10 billion in 2002), and the highway
transport management fee ($2.5 billion in 2002). Only 60 percent of the road maintenance fee i s
actually used for road maintenance ($6 billion in 2002), with the rest ($4 billion in 2002) being
spent on new construction. This fee is inefficient, expensive to administer, easy to evade, and
generates less than 40 percent of its potential. As a result, road user charges contributed only 28
percent of new construction expenditures in 2002 ($11 billion for a total of $38.9 billion).
Consequently, the government needs to develop new sources of funding and builda reliable and
stable financing scheme of road activities based on user fees. China has been discussing the
introduction of a fuel tax for years, but no implementation has been decided yet, although the
National Congress approved the tax in 1999, because of the difficult technical and political
issues associatedwith it.
Resource Mobilization in Hubei Province
Hubei's roadsector funding has increased significantly inrecent years, although at a rate slightly
lower than in China as a whole (2.3 percent of Hubei's GDP in the past two years compared to
2.8 percent of China's GDP). Annual investment in the construction of new highways in 2001
and 2002 reached $1.3 billion and $1.4 billion respectively. Inthe coming years, the investment
effort inthe roadsector should be maintained.


Institutional Reforms and Efficiency of Road Management
Transforming the government into a market-supporting institution remains one of the largest
transition issues facing China. In the highway sector, the government's role in providing
infrastructure (construction and maintenance) and transport services i s shifting gradually from
that of owner, investor, and manager to that of policymaker and regulator. Provincial
communication departments need to adapt to the change in their institutional role while
providing more cost-effective construction and operation services to infrastructure users.
Institutional Reforms
The capacity of provincial and local road agencies must be strengthened to enable them to
expand the network and meet the challenge of maintaining the quality standards of existing
roads. Therefore, maintenance works undertaken previously by those agencies through force
account are being contracted out progressively. The Bank has supported new ways of carrying
out maintenance under various projects, mainly with a view to introducing competition,
encouraging the use of better equipment, and improving the efficiency of manpower and the
overall quality of work. The transition to contract work entails far-ranging institutional reforms
with social impacts. In addition, the transition has to be fostered by strengtheningroad agencies'


                                                 20

capacity and by developing contractual relationships between the employer and contractors that
focus on the.provision of services.


Road Maintenance
Lessons learned in developing countries about the detrimental impact of neglecting road
maintenance and the costs of restoring infrastructure are fully relevant to China. Countries
undergoing rapid economic development traditionally underinvest in road maintenance. In
Forward with One Spirit, a Bank study carried on in China in 1998, experts recommended
allocating 1percent of GDP to maintenanceexpenditures, a theoretic total of $12 billion in2002,
but this objective was frustrated both by the shortage of funds and by political intervention. Only
$6 billion were actually spent on road maintenance.
Management of Toll Roads
The introduction of toll roads in China ($7 billion of toll revenues in 2002) has been
characterized by a proliferationof highway companies, each managing a relatively short section
of road. This situation i s inefficient in a number of ways, and studies carried out under
institutional components of Bank-financed projects have suggested setting up commercialized
corporations for the construction, operation, and maintenance of toll roads. Economies of scale
would result from consolidating management and maintenance facilities at the provincial level
and possibly on a wider scale. Furthermore, the question remains-how           to regulate toll road
companies?
A broader question is whether the current tolling policy is relevant. The average toll in China
(U.S, cents 4.53 per car-km) i s about the same as in developed countries, but the affordability
rate (2.06 percent on average) is very high in comparison to rates in developed and other
developing countries (see the following table). (The affordability rate i s the cost for a private car
to travel 1,600 km on toll roads, expressed as a percentage of the average annual income per
person.) Toll levels therefore deter potential users and reduce overall economic returns of toll
roads.


                            Toll Leveland Toll Affordability Comparisons

                                      Develooed              DeveloDina
                                      countries      us      countkg    China    SME
          Toll (US cents/ km)          11.14        4.45       3.11     4.53     6.02
          Toll affordabilityrate       0.69%       0.02%       0.65%    2.06%   2.34%
         Sources:World Bank Research. November 2003


Improving Road Traffic Safety

The combination of the expansion, uneven road construction quality, increasing traffic, and a
lack of coordinated safety efforts in China led in 2002 to 773,000 accidents, 562,000 injuries,
and 109,000 traffic fatalities, a direct economic loss conservatively estimated at more than $3
billion2.An Asian Development Bank estimate puts the total economic loss from road crashes at
$12 billion per year. Road accidents are the leading cause of death for Chinese people under 45

 Productivitylossesfrom injury inChina, Y. Zhou, T.D. Baker, G.Li,2003


                                                     21

years of age. These alarming figures probably understate the reality. Still, the official data make
China's annual number of road accident fatalities the world's highest-at            least three times the
U.S. figure, with a fraction of the number of vehicles. World Bank global projections indicate
that if present road safety policies and practices continue, traffic fatalities will rise from about 10
per 100,000 people (2000) to more than 16per 100,000people in 20203.
Road safety management practices in China are characterized by their lack of overall goal
orientation and performance evaluation, absence of strong leadership and inter-agency
coordination, and fragmented safety interventions. Interms of a best-practice safety management
system (targets, interventions and implementation arrangements), current practices in China can
be considerably improved: China has no official safety targets, monitoring and analysis are
limited, and there is no long-term national vision for success. With the possible exception of
emergency medical services, basic safety interventions are evident in China, but they lack
integration and purposeful direction. There i s also considerable room for improvement in the
delivery of road safety enforcement interventions using modern general deterrence techniques.
Dialogue with traffic police on strategic directions for the future would be highly beneficial, and
roadsafety education initiatives would be a necessarytopic insuch a dialogue.
MOC and provincial communication departments, working in partnership with the Bank, have
elaborated a road safety strategy for China that has embraced a philosophy of gradualism and
safety promotion by pilot demonstration projects. Experience gained in a series of provinces
have demonstratedthe effectiveness o f
           focusing efforts on blackspots analysis and treatment;
           building institutional capacity early on in the process by creating a focused and well-
           supported team of roadsafety professionals;
           reaching out to the wider community; and
           using local technical expertise to develop safety audit procedures.
MOC sees the safety projects as having enriched the experience of its staff, brought agencies
closer together, improved safety-engineering practices, createdaccess to high-quality advice, and
raised community awareness. The key question to consider is how to sustain and build on the
momentum and innovation achieved over the past decade?


Institutional Reforms and Efficiency of Road Management in Hubei
Previous Bank projects in Hubei (ThirdNational Highway, Fourth National Highway and Hubei
Xiaogan-Xiangfan Highway) have begun to address key institutional and policy issues for the
road sector by initiating the preparation of a multi-year institutional development plan;
strengtheningthe role and capacity of HPCD; establishing roadtraffic safety, quality control and
quality management units; improving the management of the road network; and developing
expertise, tools, andprocesses to address roadtraffic safety issues.
HPCD i s responsible for maintaining national, provincial and county roads. Efforts under
previous projects have been aimed at strengthening HPCD's institutional capacity to improve


  Traffic fatalities and economic growth; Kopits E, Cropper M;World BankPolicyResearchWorking Paper 3035,
April 2003


                                                        22

maintenance effectiveness and increase funding. The implementation of a road management
system was initiated and a maintenance study was completed. A maintenance quality control
system was started, and projects focused on the commercialization and use of market contracts
for maintenance.
While much progress has been made on the institutional side, the key constraint is funding
allocation: there is a major shortage of funds for maintenance in Hubei Province. In 2003 only
RMB 235 million was spent on periodic maintenance, compared with RMB 778 million on
routine maintenance and an estimated RMB 1,103 million on rehabilitation. Although since 2001
HPCD has increased its maintenance expenditures by approximately 3.5 percent per year (faster
than the 2.5 percent annually that the road network has expanded), the recent Highway
Maintenance Study in Hubei Province4 estimated that periodic maintenance funding is only
about 25 percent of the level needed to maintain the network adequately. A significant portion of
the HPCD network needs to be improved, which places additional demands on the limitedfunds.
A large number of Hubei's bridges are substandard and in need of maintenance or renewal. The
Highway Maintenance Study found that in 2000 only 43 percent of pavement had adequate
design, so it i s critical that maintenancebe performed when required. With the bulk of the HPCD
budget spent on new roadconstruction (see Annex 9, Appendix D), the road maintenancefee too
low, and budget constraints HPCD has adopted the rational approach of emphasizing
maintenance on the more heavily traveled Class Iand Class I1 roads, which constitute
approximately 14 percent of the road network. However, because of inadequate periodic
maintenance funding, there more expensive and heavier maintenance i s needed, and HPCD
spends five to six times as much on rehabilitation than on periodic maintenance. The net result i s
a decrease in the condition of the Hubeinetwork over time.
In terms of road safety, Hubei Province reflects the overall situation in China and follows the
national trend. HPCD has developed and implemented processes for road safety under World
Bank-financedprojects. These projects have been supportedby other agencies, mainly provincial
traffic police departments, for specific activities such as accident information systems and
blackspot treatment programs. However, HPCD and other government agencies must strengthen
their coordination on road and traffic safety enforcement issues and develop public awareness
and education campaigns.




 FinalReport -Highway Maintenance Study inHubei, Third National Highway Project.


                                                  23

        Annex 2: Major Related Projects Financed by the Bank and/or other Agencies
                             CHINA: Hubei Shiman Highway Project

                                                                       Latest SupervisI(PSR) Ratings
          Sector Issue                   OngoingProjects               [mplementation  Development
                                                                        Progress (IP)  Objective (DO)

1. Removehighway capacity       Anhui Provincial Highway            ~~                       S
   bottlenecks                  (ongoing)(sector issues 1-5)
2. Institutional Strengthening  SecondHenanProvincial Highway                S               S
   andtraining                  (ongoing)(sector issues 1-6)
3. Rural roads andpoverty       SecondNationalHighway                         S              S
   alleviation                  (ongoing)(sector issues 1,2,4-6)
4. Highway safety               Third NationalHighway                         S              S
                                (ongoing)(sector issues 1,2,4-6)
5. Operationand maintenance     Third HenanProvincial Highway                 S              S
   of high-gradehighways        (ongoing)(sector issues 1-6)
6. Cost recovery                Tri-Provincial Highway                        S              S
                                (ongoing)(sector issues 1-6)
                                FourthNational Highway                        S              S
                                (ongoing)(sector issues 1-5)
                                SecondFujian Highway                          S              S
                                (ongoing)(sector issues 1,2,4-6)
                                Guangxi Highway                               S              S
                                (ongoing)(sector issues 1-6)
                                SecondJiangxi Highway                         S              S
                                (ongoing)(sector issues 1-6)
                                Inner Mongolia Highway                        S               S
                                (ongoing)(sector issues 1-6)
                                Xinjiang I11Highway                           S               S
                                (ongoing)(sector issues 1-6)
                                HubeiXiaogan-Xiangfan Highway                 S               S
                                (ongoing)(sector issues 1-6)

                                SouthernSichuanRoadsDev.
                                Guangxi RoadsDevelopment
                                ShaanxiRoads Development
                                Chongqing-GuizhouRoadsDev.
                                 (Leichong Expressway)
                                SouthernYunnan RoadDev.
                                ShanxiRoadsDevelopment
                                Changchun-HarbinExpressway:
                                 ChangyuExpressway
                                Changchun-HarbinExpressway:
                                 HashuangExpressway
                                Chengdu-NanchongExpressway




                                                  24

                                                           Latest Supervision(PSR) Ratings
        Sector Issue                 OngoingProjects       Implementation    Development
                                                            Progress(IP)    Objective(DO)
Japan Bank for International Hangzhou-QuzhouExpressway
Cooperation                  Wanxian-LiangpingExpressway
                             Liangping-ChangshouExpressway
                             HainanEast Expressway
                             Xinxiang-ZhengxhouHighway
                             HeilongjiangHeife-Beian Road




                                             25

                           Annex 3: ResultsFramework and Monitoring
                              CHINA: HubeiShiman Highway Project

                                         ResultsFramework

              PDO

Support socio-economic             SME                                             'eeds into MOC program
development of Hubei province by:     Traffic levels on SME and the parallel       .ofurther inter-provincial

   enhancing its access to other      highways.                                    ntegration through the

 provincesparticularly the western    Percentageof long distancetraffic on SME     :onstruction of the arterial

 regionof China,                      (total traffic andbreakdown between          :xpressway.
                                      carshuses and trucks).
   improving local mobility within
 poor, remote westernparts of         Average daily traffic, transportation costs, 'eeds into Hubeipolicy
 province, and                        daily bus services on improved localroads,   mdprogramsfor
                                      and number of days theseroads are closed     .mprovingroad
   strengtheninggovernanceof the                                                   iccessibility inpoor areas.
 provincial road sector.              to traffic.
                                      GDP per capita inserved areas.
                                    0 Employment rate.
                                      Population underpoverty threshold (daily
                                      income<US$ 1).                               Feeds into Hubeihighway
                                      School enrollment and access to medical      managementpolicy and

                                      care inserved areas.                         program.

                                    Institutional
                                      Increasedskills of HPCD staff through
                                      skills assessment.
                                      Adoption of asset management principles
                                      ensuringbetter management of Hubei
                                      expresswaynetwork.
                                      Sustainablemodel for financing the HPCD
                                      road network.
                                      Adopting new technologiesimproving
                                      efficiency and effectiveness of highway
                                       management and operations.
                                       Improved managementof new highway
                                       projects through institutional changes.
                                      Percentage of Class 1andClass 2 roads
                                       systematically treatedinaccordancewith
                                       the HPCD Safety ManagementPlan.
                                       Percentageof road freight and passenger
                                       transportenterprisessystematically
                                       screened in accordance with the Safety
                                       Review Process.




                                                      26

     IntermediateResults
     Oneper Component
Component One (SME):                  Component One:                                  component One:
Zonstruction of SME.                  ?rogressrate of works.                          Llonitoring of
                                                                                      mplementation progress
                                                                                     mdaction planto address
                                                                                      3ossible delays.
Component Two (LRIP):                 Component Two :                                 Component Two:
Rehabilitation of local road sections Progress rateof works.                          Monitoringof
includedinthe LRIP.                                                                   implementationprogress
                                                                                      mdaction planto address
                                                                                      possibledelays.
Component Three: Institutional        Component Three:                                Component Three:
Development and road Safety

HPCD staff trained.                   Number of staff trained                         Monitoring of
                                      Skill assessments.                              implementation progress
                                                                                      andactionplanto address
Pilot study to implement an asset     Annual 10year management planfor the pilot      possibledelays.
managementsystemonthe                 :xpressway.
expressway network.                   Finalreport on the systemapplicability to
                                      HPCD network.

Study on group managementof           Studyreport completed and adoptedby
expressway projects.                  HPCD.

Strategy for mobilizing capital to    Study report completed and adoptedby
highway management.                   HPCD.

Study on new technologiesfor road     Study report completed.
maintenance.                          Adoption of new technologiesor techniques
                                      for maintenanceby HPCD.

Acquisition of monitoringand          Procurementexpenditurerate.
maintenanceequipment.

Road map for implementing a           HPCD Safety ManagementPlanfinalized,
comprehensivehighway safety           specifying safety goals, objectives, policies;
management plan.                      priorities for Class 1and Class 2 roads set and
                                      organizational processes and measuresto
                                      achievethem.

Action plan to improve the safety of  Safety Review Processfor road freight and
commercial transportcompanies.        passenger transport enterprisesfinalized,
                                      specifying mandatory safety requirements,
                                      proceduresand monitoring arrangementsfor
                                      the granting, continuation andremoval of
                                      operating licenses




                                                        27

           IP


           IW

o w $ !
"W
P P
0 0 0 0
- 3
           Iln
            W

I




  T
     # #
     - 9
     b m
     Q Q

        I




             x

     X



     X       X           X

                                       0
                                       M
     X          X        X    4   X



     X                   X




                     I



rcl
0    .-0
       C

      Y0
      8
     Q e,

      I

       e,
       C
       3>
       m
       a
      Px

       $5
       > .Y
      r A >
       2 9

       0    0

*
v)
Ba
2
z
c
d

d

                 sp
               8
               3




     0 0
     2 2         sp
                 8
                 3




2            8 8       sp
                     8
             3   3   3



     8 8




            C

8 8 8
=2       0
         vi
         m


8 8 8
=3       zm
               1    g g
                    2 2




                  .9
                  M


                  .e
                  E 0 0
                  6


                            Annex 4: Detailed Project Description
                          CHINA: HubeiShiman Highway Project


I. HighwayCapacityInvestment($414.88million)
The project will finance the construction of the 105.1 km Hubei section of the Shiyan
Manchuangan Expressway (SME), a 106.8 km highway linking Shiyan City in northwestern
Hubei province to Manchuangan in Shaanxi province. At the Shaanxi border S M E connects to
the planned Manchuangan- Shangluo expressway, that will complete the Hubei - Xi'an corridor.
InHubei, the project will be the final section of the Wuhan-Shaanxi border expresswaycorridor
that includes two other sections: the Xianshi Expressway, which opened for traffic in December
2003 and the Bank-financed Xiaoxian Expressway further east, which i s under construction (the
Hubei Xioagan-Xiangfan Highway project).
At its eastern end, SME will serve Shiyan city, which is at the edge of a mountainous, low-
income area. The urban agglomeration of Shiyan has a population of 3.4 million. It i s an
industrial center with a strong automobile industry, mineral resources, and tourism attractions.
Shiyan's economic development depends on good transport connections-on               one side, to
Wuhan, the provincial capital and the portal to the north-south arterial highway corridor, and on
the other side to western provinces through Shaanxi. From Shiyan, S M E runs northwest, to
Yunchian city (population 500,000), following essentially the alignment of NH209 along a
valley crossing low mountains. In Yunchian, S M E turns west and crosses the Hanjiang River at
the lowest point of the alignment (140 m). From there, S M E enters a mountainous area and
climbs a narrow valley along Yunman provincial road (Class 11or 111) until it reaches Erdoya
mountain, with gradients reaching 4 percent. This section includes a series of bridges and tunnels
and high slopes and retaining walls; the 3,100 mtunnel crossing Erdoya mountaini s 14 kmfrom
the end of S M E and is the highest point of the road alignment (at an altitude of 700 m). From
that point, the highway descends similarly steep slopes to the border with Shaanxi, which it
reaches in the middle of a 2,200 m tunnel, to link to the Manchuangan - Shangluo expressway.
HPCD will managethe construction of the entire tunnel, including a 1.7 km section inShaanxi.
The project is designed as a four-lane expressway (two lanes in each direction) with an 80km
per hour speed. The long, steep, curvy slopes in the mountainous sections pose special traffic
safety risks. These risks will be addressed through the construction of emergency facilities such
as parking bays and emergency deceleration gravel beds and the placement of reinforced
markings and road signs. Fire risks in long tunnels will be mitigatedthrough design features and
equipment as well as operating proceduresestablished after consultation with firefighters.
The project also includes a 6 km connecting road in the Shiyan city area, six interchanges, one
monitoring center, one monitoring sub-center one service area, two rest areas, two maintenance
areas,   and electrical and mechanical equipment (E&M) for maintenance operations and
management. E&M equipment includes toll, telecommunications, and traffic monitoring
systems, and safety and fire emergency facilities in tunnels. Because of the mountainous terrain,
earthworks and stoneworks are estimated at 17.22 million m3 of cuts and 16 million m3 of fill.
The total lengthof the 89 bridges i s estimated at 28.32 kmand that of the 30 tunnels at 13.69km.
S M E construction should last 48 months; the opening to traffic i s planned for March 2008.
A joint foreign-local team will carry out the supervision of SME civil works and E&Mworks.
Contracts with domestic firms will be funded from domestic sources, and the contract with the


                                                35

international supervising firm will be financed by the Bank loan. The supervision office will be
staffed by domestic firms (56 at the general office and 129 in local offices along the alignment).
International experts will assist the chief supervision officer and support domestic firms in
managing and supervising project contracts, subgrade works, pavement works, bridge building,
tunnel works, and E&M works. They should be in place before civil works start. The tasks of
domestic supervision firms are estimated to require 6,192 persons per month and the tasks of the
international supervision firm are estimated at 95 personsper month.
The Hubei Provincial Shiman Expressway Company (HPSEC), under HPCD, will operate and
maintain the infrastructure after it opens to traffic. Highway users will pay tolls. HPCD will
carry out a toll rate study before the end of construction to determine toll levels and structure.
HPSEC will prepare an operations risk managementplanbefore the road opens to traffic, paying
special attention to safety and fire hazards. Truck weight will be checked at tollgates, and
overloaded trucks will not be allowed on the expressway. Drivers will receive information about
the risks of driving on the steep slopes of the expressway. Finally, the dialogue established by
HPCD with firefighters will continue during construction to ensure that fire equipment and
operational procedures are appropriate.
The project will involve land acquisition andresettlement, which will be financed from domestic
sources.
11.     Local Road ImprovementProgram($50.70 million)
The Local RoadImprovement Program (LRIP)addresses the lack of accessibility inremote, low-
income areas of Hubei province. Under this program, the project will rehabilitate and upgrade a
series of low-class local roads in Shiyan City. The LRIP will be completed in two phases. The
first phase consists of upgrading a bridge (355 m) with a 700 m long connecting road and a road
(82 km).
In 2002, Class IV and nonclassified roads account for 75 percent of total road mileage inHubei
(85,757 km). The high proportion of low-class roads and the fact that most are not all-weather
roads highlight the need to increase investment in this sector. Most counties and cities classified
as poor (24 of 25) are in the western mountainous areas. The economic disparity between these
western mountainous areas and other areas has increased despite the impressive growth in GDP
inwestern areas (15-fold duringthe past20 years).
Shiyan City and Enshi Prefecture in the western mountainous part of Hubei include 14 counties
classified as poor on the national poverty scale. The lack of transport infrastructure i s one of the
main constraints to economic and social development in these areas. HPCD proposed Shiyan
City for the LRIP because Enshi Prefecture has enjoyed the benefits of the national Go West
policy in the past three years and of a rural road improvement program under the ongoing Hubei
Xiaogan-Xiangfan Highway project. In Shiyan City, the LRIP road sections will be selected
according to the following criteria:

    0   Current roadconditions;

    0   Lack of alternative transport infrastructure;
        Current minimumdaily traffic volumes of 400 medium truck equivalent (MTE) for Class
        IVroads, 500MTEfor Class I11roads, and600 MTEfor Class I1roads;

    0   Potential impact of the project on population's access to education, health, and other
        social activities, and on economic development, including facilitation of production and
        commercialization of local products;



                                                 36

    0  Contribution to Hubei province's plan to improve the functional responsiveness of the
       highway network;

    0  Strong support by local government andresidents; and

    0  Expected EIRR higher than 12 percent.
HPCD used these criteria to identify 11 road sections and two bridges as candidates for
improvement under the LRIP. A first phase of two of these projects was fully identified before
project appraisal: Baoxia-Zhushan road (85 km) and Jiangjunhe bridge (355 m), both in Shiyan
city and includedinthe provincialThree-Year Highway Program (2003-2005). The first phasei s
estimated to cost US$24.87million, of which US$21.29 million in civil works will be financed
by the Bank. Baozhu road passes through Yunxian, Zhushan, and Yunxi counties, and
Jiangjunhe bridge i s in Shiyan City. All three counties are poor counties according to the national
poverty scale; their GDP per capita was about RMB 2,000 in 2001, approximately 25 percent of
the Hubei province average.
Baozhu road i s in very poor condition, below even Class IV standards, and has become a
transport bottleneck between NH316 and Zhushan County, impeding local people's access to the
provincial road network. Upgrading Baozhu road to Class 111i s expected to promote local
economic and social development significantly. In general, the proposed upgrading will retain
the existing alignment, with some improvement on sharp curves (both horizontal and vertical).
Two tunnels will be built (total length of 230 m). The total rehabilitation cost i s estimated at
RMB 168.46 million (US$20.30 million), and civil works financed by the Bank (excluding one
tunnel) amount to RMB 146.89million (US$17.7 million). The estimated EIRR is 14percent.
Jiangjunhe bridge crosses the Han River in the corridor connecting Yunxi County to NH316 and
Yunxian County. The existing bridge i s only 5.6 m wide, and the structure i s no longer safe.
Only single trucks and cars at a limited speed and with a limited load can pass. Consequently, a
new bridge i s critical for keeping traffic flowing smoothly in this important provincial transport
corridor. The construction cost of a new Class I1bridge i s estimated at RMB 39.97 million
(US$4.57 million). Civil works are estimated at RMB 29.76 million (US$3.59 million). The
EIRR is estimated at 16.64 percent. The construction of the Jiangjunhe bridge will be completed
on December, 2006.
The characteristics of subprojects in phase 1of the LRIP are shown inthe following table.

  County      Pop. in    County            HighwayCharacteristics              Cost (US$ million)
             directly      GDP
            influenced     per       Project    Length Class    Construc    Total    Civil    Bank
               areas      capita                 (km)              -tion            works     loan
                          (RMB,                                   period
                          2001)

 Yunxian    131,000      2,238    Baoxia-       85 km    Ill    2004-       20.30     17.70    3.54
 Zhushan                          Zhushan                       2006
 Yunxi,    78,000        2,163    Jiangjunhe    355 m    II     2004-        4.57      3.59    0.72
 Yunxian                          Bridge                        2006

The Environmental Impact Assessments and EnvironmentalMonitoring Plans for the first phase
projects follow Bank guidelines. A social assessment was also preparedin accordance with Bank
requirements. No resettlement i s expected; however, HPCD has prepared a resettlement policy
framework that will be applied if detailed design studies identify locations where resettlement is




                                                 37

needed. No ethnic community is affected by the project; therefore, the Bank has confirmed that
no Ethnic Minorities Development Plan (EMDP)needs to be prepared.
Duringproject implementationHPCD will select additional road sections for the secondphase of
LRP according to the same criteria as for the first phase, and the Bank will review them. For
each subproject, HPCD will prepare an EIA and EMP as well as a resettlement action plan
(RAP) consistent with the resettlement policy framework if works entail involuntary
resettlement, in compliance with Bank safeguard policies. A social assessment will be prepared
for eachproject, and if ethnic minorities will be affected, an EMDPwill be prepared.
111.    Institutional Strengthening, Policy Development and Road Safety ($6.36 million)
As shown in the following figure, the Bank has undertaken a range of institutional strengthening
activities under the NH3,NH4, and Xiaoxiang projects. The activities under this project buildon
this work and focus on assisting HPCD in developing more proactive management of the
highway network and therefore in meeting its objective of transitioning towards more efficient
roadmanagementpractices.




                                                38

                 _ ._ ._ ._ .                  -1   NH3-1998




                                                       Training



                                                                          Expresswy




     I i ,




    .

!
!                                                   Development Plan


!   1                 I t            ._




                      I
                                                                        `      I              I
                                                                                                    ition  i

                                                                          Maintenance


                                                    l l                                             '~
                                                                                     n
                                                                                         Tall Rate hudy



                               I
!       I                      I
!       j
                               ...............
I
L         t                                t.-._.[I                                                          --!
            I      I                       I


                                           I     -                                                            !!!!!!!


                                                      ReadTraining                                              !!!!!!!!!!!!


                                                                                                                ?
                                                                                                                !!!!!
                                                                                                                !!!!!!!!




                                                    39

The project will introduce a total asset management approach through a pilot study, investigate
improvements in highway financing and maintenance processes, streamline operations by
implementing group project management, enhance safety planning and the safety of the road
transport industry, and support training activities and equipment procurement.

Training Program ($550,000)
A major training program will be undertaken with the support of Hubei Communications
Technical College (HCTC), which i s the principal trainer under the Hubei Xiaogan-Xiangfan
Highway project. The HPCD undertook a training-needs assessment review for the project. The
review considered a range of factors, including (a) who needs training; (b) the levels of training
required; (c) availability of training resources; (d) training methods and locations; and (e)
training budget requirements. The training needs data were collected through a comprehensive
survey conducted throughout HPCD and reflect the feedback from 438 questionnaires.
The review also identified a need to enhance the professionalism of highway technicians and
managers and improve specialized construction, maintenance, and management skills. The
training program will strengthenstaffers' skills andintroduce new concepts.
The proposed training program calls for domestic training ($200,000) in topics such as
environmental protection, supervision and quality control, resettlement, procurement, and project
management. Overseas study tours and training ($327,500) in more specialized skills such as
road management, road finance, and expressway operations are also recommended. The
following table summarizes the training program; it will be updated periodically during project
implementation.




                                                  40

Intermediateresults:                Numberof peopletrained on the project.
Outcome:                       --   Improvedskills inconstruction, maintenance and
                                    management, which will result ingreater efficiency and
                                    effectiveness inHPCD operations.
Indicators:                    -    HCTC staff trained and offering courses to meet
                               -    HPCD's needs.
                                    Percentageof trained personnel able to use new skills in
                               --   their work.
                                    Annual progress reports.
                                    Training effectiveness report basedon post-training
                                    evaluations.
Pilot Study on Expressway Asset Management ($160,000)
Under the NH3, NH4 and Xiaogan-Xiangfan Expressway projects, HPCD has been developing
expertise in infrastructure asset management. It has prepared annual condition survey reports and
a highway maintenance management study, developed an accident information system, road data
bank, and pavement and bridge management systems. The objective of this study is to build on
this work andpilot test the application of full infrastructure managementon an expressway.
The study will prepare an asset managementplan for an expressway company to be selected by
HPCD and will last the duration of the project.
An annual life-cycle asset management report will be produced, including: (a) a summary of
physical assets; (b) a summary of asset condition; (c) valuation of assets, including depreciation;
(d) a routine maintenance plan; (e) a periodic maintenance plan; (f) an improvement plan; and
(g) a disposal plan. Annual financial statements showing the projected financial performance of
the expressway during the next 10 years will be prepared, including: (a) cash flow forecasts; (b)
expenditure breakdown by asset and activity; (c) valuation forecasts; and (d) time trends.
The final report will review the effectiveness of the pilot study and make recommendations for
how the asset managementapproachcould be applied to the provincial roadnetwork.

Intermediateresults:           -     An asset managementplanfor the expressway
                                     network that i s regularly updatedthrough the various
                               -     support systems.
                                     Report recommending how asset management can be
                                     applied to other roads in the province.
Outcome:                       -     Successful application of total asset management
                                     principles to Hubei and foundation for applying
                                     throughout HPCD.
Indicators:                    ----- Implementation of asset managementsystems.
                                     Inventory and annual data collection surveys.
                                     Annual asset managementreports.
                                     Annual financial statements.
                                     Recommendations on how to implement throughout
                                     Hubei.




                                                   41

Capital Mobilization Study ($150,000)
Hubei province already suffers from a severe shortfall in road maintenance funding (see Annex
1)that will beexacerbatedas moreroads are constructed.
This study will build on the maintenance cost and fund allocation study conducted under NH4.
For 5-, 10- and 20-year horizons, total capital demand for road construction, maintenance, and
management will be estimated along with likely income. From this the capital deficit will be
established. The various mechanisms that can be mobilized to provide capital for road
construction, maintenance, and management will be identified along with those that are most
suitable for Hubei.
The study will be conducted by HPCD and will take 2.5 years.

Intermediateresults:          -  Strategy for mobilizingcapital for meeting 5-, lo-, and
                                 20-year construction, maintenance, and management
                                 needs.
Outcome:                      -  HPCD will have sufficient capital to ensure that the
                                 roadnetwork continues to develop and existingroads
                                 are properly maintained.
Indicators:                   -  Identificationof total capital demands for
                                 construction, maintenance, and management for 5-,
                              -  lo-, and20-year horizons.
                                 Recommendationon mechanismfor meeting capital
                              -  demands.
                                 Implementation strategy.


New Technologiesfor Road Maintenance ($100,000)
The shortage of funds for road maintenance in Hubei has led HPCD to consider innovations in
the way it delivers road maintenance. Under the NH4 and Hubei Xiaogan-Xiangfan Highway
projects HPCD is testing the delivery of maintenance by contract rather than by force account.
Another avenue for innovation is new technologies for road maintenance. These offer the
potential of improvedquality and/or efficiencies.
The study will review road maintenance performance issues in Hubei. An investigation will be
made into domestic and foreign technologies that have the potential to improve the delivery of
maintenance. A small number of technologies that hold potential for practical adoption in Hubei
will be procured andtestedinpilot studies to be conductedindifferent regions. The results of the
pilot studies will be used to determine the economic benefits gained by adopting the different
technologies and to prepare a plan for wide-scale implementation.
The study will be done by the Hubei Highway AdministrationBureau of HPCD and will take 3.5
years.




                                               42

Intermediateresults:           -  Report on technologies offering potential to improve
                               -  maintenancequality and/or efficiency.
                                  Report describing results of pilot testing of selected
                                  technologies.
                                  Planfor wide-scale implementation.
Outcome:                       -- Improvedquality and/or efficiency of road
                                  maintenance.
Indicators:                    -
                               -- Assessment of technologies.
                                  Procurement and pilot testingof selectedtechnologies.
                                  Progressreports.

GroupManagement of Projects ($100,000)
HPCD i s facing major institutional challenges in completing all the projects identified in the
Tenth Five-year Plan. Given staffing and resource levels, the current practice of assigning one
team to each project to carry out the many project preparation tasks (prefeasibility studies,
feasibility studies, design, environment and social monitoring, bid documents, etc.) will no
longer be viable. This technical study will identify opportunities for adopting group project
management principles and new IT solutions to streamline the operations and delivery of
projects.

Intermediateresults:           -  Report on group management methods and how they
                                  can be appliedto Hubei.
Outcome:                       -  Improvedefficiency of expressway construction and
                                  management.
Indicators:                    -  Consolidation of activities for expressway
                                  construction and management.
HPCD Safety ManagementPlanfor ClassI and Class II Roads ($100,000)
HPCD agreedto develop a comprehensive highway safety managementplan that sets out its road
safety goals, objectives, policies, and priorities for Class Iand Class 11 roads and the
organizational processes and measures that it i s taking to implement them. It will draw together
all past, ongoing, and future road safety components, including a long-term road safety action
plancoordinated by the multi-agency HubeiProvincial Safety Council.
Specifically, the Highway Safety Management Plan will optimize safety resource allocation by
establishing priorities and systematic processes for the medium term, including regular safety
performance monitoring, according to an annual timetable.
The Bank and Hubei Province agreed that future road safety projects would be in accordance
with a clear vision for improved road safety outcomes, well-specified objectives to achieve this
vision, and robust arrangements for inter-agency coordination and cooperation, taking into
account the progress made under previous projects, the needs revealed by accident data,
opportunities for innovation, anticipated impacts of traffic growth and the requirement to
maximize quality and safety performance within capital and personnel constraints. It was also
agreed that the project focus should be on safety measures that fall clearly within the scope of
HPCD responsibilities and spheres of influence.
The potential scope of HPCD safety measuresis extensive and includes the design of safe roads,
setting of speed limits, safe construction of roads, safe maintenance of roads, undertaking regular
safety reviews, adding new safety facilities, removal of roadside safety hazards, identification


                                                 43

and treatment of blackspots, safety screening of commercial operators, safety training for staff,
and safety research and development.
The HPCD Safety ManagementPlan project will:
       Survey a representative sample of Class Iand I1roads to compile and analyze data on
       safety-related features (surface quality, shoulders, roadside hazards, signs, markings,
       blackspots, etc.) and relevant vehicle performance measures (overloading, etc).

   0   Collect and analyze data from previous and ongoing road safety project components and
       other sources on road user and vehicle performance that affects safety outcomes on Class
       IandI1roads.
       Review all potential HPCD safety measures (including those developed in previous,
       ongoing and future road safety project components) to assess the scope of their
       application.
       Prepare a highway safety management plan that sets out HPCD safety goals, objectives,
       policies, and priorities for Class Iand I1 roads and the organizational processes and
       measuresit is taking to implement them.
HPCD will implement the project over three years. It will be assisted by domestic consultants
and will use the findings of domestic and international study tours to be completed inJune 2007.


Intermediateresults:          -   HPCD Safety Management Plan finalized, specifying
                                  safety goals, objectives, policies and priorities for
                                  Class Iand I1roads and organizational processes and
                                  measuresto achieve them.
Outcome:                       -  Improved safety performance of Class Iand I1roads,
                                  resulting inreduceddeaths and injuries.
Indicators:                    -  Percentage of Class Iand I1 roads systematically
                                  treated in accordance with the goals, objectives,
                                  policies and priorities of the Highway Safety
                                  Management Plan.


Safety Review Processfor Road Freight and Passenger TransportEnterprises ($100,000)
The road transport industry i s experiencing rapid development in Hubei Province, reflecting
national economic growth trends. However, this escalating activity i s generating a high rate of
road crash deaths and injuries. Safety management capacity in the road transport industry is
weak, and measures taken by industry to improve the safety performance of vehicles and drivers
are poor. Regulatory arrangements in Hubei Province need to be strengthened. HPCD agreed to
review the safety performance of the road transport industry in the province and develop better
safety criteria for enterprises seeking approval to operate freight and passenger services. This
project subcomponentwi11:
       Review the safety of road freight and passenger transport enterprises in Hubei Province
       and develop safety performance measures.

    0  Conduct three intensive pilot studies with selected enterprises - covering passenger
       transport, freight transport and the transport of dangerous goods - to further develop and
       improve proceduresto ensure safe operations and compliance with safety regulations.



                                                44

    0   Develop a safety screening and appraisal process for road and passenger transport
        enterprises in HubeiProvince, specifying mandatory safety requirements, procedures, and
        monitoring arrangementsfor granting, renewing, andrevoking operating licenses.
    * Design and conduct training courses for management and operational staff of transport
        enterprises and HPCD staff to ensure compliance with safety requirements, procedures,
        and monitoringarrangements.
HPCD will implement this activity over three years. It will be assisted by domestic consultants
and will use the findings of domestic and international study tours to be completed in October
2007.


Intermediate results:          - Safety review process for road freight and passenger
                                 transport enterprises finalized, specifying mandatory
                                 safety requirements, procedures and monitoring
                                 arrangements for granting, renewal, and revoking
                                 operating licenses.
Outcome:                       - Improved safety performance of road freight and
                                 passenger transport enterprises, resulting in fewer
                                 deaths and injuries.
Indicators:                    - Percentageof roadfreight and passenger transport
                                 enterprises systematically screenedin accordance
                                 with the safety requirements, procedures, and
                                 monitoringarrangements of the Safety Review
                                 Process.

Procurement of Equipment ($5.10 million)
The equipment procurement program takes into account the equipment procured under the
previous Bank-financed highway projects or by HPCD during the past few years for
strengthening the road agency's capability and operating new expressways. The new project
includes equipment for (a) construction quality control and monitoring, including laboratory
equipment and environment control and monitoring equipment; (b) operation and maintenanceof
S M E after it opens for traffic; (c) institutional strengthening of HPCD, including office and
informationtechnology equipment.
Among the equipment to be procuredi s a vehicle for measuring roadconditions at highspeed.
This vehicle will be usedprimarily on the expresswaybut also for monitoringat least 7,500 km
per year of other HPCD roads. Weigh-in-motionequipment will be procured for installation on
SME. This will be usedto gather data on the magnitude and extent of truck overloading. Both of
these will enable HPCD to monitor the network ina more detailed manner, thereby improvingits
ability to make good investment decisions.




                                                 45

                                                   Annex 5: Project Costs
                                     CHINA: HubeiShiman Highway Project

                                                                                  Local             Foreign         Total
Project Cost By Componentand/or Activity                                       US $million        US $million   US $million
1. Shiman Expressway
  -- Civil works                                                                 192.66             163.99         356.65

  ---- Land
       Buildingsand annex areas                                                     7.13               1.78           8.91
       E&M equipment works                                                          2.95             11.82          14.77
      Connecting roads                                                              1.88              0.47            2.35
      Construction supervision                                                      5.88               1.82           7.70
             Acquisition                                                           24.50               0.00         24.50

11. Rural Road ImprovementProgram
  -- Civil works                                                                   40.00             10.00          50.00
      Constructionsupervision                                                         0.7                 0           0.70

111. Institutional Developmentand Road Sector Management
  --- Institutionalstudies                                                          0.51               0.00           0.51
       Road safety studies                                                          0.20               0.00           0.20
  - Training     program                                                            0.22               0.33           0.55
       Equipment                                                                    2.31               2.79           5.10

Total BaselineCost                                                               278.94              193.00        471.94
  Physical Contingencies                                                           28.43               5.00          33.43
  Price Contingencies                                                              21.99               0.00          21.99
                                                      Total Project Costs (1)    329.36              198.00         527.36
                                                               Front-endfee                            2.00           2.00

  '                                               Total Financing Required       329.36              200.00         529.36
       Identifiable taxes and duties are US$m13.49, and the total project cost, net of taxes, i s US$m515.86. Therefore,
       the share of project cost net of taxes i s 38.29%.




                                                              46

                            Annex 6: ImplementationArrangements
                           CHINA: HubeiShimanHighwayProject


The project will be implemented by HPCD, the provincial agency responsible for road
management in Hubei province. The World Bank-Financed Project Office (WBFFO) in that
department has coordinated project preparation and will remain the Bank's main counterpart
during implementation. Similar arrangements have been made on the three previous Bank-
financed highway projects inHubei and have proved very effective.
HPCD has established a dedicated project headquarter, the newly created Hubei Provincial
Shiman Expressway Construction Headquarter (HPSECH), to implement the SME, and the
Hubei Provincial Shiman Expressway Company Ltd. (HPSEC) to operate and maintain it after it
opens to traffic. HPCD has staffed the headquarter by transferring people from the Xiangfan-
Shiyan Expressway headquarter after this infrastructure opened to traffic. HPCD has hired the
Hubei Provincial Highway Design Institute (HPHDI) and the Second National Survey and
Design Institute from MOC to carry out design studies of SME. The HPSECH will manage
construction works as the "Client" with the assistance of HPSEC and a supervision organization
made of domestic firms and an international consultant. The HPSEC will operate S M E after the
infrastructure opens for traffic.
With respect to resettlement, the dedicated HubeiExpressway Resettlement Office (HERO) has
prepared the RAP. That office will lead resettlement operations under the oversight of the
provincial resettlement leading group led by the Vice-Governor, and manage multi-level
resettlement units established along the alignment with local governments at City,
countyhanner, and township. This organization has been staffed with experienced experts, their
responsibilities have been specified in the RAP and training programs will be organized. Other
relevant government agencies responsible for planning, financing, communications and land
administration will also be involved at different levels. HPCD has prepared and included in the
RAP a detailed training program for the capacity building of project offices. Moreover, HPCD
will issue a specific regulation for the approval and usage of resettlement funds. The payment
process to beneficiaries will be streamlined to avoid possible fund deductions during
disbursement, and each affected village will have a specific account with a local Bank. The
appointed bank will report daily on the usage of resettlement funds items to the project office for
internal monitoring. HPCD will also strengthen the capacity of township-level and county-level
to manageresettlementfunds.
On environment, HPCD has prepared an EMP on S M E that includes practical and cost effective
measures necessary to mitigate the project related impacts by incorporating them in the design
and by implementing them during the construction and operation phases. The EMP also specifies
the appropriate monitoring plans, training, institutional arrangements, implementation schedule,
budget needs, etc. necessaryto implementthe mitigation measures and strengthen the borrowers
capacity. Since the project would be the fourth Bank project to be implemented by Hubei
province, HPCD has developed ample in-house capacity in its environment unit to implement,
supervise and monitor the EMP.
With respect to the LRIP, the Hubei Provincial Highway Administration Bureau (HPHAB) has
identified and prepared projects as it is in charge within HPCD of managing the provincial
highway network. The experienced HPHDI has undertaken the design of road improvement,


                                                47

whereas respective county offices of HPHAB will carry out procurement activities under the
oversight of the HPSECH, and manage works with the assistance of domestic firms for
supervision. The implementation of the EMPs prepared on each road section will be supervised
by the WBFPO.
Finally, the WBFPO i s preparing the institutional strengthening and policy development
component and will coordinate the implementation of activities. Depending upon activities, other
unitsfrom HPCD will contribute.
Procurement
HPCD will be responsible to carry out the procurement under the project. The HPSECH will
handle the day-to-day management of the project including the procurement process with the
assistance of the HPSEC. Staff who have been familiarized with Bank-financed procurement in
previous highway projects have been transferred to HPSEC. To obtain necessary professional
assistance for ICB procurement, HPCD has selected China International Tendering Company
(CITC) as procurement agent for the proposedproject. This agent has 16 years of handling Bank-
financed ICB procurement.
The LRIP will be separately implemented by Project Management organizations (PMO) of
Yunxi and Yunxian counties of Shiyan City. The PMOSwill carry out NCB procedures with
close oversight by HPSEC, who will conduct prior review of the critical steps of the procurement
process. Such arrangement has been adopted in the ongoing Hubei Xiaogan-Xiangfan Highway
Project and found to be generally satisfactory.
The above implementing agencieshavebeenassessedto have adequate capacity to carry out the
procurement under the project.




                                               48

             Annex 7: Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements
                            CHINA: Hubei Shiman Highway Project

I. ExecutiveSummaryandConclusion
The Financial Management Specialist (FMS) has conducted an assessment of the adequacy of
the project financial management system of the Hubei Shiman Highway Project.                  The
assessment, based on guidelines issued by the Financial Management Sector Board on June 30,
2001, has concluded that the project meets minimumBank financial management requirements
as stipulated in BP/OP 10.02. In the FMS' opinion, the project will have in place an adequate
project financial management system that can provide, with reasonable assurance, accurate and
timely information on the status of the project in the reportingformat agreed with the project and
as requiredby the Bank.
Funding sources for the project include Bank loan and counterpart funds. Bank loan funds will
flow from the Bank to the project's special account to be established at and managed by the
Hubei Provincial Finance Department (HPFD) to the project implementing agency, the HPCD,
and finally to contractors or suppliers. The Bank loan will be signed between the Bank and the
People's Republic of China through its Ministry of Finance (MOF), and a on-lending
arrangement for the Bank loan will be signed between MOF and the Government of Hubei
through HPFD, and between HPFD and HPCD. In accordance with the agreement between the
Bank andMOF, the project will use traditional disbursement techniques.
Counterpart funds will be loans from local banks (28%) and appropriations from MOC and
provincial government (35%).
No outstanding audits or audit issues exist with the implementing agency involved in the
proposed project. However, the Financial Management team will continue to be attentive to
financial managementmatters and audit covenants duringproject supervisions.
11.     Summary Project Description
The main objective of the project is to support socioeconomic development of Hubei province by
enhancing its access to other provinces, particularly the western region of China, improving local
mobility within poor, remote western parts of the province, and strengthening governance of the
provincial road sector. The project will produce the following outputs:
        The construction of Shiyan-Manchuangan Expressway (SME), which will increase
        transportation capacity in a corridor connecting Hubei to western provinces.

     0  A program of localroadimprovements (LRIP) inthe poor northwestern part of Hubei.

     0  A series of institutional strengthening and policy development activities for road
        managementand improvements inroad safety inHubei.
Total project cost i s estimated at US$529.36 million, of which US$200 million would be from a
IBRDloan. Counterpart funds wouldmake upthe remainingUS$329.36 million balance.
111.    Country Issues
To date, no CFAA (Country Financial Accountability Assessment) has been performed for
China, though dialogue with the Government of China inrespect of the CFAA exercise has been
initiated and currently underway. The Bank has relied on a similar exercise carried out by the
Asian Development Bank in 2000 for reference.



                                                 49

However, basedon observations of developments inthe areas of public expenditures, accounting
and auditing, and Bank experience with China projects for the past few years, we noted that
substantial achievement in the aforementioned areas has been made and further improvement is
expected in the next few years. As economic reform program further unfolds, the Government
of China has come to realize the importance of establishing and maintaining an efficient and
effective market mechanism to ensure transparency and accountability, and minimize potential
fraud or corruption.
Dueto rather uniquearrangementby the Government of China, funding (inparticular Bank loan)
of Bank projects i s controlled and monitored by the MOF and its extension, (i.e. finance bureaus
at provincial, municipal/prefecture and county level). However, project activities are usually
carried out by implementing agencies of a specific industry or sector due to the level and
complexity of expertise involved.       The above arrangement then usually requires more
coordination on the project, as the multi-level management of the funding and implementation
mechanism sometimes works to the detriment of smooth project implementation.
IV.     RiskAnalysis
The following risks with corresponding mitigating measures have been identified during
assessment:




                                               50

 Risk                                 RiskRating     MitigatingMeasures
 I.InherentProject Risk               Moderate       Close monitoring by project management,
                                                     regular supervision mission by Bank task
                                                     team, and implementing agency has
                                                     experience with prior Bank project.
 11.Control Risk
 a. Implementing Entity               Low            The project implementing entity, HPCD,
                                                     has previous experience with Bank
                                                     project. They are currently involvedwith
                                                     3 other projects.
 b. FundsFlow                         Low            HPCD andHPFB have worked together
                                                     on previous Bank projects and are very
                                                     knowledgeableof the processand Bank
                                                     requirements.
 c. Staffing                          Moderate       Periodic verificationon accounting work
                                                     by the PMO and the task team shouldbe
                                                     performed. Accounting staff have
                                                     already been identified and their
                                                     qualifications are in-line with their
                                                     expectedresponsibilities.
 d. Accounting Policies andProcedures Low            Accounting policies and proceduresare
                                                     already inplace.
 e. Internal Audit                    Moderate     IIAlthough an internal audit department
                                                     exist a<HPCD, we will not be relying on
                                                     their work. Supervision visits by the task
                                                     team along with annual audits by the
                                                     external auditors will be utilized.
 f. External Audit                    Low            The external auditors, the Hubei
                                                     Provincial Audit Office, has extensive
                                                     experience with previous Bank-financed
                                                     projects.
 g. Reporting and Monitoring          Low            Format and content of financial
                                                     statements and frequency of submission
                                                     havebeenclearly defined by the Bank
                                                     and MOF.
 h. .InformationSystems               Moderate       The PMO proposesto use the Golden
                                                     Butterfly financial managementsoftware
                                                     for this project. This software is one of
                                                     the MOF approved software. FMS will
                                                     evaluatethe effectivenessof this system
                                                     during implementation.


V.       Strengthsand Weaknesses
Strengths. This will be the fourth Bank project to be implemented by HPCD. Project personnel
identifiedto assume financial or accounting positionhave relevant adequate work experience and
educational background.       HPCD has accumulated extensive experience from prior projects.
HPCD has established a construction headquarter, HPSECH, to be the PMO responsible for the
overall management of this project with the assistance of the future operator of S M E (HPSEC).
HPSECHwill comprise some employees from previous expressway projects managedby HPCD.
Additionally, HPCD will also benefit from the experience of HPFD, whom are familiar with
Bank requirements. Management structure and funds flow arrangement are similar to those of
the previous projects. Prior records indicate that HPFD capacity has been found satisfactory in
respect of project financial management and processing of withdrawal applications.




                                               51

Weaknesses. The local roadimprovements portion of this project i s to be implemented by PMOS
established within the Shiyan City Communications Bureau (SCCB) from the HPHAB,
responsible for managing the Hubei highway network. SCCB has no experience with previous
Bank projects but will operate underthe oversight of the HPSECH.
VI.       ImplementingEntity
HPCD is the implementing agency responsible for this project.          HPSECH i s the PMO
responsible for the overall management of this project. Inaddition, HPCD will utilize the World
Bank-Financed Project Office (WBFPO), a department established within HPCD, as the entity
responsible for coordinating project preparation. WBFPO has been involved with the previous
three Bank projects and continues to be the Bank's main contact in coordinating the various
projects.
The separate implementing entity, SCCB, will be responsible for the local roads improvement
portion of this project and will report directly to HPSEC.
The organization chart is as follows:




HPCD -          HubeiProvincialCommunications Department
WBFPO -         World Bank-FinancedProjectOffice
HPSECH-         HubeiProvincialShimanExpressway ConstructionHeadquarter
SCCB -           ShiyanCity Communications Bureau

VII.      FundsFlow
Funding for the project includes Bank loan and counterpart funds. One special account will be
 -
established at the Hubei Provincial Finance Department. Bank loan will be signedbetween the
People's Republic of China and the Bank, and on-lending agreements will be signed between
MOF andHPFD and between HPFD and HPCD. The funds flow i s as follows:
 I Th;I;ld            .I  SAmanaged                   HPSECH
                ~

                           by HPFD
                        I      I         I




                                                   52

VIII. STAFFING
Adequate project accounting staff with educational background and work experience
commensurate with the work they are expected to perform i s one of the factors critical to
successful implementation of project financial management. For the financial/accounting staff
already identified for the project, the FMSpecialist notes that, basedon discussions, observation
and review of the background and work experience, they are qualified and appropriate for the
positions and work they are expectedto perform.
To strengthenfinancial managementcapacity andachieve consistent quality of accounting work,
the task team has suggested that a project financial management manual (the Manual) be
prepared. The Manual will provide detailed guidelines on financial management, internal
controls, accounting procedures, fund and asset management and withdrawal application
procedures.
A draft of the Manual has been prepared by HPSECH and provided to the Bank by WBFPO.
The FMS has reviewed it and providedWBFPO with feedback on necessary changes. The FMS
anticipates that a Manual would be finalized by the end of January 2004 and distributed to all
the financial staff before project effectiveness.
As some financial staff maybe new to the Bank's project, a well-designed and focused training
program in project financial management should be provided prior to project effectiveness by
WBFPO and HPSECH to all financial and accounting staff to ensure a good understanding and
knowledge of the following:

    0   Bank's financial managementpolicy anddisbursement procedures

    0   Fundassetkontractmanagement

    0   Format and content of project financial statements

    0   Audit requirement
IX.     Accounting Policiesand Procedures
The administration, accounting and reporting of the project will be set up in accordance with the
following regulations/circulars issued by MOF: Circular #13 - "Accounting Regulations for
World BankFinancedProjects" issued inJanuary 2000 by MOF.
HPSECH will manage, monitor and maintain project accounting records. Original supporting
documents for project activities will be retained by them. In addition, HPSECH will prepare
project financial statements and submit them to the Bank for reviews and comments on a regular
basis. Additionally, WBFPO will provide coordination support throughout the project.
X.      Internal Audit
Although HPCD has its own internal audit department, we have not and will not assess the
competency of the internal audit department due to the costhenefit of doing such work. As such,
reliance will not be placed on work performedby them.
XI.     ExternalAudit
Inline with other Bank financed projects inChina, the project will be audited inaccordancewith
both International Auditing Standards and the Government Auditing Standards of the People's
Republic of China. The Hubei Provincial Audit Office (HPAO) has been identified as the
auditor for this project. Annual audit reports will be issued in the name of HPAO and subject to


                                                 53

reviews by the China National Audit Office (CNAO). The Bank currently accepts audit reports
issued by CNAO or provincial/regional audit bureadoffices for which CNAO i s ultimately
responsible.
Audit reports on annual project financial statements will be due to the Bank within 6 months of
the endof each calendar year.
XII.   ReportingandMonitoringandFormatof FinancialStatements
The format and content of the following project financial statements represent the standard
project reporting package agreed to between the Bank and MOF, and have been discussed and
agreed with all parties concerned. In line with the newly issued Financial Monitoring Report
(FMR) guidelines, the unaudited project consolidated financial statements will be submitted as
part of FMR to the Bank on a semi-annual basis (prior to August 15 and February 15 of the
following year), and include the following four statements:

    0  Balance Sheet;

    0  Summary of Sources and Uses of Fundsby Project Component;

    0  Statement of Implementation of Loan Agreement; and

    0  Statement of Special Account.
XIII. InformationSystems
A computerized financial management system will be utilizedby the PMO. "Golden Butterfly",
a well-established accounting software package approved by MOF, will be used for this project.
The task team will closely monitor accounting work to ensure proper recording and reporting in
order to determine the effectiveness of this system.
XIV. Impactof ProcurementArrangements
Thresholds set for procurement post-review will be consistent with that set for SOE for
disbursement purpose. To have maximum effectiveness and efficiency, financial management
specialist and procurement staff should jointly participate in supervision missions to ensure the
following:

    0  Contracts awarded are in line with the Bank's procurement guidelines; and

    0  Contract payments made are in accordance with the terms of the contract and well
       supported.
XV.    DisbursementArrangements
The project will be disbursing on the traditional disbursement techniques and will not be using
PMR-based disbursements, inaccordance with the agreement between the Bank and MOF.
Bank loan proceeds would be disbursed against eligible expenditures as follows (i) works - 46%
of expenditures on S M E civil works, 80% on S M E E&M, 20% on S M E annex areas, buildings
and connecting roads and LRIP, (ii) - 100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of local
                                        Goods
expenditures (ex-factory) and 75% of other items procured locally, (iii)consultant services- 91%
of expenditures, and (iv) training - 100%of foreign expenditures.
Disbursement methods, such as replenishment, direct payment and special commitment, are
available for the project. The SOE limits will be set up in line with procurement post-review
threshold, as follows:



                                                 54

    0  Works under contractscosting less than US$5 million equivalent each;

    0  Goodsunder contracts costing less than US$250,000 equivalent each;

    0  Consulting services under contracts awarded to consulting firms costing less than
       US$lOO,OOO equivalent each;

    0  Consulting services under contracts awarded to individual consultants costing less than
       US$50,000 equivalent each;

    0  All trainings.
One special account (SA) will be established at and maintained by HPFD for this project. The
SA for the project will be in US dollar, with an authorized allocation at US$14 million
equivalent to about 4 months of eligible expenses reimbursable via special account. The initial
authorized allocation from the Bank would be US$11 million until the aggregate withdrawals
and outstanding Special Commitments will be equal to or exceed US$60 million equivalent.
From the SA, the Bank funds would be disbursed to project implementing entities andor
supplier andcontractors.
HPFD will be directly responsible for the management, monitoring, maintenance and
reconciliation of the SA activities of the project in the province. Supporting documents required
for Bank disbursements will be prepared and submitted by the PMO to HPFD for verification
andapproval before submission to the Bank for disbursementprocessing.
XVI. ActionPlan
The following proposed time-bound actions that have no major impact on project preparation or
Boardpresentation, but should be adequately addressedby the project:


 Action                         Responsibleperson             CompletionDate
 1. Financial management WBFPO andHPSECH                      Beforeeffectiveness
    manual finalized      and
    issued.
 2. Adequate financial and HPSECH                             Beforeeffectiveness
    accounting staff should
    be inposition.



XVII. FinancialCovenants
In addition to the standard financial covenants (e.g. maintaining project accounts in accordance
with sound accounting practices, audit requirement and SOE), as described in the legal
document, specific financial covenants applicable to project will be detailed in section C of the
PAD.
XVIII. SupervisionPlan
A detailed supervision plan for this project will be includedas part of the China Audit Strategy
document which is currently inprocess. This document will take into consideration of the size
of the project and the risks identified.



                                                 55

                                    Annex 8: Procurement
                           CHINA: HubeiShimanHighwayProject

Summaryof the Assessment of Agencies' ProcurementCapacity
1.     A procurement capacity assessment of the implementingagencies was carried out during
the appraisal of the proposed project. Reportof such assessment was archived inthe project files
and the following summarizesthe assessment.
2.     HPCD will be responsible for all project related procurement activities. It has
accumulated relevant experience inBank-financed projects as the implementingagency for NH3,
NH4 and Hubei Xiaogan-Xiangfan Highway Project. HPCD has established a dedicated work
unit (HPSECH) to handle the day-to-day management of the project including the procurement
process with the project shareholding company (HPSEC) assistance. HPSEC has allocated
adequate human and other resources for the same. HPSECH and HPSEC staff are quite familiar
with Bank-financed procurement procedures. To avoid excessive cost overruns and improve the
procurement economy, HPCD has agreed to take measures to ensure that the procurement is
carried out basedon adequate geological investigations and complete detail engineering design.
3.     The LRIP will be implemented by PMOSestablished in Yunxi and Yunxian counties of
Shiyan City that report to HPHAB. Biddingdocuments are being prepared by the HPCDI and all
the contracts under this component will be procured following NCB procedures with close
oversight by the HPSECH, who will conduct prior review of the critical steps of the procurement
process. Such arrangement has been adopted in the ongoing Hubei Xiaogan-Xiangfan Highway
Project andfound to be generally satisfactory.
4.      HPCD has selected China International Tendering Company (CITC) as procurement
agent for ICB procurement for the proposed project. CITC has 16 years experience in ICB
procurement under Bank financed projects.
5.      The procurement capacity assessment has assessed the overall risk of the procurement
process as average and confirmedthe capacity and capability of HPCD and involved agencies to
satisfactorily manage the project procurement activities.
6.      Comparing with the Bank Guidelines, the assessment has also identified the major
deviations of the Tendering and BiddingLaw (TBL) of China as follows:
    (a) Advertisement: the TBL requires open biddingto be advertised in state-designatedmedia,
        which sometimes accept advertising in radio broadcasting, notices displayed at tendering
        centers, TV andwebsites, etc.;
    (b) Time for bidpreparation and submission: the TBL sets 20 days as the minimum time for
        bidpreparationand submission;
    (c) The TBL does not require provisions to be included in BD that sufficient performance
        security be providedto protect the purchaser for works contracts;
    (d) Minimumnumber of bids: the TBL requires mandatory re-bidding incase less than three
        bids are received.
    (e) The TBL allows that bids be evaluated by a comprehensive bracketing and scoring
        method, and a bidoffering price lower than cost be rejected. However, it does not provide
        provisions for determining the cost.




                                               56

The TBL has been effective since January 1, 2000 and governing all tendering activities of
investment projects in China except foreign funded projects. To ensure that the Bank-financed
NCB procurement follows the procedures which are acceptable to the Bank and in broad
consistency with the Bank Guidelines, clarifications on procedures to be followed have been
incorporated into the procurementschedule of the Project Agreement of the proposed project.
ProcurementMethods (TableA)
7.      Procurement arrangements are outlined in Table A. Procurement of GoodslWorks and
services will be carried out in compliance with the Bank Guidelines Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits(January 1995, revised January and August 1996, September 1997,
January 1999, and May 2004) and the Guidelines Selection and Employment of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers(January 1997, revised September 1997, January 1999, May 2002, and
May 2004). The Chinese MBDs, as issued by Ministry of Finance in May 1997 with the Bank's
agreement will be used with further modifications to reflect the latest changes of the Bank's
standard bidding documents. Where no MBD exists, Bank SBDs will be used. Bank standard
Request for Proposals will be used for consultant assignments above US$200,000. The General
Procurement Notice (GPN) for the project was published in UNDevelopment Business in paper
form (Issue 617 dated 31 October 2003).
8.      Works (US$487.38 million, including contingencies).            Civil works for Shiman
Expressway (SME) estimated to cost US$402.71 million (including contingencies) would be
divided into 14 contracts, with an average size of about US$28.8 million. There would be
essentially two types of contracts: earthworks and bridge construction, and pavement works. The
civil works were sliced into contracts in view of the site constraints, the nature of works and
efficiency gains achievable by puttingtogether pavement works inonly three contracts. 11of the
14 civil works contracts, each estimated to cost more than US$15 million, will be procured by
one tender call under ICB procedures. Contracts for pavement works will be procuredby another
tender call under ICB procedures, regardless of the estimated cost of each contract, in order to
attract qualified bidders for multiple awards. Bidders for the ICB civil works will be
prequalified.
Electro-mechanical works on S M E (E&M) would be handled as a single contract for supply and
installation of about US$15.5 million equivalent. This contract will be awarded under ICB
procedures. The Specific Procurement Notice (SPN) for the civil works and M&E works will be
published in the UNDevelopment Business online version. Each contract for works estimated to
cost US$15 million or more but less than US$50 million will provide for a disputereview expert
set forth in the standard bidding documents; for each contract estimated to cost US$50 million or
more a dispute review board will be adopted. Domestic contractors are no longer eligible for
domestic preference underICB works procurement,
9.      Other works for an amount of about US$69.17 million financed by the Bank include (i)
S M E buildings, annex and maintenance areas, and connecting roads estimated at $12.71 million,
and (ii)rural roadimprovements under the LRIPestimated at $56.46 million. As all contracts are
estimated to cost less than US$15 millioneach, they will be awarded following NCB procedures
acceptable to the Bank. Since such amounts will be relatively small in the Chinese context, and
scatteredthroughout the province and implementedover four years, ICB will not bejustifiable or
practical. However, foreign firms will not be precluded from participation. NCB procurementof
works will be publishedin arelevant newspaper of national circulation, except the contracts each
estimated to cost less than US$2 million, which may be advertised in a provincial newspaper.




                                               57

10.    Goods (US$5.35 million). Contracts for road maintenance equipment, each estimated to
cost US$250,000 or more and up to a total amount of US$2.79 million, will be awarded under
ICB. Domestically manufactured goods under ICB will be eligible for domestic preference in
accordance with Appendix 2 of the Bank Guidelines. Although the current procurement plan
does not include contracts awarded under NCB and shopping procedures, these two methods
would be provided in the Loan Agreement, i.e.          NCB for contracts each estimated to cost
between US$lOO,OOO and US$250,000, and shopping for contracts each estimated to cost less
than US$lOO,OOO.
11.    Consultants' services and training (US$10.13 million). This component includes both
consultant services and training financed by the Bank for an amount estimated at $2.33 million
and consultant services and training financed from domestic sources only for an amount
estimated at $7.80 million and procured through domestic procedures. The Bank-financed
contracts for construction supervision (international firm), staff training, technical assistance and
studies will be awarded following Quality-and Cost-Based Selection(QCBS) and Selection
Based on Consultants' Qualifications(CQ) procedures. Contracts with firms estimated to cost
US$lOO,OOO or more, up to a total value of US$2 million will be procured through QCBS;
contracts estimated to cost less than US$lOO,OOO, up to a total value of US$0.33 million will be
procured through CQ. All contracts financed by the Bank shall be advertised in a national
newspaper, and the contracts above US$200,000 shall be advertised in the UN Development
Business. Shortlist of consultants for services, estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent
per contract may comprise entirely of national consultants in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 2.7 of the consultant Guidelines.
Prior Review Thresholds (Table B)
12.    Prior review procedures will be followed for: (a) works contracts each estimated to cost
US$5 million or more; (b) goods contracts each estimated to cost US$250,000 or more; and (c)
consultant service contracts each estimated to cost US$lOO,OOO ore more for firms and
US$50,000 or more for individuals. This will apply to respectively 86 percent and 100 percent of
the total contract values of works and goods financed by the Bank. For contracts below these
thresholds, post-review procedures will be followed (sample ratio at 1/4).Terms of reference for
consultant assignments, regardless of the value of the contract, will be subject to Bank's prior
review.
Procurement Plan
13.     A detail procurement plan has been agreed with HPCD. The plan has covered more than
80% of the Bank-financed procurement under the project. Since most of the contracts inthe plan
will be awarded in the first one year of the project implementation, the plan may not be updated
annually. However, any changes to the plan during the project implementation shall be subject to
the Bank's prior approval. Since only the Phase Iof the LRIP component has been included in
the plan, and a procurement plan for the subsequent phases of the component shall be prepared
and submittedby HPCD for the Bank's prior approval.
Retroactive Financing
14.     Retroactive financing of up to US$10.40 million may be applied to expenditures incurred
after March 15,2004 for the procurement of works, goods and services.
    (a) consultants for construction supervision of SME. This would allow for the training of
        local staff, setting up of the supervision offices, and start-up of construction supervision
        by the time contracts are signed with contractors. Expenses to be incurred by the


                                                 58

         implementing agency are estimated at US$439,560, and loan withdrawals on account of
         such payments estimated at US$400,000;
     (b) construction of SME. Early start of construction of S M E would help meet the planned
         schedule for opening the expressway to traffic. The expenses to be incurred by the
         implementing agency are estimated at US$22.2 million, and the amount subject to
         retroactive financing at US$ 10 million.


                         Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
                                          (US$ million equivalent)

                                             ProcurementMethod'
   Expenditure
     Category               ICB               NCB               Other2             N.B.F.           Total Cost
1.Works                        418.21               69.17                    0                  0          487.38
                              (180.46)           (12.60)               (0.00)             (0.00)          (193.06)
2. Goods                          2.79                0.00               0.00               2.56              5.35
                                (2.79)              (0.00)             (0.00)             (0.00)            (2.79)
3. Consultants'                       0                  0               2.33               7.80             10.13
   services and
   training
                                (0.00)              (0.00)             (2.15)             (0.00)            (2.15)
4. Miscellaneous                      0                  0                   0             24.50             24.50
                                (0.00)              (0.00)             (0.00)              (0.00)            (0.00)
5. Front-endfee                       0                  0                   2                  0                 2
                                (0.00)              (0.00)             (2.00)              (0.00)            (2.00)
               Total           421.OO               69.17                 4.33             34.86            529.36
                              (183.25)            (12.60)              (4.15)              (0.00)         (200.OO)
'Figures inparenthesesare the amountsto be financedby the {LoadCrediflrust Fund}. All costs include
contingencies.
'Includes civil works and goods to be procuredthrough national shopping, consulting services, servicesof
contractedstaff of the project management office, training, technical assistanceservices, and incremental operating
costs relatedto (i)
                  managingthe project, and (ii)re-lending project funds to local government units.




                                                         59

                    Table A1: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
                                   (US$ million equivalent)

                                        SelectionMethod

  Consultant
   Services
Expenditure                                                                           Total
   Category     QCBS       QBS       SFB      LCS          CQ      Other    N.B.F.    Cost'
A. Firms            2.00        0         0          0       0.33     0.00      7.80   10.13
                   (1.82)   (0.00)   (0.00)     (0.00)     (0.33)   (0.00)     (0.00)  (2.15)
B. Individuals         0        0         0          0          0        0         0        0
                   (0.00)   (0.00)   (0.00)     (0.00)     (0.00)   (0.00)     (0.00)  (0.00)
         Total      2.00     0.00      0.00       0.00       0.33     0.00      7.80   10.13
                   (1.82)   (0.00)   (0.00)     (0.00)     (0.33)   (0.00)     (0.00)  (2.15)

               Table B: Thresholdsfor ProcurementMethods andPrior Review

                           Contract Value                               Contracts Subject to
                             Threshold                                     Prior Review
ExpenditureCategory       (us$thousands)        ProcurementMethod         (us$millions)
1.Works                >15,000                ICB, prior review                418.21
                       5,000- 15,000          NCB, prior review                      0
                       4,000                  NCB, post review                   69.17
2. Goods               >250                   ICB, prior review                   2.79
                        100-250               NCB, post review                    0.00
                       <loo                   Shopping, post review               0.00
3. Consultant's        >lo0 firms             QCBS, prior review                  2.00
   services andtraining
                       <loo                   CQ, postreview                      0.33


                Total value of contracts subject to prior review: $423.00 million
                        Overall ProcurementRiskAssessment: Average
   Frequencyof procurement supervisionmissions proposed: One every six months (includes
                     specialprocurement supervision for post-review/audits)




                                              60

                          rable C: Allocation of LoanProceeds

                           Amount inUS$ million       Financing Percentage

-SME civil works                   163.99                         46%
-SME buildings and annex              1.78                        20%
areas
- SME E&M                           11.82                         80%
- S M E Connecting roads             0.47                         20%
 - LRIP                            10.00                          20%


Goods                                 2.79           100%of foreign expenditures,
                                                     100%of local expenditures(ex-
                                                     factory costs) and 75% of local
                                                      expendituresfor other items
                                                            procured locally


Consultant's Services                 1.82            91% of foreignexpenditures


Training                              0.33            100%of foreign expenditures


               Unallocated            5.OO

I            Front-end Fee            2.00                        100%


I                     Tota         200.00




                                           61

   -
   J
     N
        t
    3,
     c

     en E
    R   8
        -f




- 0

        Ef
    0   0

     0  0

                            Annex 9: Economic and Financial Analysis
                             CHINA: Hubei Shiman Highway Project


I. EconomicAnalysis
Preface
1.     The economic evaluationof the project covers the following two project components:
        a) construction of the 105.1kmSME; and
        b) upgrading of one rural road (85.8km) and construction of one bridge (355 m) under the
            first phaseof the LRIP.
2.     The analysis is based on the actual traffic volume and forecasts, vehicle operating costs
(VOC), cost and time savings for users, reduction in accident costs and economic project costs.
The main inputsfor the evaluation are:

        a) capital investment andmaintenancecosts, reflectingMarch 2004 prices;
        b) the benefit stream, also reflecting March 2004 prices, that comprises savings inVOC,
            travel time savings, andreductionin accident costs;

        c) implementation of investments during 2005-2008 and an evaluation of benefits over a
            20 years longperiod; and
        d) benefits accruing as from 2009 for SME, and 2007 for the LRIP.
3.     This Annex is comprised of three parts: the economic evaluation of SME; the economic
evaluation of the LRIP; and the overall economic evaluation of the project, including a
probabilistic risk analysis.


                 SHIYAN MANCHUANGUANEXPRESSWAY (SME)
                            -
4.     For the purpose of the evaluation, S M E has been divided into three sections:

                                            Lengthof the      Lengthof the new
                                          existingroads (km)  expressway(km)

         Section2: Yunxia- Yunxi
         Section1: Shiyan- Yunxian               42.6              24.1

         Section 3: Yunxi -Manchuanguang         89.2              45.0
                                                 80.0              36.0
                      TOTAL                      211.8             105.1



Highway ExpansionPlan -Justification for the Investment
Overview
5.     Hubeiprovince is a large inlandbasin (185,900 sq. km) located inthe South central region
of China. The Yangtze River flows from West to East across Hubei and the confluence with the
Hanshui River (the largest tributary of the Yangtze River) is at Wuhan- the provincial capital - in
the eastern part of the province. That central inland location and the Yangtze River make the
Hubei province a major transport hub for both the East - West and North - South bound transport


                                                  63

influxes in South Central China. All major long distance transport modes (highways, railways,
inland waterways and air transport) in South central China converge at Wuhan. Hubei's major
economic activities are located in an East-Northwest corridor, that starts from Wuhan (East),
crosses the province and reaches Shiyan (the major metropolitan city in the Northwest region of
the province Northwest). The proposed S M E i s the last section of the entire Wuhan- Shaanxi
border expressway corridor in Hubei province. Given the important role of the S M E corridor in
the economy and the role of this expresswayin Hubei roadnetwork, the proposedproject has the
highest priority inHubei's regional highway development plan.
6.        S M E will link Shiyan with two smaller cities further West (Yunxian and Yunxi) and the
border with Shaanxi province, and be the only high grade highway crossing cross one of the
poorest areas in the province. Thus, S M E will improve the accessibility for remote areas well
and help balance the economic development within the province. Current traffic i s this
mountainous area is essentially long distance (90% in2001).
Level andTiming of Investment
7.        There are seven major local roads in the highway corridor, but only three roads (G209,
G316 and Yunman road) would be significantly affected by the proposed SME. The pavement
condition of the existing Yunman road is very poor, resulting in a low speeds and high safety
risks. Motorized traffic on that highway was at about 5,600 - 9,600 motorized vehicles per day
in 2003, and has increased on average 5.1 percent per year between 1995 and 2005. Non
motorized traffic add about 300-500 vehicles per day. Even with a modest projected 5 percent
future annual growth, motorizedtraffic would reach between 7,200 - 12,500 vehicles per day by
2009, the planned opening year of the SME. As the total capacity for the existing roads i s
10,000 to 12,000 vehicles each day, it is relevant to plan the construction of S M E right now.

                                       Situation onExistingHighways

                                              Section 1
                                              Shiyan-      Section2
                                                          Yunxian  -     Section3
                                                                          Yunxi -
                                              Yunxian       Yunxi      Manchuanguan
   RoadClass (oldroadsI newroad)              I1I Exp.     111I Exp.      I11Rxp.
   RoadCondition(oldroadsI new road)         FairI Good   PoorI Good    PoorI Good
  Terrain (oldroadsI new road)               Mountains    Mountains     Mountains
   Capacity(AADTIday) (oldroadsI new road)
   MotorizedTraffic -2003 (AADT I day)     12,000125,000 10,000125,000 10,000/ 25,000
                                               9,600         5,800         5,600
   ProjectedTraffic -2009 (AADTI day)          12,489        7,480         7,180
   ProposedOpeningYear                         2009          2010          2010
  Sources: HPCDand the Bank staff.

Highway Corridor Traffic
8.         HPCD has estimated future traffic on S M E from results of routine traffic counts and a
comprehensiveorigin and destination (OD)survey that took place on November 2001 (updatedon
April 2003). Its forecasts were further assessed and confirmed by an independent transport
institute hired by the Bank to review regional transport demand and traffic on highways in the
wider Shiyan - Wuhan - Hefei corridor. The traffic growth rate in the project corridor has been
estimated at 5.0 percent per year between 2001 - 2009, 3.5 percent between 2009-2019, and 2.7
percent between 2019-2029, given the historical trend of economic growth during 1995-2001 in
Shiyan area (6.1 percent per year ) and in other areas of the province served by expressways (9.9
percent per year), the estimated elasticity of passenger and freight traffic to economic growth, and


                                                       64

forecasts for the economic growth inChina incoming years. Traffic growth rates are summarized
as follows:
                               Annual Traffic Growth Rate inS M E Corridor
                                                --- Bus&Truck
                                                    Car                        A v e r a L
                         Actual:      1995-2001    13.6%           2.2%         5.1%
                         Projection: 2001-2009      5.7%           4.7%         5.0%
                                     2009-2019      4.4%           3.0%         3.5%
                                     2019-2029      3.8%           2.0%         2.7%

Traffic on S M E
9.      The S M E should open for traffic in late 2008. Diversionratios were calculated by using
financial the VOC for the road users and taking into account estimated impacts of the level of
proposed toll rates on SME, reduction in travel distances, and the experience from other recently
Bank financed highways in China. That analysis indicates that between 51 - 54 percent of
motorized vehicles in 2009, depending on the road section, may be diverted to the new highway.
Traffic diversion is expected to increase linearly inthe first ten years of operations to reach 56 -
62 percent by the year 2019 andstabilize thereafter.
10.      Traffic generated by the new highway has been estimated at 10 percent of the normal
traffic. This assumption i s consistent with the Bank experience on recent expressway projects in
China. Although Shiyan is linkedby rail to Xi'an, with a single track in Hubei province, no rail
traffic i s expected to be diverted to the new highway. Actually, the rail corridor does not run
parallel to S M E alignment and railways essentially carry low value bulk freight over long
distances (the average transport distance for the railway in 2001 in Hubei was 1,116 km
compared with 47.5 km for road transport). In addition, transport costs on highway tariff are
significantly higher than railway tariffs (about RMB 0.40 per ton-km compared with RMB 0.10
per ton-km for railway). Traffic forecasts on existing highways and SME, in scenarios without
and with the project are as follows:
                                     Normal Traffic, by Sections (AADT)
                                                       Section 1
                                                       Shiyan -    Section2
                                                                   Yunxian -    Section3
                                                                                 Yunxi -
                                                       Yunxian       Yunxi    Manchuanguan
          Traffic on the existing roads        1995     8,892        2,390        2,345
                                               2000     6,435        4,223        3,992
                                               2001     8,360        5,099        4,887
                                               2002     8,965        5,446        5,225
                                               2003     9,623        5,823        5,592
          Traffic without the project
                                               2009     12,489       7,480        7,180
                                               2019     17,961       10,467       9,905
                                               2029    24,178        13,566      12,421
          Traffic with the project
           a. Traffic on the existingroads     2009     6,160        3,448        3,506
                                               2019     7,340        3,938        4,329
                                               2029     9,892        5,112        5,420
           b. Traffic on SME                   2009     6.329    II  4.032  I1    3.674
                                               2019     10,621       6;529        5;576    I
                                               2029     14,286  II   8,454  II    7,001
           c. Traffic diversion (in %)
                                . ,            2009      50.7         53.9        51.2%
                                               2019      59.1         62.4        56.3%
                                               2029      59.1         62.3        56.4%




                                                      65

Economic Costs
11.    Investment costs have been converted into economic costs by eliminating price
contingencies, taxes, custom duties on imported materials and applying shadow price factors.
The resulting overall economic cost i s about 1.5 percent higher than the financial cost, since
eliminating price contingencies more than compensatesfor the other factors.
Economic Benefits
12.    Project benefits were estimated from the VOC by using the Highway Design and
Maintenance Model (HDM-111). The economic analysis takes into consideration benefits derived
from: (a) VOC savings on the new highway for normal and generated traffic, (b) time savings
from reduced congestion on existing roads, and(c) lower accident costs. Benefits resulting from
the lower level of congestion were quantified.                  The value of passenger time savings was
estimated at RMB 1.50 per passenger-hour, by using updated figures from a report on feasibility
study methodology for highways in China (Rust PPK. Australia Feasibility Study Methodology
Report, May 1996). The same sources were used for vehicle accident rates on different classes
of roads. Major assumptionsand formulas usedinthis analysis are summarized as follows:
                           ECONOMIC         VEHICLE OPERATING COSTS
                                               (RMB per km)
                                                                            TheExistingRoads
                                      The New Expressway               Section 1       Section2 & 3
               Car                            0.915                      0.842             1.074
               Mediumbus                      2.078                      2.139             2.646
               Largebus                       3.454                      3.919             4.502
               Smalltruck                     1.618                      1.714             1.988
               Mediumtruck                    2.106                      2.172             2.518
               Largetruck                     3.234                      3.373             3.858
               Tractorhailer                  5.393                      5.676             6.343

                                  Accident Rates and CostsinChina

               Roadclass               Accidents per 100million vehicle km       Damage (RMBI accident)
               Expressway                       -40 0.005 AADT
                                                   +                                      12,000
               Motorway Class I                 37 +0.003 AADT                            9,000
               Motorway Class I1                83+ 0.0065 AADT                           7,000
               Highway Class I1                 133+ 0.007 AADT                           6,000
               Highway Class I11                140+ 0.03 AADT                            4,000
               Source: Table E4.1, pageE21, RustPPK. AustraliaFeasibilityStudy MethodologyReport,May 1996


Economic Evaluation
13.    The overall EIRR of S M E is estimated at 16.4percent, with the following results for each
road section:
                                     Economic Evaluation of SME

                                                      EIRR(in %)           NPV (12%, RMB million)
                   Shiyan- Yunxian                         14.4                      211.3
                   Yunxian - Yunxi
                   Yunxi -Manchuanguan                     16.5                      767.2
                                                           17.5                      755.9

                           WHOLE ROUTE                    16.5                      1,795.7




                                                          66

14.    The distribution of the estimatedbenefits shows that
   (a) roadusers on this highway corridor are the main beneficiaries;
   (b) trucks will receive 52.3 percent of the project benefits, while cars will receive 38.1
       percent, and buses passengers 8.6 percent (these proportions are proximately the same as
       the proportion of traffic). Those latter benefits are more likely to accrue to lower income
       people; and
   (c) about 90 percent of total benefits will accrue to the long distance traffic (par. 8).
       The breakdown of benefits is as follows:
                       Distribution of the Net Benefits (RMB million)

                                       Roaduser    Roadagency         Society
               Total benefits           5,452.7    (3,657.0) i-1      1,795.7
               By vehicles:                                           Truck-
                      - Buses
                      cars                             Trucks         Trailers    Total
                     2,075.9            470.7          2351.9          54.2       5,452.7
                      38.1%             8.6%           52.3%           1.O%       100.0%
                 i-1: Road agency is negativebecauseit bear the investment cost.

Sensitivity and Switching Values Analysis
15.    The basic evaluation of the project, whole infrastructure andfor eachsection, showsthat the
investment is economically viable. Sensitivity tests with respect to a two-year delay in project
completion, zero value of time, no generated traffic and lower traffic projections on the new
highway confirmthat result.

                           Sensitivity Tests on the Economic Evaluation of SME
                                                     EIRR(%)         NPV (12%, RMBmillion)
         Delay incompletion by two years                14.2                    926.1
         Zero value of time                             16.0                  1,594.5
         Zero generatedtraffic                           15.7                 1,472.3
         Lower traffic projection (20%)                  14.9                 1,096.5
                      Switching values                               % increase
         Cost increase to reduce EIRR to 12%                           149 %
         Benefit reduction to reduce EIRR to 12%                        67 %

16.    The results of sensitivity tests (EIRR in %) to cost and benefit variations are summarized
below:

   SENSITIVITY OFEVALUATION              RESULTS (EIRR IN %) TO COST AND BENEFITVARIATION

         Variation in                               Variation inbenefits

       '    cost         -50%       -40%     -30%      -20%       -10%       0%      10%   -20%
            -40%         14.3%      16.5%    18.4%    20.1%      21.8%     23.3%     24.8% 26.2%


            -10%         10.1%      11.9%    13.6%    15.1%       16.5%     17.8%    19.0% 20.1%
             0%           9.1%      10.9%    12.4%    13.9%       15.2%    16.5%     17.6% 18.7%

            20%          7.5%       9.1%     10.6%    11.9%       13.2%     14.3%    15.4% 16.5%
            30%           6.8%      8.4%     9.8%     11.1%       12.3%     13.5%    14.5% 15.5%



                                                         67

                 LOCALROADSIMPROVEMENTPROGRAM (LRIP)

MainFeaturesof the LRIPandTraffic
17.     Only the first phase of the LRIP (upgrading of Baozhu road and reconstruction of
Jiangjunhe bridge) has been identified during preparation and is evaluated in this annex. Further
phases of the LRIP, that will bring total investment to $50 million) will be finalized during the
project implementation. That first phase involves three counties (Yunxian, Yunxi and Zhushan)
of Shiyan City, that are mountainous areas among the poorest inHubeiprovince. Baozhuroad is
invery poor condition with rough surfaces and steep slopes. Inaddition, the existing Jiangjunhe
bridge as a maximum useful life of less than three years, i s classified as dangerous and can only
accommodate one way traffic with limited vehicle load. The road and the bridge are often
inaccessible duringrainy days or the snow season, which affects travel distance and time for road
users. The main design characteristics are listedbelow:

                               LocalRoadsImprovementProgram(LRIP)
                                    Length    Traffic    Roadclass  Speed (km/hr.)   Maxi. Slope
                                     (km)   (AADT 2000)  (Oldhew)      (Oldnew)      (Oldnew)

       1     Baozhuroad               85.8      500       IV 1111        15I30        12%I 8%
       2     Jiangjunhebridge        0.355      170        I11I I1       10I40         8% 16%
        Sources: HPCD andthe Bank staff.


18.     Current traffic level i s in the range of 170 500 AADT. Since the road and the bridge
                                                         -
are located in the same district, the local economic development and traffic patterns are quite
similar. Based on the actual traffic levels and local economic growth rates, traffic growth rates
have been conservatively estimated to be 4.0 percent during 2000-2005, reduced by 1percent for
each of the 5 years from 2005-2025. No attempt has been made to quantify generatedtraffic.

EconomicCostsand Benefits
19.     Financial costs have been converted to economic costs by using the same method
and factors as for SME, with the following results:


                   FINANCIAL ECONOMIC
                                  AND               COSTFORLRIP( R mMILLION)

                                           Financial  Economic    Construction period


                  1   Baozhuroad             177.40     180.08
                                                                       2004-2006
                                                                       2004-2006
                  2   Jiangjunhebridge        39.97     40.57

                      Total                  217.37     220.65




20.     Like on SME, the HDM I11model were used to quantify economic costs and analyze
benefits on the road and the bridge. Mainbenefits would accrue from reduced VOCs, because of
a better road pavement, and the associated class upgrading and all-weather conditions would



                                                     68

allow higher traffic speed, improve the road roughness index and shorten the average transport
distance.

Economic Evaluation and Sensitivity Analysis
21.     Best estimates of the road and bridge EIRRs range from 14.3 percent to 26.2 percent.
The overall EIRR and NPV (with a 12 percent discount rate) for the whole first phase of the
LRIPare at 24.3 percent andRMB 244.2 million respectively.
                               EIRRAND NPVSUMMARY FORLRIP
                                                 EIRR(in %)       NPV (12%, RMB million)


                      ~~1   Baozhuroad               26.2                 237.0
                        2   Jiangjunhebridge         14.3                   7.2
                                  Total              24.3                 244.2

22.     Risks considered for economic evaluation are: (a) a slower than projected growth of
traffic; (b) higher than project cost of civil works; and (c) lower than expected VOC savings. All
those risks were analyzed through sensitivity tests and the evaluation results were found to be
robust for all of them. For the project component to be non-acceptable (Le. an EIRR lower than
12 percent or a nil NPV at 12 discount rate), the benefits would have to fall to less than 53.4
percent of those inthe base case with no change incosts, or costs would have to increaseto more
than 1.88 times the base costs, or costs would have to increase by 30.5 percent and the benefits
fall to 69.5 percent at the same time.

23.      Additional benefits, not included in the EIRR calculation, are expected from the project,
as follows:
    a) increased income of local farmers who live along the road and the bridge because of
         better access to town markets andjobs;
    b) increased accessibility to schools. It is estimated that about 13,800 extra children would
         attend school (about 5.2% percent of total 266,496 children inthe served areas); and
    c) increasedaccessibility to hospitals. It i s estimated that 21,500 extra people would benefit
         from health services (1percent of 2,147,000 people living in served areas).
Based on normal observations derived from previous research, benefits can be summarized as
below:

                                  THEEXTRA      BENEFITSFORLRIP
                                               Extra children      Extra peopleattending
                                            attending school/ year  healthservicedyear

                 1       Baozhuroad                 6,600                 10,500
                 2      Jiangjunhebridge            7,200                 11,000
                              Total                13,800                 21,500




                                                        69

        THE OVERALLECONOMICEVALUATIONOF THE PROJECT

OverallEconomicInternalRateof Return(EIRR)
24.    The overall ERR of the project (including S M E and the LRIP) i s at 16.8 percent and the
NPV (12 percent discount rate) at RMB 1,821.8 million.

ProjectRisks
25.    All sections of the SME and LRIP show acceptable economic returns. HPCD has
extensive experience in the construction and operation of expressways and rural road projects,
which minimizes technical risks associated with the implementation of the project. The main
tangible risk of prolonged delays affecting the construction schedule has been tested in the
probabilistic risk analysis.

ProbabilisticRiskAnalysisfor EconomicEvaluationof SME
26.    To determine the degree of uncertainty on the project, a probabilistic risk analysis using
Monte Carlo techniques was carried out. In a Monte Carlo analysis, each uncertainty factor i s
allowed to vary at random between set limits and all uncertainty factors are allowed to change
simultaneously.    Monte Carlo simulation provides probability distributions of the potential
outcomes of decisions. By analyzing these distributions, one can assess risks associated with
making various decisions (or probabilistic risk analysis). The outcome of the analysis i s a
judgment on the possible range of the decision variable, and on the likelihood of each value
within that range.

27.    As the total cost of LRIP constitutes only about 9 percent of total capital investment and
the respective EIRR is higher than that of SME, the probabilistic risk analysis for the project is
focused on the construction of SME. The following highest uncertainty factors associated with
the economic evaluation of S M E have been identified: (a) traffic growth rate, (b) traffic
diversion ratio to SME, (c) value of vehicle operating costs, and (d) changes in capital
investment. The results of probabilistic risk analysis show that the EIRR i s at 16.5 percent for
the most likely scenario, 9.1 percent in the low scenario and 24.4 percent in the high scenario.
The standard error of the mean is 0.4 percent. The detailed results of the Monte Carlo test and
probabilistic risk analyses are shown inTable 1and summarized as follows:

                        SUMMARY OF SME PROBABILISTICRISK ANALYSES
                                                       Most likelv  Standard error

        Section 1: Shiyan- Yunxian      Range of EIRR    EIRR        of the mean
                                         10.4% 24.1%
                                              -          16.9%           0.4%
        Section 2: Yuixian -Yunxi         9.5%-24.1%     16.5%           0.4%
        Section 3: Yunxi - Manchuanguan  10.3% 25.4%     17.5%           0.4%
                    Total SME            9.1% 24.4%
                                              --         16.5%           0.4%




                                                 70

   HUBEIPROVINCE: SHIYAN MANCHUANGUANEXPRESSWAY                                   -
               EIRRSIMULATIONAND PROBABILISTICRISK ANALYSIS


Summary:
       Display Rangeis from -10.0% to 60.0% (in%)
       Entire Rangeis from -3.3% to 73.0% (in%)
       After 1,200 Trials, the Std. Error of the Meanis 0.4%

Statistics:                                                                   Value            Percentiles:
                                                                                               -
       Trials                                                                  1200
       Mean                                                                   18.2%                                 Percentile
       Median                                                                 16.5%                                        0%             -3.3%
       Mode                                                                        _ _ _                                 10%               1.4%
       Standard Deviation                                                     13.7%            Low Scenario              20%               5.6%
       Variance                                                                1.9%                                      30%               9.1%
       Skewness                                                                0.73            Most Likely               40%              13.1%
       Kurtosis                                                                 3.21                                     50%              16.5%
       Coeff. of Variability                                                   0.75            High Scenario             60%              19.8%
       RangeMinimum                                                           -3.3%                                      70%              24.4%
       RangeMaximum                                                           73.0%                                      80%              29.5%
       RangeWidth                                                             76.3%                                      90%              37.3%
       Mean Std. Error                                                        0.39%                                      100%             73.0%


                                                                Forecast:SME EIRRTotal

         1,200Trials                                                             FregwncyChart                                        5 Outliers
                029  -                                t........                                                                   -35



         .-
         -      022  -..............................            ............"..~ .........
                                                                              ......
                                                                                            ~                                      26 25
         .-
          a                                          I III II.111
         a      015




                     -100%                                   7 5%                       25 0%             42 5%
                                                                                          (!"%)



                                                                             Assumotions



Traffic Growth Rate                                                                            Traffic Diversion
Normaldistribution with parameters:                                                            Normal distribution with parameters:
Mean                                              100.0%                                       Mean                                       100.0%
StandardDev.                                        10.0%                                      StandardDev.                               10.0%
Selected range is from -Infinity to +Infinity                                                  Selectedrangeis from -Infinity to +Infinity
Meanvalue insimulation was 100.4%                                                              Meanvalue insimulationwas 99.9%

VOC Value                                                                                      Capital Cost
Triangular distribution with parameters:                                                       Triangulardistribution with parameters:
Minimum                                             90.0%                                      Minimum                                    100.0%
Likeliest                                         100.0%                                       Likeliest                                  105.0%
Maximum                                           110.0%                                       Maximum                                    110.0%
Selectedrange is from 90.0% to 110.0%                                                          Selectedrangeis from 100.0%to 110.0%
Mean value insimulation was 100.0%                                                             Meanvalue insimulationwas 104.9%




                                                                                           71

11.     FinancialAnalysis
Preface
28.     The financial evaluation of the project is comprised of three sections:
             an assessment of the revenue earning entity (SME), focusing on consolidated
             financial statements;
             an assessment of the non-revenue earning entity (LRIP), focusing on financial risks
             regarding the construction, and operation and maintenancephases; and
             an assessment of the financial capacity of HPCD to sustain its highway activities,
             focusing on the adequacy of funding allocations with the provincial roaddevelopment
             plan.
        The financial cost of capital for the project is assumed to be 4.8 percent (25 percent of
financing from local banks at 5.89 percent, 40 percent from the Bank at 4 percent and 35 percent
from MOC/Hubei province grants at a normative 5 percent cost).


                            THE FINANCIAL EVALUATION OF SME

29.     S M E will be operated from its opening for traffic by a financially independent entity
(HPSEC), responsible for the day-to-day management, operations and maintenance of the
expressway. The main income of Sh4E will be derived from tolls charged to road users; Hubei
government will set toll rates.
Financial Objective
30.     HPCD has clearly indicated that the financial purpose of the toll collection on S M E is to
repay the project's Bank's and domestic loans, cover operating and non-operating expenses and
cover routine maintenance, andnot to maximize the financial rate of return on the entire investment.
Financial Forecasts
31.     Tolls. The toll will be charged on the basis of vehicle size (small passenger cars, large
buses, small trucks, medium trucks, large trucks and trailers) and distance traveled.            Toll
exempted vehicles (police, ambulance and military) are expected to account for 10 percent of
total traffic. Becauseof the higheraverageConstructioncost for this mountainous terrain and large
debt amount in the financing plan (about 65 percent of the total cost), the toll on Sh4E has to be set
on the high side compared with other Chinese expressways (par. 41), to meet the above minimum
financial requirements. For example, toll charges will be about 42 percent higher than those
applied on the Xiaogan- Xiangfan Expressway, another expressway financed in Hubei by the
Bank in 2002. Toll charges are assumedto increaseonce every five years (15 percentor an average
of 2.8 percent peryear).
                                      Toll Charges (RMB / vehicle-km)

                                      Small    Medium     Large    Heavy   Overall
                                      vehicle  vehicle  vehiile    vehicie average
                    SME- 2009 (a)      0.50     1.oo      1.50      1.90    0.95
                    XXE- 2006 (b)      0.40     0.80      1.00      1.20    0.67
                    Increase (a)/(b)  25.0%    25.0%     50.0%     58.3%   41.8%




                                                     72

32.      Operations. The operating costs of S M E can be broken down between working costs (a.
wages and benefits, b. maintenance, c. operating materials and supplies, d. administration, e.
others) anddepreciation.
33.      Profitability. All operation and other expenses, including interest payments on the loans,
are taken into account in the calculation of the S M E profitability. It i s estimated that the
expressway will generate enough revenue over the loan period to achieve the above mentioned
financial objective. However, deficits will take place in the early years of operation (2009-
2013). The total interest payments alone in 2009 (RMB 127.31 million), for example, are 2.34
times higher than the total working costs (RMB 54.35 million), or equal 44.8 percent of the total
revenue (RMB 283.93 million ) in that year. Because of the low toll growth assumptions, the
profitability of SME for the first fives years is low. (Income statement, page 1of 3, Appendix
A).
34.      Cashflow. Despite the low profitability, SME's cash flow should be sufficient to meet
all project needs, including the repayment of the Bank loan as from 2010, because of the large
sumof depreciation reserves and the flexible principal payment terms agreedby domestic banks
on their loans which allow SME to reduce cash outflows in the early years of operations. In
2009, for example, the total annual depreciation reserve (RMB 110.52 million) will represent
about 2 times the total annual working cost, thereby generating strong internal cash flow and
providing sufficient funds for the SME's operations, maintenance expenses and loan repayments.
It i s estimated that S M E will not require any external cash injection andbe able to maintain cash
available above RMB 12 million over the life of the project (Sources and applications of funds,
page 2 of 3, Appendix A).
35.      Leverage and Liquidity. The low profitability and highproportion of debt in the financing
plan will dilute the equity of S M E and cause the debt/ equity ratio and debt/ capital ratio (the
financial leverage of the company) to exceed 50 percent until 2021. But that will not affect the
liquidity of SME, as it is ensuredby strong cashflows. The current ratio will be ina sounder range
of 1.1or higher, whereas it should be at least 1.0 to avoid short-term solvency problems (Balance
sheet, page 3 of 3, Appendix A). In addition, HPCD has reiterated its full commitment to the
expressway, in an official document to the Bank that confirms its full financial support, which
guarantees the project financial viability. Major assumptions for and results of the financial
evaluation are shown inAppendix B.
Financial Internal Rate of Return (FIRR)
36.      The low profit margin will impact the FIRR on the capital investment. The financial
evaluation concludes that the FIRR i s expected to be at 1.1 percent. This return would be
reducedby 50 percent if the opening of the S M E i s delayed by one year (0.7 percent).
Financial Probabilistic Risk Analysis
37.      To determine the degree of financial uncertainty on the project, a probabilistic risk
analysis using Monte Carlo techniques was carried out. The six most uncertain factors which
may affect the financial evaluation have been identified: (a) traffic growth rate, (b) the basic toll
level, (c) toll charges growth rate (d) total working costs, (e) capital investment, and (f) one year
delay in opening the expressway. The risk analysis reveals that the most likely FIRR would be
0.7 percent, while the worst and the best FIRR would respectively be 0.6 percent and 0.8 percent.
Details are inAppendix C and summarized as follows.


                                                  73

           SUMMARY OF FINANCIAL              SENSITIVITYAND PROBABILISTICRISKANALYSIS
                                    FinancialSensitivityTests          FinancialSimulationandRisk Analysis
                                   OpeninJan.     OpeninJan             Range of       Most Likely  Std. Error of
                                       2009          2010             FIRR / NPV       FIRR/ NPV     The Mean
     FIRR (in %)                        1.1            0.7              06 -0.8            0.7          0.0
     NPV (4.8%, RMB million)          - 1,264       - 1,390        - 1,619 -1,483        - 1,557        3.5

Toll Level and Toll Affordability
38.     On a toll expressway, the level of tolls need to satisfy two criteria (a) generate enough
revenue to ensure an acceptable financial rate of return on the investment, and (b) not deter
potential users and compromise the project economic objectives.                             Those criteria can be
contradictory, since the former requires a higher toll while the latter requires a lower one. To
help address the conflict and assess the affordability of tolls to road users, the Bank has
developed an "affordability rate" indicator (for private cars). The higher the rate, the less
affordable the toll. That research is based on data from a series of tolled expressways in a
selection of developed and developing countries and uses the purchase power income for each
country to quantify a users "toll affordability rate". The toll affordability rate for the proposed
S M E has been estimated at 2.34% and can been compared with values in China and other
countries as follows:
                               Toll Level and Toll Affordabilitv ComDarisons
                                           Developed                Developing                    Hubei
                      Car                   countries       us        countries      China        SME
          Average toll (US cents/ km)        11.14          4.45         3.11        4.53         6.02
          Toll affordability rate            0.69%         0.02%       0.65%         2.06%       2.34%
         Sources:The theoreticalandpracticalbases for setting roadtolls (Draft), November2003, the World Bank; HPCD

39.      Results indicate that: (a) the toll affordability rate for China i s higher than in most
developed and developing counties, and (b) the toll and toll affordability rate for S M E are higher
than the China's national averages - only next to Shaanxi and Anhui provinces. High tolls
especially affect local traffic, when parallel free itineraries are available, but rates considered so
far have less impact on the long distance traffic given the high time and cost savings ensuredby
the project. Based on the O/D pattern in the served highway corridor, the majority of vehicles
(about 90 percent of the total traffic, par. 8) are long distance travelers who are less sensitive to
the toll, because they are less likely to detour particular sections of the roadjust to avoid paying
the toll.
Impact of the Toll Charge
40.      Thus the proposed toll for S M E is comparatively high. Raising further tolls would be
mostly detrimental mostly to the local short-distance users along the project corridor and not be
acceptableto Hubei government.
41.      The impact of toll levels on ERR andFIRR has beentested as follows:
             On the one hand, increasing the toll above RMB 1.0per vehicle km would cause the
            EIRR to drop; a RMB 2.0 per vehicle km (or about 24 US cents/ km) charge- the
             highesttoll rate inChina- would reduce the EIRR by about 2 percent (16.5 percent vs.
             14.2 percent). The EIRR starts to fall sharply once the toll exceeds RMB 2.0 per




                                                           74

            vehicle km, because travelers will be motivated to seek alternative routes to S M E
            even if it means a longer traveling distance.

         0  On the other hand, the FIRR would slightly increase with toll increases and reach a
            maximum (1.9 per cent) when the rate i s at RMB 3.0 per vehicle km (or about 36 US
            cents/ km). Beyond this rate, the FIRR declines as the loss of traffic will have a
            greater impact than the increaseof revenueper user.

         0  It is estimated that both the ERR and the FER will be close to zero when the toll is
            at RMB 5.0 per vehicle km (or about 60 US cent/ km).
                            Impact of Toll Levels on the ERR andFIRR

                             Variation of economicandfinancial returnwith levelof toll

                20.0

                15.0

                10.0

                 5.O




                                             Levelof toll (RMB/ vehicle-km)
                           averagetoll             +ERR                    +FIRR




                         THEFINANCIAL EVALUATIONOFTHELRIP

42.      The financial evaluation of the LRIP focuses on HPCD's capacity to minimize financial
risks, i.e. mobilize sufficient counterpart funds for the construction and ensure the maintenance
of project roads.
43.      HPCD budget forecasts show that the investment and maintenance costs of the LIRP
component constitute only a small fraction of HPCD's road expenses. Based on HPCD's plan,
financing the LRP will require less than 1.1 percent of the projected annual total HPCD
revenue. In addition, the maintenance costs of LRP i s less than 0.2 percent of the total
maintenanceexpenditure of HPCD. These low ratios indicate that the project presents a modest
financial risk as regards the availability of counterpart funds. Details are shown in Appendix D
to this Annex and summarized as follows:




                                                   75

        HPCD: Investments, Revenue andMaintenanceExpenditures (Yuanmillion)
                                    2004        2005     2006      2007      2008      2009      2010
       InvestmentsandRevenue:
        LRIP Investments(a)         65.21      108.69    68.26     24.79     24.79      8.26       _ _
        Total HPCD Revenue@)       9,630.39    9,502.54 11,282.77 10,999.76 11,233.10 11,377.29 11,279.15
        Ratios(a)/@)                0.7%         1.1%    0.6%      0.2%      0.2%      0.1%        _-

       MaintenanceExDenditures:
        LRIP (c)                                                    3.06      3.14      3.28      3.39
        Total HPCDMaintenanceExpenditure(d)             1,840.27  1,933.22  2,028.83  2,184.46  2,321.23
        Ratios(c)/(d)                                      --      0.2%      0.2%      0.2%       0.1%
        Sources:HPCDand Bank staff.


                                FINANCIALEVALUATIONOFHPCD

44.
expenditures during the Tenth Five Year Plan (lothFYP, 2001 -2005) and Eleventh Five Year
        HPCD has provided its financing plan, including forecasts on total revenues and

Plan (1lthFYP, 2006 -2010).              Based on available information, the financing plan entails an
emphasis on new construction, and an increase in maintenance expenditures which are largely
dependent on the grants from the government.
45.     Over the IOth FYP, it i s estimatedthat new construction will consume about 63 percent of
total revenue while maintenance expenditures will be budgeted at only about 10 percent of total
revenue. The low emphasis on maintenancewill accelerate the deterioration of the existingroad
network and cause higher rehabilitation expenditures (about 11percent of total revenue). The
funds' allocation is expected to improve duringthe 11" FYP. The new construction budget will
be reduced to 47 percent while the maintenanceone will increaseto about 18 percent of the total
revenue. Increasing maintenance expenditures will reduce the need for road rehabilitation
works to about 8 percent of total revenue.
46.     Road maintenance expenditures are calculated on the basis of standards issued by the
MOC, that are expected to be revised during the llth Facing the possibility of a sharp
                                                                   FYP.
increase in maintenance expenditures, HPCD has budgeted a large increase in grants from the
MOC. Without these grants, HPCD would have to seek other external resources to fund its
operations. A moderate self- financing ratio (total internal cash generation against the total
revenue, 52.3 percent for the 11" FYP) will ensure the implementation of the development plan.
This is an improvement, compared to the 38.7 percent for the lothFYP. The detailed sources of
highway revenue and expenditures for 2001 - 2010 are shown inAppendix Dof this Annex.
47.     With regards the long term sustainability of road maintenance with allocated resources,
the average yearly increase in maintenance expenditures during the loth FYP (3.0 percent)
exceededthe growth of the road network (2.3 percent), which means HPCD budget has provided
for anet increasein average maintenanceexpenditures per kilometer. The trend should continue
during the 1lth  FYPwith percentagesat respectively 3.9 percent and2.0 percent.
                      HPCD: AVERAGEINCREASEINTHE ROADNETWORK                          AND

                                   RoadMaintenance Expenditures (in %)

                                                                           10"FYP      11F-
               Average annual increase inthe roadnetwork                    2.3%         2.0%
               Average annual increase inmaintenance expenditures           3.O%         3.9%
                Sources: HPCDandthe Bank staff.



                                                         76

                                                                                                   APPENDIX A
                                                                                                           Page 1of 3
                                               HubeiHighway Project
                                                IncomeStatement-SME

                                      (RMB million,year ending December31)

                                 2009      2010      2011     2012   2013   2014   2015   2016   2017 2018 2019

Traffic(millionveh-km) /.!       298.27 307.87     317.94 328.55     339.57 351.16 363.29 375.98 389.38 403.38 418.19

Revenue
 Tolls                           283.93     292.74   301.99   311.65 321.74 383.58 396.24 409.52 423.42 437.96 521.86
 Others
 Total                           283.93     292.74 301.99 311.65      321.74 383.58 396.24 409.52 423.42 437.96 521.86

OneratingTaxes
 Business tax                      14.20     14.64     15.10    15.58  16.09  19.18  19.81  20.48 21.17 21.90    26.09
 City tax                           0.99       1.02     1.06    1.09    1.13   1.34   1.39   1.43   1.48   1.53   1.83
 Education levy                     0.43       0.44    0.45     0.47    0.48   0.58  0.59    0.61   0.64   0.66   0.78
              Total                -----21.1021.79
                                   15.62     16.10     16.61    17.14  17.70                22.52 23.29 24.09 28.70
Net Revenue                      ---------413.87-
                                 268.31 276.64       285.38    294.51 304.04 362.48 374.45 387.00 400.13 -493.16
OneratinP Costs
 Wages and benefits                 7.49       7.86     8.25    8.66    9.09   9.54  10.02  10.52  11.05  11.60 12.18
 Maintenance                        7.00       7.35    7.70     8.09   44.60   8.92   9.37   9.84  10.33 140.96 11.38
 Operating materials and supplies  30.29     31.80     33.39    35.06  36.81  38.66  40.59  42.62  44.75  46.99  49.33
 Administration &management         4.49       4.72    4.95     5.20    5.45   5.72   6.01   6.31   6.63   6.96   7.31
 Others /2                          5.08       5.34     5.60    5.88    6.18   6.49   6.81   7.15   7.51   7.89   8.28
 Total working costs               -----------
                                   54.35     57.07     59.89    62.89 102.13  69.33  72.80  76.44  80.27 214.40  88.48
          Depreciation            110.52    110.53    110.53   110.58 110.88 110.94 111.00 111.07 111.14 112.08 112.15
 Total operating costs           ---- ------
                                  164.87    167.60    170.42   173.47 __.
                                                                      213.01 180.27 183.80 187.51 191.41 326.48 200.63


OoeratingProfit                  -----------
                                 103.44     109.04    114.96   121.04  91.03 182.21 190.65 199.49 208.72  87.39 292.53
 Financial charges: IBRD           66.24     65.42     62.10    58.62  55.02  51.27  47.37  43.31 39.08   34.69  30.11
                    Local Bank     61.07     61.07     59.89    58.72  57.54  56.95  54.59  52.24 50.47 49.29    48.70
 Other income (expenses)
Profit Before Taxes              (23.87)    (17.45)   (7.03)    3.70 (21.53)  73.99  88.69 103.94 119.17   3.41 213.72
Taxable Profit                   (23.87) (41.32)     (48.35) (44.65) (66.18)   7.81 96.50 200.44 319.61    3.41 217.13
 Income tax                                                                -   2.58  31.85  66.15 105.47   1.13 71.65


NetProfit After Taxes            (23.87) (17.451      (7.03)    3.70 f21.53)  71.41  56.84  37.79  13.70   2.28 142.07


Working ratio                      20        21       21       21      34     19     19     20     20     52     18
Operatingratio                     61        61       60       59      70     50     49     48     48     79     41

/I:highwaywillbeopenedtotrafficin2009.
    The
/2: Others: Includinghighway research, studies and miscellaneous




                                                                  77

                                                                                                              APPENDIX A
                                                                                                                         Page2 of 3


                                               HubeiHighway Project
                                    Sources andApplications of Funds-SME

                                          (RMB million,year endingDecember 31)

                   2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019

Sources:
Net profits                                     -  (23.87) (17.45) (7.03)   3.70 (21.53) 71.41 56.84   37.79  13.70    2.28 142.07
Depreciation                                    - 110.52 110.53 110.53 110.58 110.88 110.94 111.00 111.07 111.14 112.08 112.15
State contribution
HPCD's
contribution       435.00 362.50 362.50 290.00
Borrowing: IBRD 496.80 414.00 414.00 331.20              -
             Local 311.06 259.22 259.22 207.38
Others

       Total      -------- ------
                   1242.86 1035.72 1035.72 828.58   86.65   93.08 103.50 114.28 __ 182.35 167.84 148.86 124.84 114.36 254.22
                                                                                   89.35

Applications:
Capital
expenditure        1242.86 1035.72 1035.72 828.58    10.59   10.80  11.02  11.24   11.46  11.69 11.93  12.16  12.41 12.66    12.91
Other expenditure
Loanrepayment:
       IBRD                                              -  82.46   85.78  89.26   92.86  96.61 100.51 104.57 108.80 113.19 117.77
       Local                                             -  20.00   20.00 20.00    10.00 40.00  40.00 30.00   20.00   10.00 100.00
Changew/ capital                                         .. (0.31)  (0.31) (0.33) (0.35) (2.10) (0.44) (0.45) (0.47) (0.51) (2.86)

       Total      ---------------
                   1242.86 1035.72 1035.72 828.58    10.59 112.95 116.49 120.17 113.97 146.20 152.00 146.28 140.74 135.34 227.82


Net FundsFlow                                   - -76.06   (19.87) (12.99) (5.89) (24.62) 36.15  15.84  2.58 (15.90) (20.98) 26.40

 Open balance                                            -  76.06   56.19 43.20    37.31  12.69 48.84  64.68 67.26 51.36 30.38
 Closingbalance                                     76.06   56.19   43.20 37.31    12.69 48.84  64.68 67.26   51.36   30.38  56.78
                                                  ~




DIS Cover           --      _ _      _ _    --      1.68    0.96    0.99  1.02     0.94  1.19   1.11 1.06     0.98    0.96   1.12




                                                                  78

                                                                                                            APPENDIX A
                                                                                                                       Page 3 of 3
                                               HubeiHighway Project
                                                  BALANCESHEET-SME

                                          (RMB million,year ending December31)

                                 2009      2010   2011     2012     2013     2014     2015     2016     2017     2018     2019

Assets:
Fixed Assets
 At cost                        3,315.70 3,315.77 3,315.84 3,317.46 3,326.38 3,328.16 3,330.03 3,332.00 3,334.07 3,362.26 3,364.54

 Less:    Depreciation            221.00   331.53  442.06   552.64   663.52   774.46 885.46     996.53 1,107.67 1,219.75 1,331.90

          Net fixed assets      3.094.70 2,984.24 2.873.78 2,764.82 2.662.86 2,553.70 2.444.57 2,335.47 2.226.40 2,142.51 2.032.64

Current Assets
  Inventory                           1.42    1.46    1.51     1.56     1.61     1.92     1.98     2.05     2.12     2.19     2.61
  Receivable                          0.71   0.73    0.75      0.78     0.80     0.96     0.99     1.02     1.06     1.09     1.30
  Cash                              76.06    56.19  43.20     37.31    12.69    48.84    64.68    67.26    51.36    30.38    56.78

           Subtotal                 -----------
                                    78.19    58.38   45.46    39.65    15.10    51.72    67.65    70.33    54.54    33.66    60.69

Other Assets

         Total Assets           3.172.89 3.042.62 2.919.24 2.804.47 2.677.96 2.605.42 2.512.22 2.405.80 2.280.94 2.176.17 2.093.33


Liabilities & Eauity
State funds- Equity               468.18    440.00 422.02    416.10   392.03   453.53   500.31   527.91   531.27   549.08   680.52

U T loans: IBRD                 1,656.00 1,573.54 1,487.76 1,398.50 1,305.64 1,209.03 1,108.52 1,003.95   895.15   781.96   664.19
             Local              1,036.88 1,016.88   996.88   976.88   966.88   926.88   886.88   856.88   836.88   826.88   726.88

           Subtotal             2,692.88 2,590.42 2.484.64 2.375.38 2.272.52 2.135.91 1.995.40 1.860.83 1.732.03 1.608.84 1,391.07

Current Liabilities                 11.83    12.20   12.58    12.99    13.41    15.98    16.51    17.06    17.64    18.25    21.74

Other Liabilities

Total Liabilities & Equity


Debt: capitalratio                85.2      85.5    85.5     85.1     85.3     82.5     80.0     77.9     16.5     14.6     67.1
Debt/ equityratio                85/15     86/14   86/14    85/15    85/15    83/11    80120    18/22    77/23    15/25    61/33
Current ratio                      6.6      4.8     3.6      3.1      1.1      3.2      4.1      4.1      3.1       1.8     2.8

Fixed assets: 80% of capital investment and 20% of maintenance.
Equity = Total asset - Total Liabilities.
Current liabilities = % month of total revenue.




                                                                    79

                                                                                                  APPENDIX B

                                        HubeiHighway Project
                             Assumptions for Financial Forecasts-SME


1. NormalTraffic (AADT):
                      Small     Medium       Large       Small     Medium       Large      Tractor
                       Car         bus        bus         truck      truck      truck      -Trailer  Total
   Section I: Shiyan- Yunxian
     2009             2,8 18       172        400          628        683       1,543        85      6,329
     2019             5,119        271        629          979       1,070      2,420        133    10,621
     2029             7,577        33 1       767         1,194      1,305      2,950        162    14,286
   Section 11:   Yunxian - Yuanxi
     2009             1,053        105        242          535        561       1,502        34      4,032
     2019             1,898        164        379          827        872       2,337        52      6,529
     2029             2,809        199        462         1,008      1,063      2,849        64      8,454
   Section111:   Yuanxi - Manchuanguan
     2009              945         99         231          424        481        1,463        31     3,674
     2019             1,635        156        363          660        754        1,967        41     5,576
     2029             2,197        190        443          805        919       2,397         50     7,001

2. Toll Rates (Yuan/ veh-km):             Increase 15%every five year.

                                  Small     Medium        Large      Small     Medium       Large   Tractor
                                    Car       bus           bus      truck      truck       Truck   -Trailer
         2009                      0.50       1.OO          1.50      0.50       1.00        1S O    1.90

3. OperatingTaxes:
   a. BusinessTax                      5% of totalrevenue.
   b. City Tax                         7% of businesstax.
   c. Educationlevy                    3% ofbusinesstax.

4. OperatingCost:                         Increase5 % pa.
   a. Wages andbenefits:                  RMB 2,40001staffIyear, 40 staffs/ station, 6 stations.
   b. Maintenance(million RMBIkm):

                                       Routine                Medium                        Major
                               Maintenance (annual) Maintenance (/5years)          Maintenance(/IO years)
                   Expressway           0.07                    0.33                         0.86

   c. Operatingmaterials andsupplies 0.286 million RMB per km.
   d. Administration                60.0% of wage andbenefits.
   e. Others                         0.048 million RMB per km.
   f. Depreciation                      30 years straight-linemethod.

5. Incometax                        33.0% of total profit beforetaxes

6. Borrowing:    The IBRD           4.00% on20 year maturities,LIBOR US$ basedsingle currency
                                           including 5 years grace period.
                 The local bank     5.89% on 20 year maturities, including 5 years grace period and
                                           flexible principal payments.




                                                            80

                                                                                                    APPENDIX C


HUBEIPROVINCE: SHIYAN MANCHUANGUANEXPRESSWAY       -
         FIRRSIMULATION AND PROBABILISTICRISK ANALYSIS

 Summary:
        Display Rangeis from 0.2% to 1.3% (in %)
        Entire Rangeis from 0.2% to 1.4%(in %)
        After 1,200Trials, the Std. Error of the Meanis 0.0%

 Statistics:                              Value           Percentiles:
        Trials                              1200
        Mean                               0.7%                                        Percentile
        Median                             0.7%                                              0%          0.2%
        Mode                                   _ _ _                                        10%          0.5%
        StandardDeviation                  0.2%           Low Scenario                      20%          0.5%
        Variance                           0.0%           r-                                30%          0.6%
        Skewness                             0.51         Most Likely                       40%          0.6%
        Kurtosis                             2.17         I-.-                              50%          0.7%
        Coeff. of Variability                0.29         High Scenario                     60%          0.8%
        RangeMinimum                       0.2%                                             70%          0.8%
        RangeMaximum                        1.4%                                            80%          0.9%
        RangeWidth                          1.2%                                            90%          1.O%
        MeanStd. Error                    0.01%                                            100%          1.4%

                                         Forecast:FIRR (2010)

         1,200Trials                             FrequencyChart                                     6 Outllers
                   1
      ~        032                                   I




                    0 2%            0 5%              0 8%                  10%             13%
                                                      (in %)



                                              Assumotions

 Trafficgrowth                                                   Basictoll
 Normaldistribution with parameters:                             Normaldistribution with parameters:
 Mean                      100.0%                                Mean                                  100.0%
 StandardDev.               10.0%                                StandardDev.                            10.0%
 Selectedrangeis from -Infinity to +Infinity                     Selectedrange is from -Infinity to +Infinity
 Meanvalue insimulation was 100.0%                               Mean value insimulation was 100.6%

 Total workingcost                                               Capital Investment
 Triangulardistribution with parameters:                         Triangular distribution with parameters:
 Minimum                    90.0%                                Minimum                                90.0%
 Likeliest                 100.0%                                Likeliest                             105.0%
 Maximum                   110.0%                                Maximum                               110.0%
 Selectedrangeis from 90.0% to 110.0%                            Selectedrange is from 90.0% to 110.0%
 Mean value in simulation was 100.0%                             Mean value insimulation was 101.8%

 Toll chargesgrowthrate
 Triangulardistribution with parameters:
 Minimum                    90.0%
 Likeliest                 100.0%
 Maximum                   110.0%
 Selectedrangeis from 90.0% to 110.0%
 Meanvalue in simulation was 100.1%




                                                    81

                                                                                                 APPENDIX D
                                                                                                         Page 1of 2

                Hubei: Highway Revenue andExpenditure DuringTenth Five Year Plan
                                                     (RMBmillion)

                                                          2001      2002      2003      2004     2005     Total

Revenue
        1  Roadmaintenancefee                             1,384.70 1,458.08 1,535.36 1,616.74 1,702.42 7,697.30
       2 Toll revenue                                     1,684.80 1,774.09 1,868.12 1,967.13 2,071.39 9,365.53
       3   Surchargeon passenger ticket.S                  263.25    277.20    291.89   307.37   323.66 1,463.37
       4 Surchargeon freight tickets                        112.67   118.64     124.93  131.55   138.52 626.31
       5   Vehicle purchasefee                              105.41   110.99     116.87  123.07   129.59 585.93
       6 MOC subsidy                                       673.92    709.64    747.25   786.85   828.56 3,746.22
       7   State (SDPC) subsidy                             35.00      35.00    35.00    35.00    35.00    175.00
       8                                                                                                 19,000.0
           Bankloan                                       5,155.90 4,500.00 3,500.00 3,000.00 2,844.10          0
       9 Fund-raisedbv entemrise                           219.78    300.00    300.00 233.37           - 1.053.15
        10 Other funds                                    1,499.79  1,452.80  1,452.80 1,429.31 1,429.30 7,264.00

                                 Total                                                                   50,976.8
                                                         11.135.22 10,736.44 9.972.22 9.630.39 9,502.54         -1

  ExDenditure:
        1                                                                                                37,878.7
          New constructionandrehabilitation               8,783.64 8,250.83   7,351.53 6,884.25 6,608.48        3
        2 Tax                                                53.95     56.80     59.82   62.99     66.32 299.88
        3 Traffic safety supervision                         19.29     20.32     21.39   22.53     23.72   107.25
        4 Major maintenance                                 120.00    132.00    141.00 141.00     149.27 683.27
        5 Mediummaintenance                                  80.00     88.00     94.00    94.00    99.52 455.52
        6 Routinemaintenance                                701.22   738.38     777.52 818.73     862.12 3,897.97
        7 Administration andstudy                           366.24   385.65     406.09   427.61 450.28 2,035.87
        8 Repaymentof interestandprinciple                1,010.88  1,064.46 1,120.87 1,179.28 1,242.83 5,618.32

                                Total                                                                    50.976.8
                                                         11,135.22 10.736.44 9,972.22 9.630.39 9,502.54         -1

  Total RoadNetwork (km) -(a)                               59,350    60,850    62,250   63,650   65,000 311,100
   Average annual increase                                   2.6%      2.5%      2.3%     2.2%     2.1%     2.3%
  Rehabilitation1-1                                       1,317.55  1,237.62 1,102.73 1,032.64    991.27 5,681.81
  Periodicmaintenance1-2                                    200.00    220.00    235.00 235.00     248.79 1,138.79
  Routinemaintenance                                        701.22    738.38    777.52   818.73   862.12 3,897.97
  Total maintenanceexpenditure (million Yuan) -@) 1-3       901.22    958.38 1,012.52 1,053.73 1,110.91 5,036.76
  Average unit maintenanceexpenditure(`000 Y/km)- (b)/(a)    15.18     15.75     16.27    16.56    17.09    16.19
   Average annual increase                                       _-    3.7%      3.3%     1.8%     3.2%     3.0%


/-1: Assuming 15%of new constructionandrehabilitationbasedon an analysisof 1996-2000.
/-2: Sumof major andmediummaintenance.
/-3: Sumof major,mediumandroutinemaintenance.
    Bestestimate:2001, forecast: 2002- 2005.




                                                         82

                                                                                                  APPENDIX D
                                                                                                          Page2 of 2

                Hubei: Highway Revenue andExpenditure DuringTenthFive Year Plan
                                                    (RMB million)

                                                          2006      2007      2008      2009      2010      Total

Revenue
         1 Roadmaintenancefee                             2,036.64 2,158.84 2,288.37 2,425.67 2,571.21 11,480.73
         2 Toll revenue                                   2,328.38 2,768.79 3,429.73 3,716.22 3,902.03 16,145.15
         3 Surchargeon passenger tickets                     78.72    82.65      86.79    91.13     95.68    434.97
         4 Surchargeon freight tickets                      103.03   108.18    113.59    119.27    125.23    569.30
         5 Vehicle purchasefee                              145.00   150.00    155.00    160.00    165.00    775.00
         6 MOC subsidy                                    1,000.00   800.00    700.00    600.00    500.00 3,600.00
         7 Local subsidy                                    390.00   500.00    446.62    580.00    480.00 2,396.62
         8 Bankloan                                       3,981.OO 3,106.30 2,805.00 2,550.00 2,350.00 14,792.30
         9 Fund-raisedby enterprise                         650.00   750.00    628.00    550.00    500.00 3,078.00
        10 Other funds                                      570.00   575.00    580.00    585.00    590.00 2,900.00

                                 Total                   11,282.77 10.999.76 11,233.10 11.377.29 11.279.15 56.172.07

  Exuenditure:
          New constructionandrehabilitation               7,905.53 7,007.00 5,994.46 5,447.77    4,952.00 31,306.76
          Tax                                               264.46   305.84    366.19    394.96    415.44 1,746.89
          Traffic safety supervision                         32.00    35.00      40.00    40.00     40.00     187.00
          Major maintenance                                 732.00   786.00    840.00    932.00 1,021.00 4,311.00
          Mediummaintenance                                 512.50   537.50    562.50    587.50     630.00 2,830.00
          Routinemaintenance                                595.77   609.72    626.33    664.96     670.23 3,167.01
          Administration and study                          552.92   631.20    743.30    800.00     842.43 3,569.85
          Repaymentof interest andprinciple                 687.59 1,087.50 2,060.32   2,510.10 2,708.05    9,053.56

                                 Total                   11.282.77 10,999.76 11.233.10 11,377.29 11,279.15 56,172.07

  Total RoadNetwork (km) -(a)                               66,300   67,626     68,979   70,359     71,766  345,030
   Average annual increase                                   2.0%      2.0%      2.0%      2.0%      2.0%      2.0%
  Rehabilitation1-1                                       1,185.83 1,051.05     899.17    817.17    742.80 4,696.02
  Periodicmaintenance1-2                                  1,244.50 1,323.50 1,402.50 1,519.50 1,651.OO      7,141.OO
  Routinemaintenance                                        595.77   609.72     626.33    664.96    670.23 3,167.01
  Total maintenanceexpenditure(million Yuan) -@) /-3      1,840.27 1,933.22 2,028.83 2,184.46 2,321.23 10,308.01
  Average unit maintenanceexpenditure ('000Y/km)- (b)/(a)    27.76    28.59      29.41     31.05     32.34     29.88
    Average annualincrease                                       --    3.0%      2.9%      5.6%      4.2%      3.9%


/-1: Assuming 15%of new constructionandrehabilitationbasedon an analysis of 1996-2000.
/-2: Sumof major andmediummaintenance.
/-3: Sumof major, mediumandroutinemaintenance.
     Forecast:2006- 2010.




                                                         83

                              Annex 10: Safeguard Policy Issues
                            CHINA: Hubei Shiman HighwayProject


I. EnvironmentalSafeguardIssues
1.     Project Background
The main investment component of the project, the Shiman expressway (the Expressway), when
completed, will form part of the road network which will eventually join Wuhan to Yinchuan,
the capital city of northwestern Province of Ningxia. The feasibility study for the project was
completed in November 2003 and the final engineering designs are expected to be completed in
July 2004. The Environmental Assessment (EA) for the Project was prepared by the Second
Navigation Survey and Design Institute (SNSDI) of MOC. The Terms of Reference (TOR) for
the EA were prepared in August 2002. They were reviewed and revised and approved in
December 2002 by the State Environmental Protection Administration (SEPA) and the Bank.
The first draft Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) report was prepared in June 2003
followed by a new draft (dated December 2003) which addressed the comments by the Bank.
The December 2003 draft reports of the EIA and the Environmental Management Plan (EMP)
were submitted to the Bank and SEPA in December 2003 and have been approved by SEPA in
April 2004. The Bank received the revised final EIA andEMPreports, incorporating the Bank's
comments, in April 2004.
The Shiman expresswayis classified as aCategory A project since it involves majorExpressway
construction on new alignment; at-grade connecting roads to be upgraded partially on new and
existing alignments; increase in noise and motor vehicle air emission; occupation of fertile and
barren land, excess waste material disposal; community severance, soil erosion, resettlement,
etc..
The secondinvestment component, the LRIP, will comprise the upgrading of localroads selected
in Shiyan City, a remote and mountainous area in the western edge of Hubei. EIAs and EMPs
have been prepared on each road selected under the first phase of the LRIP and the Bank
received the final reports inNovember 2003.
2.     Basisof the EnvironmentalImpact Assessment
The preparation of the EIAs has followed the regulatory and policy requirements for
environmental assessment of development projects in China and the Bank's Safeguard policies.
The major laws and regulations applied to the EA are: (i) of Environmental Protection of
                                                         Laws
the P.R. China (December 1989); (ii)   Environmental Impact Assessment Law of P.R. China
(October 2002); (iii)Law of Water and Soil Conservation (June 1996); (iv) Law of Air Pollution
Control (August 2000); (v) Law of Water Pollution Control (May 1996); (vi) Law of
Environmental Noise Pollution Control (October 1996); (vii) Circular on Strengthening EIA for
Construction Projects Receiving International Financing (June 1993); and (viii) Technical
Specifications for Environmental Impact Assessment (Five Volume Series 1993 - 1997).
Of the ten Bank Safeguard policies, the Project triggered Environmental Assessment
(OP/BP/GP4.01), Involuntary Resettlement (OD4.30), Cultural Property (OP4.1l), Publicand




                                              84

Disclosure (BP 17.50). Relevant international environmental agreements in which China i s a
signatory have also been consulted where appropriate.
3.      Project Description
Table 1shows the key components of the Shiman Expressway. The connecting and rural roads
are located within the Shiyan municipality and service Yun, Yunxi and Zhushan counties which
are State and Provincial level poverty regions. The Expressway will be constructed entirely on
new alignment, while the connecting roads will be constructed partially on new and partially on
the existing alignments. The local roads under the LRIP will be primarily exiting roads,
involving strengthening and minor widening and realignment of the existing low grade roads to
increase their transportation capacity and all season access. The construction of the Expressway
i s scheduledto commence in 2004 and be completed in 2008.

                                Table1Major Project Components

      Items                     Expressway      Connecting               RuralRoads
                                                  Roads          Baozhu       Jianjunhe Bridge
     IRoadclassification      I Exoresswav   I    Grade I1    I Grade I11  1      Grade I1      I
      Total length(km)             106.8            6.05           85               355
      Design speed(Mhr.)            120              40            30                40
      Alignment                     New         Partiallynew   Upgrading            New

4.      Baseline Environment
The Project area is located in the north semi-tropical region with a continental monsoon climate.
The average annual temperature ranges from 11 to 17"C, and the average annual precipitation
from 696 to 1200 mm. The terrain and the Expressway alignment has the same general
orientation with the mountain bodies in the area. The area slopes from northwest to southeast
with elevations ranging from 200 to 1200 m.
The EIA on S M E has identified about 23 villages/townships and 10 schools, at about 30 to 150
mfrom the Expressway center line, which would be vulnerable to increased noise, dust, etc. due
to the construction activities. The Expressway will also cross five rivers and run near a dinosaur
egg protection area which i s a national level reserve. The upgrading of the connecting road will
impact two villages and one school while the upgrading of the rural roads will impact nine
villages, 11schools and five hospitals.
The air quality monitoring conducted (between March and April 2003) near seven villages and
schools to establish a baseline, showed NO,, concentrations between 0.012 to 0.044 mg/m3,well
below the Class I1Air Quality Standard of 0.12 mg/m3.The TSP and PMlo on the road sides
were between0.06 to 0.33 mg/m3and 0.03 to 0.16 mg/m3,respectively, slightly higher than their
respective applicable standards. The results indicate fairly good existing ambient air quality in
the Project areas. The noise monitoring results show that the day and night time noise levels
along the main expressway alignment are well below the applicable standards.
In the local road areas, the noise levels were significantly higher than the applicable standards.
At some schools, the noise level reached as high as 72.5 dB(A) in day time, significantly


                                                 85

exceededthe Class Istandards. The two rural villages along the roadhadnoise levels of 56.4 and
57.1 dB(A) inday time and47.9 and49.6 dB(A) at night meeting the Class I1standards.
Surface water quality in the Hanjiang river show that for all monitored parameters (pH, COD,
Oil, SS and total P) the results were within their respective standards. The results of water quality
monitoring, conducted in April 2003, of the Dong, Liayu, Beixing and Jiangjun rivers, show that
all water quality parameters met the applicable standards except for SS in the Beixi river, which
slightly exceededthe Class 11standard.
The soil erosion intensity along the main expressway area ranges between 1874-2139 t/kmza.
The rural road area along the upper reach of the Hanjiang river has severe soil erosion. The
intensity i s 2100-4600 t/km2awhile at the Jiangiunhe river bridge site, it i s 3000 t/km2a.
Archeological surveys, in January 2001 and June 2003, covering the main Expressway and
alternative alignments, connecting roads, borrow pits and spoil disposal sites identified the
Jianliupu New Stone age site, a Tang-Song Dynasty tomb, and a Revolution site in the modern
history. Only the Jianliupu site will be directly impacted by the Expressway. The Expressway
will also run about 140m from the edge of the experimental zone of the state level Qinglongshn
dinosaur egg fossil reserve.
The total population traversed and serviced by the Expressway is approximately 1.69 million.
The Expressway will not directly impact the urban areas, but it will affect 59 villages and
townships, 10 schools, five major rivers and many small tributaries, creeks, irrigation channels,
fiswwater ponds, etc. becauseof their proximity to the alignment.
5.      EnvironmentalImpacts
According to the modeling results, the soil erosion intensity during S M E construction will reach
about 9866 t/km2a, and if no protection measures are taken during the construction period and
the total soil lost will be considerably higher than the "no project" scenario. The erosion will
continue in the early part of the operation phase until such time as the mitigation measures take
effect. Soil erosion for the rural roadconstruction i s also expected to increase.
The Expressway will permanently occupy 12605 mu of land including 40% of waste land and
wood land, and 39.4% of cultivated land. In addition, 104 borrow pits will occupy 7425.4 mu of
temporary land. Permanent waste soil disposal area will occupy 576.77 mu of land. The
construction, borrow pits and disposal sites for the connecting roads and rural roads will occupy
additional land, but, as the rural road is an upgradation of the existing road, the permanent
occupation of additional landwill be minimum.
During the construction, farm crops, trees and other vegetation on the occupied farmland and
woodland will be lost to the project. However, this will amount to only about 0.013% to 0.29%
of the cultivated land. The impact of the loss of vegetation cover will be of short duration as the
slopes, interchanges, borrow pits, disposal sites and other temporary occupied areas will be
landscaped and rehabilitated with grass, trees, shrubs, bushes and other vegetation. The
landscaping programs i s expected to result in a net increase in the vegetation coverage along the
expressway.
The proposed Expressway alignment i s 2 km away from the Sifangshan Botanic Park and 12 km
from the Niutoushan Forest Park. Direct impacts from the construction activities are expected to
benegligible.



                                                  86

The primary impact on the water environment during the construction phase include dischargeof
sanitary sewage from the approximately 21 construction camps, surface runoff from camps,
storage areas, bridge construction, etc. The camps are expected to generate about 2-3 tons of
sanitary sewage per day which, if not treated properly, would affect the water quality of the
receiving streams. Bridge construction could result in the re suspension of river sediments, and
create risk of oil contamination from leaks and spills. Solid wastes from camps, service areas,
storage areas, if not handledproperly, could also create pollutionproblem.
Wastewater from the operation phase will include sanitary sewage from service stations and
parking lots, car washing effluents and pavement runoff. Wastewater from point sources will be
treated to the applicable standards before discharge to the receiving streams. Surface runoff will
be smaller compared to the receiving river flows and it's impact, basedon modeling, is expected
to be insignificant.
Traffic accidents on the bridges involving the transportation of hazardous materials, could result
in major spills and pose risk of water contamination. Analysis of accident data and prediction
indicate that there exists a very small probability of water contamination from such accidents.
However, the consequencecould be severe and the spills may impact water quality, aquatic life
and eco-system, and health and safety of the people living downstream of the spills. The impact
of the increase in the Danjiangkou reservoir water level (due to south-north transfer of water) on
the Jiangjunhe river bridge, which is part of the rural road component, is accounted for in the
design.
According to the noise attenuation model, noise from multiple construction machines will drop
below the applicable day time noise standards at 55m from the machinery and meet the night
time standards at about 250m. Since there are only a few residents who live within 55m from the
construction sites, the day time noise impacts will be limited. However, there are a large number
of people within the 250m distance from the construction sites who would be significantly
impacted if the construction equipment i s operated at night. Residents living on both sides of the
access roads will be impacted by highernoise levels from increasedconstruction traffic.
Noise levels in the 23 villages located near the proposed Expressway show that noise at all the
villages will be within the applicable standards in 2009. With the increase in traffic, some
villages will start to be exposed to higher noise levels particularly at night. In2020 and 2028, the
day time noise levels will still be within the applicable standards, but 2 villages will exceed the
night standardby about 1.9 to 2.4 dB(A) in 2020 and five villages will exceed it in 2028 by 0.6-
5.9 dB(A). For the schools near the expressway, the noise model predicts that for the period 2009
- 2028, only two schools will exceed the applicable noise standard by 2.3-5.9 dB(A) beginning
2009.
For the local road upgrading, the traffic i s projected to increase from the current level to 1245
medium truck equivalent per day in 2009 and 2516 MTE/day in 2020. The noise level in 2009 is
expected to be less than 65 &(A) during the day time and less than 55 dB(A) at night at 10 m
from the road side. These levels meet Class I11standards. The noise will meet day and nighttime
Class I1standards, at 30m from the road side.
Fugitive dust from unpaved access roads, disposal areas, materials storage areas, crushers and
mixing plants, asphalt plants, materials transport, etc. will be the primary air contaminant during
the construction phase. Depending on the terrain and climatic conditions, the impact area can
range from 50 mfrom the source of dust to 300m incase of asphalt plants.


                                                 87

The "with and without" project scenario predicts 42% increase in NOx, but lower CO (by 47%)
and THC (by 44%) during the project operation, from increased vehicle traffic and speed. Motor
vehicle emissions and air modeling, predicts NOx concentrations below the standards inthe year
2028 under the normal weather conditions but exceeding the standards under unfavorable
weather conditions.
The expressway will be fully fenced with limited access, and will separate farmland and rural
communities from one another. Intotal, 23 villages will be affected by the restricted access to the
farmland, services, schools, markets, and other parts of the communities.
The Hubei Provincial Relics and Archaeological ResearchInstituteidentifiedthree cultural relics
sites which will be impacted by the proposed Expressway alignment, namely, the Jianliupu site
of the New Stone Age (3000-4000 BC), the Pingchi tomb of Tang-Song Dynasties (300-1000
AD) and the Shaananmilitary hospital site (1920-30s). According to the Institute, these sites do
not have significant historical, cultural or architectural values and are not listed in any of the
state, provincial or county level cultural relics lists. Preservative excavation will be conducted
only at the Jianlilupu site as the other two sites are farther away from the proposedExpressway.
The proposed Expressway alignment will skirt the Qinglongshan dinosaur egg fossils national
reserve. The reserve i s divided in central, buffer and experimental zones. To date, the outer
experimental zone has no finds of any dinosaur egg fossils, but the regulations prohibit
construction activities within the zone. To further minimize any construction related impacts, the
original K line alignment (about 45m to the edge of the experimental zone) was shiftedto about
140mfrom the edge of the experimental zone.
The proposed Expressway will greatly improve the accessibility to the project areas including
national tourist attractions and conservation areas, such as the Wudaoshan Mountain Park
(located about 40 km away from the expressway). The increased tourists and vehicle traffic may
put additional stress on the environment and eco-system in the park, including air emission,
sewage, and solid waste generation.
The proposed S M E will occupy 9904 mu of land permanently, affect three urban districts, 92
townships, 46 villages and 142 village groups. The Expressway will impact residences, water
wells, walls, trees, irrigation systems, country roads andutilities within the Expressway area.
6.      Analysis of Alternatives
The analysis of alternative SME alignment was carried out in a systematic way, first by
identifying three transport corridors between Shiyan and Xi'an and then selecting the one with
the best technical, economic, social and environmental attributes. Within the selected corridor,
two alternative alignments were identified and the one with the least social and environmental
impacts was selected as the preferred alignment. Finally, the preferred alignment was fine-tuned
at several locations to further avoid and minimize potential adverse impacts of the Expressway.
Corridor I, (the preferred corridor) starts from Shiyan and passes through Manchuanguan, Sihepu
and Zhashui ending inXi'an. It i s the shortest corridor by about 90 km with a total length of 300
km. It was selected based on least land occupation and resettlement, relatively stable geology
with milder soil erosion, and least cuts and fills involving minimal disturbance and lower
disposal requirements. Corridor Ihas also received the widest supports from the people and the
local governments.




                                                   88

Within Corridor I,and limited only by the site topography and geology, two alignments,
Alignment K (107.14 km) and Alignment B (108.97 km) were selected for comparison. The two
alignments overlap in the Shiyan section and separate before mergingagain near the end of the
Expressway at Manchuanguan. Based on detailed analysis of the potential impacts, and
comparison of the two alignments, Alignment K was selected as the preferred alignment based
on lower soil erosion, land requirement, biodiversity and the amount of biomass disturbed. It
crosses fewer rivers, has fewer bridges and uses less water in construction, has less cuts and fills
andfewer tunnels, and has less cultural relics. Unfortunately, Alignment K has higher numberof
sensitive receptors to noise and higher numbers of housing relocation and displaced persons,
though, it will result in less community severance and social impacts during construction and
operation and it has received better supports from the local governments.
Within Alignment K, nine sub alignments were identified, analyzed and compared with their
corresponding K line sections. In general, the sub alignments or their corresponding K line
sections were rejected because they either impacted more sensitive receptors (Al) or came close
to the Qinglongshan dinosaur egg fossil reserve (A3) or created more resettlement problems and
went through more sensitive receptors, though it may have provided better geological stability
(Bl) or createdmore spoil (B4). Inthe final analysis, sub alignment A2 was acceptedbecause it
minimized the disturbance to the existing highway G209; A0 was selected because it shiftedthe
alignment away from the Qinglongshan dinosaur egg reserve; A4 was selected to accommodate
the growth needs of the Qingqi township andreduce resettlement; and B2 and B3 were selected
to reduce spoils, avoid unstable geological condition, reduce landoccupation, etc.
7.      Mitigation Measures
The S M E EIA includes a series of measures to avoid, minimize, mitigate or otherwise
compensate the adverse impact from the project. These mitigation measures are summarized
below:
Design Phase
The design includes concrete and stone pitching on steep slopes, interception ditches and
landscaping to control erosion. The borrow pits will be rehabilitated through the conversion of
the pits into ponds or landscaping. Erosion from the construction waste disposal sites will be
controlled by constructing retaining walls, settling ponds, and drainage systems and the
stockpiles will be covered with soil and landscaped. Similar measures will also be applied to
borrow pits and disposal sties for the other roads.
To control noise, the design includes measures such as noise barriers, tree planting, etc. to
minimize noise impacts on schools and villages. At other locations, where the predicted noise
levels are below the applicable standards, noise monitoring will be undertaken and if necessary,
mitigation measures will be implemented to control noise.
The design also includes wastewater treatment facilities to treat contaminated water from service
areas, car washing operations, repair shops, etc. Community severance i s mitigated through the
inclusion of 145 facilities (bridges, grade separation bridges, passageways, culverts, etc.) capable
of accommodating vehicular and pedestrian traffic. The project also allows for excavation,
documentation, removal and preservation of archeological and cultural relics. The Jianliupu
cultural relic site along the alignment will be excavated, prior to the start of the construction. The
result of excavation will be movedto Provincial museums for permanent protection and displays.



                                                 89

A procedure for handling "chance finds" has been included in the contract specifications
whereby the contractor will halt construction until the chance finds have been studied by
professional archaeologists. Although the project will not directly impact Sifangshan Botanic
Park, Niutaoshan Forest Park or Wudangshan Mountain Park, the project will mitigate indirect
impacts to the parks from increasedtraffic, by locating motor vehicle parking lot at 300m away
from the park area, and providingsufficient garbage bins and washroom facilities.
Construction Phase
The construction workspace will be minimized to reduce the impact of land occupation. Areas
which must be occupied will be re-vegetatedafter the completion of the project., Workers will be
sensitized to protect trees and wild animals. To minimize soil erosion in disturbed areas,
temporary protection measures, such as grass mats, will be applied in places where permanent
protection cannot be completed intime for the raining season.
Large and noisy construction activities will kept away at least 50m from populated areas.
Operation of noisy construction machinery and activities will be restricted to the day time and
banned at night in sensitive areas. Where necessary, temporary noise barriers will be constructed
to protect the sensitive receptors from the impact of the construction noise.
The project will use cofferdam techniques in bridge construction to isolate work areas to
minimize impact on surface water. Where possible, the construction will be scheduled during the
low flow periods. Construction camps will be located to minimize disturbance to the nearby
communities. Solid wastes will be stored with proper protection and removed from the sites
regularly by qualified vendors for proper disposal. The camps will be maintained in sanitary,
hygienic and orderly conditions with good housekeeping to minimize health hazards to the
workers and adverse impacts to the surrounding environment. Sewage from the camps will be
treatedinseptic tanks to meet the irrigation discharge standards.
Unpaved access road and construction sites will be water prayed at least twice a day to suppress
airborne dust. Mixing stations and hot mix plants will be located at least 300m on leeward side of
the nearest village to minimize dust and smoke impacts. Trucks carrying dust generating
materials, and materials stockpiles will be covered with canvas.
The EMP will be incorporated inthe biddocuments and its implementation will be a contractual
obligation. Training will be provided to all winning contractors and construction supervision
staff on environmental policies and regulations, potential impacts, mitigation measures, daily
monitoringand reporting, emergency handling, etc.
As regard the LRIP, road sections are located in a remote mountainous region and upgrading
works will likely be carried out by local contractors who may lack proper managerial and trained
staff. Supervision too i s expected to be weak and the environmental management of the rural
road construction may be poor. Therefore, the project provides for the local transport bureau and
the winning contractors to receive environmental management training by specialists from
HPCD. The training will encompass environmental management during construction, noise and
dust control, construction camps management, borrow pits and disposal sites reclamation,
construction safety and health, etc. The monitoring will be carried out by the local Environment
Protection Bureaus (EPB).




                                                90

Operation Phase
To minimize the impacts from noise, the EMP recommends that in future, no new school,
hospital or other sensitive facilities should be built within 250 m from the central line of the
Expressway or 37 to 50 mfrom the central line of the connecting roads. Traffic management and
motor vehicle safety and emissionscontrol will be enforced to minimize air andnoise pollution.
8.      EnvironmentalManagementPlan
A stand alone Environmental Management Plan (EMP) has been developed on S M E and
includes applicable environmental standards, environmental management system, mitigation
measures and monitoring plans for the construction and operation phases. The implementation of
the EMP will be supervised by the Environmental Office of the HPCD, the HPSECH,
responsible for the construction of the Expressway and the HPSEC, which will be responsible for
the Expressway operation. Inaddition, the EPBsinthe Project area will monitor it.
The EMP includes environmental monitoring programs for construction and operation phases.
The parameters to be monitoredinclude noise, dust, water quality, etc. During the construction
phase, environmental monitoring will be conducted on daily and routine basis using mainly
visual observations and portable equipment such as hand-held noise meters; while periodic
monitoring will be carried out by accredited institutes using standard methods. Monitoring
reports will be compiled at regular intervals and submitted to the Project Office, the relevant
agencies and the World Bank. During the operation phase, noise levels will be monitored once a
month for the first six months and once every six months thereafter; while air and water quality
will be monitored once a year. Appropriate measures to detect and control possible diseases
(SARS, HIV...) will be taken on the construction field incooperation with the localhospital.
To ensure the environmental performance of the Project, the EMP emphasizes institutional
building and strengthening and includes detailed programs for training of technical personnel
from the governments, project proponent and operation units, environmental institutions and the
contractors.
The environmental training for contractors and construction supervisors will be held prior to the
commencement of the construction. Each contractor and construction supervision unit will have
a full time, on-site, staff for environmental supervision on daily basis. The training will cover
basic knowledge of environmental protection and pollution control, the outcome of the EIA and
requirements of the EMP, environmental management and monitoring, reporting requirements
etc. The training for HPCD, PMO, the Expressway Company, and environmental institutions will
cover environmental management, regulatory framework, applicable environmental standards,
mitigationplanning, environmental decision making and pollution control technologies.




                                                91

Table 7 summarizes the cost of environmental managementand mitigationmeasures.




    (landscapinghoil erosion
    control)
    Environmental supervision         Construction                           259
    RuralroadEMP                      Preparation/construction/operation  4,427.8




                                             92

For the rural roads, the public was also concerned about road blocks and access to services
during the road upgradation, student safety, and convenient links with and access to the
Expressway.
The Project has responded to the public concerns by: (i)setting up land acquisition and
resettlement offices under HPCD to develop, supervise and implement resettlement action plan
(RAP); (ii)  developing plans for irrigation system restoration; (iii) conducting public education
program and erecting warning signs for construction safety; (iv) constructing passageways and
crossings for pedestrians and farm vehicles at about every 740m to mitigate community
severanceimpacts; (v) installing safety barriers at select locations along the rural roadto provide
protection to students, residents and livestock; (vi) installing noise insulation windows and tree
planting to minimize the impacts of noise from the Expressway and connecting roads: (vii)
rationalizing the locations of access rampshnterchanges, etc.
Incompliance with the EIA process requirements of the P.R. of China and the World Bank, the
draft EIA and EMP reports and parts of the public consultation records were disclosed in public
places in libraries, social centers, etc. along the Expressway. The Project information and
availability of the reports were advertised in the Hubei Daily, the Province wide newspaper and
at two web sites in the Province and the nation. The public consultation and information
disclosure are summarized in the tables below. Additional disclosures were carried out in
February 2004.

                                        Table8 Public Consultation
                Activity          By whom, with          When               Where
                                        whom
         Draft EA TOR,           By EA team with       December      Villages, schools and
         meetings,               affected people       2002          interviews along the
         interviews and          and local agencies                  expressway
         auestionnaires
         Draft EA reports,       By EA team, with      March-        1,500 individuals
         public meetings and rural residents and       April         from 54 villages, 4
         interviews              local agencies        2003          schools, 2 hospital,
                                                                     etc.
         Draft EA reports,       By EA team, with      August        Villages and schools
          using public           affected rural        2003          and local agencies
          meetings and           residents                           along rural roads
          interviews




                                                 93

                                  Table 9 Information Disclosure
                  Document               Date of                  Location
                                        disclosure
           Draft and FinalEA          December 2003     Shiyan City Library, Maojian
           Report                     andFebruary       District Government,
                                      2004              Zhangwan District
                                                        Government, Yun and Yunxi
                                                        County Libraries
           Draft and FinalEA          December 2003     Township Governments of
           Reports                    andFebruary       Liupo, Qingqu, Hejia, Yunxi,
                                      2004              Chengguan, Tumen, Shangjin
                                                        and Xiangkou
           EA Booklet                 Februarv 2004     Townships along the Highway
            Newspaper                 December 31,      Hubei Daily
            Advertising               2003
            Internet Sites            October, 2003     www.peop1e.com.cn
                                      andDecember       www.cnhubei.com
                                      2004              www.hbjt.Eov.cn



11.     Social Safeguards Issues
SME
Land Acquisition and Resettlement-RelatedImpacts
FromNovember 2002 to February 2003, HPCD set up teams of local officials, representativesof
villagers, to start field survey work. The Land Resources Administration Departments and local
governments also participated in the census of displaced people and inventory of affected assets.
The census and various categoriesof impacts were recordedintabular format for eachhousehold
and village. They were verified and signed off on by the village committee, the head of the
household, and the investigation team. HPCD sent another team to the field during March to
September 2003 to prepare the Resettlement Action Plan. Beijing University was hired to
conduct social assessments duringAugust to September 2003.
Socioeconomic Survey
Resettlement planning i s based on the preliminary project design, a census of the displaced
population, an inventory of affected assets, a socioeconomic survey, a social assessment, and
ongoing consultations with the displaced population. HPCD conducted the socioeconomic
survey to analyze project impacts, understand the socioeconomic background in project-affected
areas, and consult with displaced people to have their feedback inresettlement planning.
The project starts east of Shiyan city and ends at the border between Hubei and Shaanxi
provinces, in the western part of Hubei 500 km from Wuhan, the capital. Corn and rice are
grown here, but the average yield i s low. Land holding per capita i s about 0.9 mu. Animal
husbandry is also important. In the project areas along the SME, farmers' non-farm activities
have become an important source of income. Farmers often go to work as wage laborers, some
long term and some seasonal.


                                                94

Project Impact
According to the S M E Resettlement Action Plan (RAP), the project will affect 46 villages in 9
townships in 4 counties or districts. The project will require the permanent acquisition of 12,605
mu (840 hectares) of land. This includes 5,329 mu (355 hectares) of collective agricultural land
and 7,276 mu (485 hectares) of collective non-agricultural land. Of the collective agricultural
land to be acquired, 1,052 mu (68 hectares) is paddy land, 2,942 (196 hectares) mu is dry land,
679 (45 hectares) mu i s vegetable land, and 611 (41 hectares) mu i s orchard land. Of the
collective non-agricultural landto be acquired, 5,107 mu (340 hectares) i s timber forestland, 542
mu (36 hectares) is cultivated forestland, and 1,060 mu (71 hectares) is wasteland. House plots
take up 566 mu (38 hectares).
The project will affect 5,302 households with a population of 21,176, including the people
affected by land acquisition and structure demolition. Structural demolition of private residential
housing i s expected to total 41,256 sq m, with 1,619 households (6,699 individuals) affected. A
total of 3,683 households with 14,477 individuals will be affected only by land acquisition. Nine
enterpriseswill be affected.
Relatively minor design changes are likely to continue until implementation. Typically, final
designs result in marginal reductions in land acquisition and structural demolition, as well as
changes inthe proportions of categories of affected land and structures.
Legal Framework
The project will comply with the following policies inresettlement planningandthe resettlement
policy framework for ruralroads:
        World Bank OP 4.12 on Involuntary Resettlement
        LandAdministration Law of People's Republic of China

    0   Implementation Regulations of the LandLaw of People's Republic of China

    0   Forest Law of People's Republic of China
        MineralResourcesLaw of People's Republic of China
        Relevant HubeiProvince regulations on land, water resources, andforest resources.
The following policy principles were followed inthe development of the RAP:
        All kinds of measures will be explored to minimize adverse impacts, including
        engineering, technical, environmental and economic measures.
        The objective of resettlement planning is to increaseor at least restore the living standard
        of the affected population.
        All affectedassets will be compensatedat replacement cost without depreciation.
        The affected people and local governments will be consulted about compensation rates.
        A compensation fund will be paidthree months before acquisition of assets.
        Resettlement will be land based, with non-farm industrial employment and self-
        employment as complementary measures.
        The affected people and the host population will be encouraged to participate in
        resettlement planning.
        Resettled people will be relocated inexisting villages or productionteams.



                                                 95

Compensation Standards
The project office consults each county involved and negotiates compensation. Actual
compensation rates will be based on replacement costs for various categories of affected assets.
Landcompensation will bebased on the highest average annual output value per muon the same
land in the affected counties. Compensation rates must meet or exceed legal requirements and
replacement cost valuation.
The land compensation rates for paddy and vegetable land are RMB 7,219 (about US$SSO) per
mu, which is 14 times the average agricultural output. The land compensation rates are RMB
6,443 (about US$786) per mu for dry land, timber forestland, and water pool and orchard land,
which is about 14 times the annual average output of the land. In addition, for wasteland to be
acquired, the project will pay anominal compensation of RMB 200 (about US$24) per mu.
Compensation rates for affected structures are basedon replacement cost. The rate for residential
structures constructed primarily of brick and concrete will be RMB 260 (about US$32) per
square meter. For residential structures constructed primarily of brick and wood, the rate will be
RMB 160 (about US$20) per square meter. The rate for the earth and wood structures is RMB
110(about US$15).
In many cases, local authorities may increase compensation rates for acquired land and
demolished structures in response to local variations in property valuation or to meet other local
contingencies. In all cases, however, compensation will meet or exceed standards established in
the RAP.
The project also will affect public infrastructure. Compensation based on replacement value will
be paid to government agencies or local governments to restore affected infrastructure and
services.
ResettlementBudget and Disbursement
The RAPcontains detailed compensation rates for all affected assets. These rates were arrived at
according to the above principles and after consultation with local governments and affected
people. Land compensation was estimated at 14 times the average output value per mu for the
entire project area. Detailed unit-rate analysis was conducted to determine the replacement costs
for different types of houses. They are described in the RAP. Compensation for affected public
facilities was estimated at reconstruction cost.
A detailed resettlement budget has been developed, by village, on the basis of the inventory and
compensation rates. This budget includes the base cost, management fees, and contingencies.
The base cost includes the compensation fund for land, standing crops, houses, attached
structures, facilities, land acquisition tax, resettlement subsidy, and fund for land leveling,
training, and monitoring. The management fee i s about 2.7 percent of the base cost.
Contingencies are estimated at 10 percent of the base cost. The total resettlement budget is RMB
223 million, about 6.7 percent of the total project budget. Resettlement will be financed entirely
through counterpart funds.
Resettlementfunds will be disbursed from the project office to the various entitled units through
 the resettlement offices at city and county levels. Land compensation, including compensation
 for standing crops, will be paid to the villages from county government agencies. The project
 office will open a bank account for each village and allocate compensation funds three months
 before the village land i s acquired and assign the local bank to supervise disbursement. For


                                                 96

private houses and other private assets, compensation will be paiddirectly to the affected farmers
and individuals through a specific local bank account. Compensation for public facilities will be
paid to the owner of government agencies.
Livelihood Restoration
Relocation of households. Villages will receive new residential plots. Sites for the houses will
be finalized during consultation with affected households. Farmers will receive cash
compensation to build their own new houses. All relocating households will be serviced with
existing public facilities and infrastructure. No need for additional village infrastructure i s
anticipated.
The project will require 99,323 sq m of residential structures constructed primarily of earth and
wood, about 62 percent of major structures requiredby the project. The Bank team suggested
that HPCD not only compensatefor earth and brick structures with replacement cost but consider
as well (i)some kind of assistance to displaced families in poor areas, (ii)    a preferential policy
for poor families who may not be able to build brick and wood houses but are eager do so, (iii)
consultation on and survey in the field of minimum living space per family, (iv) protection of
cultivated landto avoid using topsoil to buildearth and wood houses.
HPCD has increased compensation for earth and wood structures by RMB 20 per sq m. Earth
and wood structures, like brick and wood structures, will be compensated for with as much as
RMB160 per sq m if total compensation for a family of three i s not enough to build60 sq m of
brick-and-wood house. Smaller families will receive enough compensation to build 20 sq m of
brick and wood house per person
Rehabilitation of public facilities. Affected infrastructure facilities are mainly irrigation canals,
power and telecommunication lines, and transport facilities. For these facilities, compensation
based on the replacement cost will be paid to the owners. The project office conducted surveys
of irrigation canal recovery and underpasses for herds and the results are reflected in the RAP.
The records have taken into account for the design of SME. The affected irrigation canals and
underpasses will be reconstructed by project construction contractors and supervised by the
affected villages. The owners of the other facilities will be responsible for their reconstruction.
Livelihood restoration. The proposed expressway alignment will pass primarily through
relatively rural areas. The rural population densities are comparatively high with on average 0.9
muof farmland per capita before land acquisition and0.8 muafter landacquisition. Resettlement
planning included a review of impacts on incomes, which is based on village impact analysis.
Fourteen villages will be affected by land acquisition of more than 10 percent of total village
farmland, Livelihood restoration for farmers losing agricultural land will follow a land and
agricultural development-based strategy. All affected farmers will get cultivated land through
redistribution of collective village land or land reclamation. Land reclamation i s an important
strategy that solves problems causedby construction waste material and creates land for villages
that lose farmland. It i s expected that 2,287 muof landwill be created-about      49 percent of total
acquired farming land.
Land redistribution and development are likely to start in July 2004. Consultations with the
displaced villages on livelihood development have begun. Resettlement subsidy funds and land
compensation funds will be used to provide assistance for self-employment and improving




                                                  97

agricultural productivity through land reclamation and irrigation development, soil improvement,
andother activities.
A village-based development plan was undertaken ineach affected village. Inmost villages, land
redistribution will be undertaken so that all village members can retain access to land, and the
village will use compensation to improve agricultural production. If affected villagers lose land
and others are not willing to redistributetheir land to the affected people, further consultations
will be held to devise village-specific strategies for livelihood development and income-
generating measures.
InstitutionalArrangements
The provincial resettlement leading group led by a vice governor and made up of officials from
HPCD, cities, and counties will oversee resettlement operations. HPCD has established the
Hubei Expressway Resettlement Office to manage those operations. This office has set up a
multilevel organizational framework to plan and implement resettlement, with resettlement
offices at different levels of governments, including project level and City, countyhanner, and
township levels. Local offices are staffed with experts, and their responsibilities are specified in
detail inthe RAP. Other relevant government agencies are involved at different levels, including
planning, finance, communications, and land administration. A detailed training program has
been developed to buildthe capacity of project offices.
HPCD will control resettlement fund cash flow, and each affected village will open a local bank
account that will be supervisedby the bank. HPCD will issue specific regulations on resettlement
fund approval and usage. The appointed bank will report resettlement fund usage item by item
daily to the project office. HPCD will also strengthenthe capacity of township-level and county-
level resettlement fund management.
Implementation Schedule
Resettlement scheduling will follow the following principles:

    0   House demolition will be phased, and civil works will not start before the relocating
        householdsmove into their new houses.

    0   Demolition notice must be served at least three months before relocation, and relocating
        households will be given at least three months for new house construction.

    0   Civil works cannot start before compensation payment and land acquisition are
        completed.

    0   Redistribution of landwill be carried out duringseasonalbreaks.

    0   Village-specific livelihood restoration measures will be developed at the same time as
        landredistribution.

    0   Reconstruction and rehabilitation of affected public facilities and infrastructure will be
        completed before civil works start.
Public Consultation and Grievance Redress
The RAP was prepared with the participation of the displaced population. Local governments,
village leaders, and the affected people participated in the census and inventory, the finalization
of the alignment, and the establishment of the compensation rates and relocation and livelihood
development schemes. In November 2002, HPCD hired Wuhan University to guide the



                                                 98

socioeconomic survey. Asset compensation and resettlement policy were addressed in March
2003. In August 2003, HPCD hiredthe BeijingUniversity to conduct the social assessment, and
Wuhan University to guide the livelihoodrestoration plan. Project information and resettlement
policies were disseminated among them before and during the consultation process. The affected
population was systematically consulted during the social assessment, and its feedback was
incorporated into the RAP. The final draft RAP was placed in local libraries and its availability
announced in local newspapers. The project office will prepare a resettlement information
booklet anddistributeit to all displaced households.
The project office has designed a grievance redress mechanism. Grievances will be redressed
through the resettlement management at different levels. The RAP contains detailed procedures
and timeframes for grievance redress. This mechanism will be described in the resettlement
informationbooklet.
ResettlementMonitoring
To ensure the smooth and successfulimplementation of the RAP, the project office has designed
both internal and independent monitoring mechanisms for RAP implementation. Internal
monitoring will be conducted through the resettlement offices at various levels of governmental
agencies. It will focus mainly on physical progress. Independent monitoring will be carried out
by Wuhan University every six months. Besides physical progress, it will evaluate livelihood
restoration efforts and their effectiveness. The RAP describes in detail monitoring purpose,
responsibility, indicators, methodology, procedures, and reportingrequirements.
Linkage
S M E will connect to Xianshi expressway, which opened to traffic in December 2003, at the
Shiyan end of the alignment, and to the Shangluo - Manchuangan expressway at the border with
Shaanxi province to be constructed at the same time as SME. Because the Xianshi expressway
construction project was implementedby HPCD, environmental and social issues were assessed
during the preparation of the Bank-financed Hubei Xiaoxian Highway project. The Bank found
that the Xianshi expressway meets domestic environmental laws and standards, including
approval of the environmental impact assessment (EIA) by the State Environmental Protection
Agency (SEPA), and resettlement operations were carried out in accordance with provisions of
the national and provincial Land Administration Laws. The Bank has undertaken due diligence
on the new Shangluo-Manchuangan expressway in Shaanxi. This province has provided
assurances satisfactory to the Bank that the environmental assessments and resettlement action
plans will be conducted in accordance with national and provincial legal requirements.

LRIP
Resettlement
The Social Investigation and Research Institute of Beijing University carried out a social
assessment in the areas served by S M E and the first phase of the LRP and completed a social
assessment report and a poverty alleviation appraisal report. The social assessment screenedthe
socioeconomic settings, reviewed the key social development issues in the project areas,
identifiedkey stakeholders, facilitated community consultation through focus group discussions
and interviews, and recorded the concerns and recommendations of the community. The social
assessment report indicates that local economic development i s impeded by inconvenient
transportation, lack of information, and low prices for agricultural products, among other things.


                                                99

The report also concluded that the project will meet urgent transportation demands and should
increase farmers' income, improve connections to outside markets, foster employment
opportunities, reduce poverty, and promote the social position of women and children's
education. The villagers interviewed support both the expressway and local roadimprovements.
The social assessment paid particular attention to ethnic minority groups, women, and other
vulnerable groups to ensure that they participate in and benefit from the project. The report
concluded that no minority community i s affected by the project. Thus, a separate Ethnic
MinoritiesDevelopment Plan i s not needed.




                                              100

                       Annex 11:Project Preparation and Supervision

                          CHINA: HubeiShiman Highway Project

                                                  Planned                   Actual
PCNreview                                       30-May-03                  03-Jun-03
InitialPID to PIC                                16-Jun-03                 11-Jun-03
Initial ISDS to PIC                              16-Jun-03                 02-Jul-03
Appraisal                                       08-Mar-04                 08-Mar-04
Negotiations                                    20-Apr-04                  20-Apr-04
BoardlRVP approval                               24-Jun-04
Planned date of effectiveness                    29-Oct-04
Planned date of mid-term review
Plannedclosing date                             30-June-09

Hubei Provincial Communications Department was responsible for preparing the project for the
Borrower. I t was assisted by (i)the HPCDI and the Second Highway Institute of MOC for the
engineering design of SME, (ii) HPHAB and HPCDI for the preparation of the LRIP, (iii)
                                the                                                         the
Second Navigation Survey and Design Institute of MOC for the environmental safeguard
documents for SME, and the Shipping Research Institute for those for the LRIP, (iv) the Beijing
University for social surveys on SME and the LRIP, and (v) the Wuhan University for the S M E
RAP.

Bank staff and consultants who worked on the project included:
Name                                            Title                        Unit

Michel Bellier             Task Team LeaderhadTransport Specialist          EASTR
Robin Carruthers           LeadTransport Economist                          TUDTR
Han-Kang Yen               ResearchAnalyst                                  EASTR
Jean-Marie Braun           Highway Engineering Consultant                   EASTR
Boping Gao                 Transport Specialist                             EACCF
Ani1Somani                 Sr. Environmental Specialist                     EASEN
Daniel Gibson              Sr. Social Scientist                             EASSD
Zhefu Liu                  Social Development Specialist                    EASSD
Anthony Bliss              Sr. RoadSafety Specialist                        TUDTR
Christopher Bennett        Sr. Transport Specialist                         EASTR
Emmanuel Py                Jr. Professional Associate                       EASTR
Xiaoping Li                Procurement Specialist                           EAPCO
R.I. Gopalkrishnan         Procurement Consultant                           EAPCO
KarinNordlander            LeadCounsel                                      LEGEA
David I                    Sr. FinancialManagement Specialist               EAPCO
Yi Dong                    FinancialManagement Specialist                   EAPCO
Teresita Ortega            Program Assistant                                EASTR




                                               101

Furthermore, a Spanish CTF grant for $95,000 was received andusedfor project preparation by
the Bank to contract consulting services for the engineering audit the design of SME. Consultant
activities included the following:

Bank funds expended to date on project preparation:

        0   Bank resources: US$355,000

            Trust funds:       US$95,000              TF030446 (Spanish CTF)

            Total:             U S$450,000

Estimated approvaland supervisioncosts:
            Remaining costs to approval:             us$10,000
            Estimatedannual supervision cost:        US$80,000




                                                102

                        Annex 12: Documents inthe Project File
                        CHINA: Hubei Shiman Highway Project

A. General Documents
   0  Hubei Shiman Highway Project - FeasibilityStudy Report      October 2002
      Technological Argumentation on Schemesof Implementation     May 2003
      by Stages
      Result on Comparison and Selection of Route Schemes         October 2003
      Special Subject Report of Traffic Predictions               May 2003
   0  Hefei -Xi'an -Wuhan Transport Corridor, Regional Traffic    November 2003
      Forecast Study
      Statements of Review on Feasibility Study Report of Shiyan-  October 2003
      Manchuanguan (boundary betweenHubeiand Shanxi
      Province) Expressway
      Official Agreement Between Shanxi Provincial                 May 2003
      Communications Department and HubeiProvincial
      Communications Department Regarding the Inter-province
      Expressway Connecting Point on Yinchuan-Xi'an-Wuhan
      between Shanxi andHubeiProvince
      Baoxia-Zhushan Highway - Engineering Feasibility Study       August 2003
      Report
   0  Jainghunhe HanjianRiver Bridge -Study Report of Project      April 2003
      Feasibility
      Project ImplementationPlan                                   March 2004

B. Safeguard Documents
   Environment
      Environmental Assessment Summary for Shiyan to               March 2004
      Manchuanguan Section of Yinwu Inter-ProvincialHighway
      Project
      Environment Impact Assessment for Shiyan to                  March 2004
      Manchuanguan Section of Yinwu Inter-ProvincialHighway
      Project
      Environment Management Plan for Shiyan to Manchuanguan       March 2004
      Section of Yinwu Inter-Provincial Highway Project
      The Additional Report of the Protection Project of Cultural  October 2003
      Relics on Shiyan-Manchuanguan Highway
      Shi-ManExpressway Rural Road UpgradingProject, Baoxia-       March 2004
      Zhushan Rural Road, Environment Impact Assessment and
      Environment Management Plan
      Shi-ManExpressway Rural Road UpgradingProject,               March 2004
      Jiangiunhe HanjiangRiver Bridge, EnvironmentImpact
      Assessment andEnvironment Management Plan
      Environmental Management Plan, SanguanTunnel on              March 2004
      BaoZhuRoad


                                             103

  SociuUResettlement
     The Social Appraisal Report on HubeiShiman Highway      August 31,2003
     Project & Rural Road Improvement Program (Revised)
     Resettlement Action Plan                                March 2004
   0 Policy Framework for Resettlement andLandAcquisition of January 2004
     Local Roads Improvement Program under Hubei Shiman
     Expressway Project

C. Others
     Procurement Plan                                        April 2004
     Procurement Management Manual                           February 2004




                                         104

                                     Annex 13: Statementof Loansand Credits
                                      CHINA: HubeiShimanHighwayProject

                                                           29-Apr-04
                                                                                                                Differencebetween
                                                                                                                expected and actual
                                                                                                                 disbursements.
                                                                Original Amount in US$ Millions
Project ID FY Purpose                                              IBRD      IDA       GEF      Cancel. Undisb. Orig.   Frm Rev'd
PO66955    2004 CN-ZHEJIANG URBAN ENVMT                             133.00       0.00     0.00    0.00   133.00    0.00       0.00
PO65463    2004 CN - Jiangxi IntegratedAgric. Modern.               100.00       0.00     0.00    0.00   100,oo    2.25       0.00
P065035    2004 CN-Gansu & Xinjiang Pastoral Development             66.27       0.00     0.00    0.00   65.61     5.18       0.00
PO73002    2004 CN-Basic Education in Western Areas                 100.00       0.00     0.00    0.00   100.00    0.00       0.00
PO77615    2004 CN-GEF-Gansu & Xinjiang Pastoral Develop              0.00       0.00   10.50     0.00    10.50    0.90       0.00
PO77137    2004 CN4th InlandWaterways                                91.oo       0.00     0.00    0.00   91.00      0.00      0.00
PO69852    2004 CN-Wuhan UrbanTransport                             200,oo       0.00     0.00    0.00   200.00   26.65       0.00
PO67337    2003 CN-2nd GEF Energy Conservation                        0.00       0.00   26.00     0.00    14.60   17.15       0.00
PO40599    2003 CN-TIANJIN URB DEV II                               150.00       0.00      0.00   0.00   148.50    -1S O      0.00
PO58847    2003 CN-3rd Xinjiang Hwy Project                         150.00       0.00      0.00   0.00   106.13   12.38       0.00
PO68058    2003 CN-Yixing Pumped Storage Project                    145.00       0.00      0.00   0.00   133.25    -4.90      0.00
PO76714    2003 CN-Anhui Hwy 2                                      250.00       0.00      0.00   0.00   247.50   14.75       0.00
PO70441    2003 CN-Hubei Xiaogan Xiangfan Hwy                       250.00       0.00      0.00   0.00   156.78  -16.22        0.00
PO70191    2003 CN-SHANGHAI URB ENVMT APLI                          200.00       0.00      0.00   0.00   190.00  -10.00        0.00
PO71147    2002 CN-Tuberculosis Control Project                      104.00      0.00      0.00   0.00    90.28  -13.72        0.00
PO60029    2002 CN-Sustain. Forestry Dev(Natura1Forest)               0.00       0.00    16.00     0.00   14.11     3.40       0.00
PO64729    2002 CN-SUSTAINABLE FORESTRY DEV. PROJECT                 93.90       0.00      0.00    0.00   76.07     3.91       0.00
PO58846    2002 CN-Natl Railway Project                              160.00      0.00      0.00    0.00   34.62     0.87       0.00
P070459    2002 CN-Inner Mongolia Hwy Project                        100.00      0.00      0.00    0.00   85.84     4.84       0.00
PO68049    2002 CN-Hubei Hydropower Dev in Poor Areas                105.00      0.00      0.00    0.00   87.68    15.18       0.00
PO56199    2001 CN-3rd InlandWaterways                               100,00      0.00      0.00    0.00   79.60     7.10       0.00
PO51859    2001 CN-LIAO RIVER BASIN                                  100.00      0.00      0.00    0.00   70.70   30.30        0.00
PO58845    2001 Jiangxi II Hwy                                       200.00      0.00      0.00    0.00  127.20     6.20       0.00
PO45915    2001 CN-Urumqi Urban Transport                            100.00      0.00      0.00    0.00   52.54   48.64        0.00
PO47345    2001 CN-HUAI RIVER POLLUTION CONTROL                      105.50      0.00      0.00    0.00   87.18   -18.32       0.00
PO56596    2001 CN-Shijiazhuang Urban Transport                      100.00      0.00      0.00    0.00   85.41    54.31       0.00
PO56516    2001 CN -WATER CONSERVATION                                74.00      0.00       0.00   0.00   37.49     7.59       0.00
PO64924    2000 CH-GEF-BEIJING ENVMT II                                0.00      0.00    25.00     0.00   23.32    19.26       3.52
PO45264    2000 CN-SMALLHLDR CATTLE DEV                               93.50      0.00       0.00   0.00   11.60     5.95       0.00
PO64730    2000 CN Yangtze DikeStrengthening Project
                    -                                                210.00      0.00       0.00   0.00  109.29    97.29       0.00
PO45910    2000 CN-HEBEI URBAN ENVIRONMENT                           150.00      0.00       0.00   0.00  119.36    48.86       0.00
PO49436    2000 CN-CHONGQING URBAN ENVMT                             200.00      0.00       0.00   3.70  152.28    64.58       0.00
PO58843    2000 Guangxi Highway                                      200.00      0.00       0.00   0.00  100.22    47.22       0.00
PO42109    2000 CN-BEIJING ENVIRONMENT II                            349.00      0.00    25.00     0.00  286.54  185.32        0.00
PO58844    2000 3rd Henan Prov Hwy                                   150.00      0.00       0.00   0.00   55.58    24.58       0.00
PO56424    2000 CN-TONGBAI PUMPED STORA                              320.00      0.00       0.00 100.00 148.71     96.21        0.00
PO50036    1999Anhui Provincial Hwy                                  200.00      0.00       0.00   9.60   32.99    34.79        0.00
PO57352    1999 CN-RURALWATER IV                                      16.00     30.00       0.00   0.00   21.42    16.26        9.69
PO56216    1999 CN LOESS PLATEAU II
                    -                                                100.00     50.00       0.00   0.00   22.35    24.48        0.00
PO51888    1999 CN GUANZHONG IRRIGATION                               80.00     20.00       0.00   0.00   28.59    22.68        0.00
                    ~




PO51856    1999 ACCOUNTING REFORM & DEVELOPMENT                       27.40      5.60       0.00   0.00   17.89    17.86        0.00
PO58308    1999 CN-PENSION REFORM PJT                                  0.00      5.00       0.00   0.00     1.77    1.75        0.00
PO51705    1999 Fujian II Highway                                    200.00      0.00       0.00   0.00   65.73    63.73        0.00
PO49665    1999 CN-ANNING VALLEY AG.DEV                               90.00     30.00       0.00   0.00   19.19    11.38        0.00
PO36953    1999 CN-HEALTH IX                                          10.00     50.00       0.00   0.00   34.47    213 3        0.00
PO60270    1999 CN-ENTERPRISE REFORM LN                                0.00      5.00       0.00   0.00     2.71    4.29        4.07




                                                            105

PO38121 1999 CN-GEF-RENEWABLE ENERGYDEVELOPMENT                   0.00     0.00   35.00  0.00   23.09    27.86    8.34

PO41268 1999 CN-Nat Hwy4/Hubei-Hunan                            350.00     0.00   0.00   0.00   59.72    40.72    0.00

PO03653 1999 CN-Container Transport                              71.OO     0.00   0.00  18.61    3.16    21.74    0.46

PO41890 1999 CN-Liaoning UrbanTransport                         150.00     0.00   0.00   0.00   33.14    33.14    0.00

PO46829 1999 RENEWABLE ENERGYDEVELOPMENT                        100.00     0.00    0.00  0.00   12.87    99.87    10.40

PO46564 1999 CN Gansu & Inner MongoliaPoverty Red.                60.00  100.00    0.00  13.30  37.89    28.93   -10.99
                ~




PO46051 1999 CN-HIGHER EDUC. REFORM                               20.00   50.00    0.00  0.00    5.70     7.31    0.00

PO43933 1999 CN-SICHUAN URBAN ENVMT                             150.00     2.00    0.00   0.00  88.89    78.42    22.92

PO42299 1999 TEC COOP CREDIT IV                                   10.00   35.00    0.00   0.00  36.03   -11.40    0.00

PO37859 1998 CN-GEF Energy Consewation                             0.00    0.00   22.00   0.00   0.71    22.06     0.00

PO40185 1998 CN-SHANDONG ENVIRONMENT            ,                 95.00    0.00    0.00   1.40   20.07   21.47     3.95

PO36414 1998 CN-GUANGXI URBAN ENVMT                               72.00   20.00    0.00   0.00   715 6   66.78    27.87

PO03606 1998 ENERGY CONSERVATION                                  63.00    0.00   22.00   0.00   33.80    17.68    0.00

PO35698 1998 HUNAN POWER DEVELOP.                               300.00     0.00    0.00 145.00   31.45  174.20   -14.46

PO03614 1998 CN-Guangzhou City Transport                        200.00     0.00    0.00  20.00  100.31  120.31   100.31

PO03619 1998 CN-2nd InlandWaterways                             123.00      0.00   0.00  37.00   16.35    52.12    5.79

PO03566 1998 CN-BASIC HEALTH (HLTHE)                               0.00    85.00   0.00   0.00   36.95    23.71    0.00
PO03539 1998 CN SUSTAINABLE COASTAL RESOURCES DE                100.00      0.00   0.00   2.06   45.61    45.18   37.80
                ~




PO51736 1998 E. CHINNJIANGSU PWR                                250.00      0.00   0.00  86.00   44.95  130.95    10.36
PO49700 1998 CN - IAIL-2                                        300.00      0.00   0.00   0.00    3.97     3.97    1.26

PO46952 1998 CN - FOREST. DEV. POOR AR                           100.00  100.00    0.00   0.00   29.62   -71.11   11.24

PO46563 1998CN   - TARlM BASIN II                                 90.00    60.00   0.00   2.67    7.14     9.54    0.00
PO45788 1998Tri-Provincial Hwy                                  230.00      0.00   0.00   0.00   16.51    14.21    0.00

PO36949 1998 CN-Nat Hwy3-Hubei                                  250.00      0.00   0.00   0.00   21.15    21.15    0.00

PO03637 1997 CN-NAT'L RURALWATER 3                                 0.00    70.00   0.00   0.00    0.56     3.77    3.35

PO03590 1997 CN  - QlNBA MOUNTAINSPOVERTY REDUCTIO                30.00  150.00    0.00   0.00   13.16    16.34    1.39

PO03650 1997TUOKETUO POWEWINNER                                  400.00     0.00   0.00 102.50   30.47   132.97   23.19

PO44485 1997SHANGHAIWAIGAOQIAO                                   400.00     0.00   0.00   0.00   73.66    46.51   38.21
PO36405 1997 CN  - WANJlAZHAl WATER TRA                          400.00     0.00   0.00  75.00   22.58    97.58   15.00

PO38988 1997 CN - HEILONGJIANG ADP                               120.00     0.00   0.00   0.00    7.60     7.60    5.26

PO35693 1997 FUEL EFFICIENT IND.                                   0.00     0.00  32.80   0.00    6.74    32.81    0.00
PO03654 1997 Nat HwyZHunan-Guangdong                             400.00     0.00   0.00   0.00   48.52    48.52   24.66

PO03602 1996 CN-HUBEI URBAN ENVIRONMENT                          125.00    25.00   0.00  28.32   39.72    70.08   35.08

PO03599 1996 CN-YUNNAN ENVMT                                     125.00    25.00   0.00  19.48   35.68    56.92   11.13

PO03648 1996 CN-SHANGHAISEWERAGE II                              250.00     0.00   0.00   0.00   32.67    32.67    2.54
P003594 1996 CN GANSU HEXI CORRIDOR
                 -                                                60.00    90.00   0.00   0.00   73.92    61.33    0.00

PO03589 1996 CN-DISEASE PREVENTION (HLTH7)                         0.00   100.00   0.00   0.00    1.87    10.93    0.00

PO34618 1996 CN-LABOR MARKET DEV.                                 10.00    20.00   0.00   0.00    5.56     7.67    0.00

PO40513 1996 2nd Henan Prov Hwy                                  210.00     0.00   0.00  19.00   12.88    31.88   20.88

PO03571 1995 CN-7th Railways                                     400.00     0.00    0.00 119.00  10.28   129.28    20.28

PO03639 1995 CN-SOUTHWEST POVERTY REDUCTION PROJE                 47.50   200.00    0.00  0.01    1.21    25.36    25.36
PO03647 1995 China EconomicLaw Reform -LEGEA                       0.00    10.00    0.00  0.00    0.50     0.83     0.00
PO03603 1995 CN-ENT HOUSING & SSR                                275.00    75.00    0.00 57.46   37.16    92.53     2.19

PO03596 1995 CN-Yangtze Basin Water Resources Project            100,00   110.00    0.00   1.92   0.21     4.60     4.60
PO03540 1994CN-LOESS PLATEAU                                       0.00   150.00    0.00  0.00    0.93     0.27     0.00
PO03632 1993CN-ENVIRONMENTTECH ASS                                 0.00    50.00    0.00  0.00     1.02    1.58     1.26


                                                        Total: 12,010.07 1,722.60 214.30 862.02 5117.15 2,896.09  466.91




                                                         106

                                                      CHINA
                                            STATEMENT OF IFC's
                                           Held and Disbursed Portfolio
                                                      Mar-04
                                              In Millions US Dollars

                                                             Committed                      Disbursed
                                                            IFC                            IFC
FY Approval  Company                              Loan     Equity   Quasi  Partic  Loan   Equity   Quasi Partic

2004         China II                                28.00    0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00     0.00   0.00  0.00
2004         China Re Life                            0.00    15.41   0.00   0.00    0.00    15.29   0.00  0.00
1994         China Walden Mgt                         0.00    0.01    0.00   0.00    0.00     0.01   0.00  0.00
1995         DupontSuzhou                             7.79    0.00    0.00   0.00    7.79     0.00   0.00  0.00
1994         Dynamic Fund                             0.00    8.05    0.00   0.00    0.00     6.40   0.00  0.00
2003         Great lnfotech                           0.00    3.50    0.00   0.00    0.00     2.80   0.00  0.00
1999         Hansom                                   0.00    0.08    0.00   0.00    0.00     0.08   0.00  0.00
2002         HuarongAMC                               9.00    3.00    0.00   0.00    9.00     0.49   0.00  0.00
2004         IB                                       0.00    52.18   0.00   0.00    0.00     0.19   0.00  0.00
2002         IEC                                      20.00    0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00     0.00   0.00  0.00
1998         LeshanScana                              5.21     1.35   0.00   0.00    3.61     1.35   0.00  0.00
2001         MaanshanCarbon                           9.00     2.00   0.00   0.00    9.00     2.00   0.00  0.00
2001         MinshengBank                             0.00    23.50   0.00   0.00    0.00    23.50   0.00  0.00
2001         NCCB                                     0.00    26.58   0.00   0.00    0.00    26.46   0.00  0.00
1996         Nanjing Kumho                            0.00     3.81   0.00   0.00    0.00     3.81   0.00  0.00
2001         New China Life                           0.00    30.70   0.00   0.00    0.00    23.32   0.00  0.00
1995         NewbridgeInv,                             0.00    1.95   0.00   0.00     0.00    1.95   0.00  0.00
1997         Orient Finance                            6.67    0.00   0.00   8.33     6.67    0.00   0.00  8.33
2003         PSAM                                      0.00    1.93   0.00   0.00     0.00    0.00   0.00  0.00
1997/00      PTP Holdings                              0.00    0.03   0.00   0.00     0.00    0.03   0.00  0.00
2001         Peak Pacific                              0.00    0.00  25.00   0.00     0.00    0.00   0.00  0.00
2003         SAC                                      12.00    0.00   0.00   0.00     0.00    0.00   0.00  0.00
2004         SETS                                      0.00    0.08   0.00   0.00     0.00    0.00   0.00  0.00
2000         SSlF                                      0.00    4.50   0.00   0.00     0.00    1.02   0.00  0.00
1998         Shanghai Krupp                           27.50    0.00   0.00  61.43    27.50    0.00   0.00 61.43
1999         Shanghai Midway                           0.00   16.02   0.00   0.00     0.00   16.02   0.00  0.00
1993         Shanxi                                   15.36    0.00   0.00   0.00    12.81    0.00   0.00   0.00
2002         ShenzhenPCCP                              3.76    0.00   0.00   0.00     3.76    0.00   0.00   0.00
2001         Sin0 Gold                                 0.00    4.00   0.00   0.00     0.00    4.00   0.00   0.00
1995         Sino-Forest                              23.33    0.00   0.00   0.00    18.33    0.00   0.00   0.50
2000         Suzhou PVC                                0.00    2.48   0.00   0.00     0.00    2.48   0.00   0.00
1996         Wanjie Hospital                          13.64    0.00   0.00   0.00    13.64    0.00   0.00   0.00
2004         Weihai Weidongri                          0.73    0.00   0.00   0.00     0.73    0.00   0.00   0.00
2003         Wumart                                    0.00    6.48   0.00    0.00    0.00    6.48   0.00   0.00
1993         XACB                                      0.00   19.93   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00
2003         Yantai Cement                             4.73    0.00   0.00    0.00    4.73    0.00   0.00   0.00
2002         Zhengye-ADC                              15.00    0.00   0.00    7.00    6.14    0.00   0.00   2.86
2002         Zhong Chen                                0.00    5.00   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00
2003         ASIMCO                                    0.00   10.00   0.00    0.00    0.00   10.00   0.00   0.00
2003         Anjia                                     0.00    2.00   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00
1999/00/02   BClB                                      0.00    0.00   11.60   0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00
2002         Bank of Shanghai                          0.00   24.67   0.00    0.00    0.00   24.67   0.00   0.00
2003         CDH China Fund                            0.00   15.17   0.00    0.00    0.00    2.09   0.00   0.00
             CSMC                                      0.00   12.00   0.00    0.00    0.00    9.60   0.00   0.00
                          Total Portfolio:          212.50   311.86   36.60 83.80   134.49   188.96  0.00 79.66




                                                          107

                                               Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval  Company                          Loan     Equity    Quasi  Partic

2002         ASIMCO                             0.00      5.00     0.00   0.00
2004         CCB-MS NPL                         0.00      0.00     3.00   0.00
2003         Cellon                             0.00      0.00     5.70   0.00
2004         Colony China                       0.00      0.00    50.00   0.00
2002         Darong                            10.00      0.00     1.50   8.00
2002         Huarong AMC                       15.00      0.00     0.00   0.00
2002         IEC                                0.00      5.00     0.00   0.00
2002         KHlT                               0.00      0.00     3.00   0.00
2004         NCFL                               0.00      0.00    17.88   0.00
2004         Nanjing Kumho Ex                  34.00      0.00     6.00   0.00
2003         Peak Pacific2                      0.00      0.00    10.00   0.00
2004         SlBFl                              0.26      0.00     0.00    0.00
2002         SML                                1.00      0.00     0.00    0.00
2002         Sin0 Mining                        5.00      0.00     0.00    5.00
2002         Zhong Chen                         0.00      0.00     0.00  32.00


                   Total PendingCommitment:    65.26      10.00   97.08  45.00




                                                    108

                                               Annex 14: Country at a Glance
                                       CHINA: HubeiShiman Highway Project


                                                                  East  Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                              Asia &  middle-
                                                        China   Pacific income      Developmentdiamond'
2002
Population, mid-year(miilions)                          1,281.O  1,838    2,411                   Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                         950     950     1,390
GNI (Aflas method, US$billions)                                                                          T
                                                        1,219.1  1,740  .` 3,352

Averageannual growth, 1996-02
Population (%)                                             0.8     1.o       1.o
Labor force ("A)                                           0.9     1.2       1.2    GNI                                 Gross
                                                                                    Per                        +primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1996-02)                               capita                           enrollment
Poverty ("hof populationbelownationalpovertyline)             5
Urbanpopulation(% of totalpopulation)                       38      38       49
Life expectancyat birth (years)                             71      69       69                          I

Infant mortality(per 1,000live births)                      30      33       30
Childmalnutrition(% of childrenunder5)                      10      15        11          Access to improvedwater source
Access to an improved water source ("hofpopulation)         75      76       81
Illiteracy(% of populationage 15c)                          14      13        13
Gross primaryenrollment ("A of school-agepopulation)       106     106       111      _M x__-China

    Male                                                   105     105       111             Lower-middle-incomegroup
    Female                                                 108     106       110

KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERMTRENDS
                                                  1982    1992    2001     2002     Economicratios`
GDP (US$billions)                                 221.5  454.6  1,167.1 1,232.7
Gross domestic investmentlGDP                      33.2    36.2   38.5      41.O
Exportsof goods and services/GDP                    8.9    19.5   25.5      29.5                       Trade

Gross domestic savingdGDP                          34.8    37.7   40.9      440
Gross national savings/GDP                         35.1   38.0    40.0      43.8

Current account balance/GDP                         2.4     1.9    1.5       2.9
interest payments/GDP                               0.2    0.6     0.5       0.5
Total debVGDP                                       3.8    15.9   14.6      12.6
Total debt service/exports                          8.0    8.6     7.7       6.1
Presentvalue of debVGDP                                           14.1
Presentvalue of debVexports                                       51.8                              Indebtedness
                                      1982-92 1992-02     2001    2002  2002-06
(average annualgrowth)                                                                  --       China
GDP                                       9.7       9.0    7.5     8.0       7.5
GDP Der caoita                            8.1       8.0    6.7     7.2       6.6                 Lower-middle-ncomegroup


STRUCTUREof the ECONOMY

("7 of GDP)
Agriculture                                        333     21 8    158      145     20
                                                                                    ``
Industry                                           450    439     50 1      51 7
   Manufacturing                                   373    331     342       445     lo

Services                                           21 7   343     34 1      337
Privateconsumption                                 50.7   49.2    45.7      42.5           97       98    99    00    01    02
General governmentconsumption                      14.5    13.1    13.4     13.5
Importsof goods and services                        7.3    18.0   23.1      26.5              m-,      GDI     -GDP


                                                                                   j
(average annualgrowth)                         1982-92 1992-02    2o01     2o02     Growthof exportsand imports (%)            1
Agriculture
Industry
   Manufacturing                                   112     104     9 0
Services                                           117     8 4     8 4

Private consumption
Generalgovernmentconsumption
Gross domestic investment                           9.5    9.7     13.9     14.9
Importsof goods and services                                                                M*mExports        +lmpofls
                                                    9.7    12.8    10.8     27.5                                               I

                                                               109

PRICESand GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                         1982     1992     2001     2002
Domesticprices
p/.change)
Consumer prices                            6.0      6.4      0.7     -0.8
ImplicitGDP deflator                       -0.2     7.9       1.2    -2.6
Governmentfinance
("7 of GDP, includescurrenf grants)
Current revenue                           22.9     14.7     17.1     17.9
Current budget balance                              -1.o
                                                    2.0       1.1     0.0
Overallsurplus/deficit                    -0.3               -4.7    -3.0              -**-GDP   deflator    &CPI           I
TRADE                                                                                                                       I
                                         1982     1992     2001     2002
(US5 millions)                                                                Exportand importlevels(US$ mill.)
Total exports (fob)                     22,321   -1,940  266,155  325,565
  Food                                  2,908     8,309   12,780   14,623    4w'oo0   T
  Fuel                                   5,314    4,693   8,420     8,372
  Manufactures                          12,271  67,936   239,802  297,085
Total imports(cif)                      19,285  80,585   243,810  295,203
  Food                                  4,201     3,146   4,980     5,237
   Fueland energy                          183    3,570   17,495   19,285
  Capitalgoods                           3,204  31,312   107,040  137,030
Export price index (1995=100)               41       85       83       78              98    97   98     99    00   01

Importprice index (1995=100)                71       95       91       86                   EExports           Imports      I
Terms of trade (1995=700)                                                                                                 O2
                                            58       89       91       90

BALANCE of PAYMENTS                                                        l5
                                         1982     1992     2001     2002
(US5millions)                                                                 Currentaccountbalanceto GDP (x)
Exportsof goods and services            24,906  94,198   299,409  365,395
Imports of goods and services           20,555  86,752   271,325  328,013
Resource balance                        4,350     7,446   28,084   37,383
Net income                                 376      249  -19,174  -14,945
Netcurrent transfers                       486    1,155    8,492   12,984
Current account balance                 5,212     8,850   17,401   35,422
Financingitems (net)                     -995   -10,952  30,046    40,085
Changes in net reserves                 -4,217    2,102  -47,447  -75,507    1      9E    97   98    99      00   01     02
Memo:
Reserves includinggold (US5millions)         .. 24,842   220,051  297,721
Conversion rate (DEC,local/US$)            2.4      5.9       8.3     8.3

EXTERNALDEBT and RESOURCEFLOWS
                                         1982     1992     2001     2002
(US5millions)                                                                 :omposltlon of 2002 debt ( U S mlll.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed    8,358   72,428   170,110  155,678
   IBRD                                      0    3,752   11,550   12,051
   IDA                                       1    4,287    8,654    8,729                               A: 12,051

Total debt service                      2,125     8,618   24,297   23,688
   IBRD                                      0     460     1,550    1,631
   IDA                                       0       30      151      175
Composition of net resourceflows
   Officialgrants                           47     327       240
   Officialcreditors                      657     2,343    2,156     -839
   Privatecreditors                      -122     8,949   -4,017  -13,593
   Foreigndirect investment               430   11,156   44,241    49,308
   Portfolio equity                          0    1,243    3,015    2,286
                                                                                                F:62,103
World Bank program
   Commitments                            330     1,865      782      563     \ - IBRD                          E- Bilateral
   Disbursements                             1    1,331    1,791    1,733      3 . IDA     D Other multilateral
                                                                                            -                   F Private
   Principalrepayments                       0     197       904    1,157     ; IMF
                                                                                 -                              G Short-term
                                                                                                                 --
   Netflows                                  1    1,134      887      576
   Interest payments                         0     293       797      649
   Nettransfers                              1     841        90      -73




                                                         110

