                                   Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                     Report No: ICR00001409



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IBRD-47450)



                                      ON A

                                     LOAN

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF US$200 MILLION


                                    TO THE

                        PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

                                      FOR

                     HUBEI SHIMAN HIGHWAY PROJECT



                                  June 15, 2010




China and Mongolia Sustainable Development Unit
Sustainable Development Department
East Asia and Pacific Region
            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

        (Exchange Rate Effective April 8, 2010)

             Currency Unit = RMB Yuan
                RMB 1.00 = US$ 0.146
                 US$ 1.00 = 6.83

                   FISCAL YEAR
               January 1 ­ December 31

        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AADT                Annual Average Daily Traffic
CAS                 Country Assistance Strategy
CNTIC               China National Technical Import-Export Corporation
CPS                 Country Partnership Strategy
CPMS                China Pavement Management System
EAM                 Expressway Asset Management
E&M                 Electrical & Mechanical
EIA                 Environmental Impact Assessment
EMP                 Environmental Management Plan
ERR                 Economic Rate of Return
FYP                 Five Year Plan
GDP                 Gross Domestic Products
HEMA                Hanshi Expressway Management Administration
HERO                Hubei Expressway Resettlement Office
HPCD                Hubei Provincial Communications Department
HPHAB               Hubei Provincial Administration Bureau
HPSEC               Hubei Provincial Shiman Expressway Company
HPTD                Hubei Provincial Transport Department
ICB                 International Competitive Bidding
IEG                 Independent Evaluation Group (World Bank)
ISR                 Implementation Status and Results Report
ITC                 International Tendering Company
LRIP                Local Roads Improvement Program
M&E                 Monitoring and Evaluation
MOC                 Ministry of Communications
MOF                 Ministry of Finance
NCB                 National Competitive Bidding
NTHS                National Trunk Highway System
PAD                 Project Appraisal Document
PDO                 Project Development Objectives
QAG                 Quality Assurance Group (in the World Bank)
QEA                 Quality at Entry Assessment
QSA                 Quality of Supervision Assessment
RAP                 Resettlement Action Plan
SCH                 Shiman Construction Headquarters
SME                 Shiyan-Manchuanguan Expressway
SOC                 Shiman Operational Center
VOC               Vehicle Operating Costs
ZH                Zhongman Hospital



           Vice President: James W. Adams, EAPVP
         Country Director: Klaus Rohland, EACCF
                            Ede Jorge Ijjasz-Vasquez, EASCS; and
         Sector Managers:
                            Narasimham Vijay Jagannathan, EASIN
      Project Team Leader: Fei Deng, EASIN
        ICR Team Leader: Fei Deng, EASIN
                                    Selected Project Photos




Han-river Super-long bridge under construction                SME Monitoring Center




     Slope protection and greening works                Fully restored slope at completion




   SME Expressway before traffic opening              Tunnel entrance and roadside greening
  Xujiapeng Resettlement Site    Consultation with villagers




New aqueduct built by project    New brick-concrete house




  Rural road improvement        Rural road improvement
                                                   COUNTRY
                                                  Project Name




                                                   CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

 1.  Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ........................................ 1
 2.  Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes........................................ 5
 3.  Assessment of Outcomes ................................................................................... 12
 4.  Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome .................................................. 19
 5.  Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance............................................... 19
 6.  Lessons Learned................................................................................................. 22
 7.  Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners.... 23
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing ........................................................................ 25
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component................................................................................ 26
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ............................................................... 28
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes........... 32
 Annex 5. Resettlement Implementation ...................................................................... 35
 Annex 6. Beneficiary Survey Results ......................................................................... 38
 Annex 7. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ................................................. 39
 Annex 8. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR................... 40
 Annex 9. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ..................... 50
 Annex 10. List of Supporting Documents................................................................... 51
 MAP
A. Basic Information
                                                                          Hubei Shiman Highway
Country:                China                   Project Name:
                                                                          Project
Project ID:             P081749                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IBRD-47450
ICR Date:               06/24/2010              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:
                                                                          OF CHINA
Original Total
                        USD 200.0M              Disbursed Amount:         USD 199.0M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 199.0M
Environmental Category: A
Implementing Agencies:
 Hubei Provincial Transportation Department
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process             Date             Process              Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       06/03/2003     Effectiveness:             12/30/2004       12/30/2004
Appraisal:            03/08/2004     Restructuring(s):
Approval:             06/24/2004     Mid-term Review:
                                     Closing:                   06/30/2009       12/31/2009

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings          Borrower              Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory       Government:         Satisfactory
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
                                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                               Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
Performance:                               Performance:




                                                i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                             Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           No                                              None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           No                                              Satisfactory
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original                Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Roads and highways                                                    97                   97
Sub-national government administration                                3                      3


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Administrative and civil service reform                               24                   24
Infrastructure services for private sector development                25                   25
Injuries and non-communicable diseases                                13                   13
Rural services and infrastructure                                     25                   25
Trade facilitation and market access                                  13                   13

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            James W. Adams                       James W. Adams
Country Director:          Klaus Rohland                        Klaus Rohland
Sector Manager:            Ede Jorge Ijjasz-Vasquez             Ede Jorge Ijjasz-Vasquez
Project Team Leader:       Fei Deng                             Fei Deng
ICR Team Leader:           Fei Deng
ICR Primary Author:        Hernan Levy


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The main objective of the project is to support socioeconomic development of Hubei
province by enhancing its access to other provinces, particularly the western region of
China, improving local mobility within poor, remote western parts of the province, and
strengthening governance of the provincial road sector.



                                                ii
  This will be achieved through:

  (1)    Construction of the Shiyan-Manchuangan Expressway (SME) which would
increase the transportation capacity in a corridor connecting Hubei to western provinces;

  (2) A program of local road improvements in the poor northwestern part of Hubei; and

 (3) A series of institutional strengthening and policy development activities for road
management and improvements in road safety.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The PDO was not revised.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                              Original Target      Formally      Actual Value
                                               Values (from         Revised      Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value
                                                 approval           Target      Completion or
                                                documents)          Values       Target Years
                  Daily average traffic volume on Shiman Expressway in vehicles/day per section -
Indicator 1 :
                  SME
                                             A-B Shiman-
                                             Yunxian - 7955
                  A-B Shiman-Yunxian
Value                                        B-C Yunxian-                     A-B=9,770
                  B-C Yunxian-Yunxi
quantitative or                              Yunxi - 8986                     B-C=9,170
                  C-D Yunxi-
Qualitative)                                 C-D Yunxi-                       C-D=8,901
                  Manchuanguan
                                             Manchuanguan -
                                             8851
Date achieved     12/31/2004                 06/30/2009                       04/30/2010
                  Achieved. Development of traffic on the SME was higher than expected after
Comments
                  immediate opening of the connecting Shaanxi expressway, and has been rapidly
(incl. %
                  building up. Latest data showed all sections along SME have achieved the
achievement)
                  targeted traffic.
Indicator 2 :     Daily average traffic volume on NH316 in vehicles/day per section - SME
                                             A-B Shiman-
                  A-B Shiman-Yunxian -
                                             Yunxian - 3828
                  9,720
Value                                        B-C Yunxian-                     A-B=3,989
                  B-C Yunxian-Yunxi -
quantitative or                              Yunxi - 3973                     B-C=4,156
                  8936
Qualitative)                                 C-D Yunxi-                       C-D=4,751
                  C-D Yunxi-
                                             Manchuanguan -
                  Manchuanguan - 7024
                                             4535
Date achieved     12/31/2004                 06/30/2009                       12/31/2009
Comments
                  Satisfactorily achieved. Thanks to the SME, traffic on NH316 is about half that
(incl. %
                  in 2004. Targets were met for the same reason as for Indicator 1.
achievement)
Indicator 3 :     Fatal accident rate on NH316 &SME (number per 100,000 veh-km)
Value
                  3.4                       2.9                                2.1
quantitative or



                                                  iii
Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2004                06/30/2009                          12/31/2009
Comments          Target achieved. Based on data collected over the years after the opening of the
(incl. %          expressway, the accident rate has decreased over time, and surpassed the target
achievement)      in 2009.
                  Daily average traffic volume on LRIP in vehicles/day per section
Indicator 4 :
                  (A=Baoxia-Zhushan, B=Jiangunhe bridge)
Value
                  A=714                     A=1,217                            A=918
quantitative or
                  B=575                     B=1,521                            B=873
Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2004                 06/30/2009                        12/31/2008
Comments          Target partially achieved. Based on data for 2008 (2009 data was not available),
(incl. %          the daily traffic volume on LRIP for the two roads concerned has increased over
achievement)      time, and should be close to the target in 2009.
Indicator 5 :     Number of days LRIP road/bridge closed to traffic
Value
                  A=95                      A=25                               A=0
quantitative or
                  B=45                      B=5                                B=0
Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2004                06/30/2009                         12/31/2008
Comments
                  Satisfactorily achieved. Road and bridge closures eliminated with the project-
(incl. %
                  financed improvements.
achievement)
                  Improved efficiency and effectiveness of management and operations through
                  adoption of new technologies
Indicator 6 :
                A. Surveys by pavement detection vehicle (cumulated km)
                B. Implementation of new technologies for road maintenance (km)
                                           Were expected to
                                           be put in place
Value
                                           between 2006 and                 A=5,150
quantitative or
                                           2008. No                         B=3,100
Qualitative)
                                           numerical values
                                           set as targets
Date achieved                              12/31/2008                       12/31/2009
Comments
                Achieved. The new technologies were gradually put in place starting in 2006.
(incl. %
                Both A and B are in place for a large number of kilometers.
achievement)
                Adoption of new technologies improving efficiency and effectiveness of
Indicator 7 : management and operations through an annual asset management plan for
                expressway in pilot study (cumulative km/year)
                                           Were expected to
                                           be put in place
Value
                                           between 2006 and
quantitative or                                                             1,050
                                           2008. No
Qualitative)
                                           numerical values
                                           set as targets
Date achieved                              12/31/2008                       12/31/2009
Comments        Achieved. Annual asset management plans were started in 2006, and by 2010 a



                                                 iv
(incl. %          significant amount of cumulative kilometers were covered under the plan.
achievement)
                  Percentage of existing road freight and passenger transport enterprises
Indicator 8 :     systematically screened in accordance with the safety requirements, procedures
                  and monitoring arrangements of the Safety Review Process
Value
                                           50% (2009), 75%
quantitative or                                                              90%
                                           (2010)
Qualitative)
Date achieved                              12/31/2009                        12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %          Achieved. HPTD reports that 90% of the companies were surveyed.
achievement)
Indicator 9 :     Employment rate (%)
Value
                  A=47                     A=64                              A=66
quantitative or
                  B=45                     B=64                              B=65
Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2009               12/31/2009                        12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %          Achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 10 :    Population below poverty threshold
Value
                  A=60,260                 A=46,016                          A=45,780
quantitative or
                  B=31,980                 B=20,513                          B=20,110
Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2009               12/31/2009                        12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %          Achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 11 :    School enrollment, annual growth (%)
Value
                  A=1.54                   A=4.7                             A=4.8
quantitative or
                  B=1.58                   B=4.9                             B=5.1
Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2009               12/31/2009                        12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %          Achieved
achievement)
Indicator 12 :    Access to medical care, annual growth (%)
Value
                  A=1.44                   A=5.5                             A=5.7
quantitative or
                  B=1.38                   B=5.3                             B=5.4
Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2009               12/31/2009                        12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %          Achieved
achievement)




                                                 v
(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                          Original Target                          Actual Value
                                                              Formally
                                            Values (from                            Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value                            Revised
                                              approval                             Completion or
                                                            Target Values
                                             documents)                            Target Years
Indicator 1 :     SME-% of civil works completed of expressway section
Value
(quantitative     0                        100%                                  100%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2004               12/31/2009                            12/31/2009
Comments
                  Achieved. SME opened to traffic in Dec 2007. Some facilities were completed
(incl. %
                  later.
achievement)
                LRIP - % of civil works completed (A: Baoxia-Zhushan road, B: Jingjunhe
Indicator 2 :
                bridge, C: Shanghu road, and D: Dayong road)
                                          A - 100%                       A - 100%
Value
                                          B - 100%                       B - 100%
(quantitative   0
                                          C - 100%                       C - 100%
or Qualitative)
                                          D - 100%                       D - 100%
Date achieved 06/01/2004                  06/30/2009                     07/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %        Achieved; three years ahead of target date.
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                      Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                              DO                             IP               Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                  (USD millions)
  1     08/19/2004          Satisfactory                    Satisfactory                     0.00
  2     12/23/2004          Satisfactory                    Satisfactory                     0.00
  3     05/06/2005          Satisfactory                    Satisfactory                   22.09
  4     01/24/2006          Satisfactory                    Satisfactory                   54.03
                             Moderately
  5     12/01/2006                                     Moderately Satisfactory            117.98
                           Unsatisfactory
  6     05/29/2007          Satisfactory                    Satisfactory                  160.56
  7     10/25/2007          Satisfactory                    Satisfactory                  189.81
  8     05/22/2008      Moderately Satisfactory             Satisfactory                  189.81
  9     02/06/2009      Moderately Satisfactory             Satisfactory                  198.27
 10     07/08/2009      Moderately Satisfactory             Satisfactory                  198.77
 11     12/29/2009      Moderately Satisfactory             Satisfactory                  199.00
 12     06/17/2010          Satisfactory                    Satisfactory                  199.00


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable


                                                  vi
I. Disbursement Profile




                          vii
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

China's Highway Development

The project was prepared in the context of China's Tenth Five-Year Plan (FYP, 2001-
2005). As regards highways and highway transport, the Tenth FYP focused on:

   ·   Continued construction of the National Trunk Highway System (NTHS), with a
       view to completing it by 2010;
   ·   Improved transport to the Western Region;
   ·   Improved accessibility to low-income populations in all regions in China;
   ·   Development of logistics concepts and their implementation;
   ·   Development of a market economy in the construction and operation in the
       provision of transport services; and;
   ·   Improved traffic safety.

The Tenth FYP reflected the situation with transport and the road system at that time.
Despite the significant expansion of the NTHS in support of domestic market integration
since the 1980s, the road network remained sparse and logistics costs were high
compared to developed economies. The main reasons were inadequate modal integration
and service sector response. While the road network had doubled since 1980, reaching
1.76 million km in 2002, the network, at 0.19 kilometers per square kilometer, remained
one of the less dense in the world. Logistics costs, at 18 percent of GDP, were about
double those of an industrialized country.

Western and central regions continued to suffer from poor accessibility, causing isolation
and income inequality. The per capita income in the 12 western and central provinces
was less than half that in the coastal provinces. Many people in the lagging regions
lacked access to basic health and education services because of in part inadequate
transport infrastructure.

The Bank's Assistance Strategy

The project was prepared under the 2002 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS). Similarly
to the preceding CASs, the 2002 CAS emphasized supporting modernization and
development of China's road network to help alleviate infrastructure bottlenecks. A Bank
Highway Sector Strategy Review, discussed with the Government in 2001, identified the
main challenges facing China's highway sector as:

   ·   Improving accessibility to low income areas and western provinces;
   ·   Supporting economic growth;
   ·   Improving traffic safety; and
   ·   Improving management of the road sector.



                                            1
1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

The project development objective was to support socioeconomic development of Hubei
province by enhancing its access to other provinces, particularly the western regions of
China, improving local mobility within poor, remote western parts of the province, and
strengthening governance of the provincial road sector.

The following key results areas were selected, and relevant indicators identified:

   ·   Regarding the Expressway component: traffic levels on the expressway, and on
       the parallel national highway (NH316);
   ·   Regarding the local roads component: traffic levels and related indicators; and
   ·   Regarding the project's institutional component: improvements in staff skills and
       in the Hubei Provincial Transport Department (HPTD) management of the road
       sector.

1.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators, and reasons/justification

The PDO was not revised.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

While the PAD does not identify the beneficiaries, the project components suggest that
the project will have a range of beneficiaries:

   ·   Travelers on the SME, who will save cost and time compared to using the routes
       existing prior to the construction of the SME. Benefits of using the SME will
       accrue to personal travel as well as freight carrying intra or interprovincial trade.
       Those that continue to travel on the existing road will also benefit as the road will
       be less congested, and will allow faster speeds;
   ·   Traders and business people, located within the SME area of influence, or beyond
       at both ends of the SME, that will enjoy lower travel and shipping costs. The
       lower freight costs will positively impact the economic development of Hubei and
       of neighboring provinces;
   ·   Residents of the low income counties where the project's local roads are located,
       who will see their access to services and markets improved; and
   ·   The HPTD, which will improve the skills of its staff through a broad training
       program, and its managerial capacity in various areas.

1.5 Original Components

Component I. Highway Capacity Investment (US$414.88 million)

This component was designed to increase highway capacity in northwestern Hubei
province with the construction of the 105.1 kilometer-long Shiyan-Manchuanguan
Expressway (SME), between Shiyan and the border with Shaanxi province. In Shiyan,
the SME would link with the Xiangfan-Shiyan Expressway that opened to traffic in


                                             2
December 2003. At the Shaanxi border, the SME would connect to the Manchuanguan-
Shanglou Expressway (under construction at the time) that would complete the Hubei-
Xi'an corridor.

At the eastern end, the SME would serve Shiyan city, an industrial center with a strong
automobile industry, mineral resources and tourist attraction and a population of over 3
million. At the other end, the SME would end at the border with Shaanxi, where a 2,200
meter tunnel, spanning both provinces, although mostly in Hubei, was part of the project.

The project also includes a 6-km, class II, connecting road in the Shiyan area, six
interchanges, one monitoring center, two rest areas, two maintenance areas, and electrical
and mechanical equipment (E&M) for maintenance operations and management. The
E&M includes toll, telecommunications, and traffic monitoring systems, and safety and
emergency facilities in tunnels.

Component II. Local Road Improvement Program, LRIP (US$50.70 million)

The LRIP program was intended to improve the competitiveness of the local economy
and bring socioeconomic benefits to roadside communities by enhancing people's
mobility and ability to access education, health and other social services. Low class roads
would be rehabilitated or upgraded around Shiyan city, in a remote area in the
mountainous northwest of Hubei province. That area was selected because of the low per
capita income (US$266 equivalent GDP per capita in 2002), the condition of the local
roads, the high priority the province wanted to give to improving accessibility in this
area, and the potential for leveraging the benefits of the SME, which would traverse
Shiyan city.

The first phase of the LRIP, estimated to cost US$21.3 million and comprising the
upgrading of Baoxia-Zhushan road (85 km) and the construction of the Jiangjunhe Bridge
over the Han River, was identified at appraisal. The second phase was to be identified
during project implementation.

Component III. Institutional Strengthening, Policy Development and Road Safety
(US$6.36 million)

This component, complementing initiatives in previous projects, was designed to assist
HPTD in adopting more efficient practices for managing the road network. The following
subcomponents were included:

Training (US$550,000)

The program was designed following a comprehensive training needs survey conducted
throughout HPTD. The program consisted of domestic training in topics such as
environmental protection, supervision and quality control, resettlement, procurement, and
project management, and of study tours and overseas training in more specialized skills
such as road management, road finance, and expressway operations.


                                             3
Pilot Study on Expressway Asset Management (EAM) (US$160,000)

Building on HPTD's previous development of expertise in infrastructure asset
management, this study would prepare an asset management plan for an expressway
company to be selected by HPTD and was expected to last throughout project
implementation. Annual life-cycle reports would be prepared. The final report would
review the effectiveness of the pilot study and make recommendations for applying the
asset management approach to the provincial road network.

Capital Mobilization (US$150,000)

The study would analyze several mechanisms to provide capital for road construction,
maintenance and management, and the most suitable for Hubei would be identified.

New Technologies for Road Maintenance (US$100,000)

This study would investigate domestic and foreign technologies that have the potential to
improve delivery of maintenance in Hubei.

Group Management of Projects (US$100,000)

This study would identify opportunities for adopting group management of projects, thus
addressing the major institutional challenges facing HPTD in completing the Tenth FYP
projects.

HPTD Safety Management Plan (US$100,000)

The Safety Management Plan would optimize resource allocation to address road safety
by establishing priorities, including regular safety performance monitoring.

Safety Review Process for Road Freight and Passenger Transport Enterprises
(US$100,000)

This subcomponent would review road safety in transport enterprises, carry out pilot
studies in selected enterprises to improve procedures to ensure safe operations, develop a
safety screening and appraisal process, and carry out safety training for management and
staff of transport enterprises and of HPTD staff.

Procurement of Equipment (US$5.1 million)

Supplementing procurement of equipment under previous projects, this subcomponent
would finance the purchase of equipment for construction quality control and monitoring,
operation and maintenance of the SME, and office and information technology for
HPTD.




                                            4
1.6 Revised Components

The SME-Shiyan interconnecting road was dropped from the project, since the city of
Shiyan arranged with the contractor of the original two-lane road to widen a four and six
lane road. This was not in accordance with the Project Agreement, and safeguards
procedures were not followed. The works were financed by the city of Shiyan. The loan
savings amount from this revised component was US$0.47 million.

1.7 Other significant changes

The project closing date was extended by six months to December 31, 2009, to allow
completion of the institutional components, and await completion of the connecting
Shaanxi expressway that would allow traffic on the SME to build up.

The loan funds were reallocated twice. In May 2007, unallocated funds and those
destined to the canceled interconnecting road were assigned to the construction of the
SME, and the disbursement rate for the Expressway civil works was changed from 46
percent to 48 percent. In September 2008, funds originally destined for some civil works,
goods and consulting services were assigned to cover cost overruns in the construction of
the SME expressway.

A pilot HIV/AIDS Prevention Program was introduced in the project in 2005 (see
Part 2.2, Implementation).

As expected, two additional LRIP roads were identified and added during project
implementation. These were the Shanghu and the Dayong roads, in Yunxi County.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Preparation. The project was well prepared. It built on the results of three previous Bank
projects in the Hubei highway sector. During preparation, the Provincial government and
HPTD showed a strong commitment to the project objectives and design. Quality at entry
was satisfactory. The project objectives and components were relevant and well
conceived (see Section 3.1).

Lessons Taken into Account. Preparation took into account lessons from past projects,
and benefited from an evaluation by the Operations Evaluations Department (OED,
currently Independent Evaluation Group, IEG) of the Bank's China portfolio. The
evaluation, while noting a high level of client satisfaction with the investment
components, highlighted issues regarding the impact of institutional initiatives,
coordination among ministries and levels of government, such as in road safety matters,
and some aspects of design. As a result, the following lessons were taken into account in
the design of the project:


                                            5
   ·    Pilot testing of an asset management approach could serve as a way for road
        agencies to transform themselves into policymakers and regulators;
   ·    Ensuring client ownership of institutional components, and HPTD building on its
        experience with previous project to determine priorities for institutional
        strengthening, policy development and road safety;
   ·    Include accessibility in poor areas by upgrading local roads, in addition to
        financing construction of a major expressway;
   ·    Minimize design changes and variations during construction, which in other
        projects led to significant cost overruns, by HPTD following a highly interactive
        process in designing alignment alternatives and assessing technical,
        environmental and social impacts;
   ·    Implement resettlement activities on time, with HPTD establishing a resettlement
        organization at the beginning of the feasibility studies, and taking additional
        measures to avoid resettlement delays; and
   ·    Avoid setting toll rates too high, that could deter drivers from using the
        expressway.

Alternatives Considered. For the SME, alternatives were considered regarding the
following:

   ·    Design. The alternative of Class I or Class II highway to an expressway was
        considered and discarded to maintain consistency with sections already built or
        planned on the rest of the Wuhan-Yinchuangan corridor, to meet medium to long
        term forecast transport demand, the relatively small savings of building Class I/II
        in view of the mountainous terrain and other topographic considerations. A
        phased construction was also considered, but discarded in view of the numerous
        tunnels and technical difficulty and high cost of organizing civil works under
        traffic;
   ·    SME Alignment. Two main alignments were assessed, with the one selected
        considered to better serve urban areas, have lower environmental impact and
        lower construction costs; and
   ·    Private Financing. This approach was discarded because the financial
        assessment showed that the traffic in the early years would be too low to make
        project returns to be financially attractive to investors, and would have required a
        large government contribution to the investment.

For the LRIP, the area around Shiyan City became a priority as the other area where
development lagged, Ens'hi Prefecture, had benefitted in recent years from significant
investment under national programs supporting western regions.

Risks

The main concern at appraisal was the development of SME traffic, especially if the
connecting expressway in Shaanxi was not completed on time. Consultations with
Shaanxi and MOC confirmed plans for concurrent construction and opening of both the
SME and the Shaanxi expressways. A related risk was the planned construction of



                                              6
another expressway between Xi'an and Hefei, which would run 150 km north of the SME
and could divert traffic from the SME. The Bank reviewed the traffic analysis carried out
by Hubei and found the forecast for SME took into account possible competing routes. In
addition, a Bank-hired consultant reviewed traffic studies prepared by Henan and Hubei
for the Xi'an-Wuhan-Hefei corridor and concluded that HPTD's assumption regarding
diversion rates was reasonable.

Experience with past and on-going (at the time of appraisal) Bank highway projects in
Hubei, and a review of HPTD's budget forecasts gave comfort that counterpart funding
would be provided on time. The financial evaluation confirmed that SME toll income
would generate enough revenue to finance SME operations and maintenance and allow
HPTD to repay the loan.

2.2 Implementation

Fast Start of SME Construction. Even before the project became effective, bid
evaluations for the 11 contracts of the SME had been sent to the Bank for non-objection.
Eight of the 11 SME contracts received a commence order in December 2004, just six
months after approval of the loan.

Control of Work Order Variations. HPTD took a strict view of the demands by
contractors regarding work variations. This resulted in relatively small cost overruns in
contract values, despite the difficult terrain. No contract exceeded the 15 percent
threshold increase in contract prices. The most significant type of cost variation was the
replacement of embankment by viaducts, which was necessary because of soft soils and
because the viaducts required less arable land than the embankments.

Delay in Completion of the Connecting Shaanxi Expressway. The Shaanxi expressway
opened in October 2009, or a delay of six month after the planned opening date of the
SME (18 months after the actual opening). The delay meant an initial level of toll
revenues below the forecast, but the overall financial impact on the SME was minimal
due to the strong growth of SME traffic once the connecting Shaanxi expressway was
opened.

Construction Problems. Two exceptionally heavy rains in 2007, coupled with difficult
geology, caused the collapse of slopes, retaining walls and local roads. Construction of
the Han River Bridge along the SME proved to be exceptionally difficult and the contract
for this bridge was the slowest to complete. One of the SME contracts was found to be in
violation of the Environmental Management Plan, due to the deposit of sediments from
concrete plants, direct discharge of tunnel water and improper storage of excavated
materials contaminating river streams. Cuts 70-meter high shown in the engineering
design were, through minor alignment changes, reduced to 50 meters to reduce stability
risks, following advice given by Bank supervision missions.




                                             7
Slow Start of Institutional Development Components. Two years after project approval,
two of the project-financed studies had not been started (project group management and
new technologies for road maintenance), and the consultant on another study (asset
management) had been unable to make much progress. Only the two studies related to
traffic safety were on track. The delay was in part attributed to HPTD's prioritization
decision, and in part associated with long process in consultant procurement and
finalization of study scope. A similar slow start happened with overseas training
activities. Domestic training proceeded fast and was completed in 2006. After substantial
prodding by Bank supervision missions, progress on the studies improved, but progress
with overseas training remained slow, and was not completed by project closing due to
lack of support from provincial finance bureau.

HIV/AIDS Prevention Program. This was not originally a part of the project, but was
inserted as a pilot activity following a Bank decision in 2005 to test this program in a
transport project in China. The Zhongman Hospital of Wuhan University was entrusted to
lead implementation. The intervention took three years, and was successfully concluded
in December 2007.

Identification and Inclusion of Two Additional LRIP Roads. As anticipated, two
additional roads were identified and added to the project, both roads located in Yunxi
County: Shanghu road (86 km) and Dayang road (91 km).

Project Cost. The final project cost was substantially higher than estimated in the PAD
due mainly to the following factors: (i) a strong devaluation of the dollar during the
project period, (ii) bids resulting in higher contract values than originally estimated;
(iii) changes in resettlement compensation policy during implementation, (iv) significant
inflation over the years of implementation for both labor and material costs; (v) force
majeure such as extreme weather conditions contributing to increase in construction cost;
(vi) MOT's issuance of new bridge design standard significantly increased the cost of
bridge construction; and (vii) approved design variations to accommodate changes
unforeseeable at the project preparation stage.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

The project's M&E was comprehensive, and was organized along the three project
components, the SME, the LRIP and the Institutional component, with outcome
indicators related to each component. The indicators relating to the SME were limited to
four, which were sufficient to monitor outcome. The indicators relating to the LRIP were
eight, which was ambitious, especially since some of the social indicators were difficult
to collect and also difficult to establish clear attribution between the LRIP roads and the
expected impact. This is especially the case of indicators such as employment rate, school
enrollment and access to medical care. While there is empirical evidence that local roads
do have a positive impact in such areas, measuring is complex, and requires coordinating
with other provincial government departments. At the same time, separating the effect of



                                            8
the project activities from other variables is more difficult for these variables than for
other socioeconomic indicators included in the project, such as impact on the GDP in the
areas served by the project.

M&E for institutional components are always difficult to identify and track. The project's
institutional development indicators attempted to capture the outcome to be expected
from the studies, training and other activities. To this end, it included seven indicators,
some of them in turn divided into subindicators.

While most of the targets were realistic, some were unrealistically high, notably the target
value for the SME traffic which was inconsistent with the traffic forecast shown in the
PAD's economic evaluation, and the traffic on the LRIP roads, which was expected to
double in a period of five years.

Data collection for the M&E system was based on information already collected by
various divisions of the HPTD, complemented by police records (regarding safety
indicators) and provincial government sources for socioeconomic data.

As shown in the Data Sheet, information was collected for the various indicators. Several
of the indicators were useful for the HPTD's management of the road sector, and for the
Bank supervision missions. Some of the secondary PDO indicators tend to be broad and
go beyond transport sector (such as enrollment to school and access to medical care).
Though these indicators could be useful to demonstrate the social impact made by
highway construction, the improvement shown in the date could not be solely attributed
to the project in concern especially in the case where no control group was established.

The HIV/AIDS activity, because it was added to the project during implementation, was
not part of the original M&E framework. However, a specific M&E was designed for it,
and there was close monitoring of the progress and results.
The PDOs in the Data Sheet focus on the main PDO indicators, while those for which
other, external, variables are likely to have been major contributing factors to achieve the
project targets are shown as secondary PDO indicators.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Environment

The SME crosses a mountainous and environmentally sensitive area. At design stage,
careful selection of the alignment minimized cuts and embankments quantities, lengths of
access roads as well as global environmental impacts. The selected alignment mostly runs
at the edge of valleys and is parallel to the Yunman provincial road. An environmental
management and supervision system was set up by HPTD with staff especially in charge
of environmental issues within each contractor and supervision team. Training on
environmental issues was delivered to these staff prior to work commencement.




                                             9
The overall implementation of the Environmental Management Plan (EMP) was
satisfactory. All planned measures have been implemented. In addition to the agreed
actions like controlling noise and dust, particular attention has been paid to the following
aspects:

   ·   The expressway itself is noticeably green and well integrated in its environment.
       Grass and plantations cover the slopes of cuts and embankments, the wide
       medians near long tunnel entrances and exits, interchanges, annex areas.
   ·   Additional surfaces needed for the construction of the expressway like borrow
       pits, waste deposits, precasting yards, construction camps have been fully restored
       and it is even hard to detect that these surfaces could have a temporary different
       use

These achievements clearly contrast with previous projects where greening was not so
systematic and successful at the time of project completion.

These noticeable outcomes have been obtained despite major technical difficulties during
implementation: exceptionally heavy rains damaged high slopes under implementation
and various collapses had to be stabilized, treated and greened again. They also destroyed
a retaining wall containing a major waste deposit from Erdaoya tunnel excavation and the
material invaded a narrow valley and covered the river.

Restoration of the retaining wall and of the waste deposit is still ongoing and should be
completed by July 2010.

The Yunman Road, which was used as access road for most of the contracts, was fully
restored after work completion.

A domestic environmental inspection for environment took place after project completion
and the Ministry of Environment assessed the environmental aspects of the project as
very satisfactory.

Resettlement

Resettlement was carried out in accordance with the Resettlement Action Plan (RAP).
The HPTD established the Hubei Expressway Resettlement Office (Hero) to manage
operations and ensure compliance with the RAP. Extensive public consultation was
carried out throughout the entire project. Resettlement was independently monitored.
5,007 persons in 1,480 households were relocated. Land acquired amounted to 60.6
thousand mu (approximately 4,020 ha). These values were lower than expected in the
RAP, thanks to a strategy aimed at reducing the impact of resettlement, applied through
minor design adjustments of the SME expressway. A post resettlement survey found that
75% of the affected families felt that their livelihood had improved, 16% that it had
improved somewhat, and 4% that it had stayed the same. The successful implementation




                                             10
of resettlement is documented in a case study and in the resettlement implementation
report.1 Details are included in Annex 5.

Procurement

Project procurement was carried out in accordance with the Bank's procurement policies
and procedures, and no major issue was encountered during implementation. The project
included ICB civil works, road maintenance equipment and electrical and mechanical
(E&M) supply and installation contracts for SME. Other works, including buildings in
annex area of SME and LRIP were procured under NCB, following procedures
acceptable to the Bank. The CNTIC International Tendering Company (ITC-CNTIC), a
company with extensive experience in Bank-financed projects, acted as the procurement
agent.

The design and construction of 6 km long SME connecting road in Shiyan city ($0.47
million and 20% disbursement ratio) was changed from class 2 connecting highway to a
much wider urban arterial roads together with Gansu Road (not financed by the Bank) as
the road is in the Shiyan urban area and required by Shiyan municipal government. The
Bank was not informed of this change in advance. A Bank post review mission in April
2006 found that Bank policies on procurement and safeguard were not strictly followed.
Therefore the connecting road was not financed by the Bank under the project.

Construction of the Yinling tunnel, on the SME, crossing the Hubei-Shaanxi border with
most of its section insider Hubei, was procured and supervised under the project, under a
single contract. The Shaanxi portion of the tunnel was financed by Shaanxi with local
provincial funds.

Financial Management

This is the fourth Bank-financed highway project implemented by Hubei Provincial
Transportation Department (HPTD, formerly HPCD). HPTD and its Project Management
Office (PMO) have further strengthened their capacity and experience in managing this
project. The overall financial management compliance was satisfactory. The financial
management system had no significant changes from appraisal. The project financial
management system, including accounting, budgeting, internal control, funds flow,
financial reporting and auditing, was acceptable to the Bank. Audit compliance was
satisfactory and, the PMO submitted annual audit reports to the Bank in a timely manner.
All the audit reports were reviewed by the Bank and considered acceptable.
Additionally, the PMO demonstrated its capacity to submit loan withdrawal applications
in line with the construction progress.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

1
 1) Z. Liu and C. Bennett, 2008. Using Involuntary Resettlement on Highway Projects to Alleviate Poverty: A Case Study from the
Hubei Shiman Highway Project in China, and 2) Wuhan University, 2007. Shiman Expressway Project: Resettlement Implementation
Completion Report.




                                                              11
Since opening to traffic in December 2007 through December 2009, the SME was
operated by the Shiman Construction Headquarters (SCH). From start of 2010, operations
of the SME were transferred to the Hanshi Expressway Management Administration
(HEMA). HEMA is an entity of HPTD, located in Wuhan, in charge of the operation and
maintenance of the whole expressway from Wuhan to the Shaanxi border in
Manchuanguan. A branch of HEMA, Shiman Operational Center (SOC) located in
Shiyan, is in charge of operation and maintenance of SME. SOC includes 180 staff as
follows: 130 for toll collection and monitoring, 37 for patrolling SME, 13 for routine
maintenance (two in Qingqu maintenance center, two in Shanjing maintenance center,
and the rest in Shiyan). The operation center is in Shiyan. Heavier maintenance activities
will be outsourced. Operations and maintenance of the LRIP roads is the responsibility of
Shiyan City Communications Bureau, SCCB.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The project objective was and remains highly relevant. China, over the last two decades,
has made major investments in the road sector, with a view to closing the `infrastructure
                                                                     2
gap' that existed in the early 1990s. A World Bank report in 2007 analyzed the major
positive impact that such program of infrastructure development has brought to China,
and the importance of continuing such a program. Enhancing the road access of Hubei
province to other provinces and improving local mobility within the poor parts of the
province was clearly in line with the goal of closing the infrastructure gap, as was the
strengthening of governance in the road sector, which the Bank report highlights as one
of the future challenges.

The project components were well selected to meet the objectives. The SME closed a key
gap in the connection between Hubei and Shaanxi provinces, and to other provinces via
the Shaanxi road network. The LRIP program, which targeted mostly remote and poor
areas around Shiyan, was a well focused program in support of poverty alleviation. The
institutional strengthening, policy development and safety components complemented
and extended initiatives in previous projects, and included a range of important topics in
road management. HPTD had good experience with past Bank highway projects and had
the capacity to implement the present project.

As with other road projects, recently completed or ongoing, the objective of the Hubei-
Shiman project remains consistent with the Country Partnership Strategy 2006-2010,
particularly in two areas: i) reducing internal and external barriers to trade; and ii) reduce
poverty, inequality and social exclusion through expanding access to basic social and
infrastructure services.



2
    World Bank, 2007: China's Expressways: Connecting People and Markets for Equitable Development.




                                                              12
3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

Overall rating: Satisfactory

The support to Hubei's socioeconomic development was expected to be achieved through
three measurable results: enhancing Hubei access to other provinces, particularly the
western region of China, improving local mobility within poor areas, and strengthening
governance of the provincial road sector. Each of the expected results was achieved.

Enhancing Hubei's Access to Other Provinces

The construction of the SME was completed earlier than planned. The SME is part of
China's National Trunk Highway System. It connects with the large network of
expressways that already exists and that continues to be expanded. The SME provides
immediate and direct access to Shaanxi, via the SME's tunnel at the border, and the
connecting expressway in Shaanxi, which leads to Shaanxi's capital, Xi'an. At the same
time, the SME, via its connection to the Xiangfan-Shiyan expressway to Wuhan, provides
Hubei's northwestern region fast road access to several provinces east, south and
southwest of Hubei. Of special importance is the linkage to Hunan, and from there to
Guangdong, a major industrial and manufacturing area. Some of these expressway links
already exist; others are under construction or planned for construction in the near future.

Traffic growth on the SME was slow in its early years of operation, when the connecting
expressway in Shaanxi had not yet been put into operation. When this expressway opened
in October 2009, traffic on the SME picked up rapidly, reaching between 6,600 and 8,700
vehicles per day in early 2010 on the SME section, or between four and 10 times the
traffic at the end of 2008. This huge traffic increase reflects the benefits the SME brings
in major savings in time, distance and operating costs for trucks and vehicles travelling
on the Wuhan-Shiyan-Xi'an corridor, and the fact that most SME traffic is cross-
provincial passenger and freight vehicles.

Improving Local Mobility within Poor Areas

The four LIRP subcomponents, the two identified at appraisal (one bridge and one road),
and the two added early during implementation (two roads), were satisfactorily
completed. The bridge and the roads, all located in remote, poor areas, provided a
significantly improved accessibility to the poor populations in those areas. The new
Jiangiunhe Bridge provides good traffic flow, replacing the old unsafe bridge that was
usable only for single trucks and for cars. The three LRIP roads all were originally earth
roads of the lowest standards (Class IV), subject to frequent traffic cuts, were upgraded
with bitumen surface, the construction of small new bridges and many new culverts. As
a result, all these roads are now all-weather, remaining open year round. By comparison,
the two roads selected for monitoring, had road closures of 45 and 90 days at the start of
the project. The better roads greatly improved the mobility of the population in the area,
as reflected by the substantial increase in traffic on all these roads, an increase of four to
five times in the frequency of bus services, an 80 percent rise in the counties' GDP, and
improvements on all other socioeconomic indicators (see Data Sheet).


                                              13
As noted in the M&E Section, the LRIP's socioeconomic impact is difficult to analyze as
there may have been other government activities that also influenced those indicators. In
any case, the LRIP has been an important contributor to the improvement in the
socioeconomic data in the areas served by the LRIP roads.

Strengthening Governance of the Road Sector

The project's training program plus a substantive number of studies, and provision of
equipment made a useful contribution to the governance of the road sector. Although
several of the activities started late, by project completion all activities had been carried
out, the main exception being the overseas training.

Important outcomes included improved efficiency and effectiveness in road sector
management, by the introduction of survey detection vehicles, weigh-in motion
equipment for monitoring overloading, and implementation of new technologies, all of
which were inexistent at start of the project. In these three areas, utilization had, by the
end of 2008, increased by 50 percent or more over what had been achieved two years
earlier. Similar improvements were achieved in other road management areas supported
by the project (see Data Sheet and Section 3.5b).

The project also had a positive impact on road safety. Fatal accidents on the NH316 and
SME dropped from 3.4 per million veh-km at start of the project, to 3.1 in 2008, which is
close to the 2.9 target expected for 2009. At the same time, HPTD safety management
plan for Class I and Class II roads was extended to 90 percent of those roads, and a safety
review of road freight and passenger enterprises covered 90 percent of those enterprises.
This review was important, and found that commercial vehicles had a much worse safety
record than non-commercial vehicles, and had, therefore, to receive special attention. The
creation of the Hubei Safety Implementation Commission in 2007 will certainly help
taking practical measures to tackle road safety issues.

Training of HPTD staff was substantially exceeded for domestic training, by more than
50 percent the original estimate of persons to be trained. Overseas training fell
significantly short of the estimate. Details of the impact of training are in Section 3.5b.

                                                    PAD           Actual
                   Domestic
                   persons                           243           380

                   Overseas training and tours
                   persons                            50            18
                   Persons-month                     39.5            9




                                              14
HIV/AIDS Pilot

This pilot, not originally part of the project, proved highly successful (See 3.5a).

3.3 Efficiency

Economic Evaluation

SME. The ex-post economic evaluation of the SME follows the same methodology
applied at appraisal. It computes the SME benefits in terms of reduction in vehicle
operating costs, travel time costs and maintenance costs and construction and
maintenance costs using the actual values. At completion the ERR is estimated at 18
percent, which is satisfactory. This is slightly higher than the PAD estimate of 17
percent, because, on average, traffic on the SME in 2010 is 90 percent higher than
estimated at appraisal, despite the fact that actual construction cost turned out to be
roughly 67 percent higher than originally estimated and despite the fact that the
connecting expressway in Shaanxi opened later than expected.

                                 SME Economic Evaluation
                                           Appraisal Estimate        Actual
                                                  EIRR               EIRR
                  Section                          (%)                (%)
                  Shiyan - Yunxian                 14.4                13
                  Yunxian ­ Yunxi                  16.5                20
                  Yunxi - Manchuanguang            17.5                22
                  Total                            16.5                18


LRIP

The actual construction costs of the LRIP were 13% lower than estimated at appraisal.
The actual cost of the upgrading of the Baozhu road was 150 Million RMB compared to
177 Million RMB estimated at appraisal, and the actual cost of the rehabilitation of the
Jiangjunhe bridge was 36.6 Million RMB compared to 40 Million RMB estimated at
appraisal. Therefore, one can conclude that the ex-post economic justification of the
LRIP is also satisfactory.

The Baozhu road and the Jiangjunhe bridge were evaluated at appraisal, while the
Dayang and Shanghu roads were added to the LRIP program during project
implementation. The LRIP ex-post economic evaluation results show that the actual
ERR of the LRIP program is 34%, which is higher than the appraisal estimate (24%)
due to the lower actual unit construction costs and the higher actual traffic on the Baozhu
road and the Jiangjunhe bridge.




                                             15
Overall Economic Return of the Project

The overall ex-post EIRR of the project, including the SME construction and the LRIP
program, is 19%, which is higher than the appraisal estimate of 17%.

Financial

The financial return of the SME at appraisal was estimated at about 1 percent. At
completion, the financial return is estimated to be in the same order of magnitude, in line
with the relative values ex-ante and ex-post of the economic return.

The HPTD collects tolls on the HPTD. At appraisal, HPTD indicated that the financial
purpose of the toll revenue is to repay the project's Bank and domestic loans, cover
operating and non-operating expenses and cover routine maintenance, rather than
maximize the financial rate of return. The financial analysis at appraisal showed that this
would be achieved. At completion, the cost of the project was 68 higher than originally
estimated, but, on average, traffic on the SME was 90 higher than estimated, therefore
generating revenues proportionally higher. In conclusion, the HPTD will be able to meet
the financial objective it set for the SME.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Satisfactory

The Satisfactory rating is justified because the project objectives were and remain highly
relevant to China's development strategy and to the Bank's assistance strategy, the
objectives were substantially achieved, and the project's physical investments show a
satisfactory economic efficiency. Until the opening of the Hubei-Shaanxi border tunnel in
October 2009, there was uncertainty about traffic development on the SME, and its
potential negative effect on the SME's return if traffic was low. Since the tunnel became
operational, traffic has grown at a high pace. The economic analysis shows that the
economic return turned out to be higher than expected in the PAD, despite the late
opening of the tunnel. In the few months since opening of the tunnel, traffic on the SME
has been growing rapidly and by April 2010 the traffic volume has already surpassed the
targets (Indicator 1).

Other key indicators presented positive PDO achievements, especially in the areas of
socioeconomic development, enhancing Hubei's access to other provinces, improving
local mobility, and strengthening governance of the provincial road sector: most of the
targets set at appraisal time have been well achieved such as daily average traffic volume
on local roads, number of days local roads are closed to traffic; transport cost, GDP per
capital in local communities, school enrollment and access to medical care, population
below poverty threshold, etc.




                                              16
In addition, the project demonstrated very good practice in the aspect of social protection
and risk mitigation. The innovative approaches taken for resettlement and HIV/AIDS
prevention activities have been disseminated to other regions and countries.
The project's outcome might have been considered highly satisfactory if more concrete
results had been achieved under the institutional component.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

As noted in Section 3.3, the LRIP, thanks to the improved roads that became passable
year-round and with better riding quality, helped (probably coupled with other activities
by Hubei government) achieve gains in the GDP, school enrollment, access to health
services, and frequency of public transport services.

The resettlement process under the SME led to an improvement in the quality of life of
the people resettled, as documented in a Bank paper in 2008.3 A survey showed that
livings standards had increased for 71 percent of those resettled. Other main findings
were improvement in the following areas:

     ·    Housing materials: close to 100 of the homes after resettlement were of brick-
          concrete, compared with mostly earth-wood before the project;
     ·    Access to roads: average distance to a road was reduced by 55 percent, and the
          number of houses with formal road access increased from 41 percent to 75
          percent; and
     ·    Drinking water: 100 percent had access to tap water after the project, compared
          with only 64 percent at start.

Substantial achievements were made by the HIV/AIDS pilot in several management
aspects of this epidemic. Major achievements included: HIV/AID awareness among
construction workers increased from 56.7 percent before training to 75.8 percent after
training, significant behavioral changes with a large increase in the use of condoms,
discrimination against HIV/AIDS infectors dropped from 39.4 percent to 21.2 percent in
three years, and guidelines on how to promote multisectoral collaboration in combating
HIV/AIDS was developed and disseminated.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

The domestic training program strengthened the capacity of HPTD in several areas,
especially in procurement, financial management, maintenance management,
construction quality and supervision, traffic engineering, environmental management and
traffic safety. Overseas training, which would have helped HPTD learn more from


3
 Liu, Z and Bennett, C, 2008: Using Involuntary Resettlement in Highway Projects to Alleviate Poverty: A Case Study from the
Hubei Shiman Highway Project in China. East Asia and Pacific Region, World Bank.




                                                              17
relevant methods and approaches used in industrialized countries, was only partially
carried out.

The main outputs of the institutional capacity strengthening activities included six
individual reports based on a series of situation reviews, case studies, consultation
workshops, and field surveys. These reports summarized the efforts made and more
importantly, provided policy recommendations to the decision makers. By topic, these
reports covered the following areas:

Capital Mobilization for Development Finance: The available options for financing
highway development were explored and ideas were proposed on how to further
strengthen the integrated Government­Enterprise-Bank (GEB) investment-finance
platform in order to achieve the ultimate goal of sustainable development for Hubei's
highway sector. The policy recommendations on developing the GEB platform were
submitted in the form of a special report to the Hubei provincial government for review.

Project Management: A comprehensive study on the existing project management models
was carried out, some representative project cases were examined and the challenging
issues were identified and analyzed. The study summarized the possible measures to
improve the current project management practices in highway construction, and directed
the policy makers to strategically think about the future models for better project
management.

Pilot Expressway Asset Management: A Five Year Asset Management Plan was
developed, including a detailed technical proposal and implementation arrangements.
Research-based policy advice was informed to HPTD and a tool was provided for more
rationally allocating asset management funds.

Asphalt Pavement Maintenance: Under the general road asset management scheme,
asphalt pavement maintenance topics were specially studied and suggestions were made
to the HPTD, including adaptation of emerging cutting-edge technology, establishment of
life cycle maintenance plan, creating and maintaining provincial pavement management
database, etc.

Road Safety Management Plan and Safety Review of Transport Companies: A Hubei
Provincial Road Safety Management Plan based on extensive surveys and accident data
analysis was produced and submitted to the Provincial Road Safety Leadership Team,
who would lead the effort of implementing the Plan within the province. A monitoring
mechanism was also expected to be formed. A separate Report on Road Transport
Enterprise Safety Audit was also generated. See Annex 2.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

The HIV/AIDS program yielded significant achievements, including a significant
increase in the awareness level of construction workers and residents (56.7 percent before
to 75.8 after program, behavioral changes (increase of 20 percent in sample place),
reduced stigmatized attitude (rate of discrimination dropped from 39.4 to 21.2 percent),


                                           18
cross-sector institutional training (several program-prepared materials now widely
adopted in Hubei and other provinces).




                                           19
3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

Not applicable

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Moderate

The benefits stemming from the construction of the SME are unlikely to be reversed.
Traffic is likely to continue growing at a sustained rate, further increasing the benefits of
the SME, compared with the roads existing prior to the SME. The SME is likely to be
well maintained, as traffic is higher than expected in the PAD, and, consequently, toll
revenues are also higher than expected.

Potential risk to development outcome are more significant regarding the maintenance of
the LRIP roads, which depend on the allocation of funding by Shiyan city, and the
institutional improvements, for which HPTD has not shown strong commitment.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Satisfactory

Preparation of the project was facilitated by Bank experience during the preparation of
the Hubei Xiaogan-Xiangfan Highway project (Ln. 4677), which was ongoing when the
Hubei-Shiman project was approved.

The Bank prepared a relevant project, with a good mix of expressway, local roads and
institutional components. The latter was ambitious, since it included several studies and
related institutional activities, making it a more complex project, on the institutional side,
than other road projects in China. The approach consisting of applying the asset
management activity to a pilot, rather than to the whole HPTD network, proved to be
correct and helped make the institutional component manageable. The M&E system,
comprising over 20 PDO indicators, was complex and burdensome on both the Borrower
and Bank supervision. There was detailed attention to environmental and social
safeguards issues, and Bank reviews of the relevant documentation ensured that such
documents (EIA, EMP, RAP) met the requirements, including public consultation.

Quality was fully satisfactory as explained above.




                                              20
(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Satisfactory

A QAG Assessment of Supervision was carried out on August 7, 2006. The Assessment
rated supervision overall as satisfactory, and found several aspects of supervision
performance to be highly satisfactory, such as actions taken and follow up and quality
and continuity of project supervision staffing.

As with other highway projects in China, supervision of the Hubei-Shiman project
consisted, on average, of two missions per year, plus short visits as required by specialists
residing in Beijing. Supervision was facilitated by the continuity of the supervision
mission staff, especially the team leader that remained unchanged from project approval
in 2004 until 2008.

Supervision missions were especially concerned with safety of people and road users.
This included ensuring that construction workers used proper equipment and gear, that
students were provided with adequate footpaths, that the level of noise near schools was
within accepted standards, and ensuring safe road design and operations including
appropriate road signs. Most mission aide-memoires contain detailed identification of
safety issues and recommended remedial actions.

Following a grant by the Global Road Safety Facility for the implementation of a Road
Traffic Safety Center, the Bank became responsible for supervising this activity.

The technical assistance and knowledge contribution provided by the Bank team has
always been highly appreciated by the counterpart of Hubei.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

The Bank prepared a relevant and well conceived project, and supervised it effectively.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

The project during preparation and appraisal was strongly supported by China's central
authorities and by the government of Hubei. During implementation, counterpart funding
was promptly provided, allowing speedy implementation. The only exception to this was
the allocation of funding for the project's overseas training, which had a late start and
eventually only a small part of the intended program was completed.




                                             21
The creation of Hubei Safety Implementation Commission, which covers roads but also
other sectors, shows the provincial government's support for improving safety in the
province.

The provincial government was very supportive of the institutional strengthening
component of the project by making available sufficient resources and considering the
recommendations from the studies. In particular, the studies on road safety management
and new ways to finance highway development in Hubei. Several policy and operational
recommendations out f the road safety study have already been adopted by the provincial
government. Currently, the government is studying the recommendations on highway
finance and it is expected that a relevant policy decision will be made shortly.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

The performance of the implementing agency was satisfactory as regards implementation
of the civil works. The project was well prepared and HPTD was ready to start the
bidding process shortly after project approval. As a result, construction started early and
the expressway was completed earlier than planned, despite problems with contractors
who withdrew their bids and had to be replaced and construction delays by contractors
preparing the SME's road subgrade. Cost estimates for the SME were significantly
underestimated resulting from the bids. HPTD was rigorous in reviewing contractors'
request for work order variations, which limited cost overruns relative to contract values
during implementation to a minimum. Payments to contractors were regularly made on
time.

While there were some issues related to road construction and traffic safety, supervision
missions noted significant progress in this area relative to previous Bank road projects in
Hubei.

Resettlement was especially well done, and led to the preparation of a Bank paper
analyzing the successful experience with the SME.

Implementation of the project's institutional strengthening components was relatively
slow. It is clear that this was a complex component, comprising several different
activities and involving various units of the HPTD. However, HPTD had the capacity,
and it was able to allocate more resources and management attention to expedite in the
institutional strengthening components. By project completion, all such activities had
been carried out, with the notable exception of overseas training caused by political
reasons and insufficient funding allocated by Hubei financial authority. An earlier
completion of the institutional strengthening components would have allowed a firmer
grasp of the impact of this component.




                                            22
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

The overall Borrower performance is rated as satisfactory. This is based on the ratings of
the government and the implementing agency and also considering the project outcome is
satisfactory and is deemed largely to be sustainable.

6. Lessons Learned

HIV/AIDS interventions as part of highway projects can be successful. Components on
HIV/AIDS in Bank projects in the past have shown that it is difficult to achieve
successful results, mainly because it is difficult to coordinate with relevant health
officials. The Hubei-Shiman pilot, the first one on a China highway project, lasted three
years and concluded in December 2007. It showed that a well designed and closely
monitored pilot can achieve important outcomes. Key was the association of the
Zhongman Hospital (ZH) of Wuhan University as a consultant to the HIV/AIDS
intervention. Working in collaboration with road building contractors, ZH offered
training courses on HIV/ AIDS prevention, disseminated booklets with related
information, encouraged voluntary consultation and physical examination, and offered
early detection and treatment. Materials and approaches developed under the project for
combating HIV/AIDS have been widely adopted in various provinces in China.

Resettlement has the ability to increase the standard of living of project affected
persons. The experience with the construction of the SME shows that resettlement can
have beneficial effects on living standard of the affected people through the following
measures, such as (i) effective leadership of provincial government; (ii) efficient
management and distribution of resettlement funds; (iii) extensive public consultation
throughout the entire project and responsiveness to village issues and concerns; (iv)
effective procedures for receiving and addressing complaints; and (v) dealing with
complaints in a timely manner. Among these, the public consultation was the key factor.
The public made useful suggestions on the expressway alignment, the selection of
centralized resettlement sites prior to relocation, the allocation of housing lots at these
sites, land reclamation. From the start, specific objectives were adopted, including
minimizing resettlement impact, saving cultivated land, creating new arable land,
relocating to more productive land, and restoring roads and irrigation systems. The result
was improvements in housing standards, road access, drinking water, and the large
majority of those resettled expressing satisfaction with the process and their new
dwellings and location.

Close inter-agency coordination and attention to design are key to avoiding blackspots
at interchanges and interconnecting roads. A problem of agency coordination occurs in
the locations where expressway interchanges connect with local roads. In the case of
Shiman, the agencies were the highway administration bureau in charge of local roads
and the expressway company. These locations may become blackspots (locations with
high accident rates) if not properly designed and implemented. This is often the case in


                                            23
China, because of lack of coordination between the relevant agencies. The Bank missions
helped to achieve a safe design and implementation of works at these locations.

Better timing among connecting expressways will improve economic efficiency. The
SME was completed about 18 months before the connecting Shaanxi expressway was
opened to traffic. Most of the SME traffic being interprovincial, the SME had minimal
traffic during this period. In consequence, such an early opening was not optimal. A
slower pace of construction of the SME could have helped to address construction issues
better, and ensure that not only the SME but the related facilities were completed about
the same time.

More attention to institutional components is required to ensure they contribute to
improving management of the road sector. Highway agencies are correct in ensuring
that the important and costly investments, such as the SME, as well as the LRIP, are well
carried out, ensuring good control of quality and cost. This requires constant attention
and focus by key agency managers. At the same time, such agencies need to find a way to
ensure that important institutional components, aimed at improving the management of
the road sector, are also well implemented. This is likely to require the agency to
organize at the start of the project and to allocate staff with clear responsibilities for the
project institutional components, and ensuring that such staff has adequate access to the
agency's senior managers.

Some systematic issues associated with expressway development remain to be tackled.
Although having been implemented better than previous Bank financed projects in the
province, SME still presents various weaknesses common to expressway projects in
China. There is room for improvement in areas including roadside hazard protection,
functionality of monitoring center, tunnel safety, operation management and rescue
coordination, design and usage of annex areas, modeling of noise barriers, and speed
management. Extensive discussion took place between the Bank team and the
counterparts, and general recognition and agreement were reached on these issues.
Possible remedies may include updating some design standards, adjusting the design
process, achieving systematic road safety audits at design and implementation stages.
However, these remedial measures are beyond the control of provincial level, hence
further discussions should be carried out at national level. The Bank team shall engage
more at national level to provide technical assistance and raise awareness.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

A summary of the Borrower's own Implementation Completion Report is attached in
Annex 7.

The Borrower concludes that the project objectives were met, thanks to the successful
construction of the 106.4 km SME expressway, the improvement of rural roads under the
LRIP program, and the institutional development and strengthening program. The
training program is considered especially important, with the domestic training program


                                             24
largely exceeding the original estimates. The HPTD notes, however, that the overseas
training was only limited to two groups of staff. Implementation of the project
components generated significant benefits for the provinces road network.

The Borrower's report highlights the good cooperation with the World Bank through five
highway projects (including the subject of this ICR) over a period of 15 years. The report
identifies key areas where the relationship with the Bank, including in the last project,
was of special benefit to HPTD because of the introduction or improvement of
technologies and methodologies. These include: engineering design, construction
management, expropriation and resettlement, environmental protection, institutional
strengthening and policy reforms, among others.

(b) Cofinanciers

Not applicable

(c) Other partners and stakeholders

Not applicable




                                            25
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                                   Estimated     Actual      Estimated       Actual     Estimated    Actual
                                   Domestic    Domestic      Foreign         Foreign      Total      Total
Project Component /or Activity     US$million US$million     US$million    US$million   US$million US$million
I. SME
 - civil works                       211.07      425.5695       146.62      174.5784      357.69     600.1479
 - buildings and annex areas          7.13        6.1612         1.78        0.7953        8.91       6.9565
 - E&M equipment works                2.95          8.59        11.81       10.3763       14.76      18.9663
 - Connecting roads                   1.79         3.169         0.45           0          2.24        3.169
 - Construction Supervision           5.88         6.208         1.82        1.1872        7.70       7.3952
 - Land Acquisition                  26.89       31.5736          0             0         26.89      31.5736

II. RRIP
 - Civil works                       40.00        39.8439        10.00       10.0921       50.00      49.936
 - Construction Supervision           0.7          0.6991          0            0           0.70      0.6991

III. Institutional Development
and road sector management
 - Institution studies                0.55        0.9398         0.00            0         0.55       0.9398
 - Road safety studies                0.36        0.1152         0.00            0         0.36       0.1152
 - Training Program                   0.05        0.0498         0.28         0.0685       0.33       0.1183
 - Equipment                          2.57        4.4419         2.79         0.9022       5.36       5.3441

Total Baseline Cost                  299.94       527.361       175.55         198        475.49      725.361
 Physical Contingencies               20.80                      12.71          0         33.51          0
 Price Contingencies                  15.16                       9.74          0         24.90          0
          Total Project Cost(1)      335.90       527.361       198.00         198        533.90      725.361
                  Front-end Fee                                   2.00          1          2.00          1

     Total Financing Required        335.90       527.361       200.00         199        535.90      726.361

  Identical taxes and duties are US$ 13.36 million, and the total project cost, net of taxes, is US$522.24
   million. Therefore, the share of project cost net of taxes is 38.29%.



(b) Financing
                                                              Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                                Type of       Estimate    Estimate Percentage of
           Source of Funds
                                              Cofinancing      (USD        (USD       Appraisal
                                                              millions)   millions)
 Borrower                                                      329.00      527.00      160%
 International Bank for Reconstruction
                                                                200.00           199.00            99.50%
and Development




                                                     26
Annex 2. Outputs by Component


Component                      Output                 Comments
                               PHYSICAL COMPONENTS
                              Construction of SME Expressway

SME Expressway                 106.4 km, 4-lane, access-      Opened to traffic December 2007.
                               controlled expressway          However, tunnel at border with
                                                              Shaanxi province opened in October
                                                              2009.
 Interconnecting Road at       Completed as a 2-lane road     Further widening to 4 and 6-lane was
Shiyan city interchange                                       financed by Shiyan city

                      Local Road Improvement Program (LRIP)

Total length                   262 km                         2 roads identified in the PAD as Phase
                                                              I, two additional roads identified
                                                              during implementation as Phase II
                                                              roads
   · Phase I roads                                            Completed
Baoxia-Zhushan                 85 km, Class II, pop:131,000   Population shown is in immediate
                                                              area of influence
Jiangiuhe bridge               355 m, Class II, pop 78,000    Ditto
    · Phase II roads
Dabakou-Yangwei ( Dayang       91 km, Class IV,               Ditto
road)                          pop: 140,200
Shangjin-Hubeikou (Shangu      86 km, Class III,              Ditto
road)                          pop:134,200



Component                      Output           Comments
                             PROCUREMENT OF EQUIPMENT

Equipment for construction     Procurement completed and      Equipment was procured in two ICB
quality control and            equipment operational          packages
monitoring, O&M of SME
and office IT for HPTD.




                                                   27
                             INSTITUTIONAL COMPONENT
                                   Capacity Building
           Component                      Output                          Comments

Training                      Domestic: 380 persons, 250     Largely exceeded PAD estimates of
                              man-months                     242.5 persons
                              Overseas: 18 persons, 9 man-   Substantially below PAD estimates of
                              months                         (including overseas training and tours)
                                                             52 persons, 39.5 man-months
                                            Studies
Pilot Expressway Asset        Completed                      A 5-Year Asset Management Plan
Management                                                   was prepared for the 2008-2012
                                                             period. The implementation of the
                                                             Plan is through qualified contractors.
                                                             Totally 12 contractors are responsible
                                                             for 14 individual road sections.
Capital Mobilization          Completed                      Policy recommendations on
                                                             establishment of an integrated
                                                             Government­Enterprise-Bank (GEB)
                                                             investment-finance platform for
                                                             sustainable development of highway
                                                             sector were submitted to Hubei
                                                             provincial government and
                                                             government support is sought.
Road Maintenance              Completed                      Specific suggestions made to HPTD
Technology                                                   for improving road maintenance
                                                             technology. These included adoption
                                                             of emerging cutting-edge technology,
                                                             establishment of life cycle
                                                             maintenance plan, creating and
                                                             maintaining provincial pavement
                                                             management database, etc. Based on
                                                             the suggestions, an action plan was
                                                             also created.
Group Management of           Completed                      Possible measures targeting different
Projects                                                     existing PM models to improve
                                                             management of project were
                                                             proposed, and an action plan was
                                                             proposed.
HPTD Safety Management        Completed                      A Road Safety Management Plan,
Plan                                                         based on extensive surveys and
                                                             accident data, was submitted to the
                                                             relevant Provincial team. HPTD is the
                                                             leading agency for implementing the
                                                             Plan and a monitoring mechanism was
                                                             suggested.
Safety Review of Transport    Completed                      Basic information collected and
Companies                                                    provided useful data for analysis and
                                                             considering policy measures on



                                                   28
     transport enterprise safety
     management, audit, and training.




29
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

Economic Evaluation

SME

The ex-ante economic evaluation of the project done at appraisal covered the following
two project components: (i) construction of the 105.1 km Shiyan-Manchuangan
Expressway (SME); and (ii) upgrading of one rural road (85.8 km) and construction of
one bridge (355 m) under first phase of the LRIP. The ex-post economic evaluation
covers the SME construction (89% of the project civil works costs) following the same
economic methodology applied at appraisal that computes project benefits in terms of
reduction in vehicle operating costs, travel time costs and maintenance costs over a
24 year evaluation period at a 12% discount rate.

For evaluation purposes, SME has been divided into three sections. The table below
shows the appraisal estimated lengths and the actual lengths for each road section,
indicating an actual overall distance savings of 50%.
                                          SME Road Sections Length
                                Appraisal Estimate       Actual                Actual           Actual
                                Length of the New Length of the New         Length of the      Distance
                                                                                               Savings
Section                              Road (km)                Road (km)   Existing Road (km)     (%)
Shiyan - Yunxian                        24.1                     29.1             42.6           32%
Yunxian - Yunxi                         45.0                     42.0             89.2           53%
Yunxi - Manchuanguang                   36.0                     35.2             80.0           56%
Total                                  105.1                    106.4            211.8           50%

The table below shows the actual construction costs per road section that varies from 43.2
to 44.5 Million RMB per km. The actual overall construction cost per km is 49.7 Million
RMB per km that is around 52%4 higher than the appraisal estimate (32.7 Million RMB
per km). The actual construction period was four years, similar to what was predicted as
appraisal, and the actual overall distribution of the road work costs during the
construction period was 2% in 2004, 34% in 2005, 36% in 2006 and 28% in 2007.
                                 SME Road Sections Actual Construction Costs
                                                   Actual              Actual
                                                Construction        Construction
                                                cost (Million       cost (Million
                         Section                   RMB)               RMB/km)
                         Shiyan - Yunxian          1,298                44.5
                         Yunxian - Yunxi           1,846                43.9
                         Yunxi -
                         Manchuanguang             1,522                43.2
                         Total                     4,667                43.9


4
    The exchange rate used for this calculation is 1US$=RMB 7.8 Yuan.




                                                         30
The expressway was open to traffic in 2008 and in 2010 carries between 8,901 and 9,770
AADT. The table below shows the projected SME traffic in 2010 estimated at appraisal
and the actual traffic in 2010 that shows that the actual traffic in 2010 is around 59%
higher than the one estimated traffic at appraisal on the Shiyan - Yunxian section, 127%
higher on the Yunxian - Yunxi section and 142% higher on the Yunxi - Manchuanguang
section. The actual expressway traffic in 2010 over the entire SME is 90% higher than the
appraisal estimates, part of which could be attributed to the conservative traffic projection
at the appraisal time. The actual traffic composition on SME is 45% cars, 12% buses and
43% trucks.

                                   SME Road Sections Traffic
                                             Appraisal
                                             Estimate             Actual
                                           SME Traffic         SME Traffic
                  Section                in 2010 (AADT)      in 2010 (AADT)
                  Shiyan - Yunxian            6,665               9,770
                  Yunxian ­ Yunxi             4,231               9,170
                  Yunxi -
                  Manchuanguang               3,831               8,901

The ex-post economic evaluation was done by first replicating the appraisal economic
evaluation results on an Excel based economic evaluation model using road user costs
computed with the Highway Development and Management Model (HDM- 4)
relationships and considering all the input assumptions presented on the appraisal
economic evaluation annex. The ex-post economic evaluation was done updating the
main inputs of the model to reflect actual values. The ex-post economic evaluation
considers: (i) actual lengths, (ii) actual construction costs, (iii) actual construction cost
distribution, and (iv)actual SME traffic in 2010. The traffic projections for 2010-2019
and 2020-2029 adopted at appraisal (3.5% and 2.7% per year respectively) were
maintained at the ex-post evaluation.

The table below presents the ex-post economic evaluation results that show that the
actual Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR) of the SME construction is 19.1%,
which is higher than the appraisal estimate (16.5%) due mainly to the fact that the
increase in actual project costs with relation to the appraisal estimates (68% increase in
costs) was compensated by the increase in the actual expressway traffic in 2010 with
relation to the appraisal estimates (90% increase in traffic). The ex-post EIRR of the
SME is satisfactory.
                                    SME Economic Evaluation
                                                Appraisal Estimate     Actual
                                                      EIRR             EIRR
                   Section                             (%)              (%)
                   Shiyan - Yunxian                    14.4              13
                   Yunxian ­ Yunxi                     16.5              20
                   Yunxi - Manchuanguang               17.5              22
                   Total                               16.5              18




                                               31
LRIP

The table below presents the appraisal estimates and the actual construction costs of the
LRIP program. The Baozhu road and the Jiangjunhe bridge were evaluated at appraisal,
while the Dayang and Shanghu roads were added to the LRIP program during the project
implementation. The actual construction costs are overall 14% lower than what estimated
at appraisal. The actual cost of the upgrading of the Baozhu road is 150 Million RMB
compared to 177 Million RMB estimated at appraisal, and the actual cost of the
rehabilitation of the Jiangjunhe bridge is 36.6 Million RMB compared to 40 Million
RMB estimated at appraisal.

                                   Local Road Improvement Program (LRIP)
                                                  Construction
                                         Length       Cost        Construction Cost
                                          (km)   (Million RMB) (Million RMB/km)
            Appraisal   Baozhu Road       85.8        177.4             2.07
            Estimates   Dayang Road        NA          NA                NA
                        Shanghu Road       NA          NA                NA
                        Jiangjunhe
                        Bridge            0.35         40.0            114.20
                        Total             86.2        217.4             2.52
            Actual      Baozhu Road      85.18        150.0             1.76
            Costs       Dayang Road      91.00        108.0             1.19
                        Shanghu Road     86.00        160.0             1.86
                        Jiangjunhe
                        Bridge            0.35         36.6            104.57
                        Total            262.5        454.6             1.73

The table below presents the appraisal estimates and the actual traffic in 2008 of the
LRIP program. The actual traffic in 2008 on the Baozhu road is 918 AADT compared to
683 AADT estimated at appraisal, and the actual traffic on the Jiangjunhe bridge is 873
AADT compared to 233 AADT estimated at appraisal.

                             Local Road Improvement Program (LRIP)
                                                              Traffic in
                                                                2008
                                                              (AADT)
                        Appraisal     Baozhu Road                684
                        Estimates     Dayang Road                NA
                                      Shanghu Road               NA
                                      Jiangjunhe Bridge          233
                        Actual        Baozhu Road                918
                                      Dayang Road                581
                                      Shanghu Road               790
                        Traffic       Jiangjunhe Bridge          873

The table below presents the LRIP ex-post economic evaluation results that show that the
actual EIRR of the LRIP program is 34.0%, which is higher than the appraisal estimate
(24.3%) due to the lower actual unit construction costs and the higher actual traffic
observed in 2008 on the Baozhu road and the Jiangjunhe bridge. The ex-post EIRR of


                                               32
the LRIP is satisfactory. The overall ex-post EIRR of the project, including the SME
construction and the LRIP program, is 20.3%, which is higher than the appraisal estimate
of 16.8%.

                                  LRIP Economic Evaluation
                                          Appraisal Estimate   Actual
                                                EIRR           EIRR
                            Section              (%)            (%)
                          Baozhu Road            26.2           35.5
                          Dayang Road            NA             36.1
                         Shanghu Road            NA             29.1
                       Jiangjunhe Bridge         14.3           40.9
                             Total               24.3           34.0




                                            33
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members
                                                                       Responsibility/
          Names                          Title                Unit
                                                                         Specialty
Lending
Anil H. Somani           Consultant/Sr. Environmental        EAPCO Environment
                         Specialist
Anthony G. Bliss         Lead Road Safety Specialist         ETWTR Road Safety
Boping Gao               Consultant                          EASCS Transport Engineer
Christopher R. Bennett   Sr. Transport Specialist            EASNS Highway
                                                                    Engineering
Daniel Gibson            Sr. Social Scientist                EASSD Social
                                                                    Development
David I                  Sr. Financial Management            EAPFM Financial
                         Specialist                                 Management
Emmanuel Py              Young Professional                    YPP Transport Engineer
Han-Kang Yen             Research Analyst                    EASTE Economic/Financial
                                                                    Analysis
Jean-Marie Braun         Consultant                          ECSSD Highway
                                                                    Engineering
Karin Nordlander         Lead Counsel                        LEGEA Legal
Michel Bellier           Lead Transport Specialist           MNSTR Task Team Leader
R. I. Gopalkrishnan      Procurement Specialist Consultant    FPDFI Procurement
Robin Carruthers         Lead Transport Economist            TUDTR Transport
                                                                    Economics
Teresita Ortega          Program Assistant                   EASTR Administrative
                                                                    Support
Xiaoping Li              Sr. Procurement Specialist          AFTPC Procurement
Yi Dong                  Financial Management Specialist     EAPCO Financial
                                                                    Management
Zhefu Liu                Sr. Social Development Specialist   EASCS Resettlement
Supervision/ICR
Anil H. Somani           Consultant                          EAPCO Environment
Anthony G. Bliss         Lead Road Safety Specialist         ETWTR Road Safety
Aurelio Menendez         Sector Manager                      LCSTR Transport
                                                                   Engineering
Bertin Lopez             Information Assistant/              EAPFM Procurement
                         Procurement Specialist
Boping Gao               Consultant                          EASCS   Transport Engineer
Cesar Augusto Queiroz    Consultant                          ECSSD   Highway Engineer
Dawei Yang               Procurement Specialist              EAPPR   Procurement
Douglas Neil Brown       Consultant                          EASTE   Transport Engineer
Emily Dubin              Junior Professional Associate       EASIN   Technical Support
Emmanuel Py              Young Professional                   YPP    Transport Engineer


                                          34
Fei Deng                 Task Team Leader/                   EASIN Task Team Leader
                         Transport Specialist
Graham Smith             Consultant                          MNSSD Transport
                                                                   Economics
Han-Kang Yen             Research Analyst                    EASTE Economic/Financial
                                                                   Analysis
Hernan Levy              Consultant                          ECSSD Transport
                                                                   Economics
James Orehmie Monday     Sr. Environmental Engineer          EASER Environment
Jean-Marie Braun         Consultant                          ECSSD Highway Engineer
Jean-Noel Guillossou     Lead Transport Economist            SASDT Transport
                                                                   Economics
Juan D. Quintero         Sr. Environmental Engineer          EASER Environment
Maria Luisa Juico        Program Assistant                   EASIN Administrative
                                                                   Support
Mariana Torres Montoya   Junior Professional Associate       EASTE Technical Support
Michel Bellier           Lead Transport Specialist           MNSTR Transport
                                                                   Engineering
Nurul Alam               Sr. Procurement Specialist          ECSC2 Procurement
Peng Wang                Junior Professional Associate       EASIN Technical Support
Qi Zhu                   Consultant                          EAPFM Financial
                                                                   Management
Rose Abena Ampadu        Program Assistant                   AFCW1 Administrative
                                                                   Support
Ruifeng Yuan             Program Assistant/                  EACCF Procurement
                         Procurement Specialist
Sally Burningham         Operations Adviser                  LCSDE   Transport Specialist
Shou En Fang             Consultant                          ETWTR   Road Safety
Sivalingam Milton        Procurement Assistant               EASIN   Procurement
Wenling Chen             Junior Professional Associate       EASTE   Technical Support
Xiaoping Li              Sr. Procurement Specialist          AFTPC   Procurement
Yan Zhang                Program Assistant/                  EACCF   Procurement
                         Procurement Specialist
Yi Geng                  Sr. Financial Management            EAPFM Financial
                         Specialist                                Management
Zhefu Liu                Sr. Social Development Specialist   EASCS Resettlement




                                         35
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                     Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                    USD Thousands (including
                                   No. of staff weeks
                                                         travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY03                                      18                        96.0
  FY04                                      50                       259.12
                          Total:            68                       355.24
Supervision/ICR
  FY05                                      12                        69.4
  FY06                                      23                       184.4
  FY07                                      16                       110.0
  FY08                                      10                        77.2
  FY09                                      14                        83.5
  FY10                                       4                        34.8
                          Total:            79                       559.3




                                       36
                                                             5
Annex 5. Resettlement Implementation

About 780 ha of land in four counties were requisitioned for the project, including 363 ha
of cultivated land. An area of 249,646 m2 was cleared of buildings, including 69,554 m2
of brick-concrete buildings, 32,470 m2 of brick-wood buildings, 114,621 m2 of earth-
wood buildings and 33,001 m2 of simple buildings. Some 1,480 households were
relocated, involving 5,007 persons. The extent of the resettlement activities was typical
for an expressway project in China.

In accordance with the World Bank's safeguard policies, a Resettlement Action Plan
(RAP) was prepared and disclosed in English and Chinese prior to the start of
construction. The RAP described the extent of resettlement, identified affected persons
and resources, defined how resettlement would be addressed, and explained institutional
arrangements.

The HPTD established the Hubei Expressway Resettlement Office (HERO) to manage
operations and ensure compliance with the RAP. HERO supported a multilevel
organizational framework to plan and implement resettlement, with resettlement offices
at the project level and several levels of government, including city, county, and
township. All local offices were staffed by qualified resettlement specialists who received
additional training in Bank policies and guidelines.

An Resettlement Implementation Completion Report was prepared in 2007 by Wuhan
University's Center for Involuntary Resettlement Research.

    Comparison between actual data and data in RAP on land acquisition and relocation for Shiman
                                            Expressway
             Item                                                                                      Rate of
                                        RAP                  Actual               Change
                                                                                                   change       %
A. Land (thousand mu)                   12.6                     11.7               -0.9                 -7.3
B. Building      thousand
                                        189.0                    249.6              60.6                 32.1
    2,
m
C. Households affected by
                                        1,669                    1,480              -189                -11.3
relocation
D. Members of households
                                        6,699                    5,007             -1,692               -25.26
affected by relocation

Source: HPTD



5
  The sources for this Annex are: Z. Liu and C. Bennett, 2008. Using Involuntary Resettlement on Highway Projects to Alleviate
Poverty: A Case Study from the Hubei Shiman Highway Project in China, and Wuhan University, 2007. Shiman Expressway Project:
Resettlement Implementation Completion Report.




                                                             37
From the start, the project adopted the objective of using resettlement to alleviate
poverty. Specific areas of focus included:

   ·   Promote public participation: The project carried out an extensive public
       consultation program throughout the duration of the project. Sixty-six village
       committees and 40 community neighborhood committees were involved in
       resettlement land development plans. Members of the 46 villages affected by the
       project had the opportunity to participate in the planning and decision-making
       process for land acquisition and resettlement.
   ·   Minimize resettlement impact. This was achieved by optimization of the SME
       alignment at the design stage, and when possible during construction
   ·   Save cultivated land. After broad public consultation, the HPCD decided to
       acquire more built land and less cultivated land, and compensation rates for house
       demolition were increased.
   ·   Create new arable land. Three different ways were used to create new arable
       land, of which the most prevalent (93 ha out of a total of 113 ha) was by using
       waste earth from the construction activities to fill ravines.
   ·   Relocate to more productive land. Some 16 families were relocated to areas with
       better farming and commercial activities, and given additional funding to help
       them become established
   ·   Centralize resettlement sites. Over 20 centralized sites were established and 95%
       of the residents were satisfied with the new arrangements and considered that they
       had improved their living conditions.
   ·   Restore road and irrigation systems. During construction of the SME, the project
       either temporarily protected existing structures or built new ones that allowed
       residents to move freely and maintain productive activities.
   ·   Address grievances: The project put in place procedures for receiving and
       addressing complaints, establishing grievance channels at all levels of
       resettlement offices. Villagers could complain directly to HERO or the
       resettlement office at each county, or to their village leaders.
   ·   Direct resettlement funds straight to PAPs: Compensation for houses and
       structures was paid directly to the affected persons. The county/district or
       township resettlement offices opened special accounts in local banking
       institutions for affected units, collectives and individuals and deposited funds
       directly into the accounts.

The resettlement process generated significant improvements in:

    · The quality of housing. The use of brick-concrete jumped from 26% before to
      97% after resettlement, while earth-wood dropped from 59% before, to 0% after.
      In additional, the houses built were substantially larger than those used before
      resettlement.




                                             38
    · Isolation: Owing to the mountainous terrain, many of the original houses were
      isolated with limited access to roads. Before the project, 21% were within 10 m
      of road, and 16% were over 500 m from a road. After the project, 33% were
      within 10 m of a road, and only 3% were over 500 m from a road. The average
      distance to a road was reduced by 55%.
    · Road access. Before the project, there were three types of access to houses:
      (i) informal roads (open land), (ii) simple walkways, and, (iii) formal roads. Only
      5% had informal roads before the project and this was reduced to 0% after the
      project. The number with formal road access was increased from 41% to 75%.
      Many new settlement areas also now have access to the Shiman expressway via
      connecting roadways. This improved road access supports better living standards
      through improved access to market, education, and social services.
    · Drinking water. About 100 of the houses relocated had access to tap water,
      compared to only 64 prior to resettlement

Compensation paid was based on consultations between the project office and the
affected counties. Compensation was paid directly to the affected persons. The total cost
of land acquisition (Annex 1 of this ICR), including compensation, was substantially
higher than originally estimated due mainly to the restoration or roads and irrigation
systems beyond the standards in the RAP, and to fully satisfy the demands of those being
relocated. The Resettlement ICR provides several examples of this.

The following numbers summarize the success of the project's resettlement: 71% of the
affected households have a better standard of living, 51% have a better quality of living
environment and 71% have a better livelihood, with average incomes having increased by
60%.




                                           39
Annex 6. Beneficiary Survey Results

Not applicable




                                      40
Annex 7. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

Not applicable




                                   41
Annex 8. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

1. General

1.1 Objectives

1.1.1 Project objectives of Shiman Highway are as follows:

a. Speed up the pace of implementation of Western China highway planning; achieve an
earlier completion of the inter-provincial expressway network; relieve the above
mentioned highway traffic congestion.

b. To achieve better connection between this expressway and the existing local
expressways, improve transportation status of areas along the route.

c. Improve road conditions of poor areas.

d. Intensify staff training and the working capacity of the concerned departments in MOC
to improve its capacity.

e. Intensify the capability of MOC and relevant departments to improve Expressway
Division's management efficiency and ensure Expressway Division's Building,
maintaining and management fund financing sustainability and help them with their
economic policy reforms and institutional reforms.

1.1.2 Project Scopes:

a. The proposed Shiyan-Manchuanguan Expressway is mainly made up of the civil
engineering of the 105.099km long Shiyan-Manchuanguan section (the 1.31km in
Shaanxi Province is not included) and the civil engineering of the service facilities,
management facilities, maintenance facilities and toll facilities along the route.

b. Upgrading and rebuilding of local roads.

c. The construction supervision service of the upgrading and rebuilding of expressway
and local roads' sub-projects.

d. The procurement and installation of maintenance facility, operation facility,
management facility, toll system, communication equipment and monitoring system.

f. Technical training & subject research.

1.2 Brief Introduction

The Shiman Highway, locating in the westernmost part in Hubei Province of Yinchuan -
Fuzhou highway which is one of the 18 east-west lines under the National Highway Net,


                                              42
not only the most convenient traffic channel between Wuhan and Xi'an, but also the
fourth highway project that loaned by World Bank. The section is another Highway in
mountainous hilly area in our province, which connects the operated Hanshi Highway in
eastern area of our province and the under-construction Shangman Highway in western
Shaanxi Province. Shiman Highway, start from Xujiapeng village, Maojian region,
Shiyan City, goes through Maojian, Zhangwan, Yun county, Yunxi, end up in
Manchuanguan town, Shaanxi Province which lies on the border of Hubei and Shaanxi
Province. The total length of the expressway is 105.099km (1.31km in Shaanxi Province
is not included)

Four-lane highway standard is adopted in the construction of highway, design speed is
80 km/h, subgrade width is 24.5m, the width of separated subgrade is 12.5m, design load
of bridge is auto-super20, trailer- 120, asphalt concrete pavement. The total length of the
route is 106.41 km. 17.63 million m³ subgrade earthwork. 115 super long & long bridges,
total length 69972m, 1 super long tunnel, 3090m, 4 long tunnels, total length 6111m,
23 middle short tunnels, totally 4370m, 21 separated interchanges, totally 4032m,
6 interchanges, One service area, 2 parking areas, 2 maintenance areas, one Monitoring
center, 5 interchange ramp toll stations, and one Manchuan (Hubei Shaanxi border)
mainline toll station. The developed traffic safety, electrical and mechanical systems and
environmental protection facilities are set across the line.

1.3 Project Cost & Finance

The project cost is made up of three parts: one from self-raised funds and state subsidy,
one from loans form WB, one from loans from domestic banks. The approved budgetary
estimate is 5.444 billion RMB, of which capital fund is about 1.904 billion RMB
accounts for 35% of the total investment; loan from WB is US$200 million and loan from
domestic banks is about 1.876 billion RMB, accounts for 65% of the total investment.

1.4 Executive Mechanism

The PMO which is founded in June,1995 is in charge of the preparation of this project.
April, 2003, People's Government of Hubei Province Set up Shiman Expressway
Construction Headquarters, according to proprietor responsibility system's demands
registered Shiman Expressway Operating Company at April, 2004 and become the
proprietor of this project. Besides, set up Chief Supervision Engineer office of Shiman
Expressway.

Headquarter, Shiman Expressway Ltd. and Chief Engineer's Office are the same unit,
who is directly in charge of the implementation of this project. project management
office, technology &quality office (with center-laboratory), Financial Management
office, locomotive& database department, coordination of land expropriation and
relocation office, Office are set under CSEO, with two workstation to deal with "three
control and two management" during the project management and procurement and the
examination and compensation of major alteration of design and land expropriation and
settlement.



                                            43
2. Project Implementation

2.1 Project Preparation

2.1.1 Program preparation for WB

November 7~21, 2002, the World Bank Mission inspected the Hubei Shiman project.
March and July 2003, the World Bank Mission conducted two project preparation
meetings for the Hubei Shiman project.

October 23~25, 2003, the World Bank Mission conducted a pre-appraisal for the Hubei
Shiman project.

March 8~15, 2004, the World Bank Mission conducted a final appraisal for the project.

October 2004, Ministry of Finance and World Bank signed the loan agreement for
Shiman project (Loan No.:4745-CHA), the loan agreement enter into force on December
30 of the year.

December 30, 2004, Hubei Province and World Bank signed the project agreement enter
into force.

2.1.2 Preparation of domestic procedures

February 2004, the National Development and Reform Commission delivered No. (2004)
291 The notice issued by the National Development and Reform Commission on the
approval of Shiyan in Hubei Province to Manchuanguan (Hubei Shaanxi border) road
feasibility study report approved Shiman Expressway project feasibility study report.

July 2004, MOC delivered No. (2004) 421 Reply on the preliminary design of Shiyan to
Manchuanguan (Hubei Shaanxi border) expressway approved Shiman Expressway
project preliminary design.

September 2004, MOC delivered No. (2004) 400 approved construction drawing design
of the project.

2.2 Designing

Shiman Expressway is designed by Traffic Planning and Design Institute of Hubei
Province (HBCPDI) and CCSHCC, the design speed hour is 80km/h. During the
construction, the resident representative in charge of the instructive work and service
work of design clarification, design alteration and construction technique schemes to
ensure the implantation of design requirements and intentions.




                                            44
2.3 Project Construction

The total length of Shiman Expressway is 106.41km, which has been divided into
11 contract segments and has selected contractors based on ICB. Of which 8 of the
contract segments have started up at Dec, 2004, the other 3 started up at Mar, 2005 and
have already been checked and accepted and did the trial operation on 31st, Mar, 2005.
Overall, the project quality and overall merit have been assessed as excellent.

2.4 Project Supervision

2.4.1 Shiman Expressway is the fourth highway project that loaned by World Bank in
Hubei Province. The FIDIC clause management mode is adopted in the construction
management based on WB's demands and international practice.

2.4.2 Supervision team which is made up of foreign engineers and domestic engineers
has been set up. Foreign supervision engineers were selected based on WB consulting
choosing principle and ICB. The winning bidders are SNC&Chows joint venture. As to
domestic engineers, by means of NCB, 3 supervision &consulting companies i.e.
Engineering Supervision Ltd. of China Railway 4th Institute, Wuhan Highway
Engineering Consulting & Supervision Company etc. win the bid, they are in charge of
the construction quality, construction progress, investment control and Contract &
information management of their own contract segments.

2.4.3 The supervision adopts the three-stage management pattern, namely, set up General
Supervising Engineer Office, Stationed Senior Supervisor Office and Stationed
Supervisor office under the lead of general supervising engineer.

2.4.4 During the supervision period, supervise the construction quality, expenses, time
limit control and contract and information management.

2.5 Equipment Procurement

The equipment procurement under Shiman Expressway project has two equipment
packages. The expenses of them are 203610.70Euro and $710200 respectively (adopt the
exchange rate of bid evaluation period). Equipments are procured by ICB.

2.6 Mechanical and Electronic Engineering

The Mechanical and electronic engineering of Shiman Expressway project is designed by
CHECGC. Adopted the two-step bidding method, based on ICB. The first-step bidding
started at July, 2006 and ended on 18th, Sept, 2006. During that period, there are
15 bidders handed in their first-step bidding documents, 5 of them passed the first-step
evaluation and qualified for step-two. They handed second-step bidding documents on
18th, Jan, 2007, by bid evaluation and inspection, the winning bidder turned out to be
TUCL. The contract amount is 160197672RMB. The project is scheduled to start up at



                                            45
Mar, 2007 and put into service at Dec, 2007 and do the check and acceptance work.
Beijing Taikehuacheng Technology Information Consulting Company limited bears the
supervision job of mechanical and electronic engineering and at present, the system
operates well.

2.7 Project Closing

In consideration of the reinforcement construction of Shiman Expressway would be
postponed to the end of 2009 and the section which connect Shaanxi Province with
Shiman Expressway has already postponed open to traffic and the check and acceptance
of Shiman Expressway is scheduled at Dec, 2009, thus the project closing would
postpone 6 months.(postponed from 3oth,Jun,2009 to 31th,Dec,2009.

3. Environmental Monitoring & Environmental Assessment & Environmental
Protection Acceptance Check

3.1 A great deal of attention has been paid to the environment both during construction
period and operation period. During the construction period monitor the atmosphere
environment (TSP), acoustic environment (noises), surface water environment (SS, IMn,
Petroleum), flue gas from Asphalt Mixing Station and dusts during the construction
activities of those sensitive points along the route regularly. Monitor Water quality (SS,
IMn, Petroleum) of tunnel outlet, air quality (CO, NO2) inside the tunnel, residential
areas that suffers a lot from noises and vibration (noises, vibration) at random.

Moreover, take effective measures to ensure all the environmental indexes are within
accepted limits, to minimize the bad effects that bring to the alongside environment. Even
after expressway has opened to traffic, the regular monitoring of atmosphere environment
(TSP, CO, NOx), acoustic environment (noises), surface water environment
(SS,BOD5,CODcr, Petroleum) along the route is still essential. During operation period
,the monitoring frequency of atmosphere environment is twice a year, the monitoring
frequency of surface water environment is three times a year, the monitoring frequency of
acoustic environment is four times a year. Meanwhile, do the acoustic environment
monitoring along the route at random.

3.2 The on-site field acceptance test of Shiman Expressway project is schedule to be
organized by Chinese National Environmental Protection Agency (NEPA) and Hubei
Provincial Environmental Protection Agency (HPEPA) at Nov, 2009. at present, the
Environmental Protection Report of Shiman Expressway which is compiled by Changan
University has already been handed to NEPA. All acceptance procedures are in
transaction.

3.3 Environmental impact assessment. At Mar, 2004, SHEIDI finished compiling of
Environmental Impact Report of Shiyan-Manchuanguan section along Yinchuan-Wuhan
and it has been replied on 13th Apr, 2004. At Aug, 2009, WB approved the Completion
and Environmental Protection Implantation Report of Shiman Expressway.




                                            46
4. Project Training

Under the Shiman highway project, the Hubei Provincial Communications Department
completed the domestic training exceeded, 380 persons have completed the training, and
reached 250 person-months. However, only two groups completed the foreign training
successfully. The main programs of domestic training are about procurement method,
financial management, training management, operation and maintenance management,
construction quality supervision and control, traffic engineering, environmental
management, traffic safety management, etc. Raised the highway management level of
Hubei Provincial Communications Department and its subsidiary from various aspects,
has laid a good foundation for implementation this project successfully.

Two groups' foreign training, respectively about quality management training and tunnel
construction management training, respectively, in 2006 and in 2007 implemented to
complete a total of 18 the number of trainees, 9 person-months.

5. Research Project

The project carried out the following six researches:

     (1) The Study about New Maintenance Technologies on Hubei Highway
     (2) Project Management Study
     (3) Highway Construction Financing Study
     (4) Highway Asset Management Study
     (5) Highway Safety Planning
     (6) Study of Audit Management for Transportation Enterprise Security

The following names are the co-operation organizations:

     (1) Hubei Expressway Industrial Development Co., Ltd.
     (2) Huajie Co., Ltd.
     (3) Wuhan University
     (4) Huazhong University of Science and Technology
     (5) Highway and Transportation Society of Hubei Province
     (6) Transportation Association of Hubei Province

6. Land Acquisition and Resettlement

Final land acquisition of Shiman expressway reaches to 10652.65mu, including the
dismantled houses of 0.3014 million square meters. The supervision report shows that the
construction develops the local economy , the project affected people's living condition
and quality have substantially improved (60% soil and wooden structure and 13% of
brick and wooden structure before dismantle change to 99% of brick and concrete
structure after resettlement).




                                            47
7. Project Achievements

7.1. Target Achievements

According to the time of planning, has completed the main line construction tasks of
Hubei Shiman highway, total mileage is 106.41 km, and other 164 km roads completed
successfully with good achievement.

7.2 Quality Achievements

According to requirements of terms of the contract of FIDIC, construction supervision
organization was set up, to control the schedule, quality and cost. In the schedule control,
developed a detailed construction design, to breakthrough from the control point,
standardized management, scientific scheduling, so that the building was completed one
year ahead of schedule. In quality control, strict implementation the three-stage quality
assurance system, relying on scientific and technological innovation, which greatly
enhances the project quality, during check and acceptance handing completed project, the
project quality was assessed as excellent. In cost control, according to the technical
requirements of the design is optimized and make changes to reduce the engineering
investment, while the strict measurement and payment in order to ensure the progress of
the project smoothly, so that investment in this project have been well controlled.

7.3 Safety Achievements

In traffic safety, after the opening of Shiman highway, 209 national highway and
301 provincial highway traffic accident casualty rate and economic losses have been
greatly decrease.

7.4 Operating Performance

Through the careful maintenance, the disease of the road surface has been timely treat,
and the potential safety problems also been removed, with the constant improvement of
related facilities, road service level gradually increase. After the open of highways
around, the service functions of the highway network will be rising.

8. The World Bank's Work

8.1 Co-operation with the World Bank

Since 1995, the National Highway project IV is included in the list of World Bank
funding, and now the fifth World Bank loan highway project in Hubei implementation,
during which, 15 years is gone. In this period, Hubei Provincial Communications
Department carried out close and fruitful cooperation with the World Bank on this
project. Because of economic and cultural background differences in the process of
implementing this project, there were some different awareness and understanding in
engineering design, construction management, expropriation and resettlement,



                                            48
environmental protection, etc., the World Bank mission and the Hubei Province
Department of Transportation carry on a large number of exchange and dialogue.
Through the dialogue, the World Bank has deepened understanding of the actual situation
of China and Hubei Province, expressed understanding the operation method on the
specific elements of the project. Hubei Provincial Communications Department is also
relies on preparation and implementation of this project's engineering design,
construction, resettlement, environmental protection, institutional strengthening and
policy reform, introduced the advanced concepts and the scientific development view.

8.2 Acquire a Deeper Understanding from FIDIC Contract Terms and Getting
Benefits

According to requirements of the World Bank, select contractors and supervision
engineers based on the ICB. Adopted strict technical and organizational measures for the
project management and control, and taking into account the situation of China and
Hubei Province. According to The World Bank procurement practices requires giving the
contracts to low-priced bidder. Hubei Provincial Communications Department, keep the
caution for the request how to adapt to local conditions effectively at first. However, with
the steady development and improvement of China's market economy, the World Bank
procurement rules and FIDIC terms of project management is now widely accepted by
Hubei province. At present, Hubei highway construction management is basically in
accordance with FIDIC terms.

8.3 Obtaining Benefits from the Training

In most training programs, mainly participants were engineering and technical personnel
of the related fields. Training courses Well-designed, in the macro, to keep pace with
special circumstances in Hubei and the foreign management experience and practice.
Through training, new techniques, new knowledge and new methods from abroad, have
been used and broadcast by the trainees. In addition, training programs provide
opportunity for engineers and managers through understand and update their knowledge
and expand its horizons, it is considered a key factor in intellectual growth.

8.4 The Environmental Awareness Increase

Environmental protection in the highway construction is very important. Shiman highway
in the project identification, preparation and implementation, the Hubei Provincial
Communications Department are strictly abided environmental laws, regulations and
requirements of China and the World Bank. The achievements in environmental
protection of Shiman highway is not only due to the continuous development of China's
environmental policy and improve, as well as the strengthening of environmental design,
but also due to the World Bank environmental expert guidance, as well as strict
monitoring between the project implementation period. In the project implementation
process, the Hubei Provincial Communications Department staff and associated




                                            49
contractors pay great attention to environmental protection. Increase the environmental
awareness and is of great advantage to China sustainable development policy
implementation and other highway projects construction in Hubei Province.

8.5 Promoting the Development of Local Transport and Economy

The implementation of this project brings extremely important influence to our province
both politically, economically, or from the opening image .The operation of the highway,
fully promotes the state of thoroughfare of nine provinces, making Hubei province the
main point connecting north, east, west and south .And it accelerates the flowing of
people, information and logistics, bringing great significance to the opening up the
northern and southern areas, connecting internal and external region, strengthening the
exchanges in polices, economy and trade with other provinces . Also, it promotes the
transformation of people's ideas and gives a big push to development of software and
hardware environment in economy.

8.6 Suggestion to the World Bank

8.6.1 Division of Purchase Contract in Mountainous Highway Civil Engineering

8.6.1.1 The Total Duration of the Project Should Meet the Requirements

The contract duration of first stage of civil engineering (including subgrade, bridge and
tunnel) in domestic mountainous highway projects is usually 36 months. and the duration
of pavement engineering ,traffic safety engineering and mechanical and electronic
engineering is commonly 18 months .Therefore, in the first stage of each contract, the
mileage of general control is about 5~6 km, 4 km in bridge engineering, less than
3 tunnels that is not more than 5 km . And in the second stage, the mileage of each
contract is about 30~40 km. Each contract package costs are normally controlled at 250
to 400 million Yuan, which is more appropriate.

8.6.1.2 The contractor' construction capacity should be fully taken into account

In order to prevent the project scale becoming too large and the contractor subcontracting
due to insufficient capacity of construction, in the first stage of the civil engineering, the
number of bridge fabrication yard should be allowed 2 or less for each contractor, the
number of equipment for tunnel excavation should be controlled within 8 sets (double
ways and double caves). In the second stage of pavement engineering, should be based on
one set of 4000-type mixing plant, and 2 sets of basement mixing paving equipment. In
mechanical and electronic engineering, the charging, monitoring and communication
systems will be packaged as 1~2 contract sections according to degree of specialization.
In tunnel engineering, ventilation, power supply and lighting system will be advisable to
be packaged as 2 contracts.




                                             50
8.6.1.3 Strictly control the scale of controlled projects

The number of tunnel more than 3 km is generally not more than one for each contract.
The tunnel more than 5 km should be divided into 2 contracts from middle of tunnel, and
set up assistant pilot tunnel, bunting for long tunnel. In bridge engineering, the number of
beam slab should be allowed about 2000 plates for each contract (3000 plates for specific
hollow plate beam contracts) . The distance of girder delivery should be within 2.5 km.
For contract sections without beam fabrication yard, it is advisable to adopt cast-in-place
concrete box girder structure.

8.6.2 Assessment Method

8.6.2.1 The relevant state ministries and commissions have enacted domestic competitive
bidding evaluation methods, combining with well implemented situation in recent years,
it is proposed for World Bank ICB to adopt most reasonable lowest bid price evaluation
methods in china.

8.6.2.2 In order to combat and prevent a vicious low bids and inflating the price under
illegal collusion, it is proposed for World Bank ICB to consider adding price limit
methods .




                                              51
Annex 9. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Not applicable




                                    52
Annex 10. List of Supporting Documents

The World Bank, Hubei-Shiman Highway Project: Project Appraisal Document (Report
No.27681-CHA), May 25, 2004

The World Bank, Hubei-Shiman Highway Project: Loan Agreement (Loan/Credit
IBRD47450) between Peoples Republic of China and the International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development

The World Bank, Aide-Memoires of Hubei-Shiman Highway Project, from 2004 to 2009

World Bank, 2007. China's Expressways: Connecting People and Markets for Equitable
Development. EASTE Working Paper #13

The Peoples' Republic of China. Hubei Province, Hubei Provincial Transport
Department. Information Provided by the Borrower Regarding Completion Report.
Submitted by HPTD, March 2010

World Bank, 2002. Country Assistance Strategy for China

World Bank, 2006. Country Partnership, China

World Bank, 2007. China's Expressways: Connecting People and Markets for Equitable
Development

Z. Liu and C. Bennett, 2008. Using Involuntary Resettlement on Highway Projects to
Alleviate Poverty: A Case Study from the Hubei Shiman Highway Project in China,
Wuhan University, 2007. Shiman Expressway Project: Resettlement Implementation
Completion Report




                                          53
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                JILIN
                                                                                                                                          Xiping                                                                 MONGOLIA
                          Shanghu Road                                                                                                                                      NH312                                                                      O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    LIAONING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  DEM. PEOPLE'S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   G                                              REP. OF KOREA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               N               BEIJING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           O                             Beijing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              NE                                         TIANJIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                HEBEI                                   REP. OF
               Hubeikou                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 KOREA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SHANXI




                                                                                                                                                                                                                              NINGXI
                                                    Manchuangan                                                                                                                                                                                                      SHANDONG                Yellow




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            XI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SHAAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                          QINGHAI                                                                             Sea
                                                            Shangjin                     Yunman Road
                                            Guanfang
                                                                                                                                                                       HENAN                                          GANSU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Area of map
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           HENAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   JIANGSU

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ANHUI
                                                                   Dabakou                   Yunxi Interconnecting Road                                                                                                                                                                      SHANGHAI

                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SICHUAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       HUBEI




                                                                                                                                                                                                     XIZANG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         East
                                                                                                            Shiyan-Manchuangan                                                                                                 CHONGQING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ZHEJIANG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        China
                                           Dayang                                                   Yunxi        Expressway                                                                                                                            HUNAN       JIANGXI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Sea

                                            Road                                                                                                                                                                                GUIZHOU                                            FUJIAN


                                                                                                                               NH209                                                                             YUNNAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               TAIWAN
                                                                                                                                            Anyang                                                                                     GUANGXI                 GUANGDONG

                                                                               Yangwei                                                                                                                                                                               HONG KONG




                                                                                                                                                                                                       MYANMAR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   MACAO

                                                                                                                               Yun Xian                                                                         LAO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            VIETNAM

                                                                                                                                                                                                              PEOPLE'S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                DEM.                               HAINAN
                                                            Jiangjunhe                                  NH316
                                                                                                                                                                                                      THAILAND REP.                                                                          PHILIPPINES


                    SHAANXI                                    Bridge                      Baoxia
                                                                                                                                                                                               Danjiang Second Bridge
                                                                                                                                               Hankou-Shiyan Hwy.
                                                                                                                                             Xiangfan-Shiyan Section
                                                                                                               Shiyan
                                                                                                                                                                                               Danjiangkou
                                                                                                            Shiyan Interconnecting Road

                                                              Baozhu
                                                               Road                                                                                                                    To Xiangfan
                              NH316
                                         Zhuxi                                                                                                             NH316


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           CHINA
                                                                         Zhushan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    HUBEI PROVINCE
                                                                                                                                                                                                            HUBEI SHIMAN
                                         Quanxi                                                                           Fang Xian
                                                                                                                                                                                                          HIGHWAY PROJECT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SHIYAN-MANCHUANGAN EXPRESSWAY

                                                                                                                                                                                                                          INTERCONNECTING ROADS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                          LOCAL ROAD IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM
                                                                         Xinmatou
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PROJECT BRIDGE


                      Jieliang                                                                                                                                                                                            NATIONAL HIGHWAYS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                          OTHER ROADS
                                                  Xiangba                                                                                                     This map was produced by
                                                                                                                                                              the Map Design Unit of The
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          RAILROADS
                                                                                                                                                              World Bank. The boundaries,
                                                                                                                                                              colors, denominations and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          COUNTY CAPITALS
                                                                                                                                                              any other information shown
           0    5   10 15 20 25                                                                                                                               on this map do not imply, on
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          DISTRICT CAPITAL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  IBRD 32921R
                                                                                                                                                              the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                                              Group, any judgment on the
                 KILOMETERS                                                                                                                                                                                               COUNTY BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                              legal status of any territory,
MAY 2008




                                                                                                                                                              or any endorsement or
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
           CHONGQING                                                                                                                                          acceptance of such
                                                                                                                                                              boundaries.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
