Report No. 1328b-MAI                                                        FILE  COPY
Malawi Appraisal of Blantyre
Water Supply Project
April 19, 1977
Eastern Africa Regional Office
Energy and Water Supply Division
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
Thts document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official dutes.. Its contens may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



MALAWI
APPRAISAL OF BLANTYRE WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
1 US$            = Malawi Kwacha (MK) 0.9091
1 Malawi Kwacha = US$1.10
1 Pound Sterling = MK 1.50
1 Malawi Kwacha = 100 tambala
WEIGHTS, LENGTHS AND MEASURES
I Imperial gallon (Ig)   = 1.2 US gallons (US gal)
= 4.55 liters (L)
1 million Imperial
gallons (Img)       = 4,545 cubic meters
I Imperial gallon per
minute (Igpm)       = 0.00267 cubic feet per second (cfs)
= 0.0757 liters per second
1 kilometer (km)         = 0.62 miles (mi)
1 meter (m)              = 3.0828 feet (ft)
= 1000 millimeters (mm)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDF      =     African Development Fund
BWB       =     Blantyre Water Board
CDC       -     Commonwealth Development Corporation
ESCOM     =     Electricity Supply Commission of Malawi
fps       =     feet per second
Gibb      -     Sir Alexander Gibb and Partners
gph       =     gallons per hour
Germany         Federal Republic of Germany
GTZ             Deutsche Gesellschaft fur Technische Zusammenarbeit,
GmbH (German Agency for Technical Cooperation, Ltd.)
hp        -     horsepower
Imgd      =     million Imperial gallons per day
KfW       -     Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (German Credit
Institution for Reconstruction)
L/sec     =     Liters per second
MANR      =     Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources
MCDSW     =     Ministry of Community Development and Social Welfare
MHC       =     Malawi Housing Corporation
MLG       =     Ministry of Local Government
MOH       =     Ministry of Health
MTIT      =     Ministry of Trade, Industry and Tourism
MWS       =     Ministry of Works and Supply
ODM             Ministry of Overseas Development (U.K.)
UK        =     United Kingdom
WF              Walker's Ferry
WHO       =     World Health Organization
BWB's FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MALAWI
APPRAISAL OF BLANTYRE WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUMMARY AND  CONCLUSIONS  ...........................................   i                       i
I.     INTRODUCTION  ....................................... ....... .*.... ....  
II.      GENERAL  ECONOMY  AND  THE  WATER  SUPPLY  SECTOR  ............                               2
The  Country and  the  Economy  .....              .................                  2
Water  Resources  ............ .                   .......................            2
Organizatiou  ........................................... .0 .... ....                3
Legislation  .................................... .................                   4
Finance  ....................               *...*................................     5
Urban  Water  Supply  . .............................. .                              5
Small  Town  and  Rural  Water  Supply  .................                             6
Sewerage  and  Drainage  .               .................... ........                6
Comprehensive  Urban  Projects                       ......................           7
III.      THE  PROJECT                   ............................................                   8
Project  Description  ...............................                                 8
Cost  Estimates  .................. ..................................                9
Financing  of  Project  ...               .........  .   ................  .        10
Disbursement  ..* ................................. ....... o .........              10
Closing  Date  ......   .............                  ...................          10
Design  and  Construction  Supervision  ..* ............                             10
Procurement  ... .. .......................   ........... .                          11
Land  Acquisition  ....... .................................                        11
Service  to  Low-Income,  Unplanned  Areas  ............                             11
Maintenance  and  Operation  of  Pumping  Plant  ........                            11
Management  Consultants  .... ....* .....   .............                            12
Engineering  Studies    ........   ................  .......  .....                 12
Training  ...........                . ............... ...... . ...... .             12
Project  Supervision  . ............................  ..                             12
Environmental  Impact  . ........................  .....                             12
IV.      PROJECT  JUSTIFICATION  ...                  ...............................                13
Satisfaction  of  Demand    ...........................                             13
Improved  Water  Service  ............................                              13
Least-Cost  Alternative  ..*  ...........                      ..............        13
Return  on  Investment              ....... ......      ................             14
Non-Quantifiable  Benefits  ........ ........................                        14
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discloed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
Table of Contents (Cont'd)
Page No.
V.      BLANTYPE  WATER  BOARD  .......   ...........................   ...   ......                         15
The  Borrower  .........................................                                    15
Institutional  Framework  ........   .................                                      15
Organization  and  Management  .......................                                      15
Training  .......................... .......... o............                               16
Accounting and Auditing ......................... ..                                         16
Billing  and  Collections   ...........................                                     17
VI.       FINANCE  ...........................................................                                 17
Past Performance and Present
Financial  Position  ...........................                                    17
Tariffs  ........................... .......... &............                               1
Proposed  Financing  Plan  ...........................                                      18
VII.    AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS .................                                                20



LIST OF ANNEXES
ANNEX
1       Description of Existing Facilities
2       Water Demand and Production Capacity
3       Description of Main Elements of Project
4       Project Cost Estimates
5       Schedule of Disbursements from IDA Credit
6       Implementation Schedule
7       Incremental Costs and Return on Investment
8       Organization Chart
9       Cash Flow Projections
10       Income Statement Projections
11       Balance Sheet Projections
12       Notes and Assumptions to Financial Projections
13       Estimated Debt Statement, 1976 - 1983
14       Historical Income Statements
15       Historical Balance Sheets
16       Project Targets and Monitoring Guidelines
17       Blantyre Waterworks Bylaws, 1975
18       Proposed Tariff Reforms and Revenue Implications
Map - IBRD 12376






MALAWI
APPRAISAL OF BLANTYRE WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
1.        This report appraises a water supply project for the Blantyre Water
Board (BWB) in Blantyre, Malawi's largest city and main industrial and commer-
cial center, for which an IDA Credit of US$7 million equivalent is proposed.
2.        The estimated project cost is US$15.5 million equivalent, including
an estimated 70% foreign exchange cost of US$10.8 million equivalent. After
taking into account estimated interest during construction of US$1.1 million
equivalent, of which the foreign exchange component would be US$0.3 million
equivalent, the Project's total financing requirements would be US$16.6 mil-
lion equivalent, including US$11.2 million equivalent in foreign exchange. Of
the total financing requirements, about 80% would be provided by various lend-
ing agencies with IDA providing US$7 million equivalent, the African Develop-
ment Fund (AfDF) up to US$6 million and the Commonwealth Development Corpora-
tion (CDC) about US$0.7 million. The remaining finance would be provided by
BWB's internal cash generation.
3.        The Project is needed to meet the growing water demand in Blantyre.
It would increase BWB's water supply capacity by about 4 Imperial million
gallons per day (Imgd) and, when added to ongoing Phase IV improvements, is
expected to more than double the population having direct access to water by
providing water supply capacity for a further 220,000 people. Construction
would commence in 1978 and be completed in 1980. The Project would be the
first Bank Group water supply project in Malawi. Previous developments have
been largely financed from CDC loans and British government grants.
4.        BWB is a government-owned entity, responsible for public water
supplies in the Blantyre area. It has a long history of effective manage-
ment. It would carry out the Project with the assistance of engineering
consultants. The arrangements to be made for project design and construc-
tion supervision are satisfactory and the Project is technically sound.
5.        All supply and construction contracts financed by the proposed IDA
Credit would be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding
in accordance with IDA guidelines for procurement. Foreign suppliers and
contractors are expected to win all major contracts. Nevertheless, in accord-
ance with Government's request, a preference of 15%, or the applicable customs
duty, whichever is lower, would be applied to the evaluation of bids should
local manufacaturers bid for supply contracts. Similarly, a preference of
7-1/2% would be applied to the evaluation of bids submitted by domestic firms
for construction contracts. Procurement procedures for goods financed through
AfDF would be in accordance with their procedures. CDC would accept IDA or
AfDF procurement procedures for goods and services financed by them.
6.        BWB's financial policy has been to set its tariffs at a level suf-
ficient to meet annual cash outlays for operating expenses and debt service.



- ii -
Current tariff levels are well below economic cost and the structure is
complicated and inequitable. By 1981, through phased increases, BWB plans to
raise its tariff levels to close to long-run marginal cost and to reform its
tariff structure. The revised tariffs will be set to achieve annual rates of
return on average revalued net fixed assets of not less than 8% in 1978 and
1979, 10% in 1980 and 1981 after which BWB's financial objective will be to
maintain a rate of return of not less than 9% on average revalued net fixed
assets.
7.        If the Project benefits are measured on the basis of 1977 tariff
levels, the Project's internal rate of return would approximate 3%. If the
benefits instead are valued at levels to be attained by the time the Project
is completed, the rate of return would be about 7%. However, the tariffs do
not fully reflect health and environmental benefits, which are difficult to
quantify, but which would undoubtedly make the Project's rate of return
higher.
8.        An estimated 50,000 Blantyre residents in unplanned, low-income
areas do not have ready access to public water supplies and the proposed
Project will include provision for providing water supplies to such areas.
9.        The Project is suitable for an IDA Credit of US$7 million
equivalent.



MALAWI
APPRAISAL OF BLANTYRE WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Malawi has requested assistance from the Associa-
tion to help finance a US$15.5 million project to expand the city of Blantyre's
water supply system to meet the growing needs of its population. The Project
would be carried out by the Blantyre Water Board (BWB), a government-owned
entity.
1.02      A US$7 million equivalent IDA Credit is proposed to help meet the
Project's costs. Additional external finance of up to US$6.7 million would
be provided by the Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC) and the African
Development Fund (AfDF), and the remaining finance from BWB's internal cash
generation.
1.03      The Project would be Phase V of a long-term BWB program for abstrac-
tion of water from the Shire River at Walker's Ferry (WF), treatment and
subsequent transport to Blantyre through the 23-mile long WF pipeline. The
proposed Project, in addition to increasing the capacity of the WF abstraction
and treatment facilities, would uprate the pipeline to its economic capacity
of 14 Imgd and would include water distribution facilities in Blantyre.
The Project was prepared by Sir Alexander Gibb and Partners (Gibb), United
Kingdom, and is part of a long-term development program recommended by Gibb
for augmentation of the Blantyre water supply during the period 1978-1990.
The Gibb studies, which have taken into account Blantyre land-use planning of
Government's Regional Planning Office, indicate Walker's Ferry to be the most
economic of several alternative sources of supply.
1.04      This would be the first Bank Group water supply project in Malawi.
Earlier projects, including the ongoing Phase IV project to increase the
capacity of the pipeline from 8 to 10 Imgd, have been largely financed by the
CDC and by the United Kingdom (UK) Ministry of Overseas Development (ODM)
assistance (see Annex 1).
1.05      Following a project preparation mission early in 1976, field
appraisal was carried out in June 1976 by Messrs. Greenwood, LaBahn and
Coyaud and Ms. D. Julius. This report is based on the findings of the
mission and on information supplied by BWB, by Government and by Gibb.



- 2 -
II. GENERAL ECONOMY AND THE WATER SUPPLY SECTOR
The Country and the Economy
2.01      Malawi is a land-locked country in southeast Africa, bordered by
Zambia, Tanzania and Mozambique. About one-quarter of the country is covered
by lakes, ihe largest being Lake Malawi with an area of some 11,100 sq. mi.  2
(29,000 km ). Malawi's total land area 1/ is about 36,400 sq. mi. (93,000 km ),
which consists largely of plateau and highlands in excess of 1,600 ft. (500 m)
above sea level; the mountainous north rises to 8,200 ft (2,500 m) and the
extreme south is less than 700 ft (210 m) above sea level. With a population
of about 5.1 million growing at about 2.6% per year, Malawi is one of the most
densely populated countries in Africa. The population is more concentrated in
the Southern region, with 180 persons per sq. mile in 1975, compared with 114
and 60 in the Central and Northern regions.
2.02      Since Independence in 1964, GNP at constant prices has grown at
a comparatively high rate of almost 8% per year; the GNP (1975) per capita
of about US$150 2/ is, however, still one of the lowest in the world. The
economy is based primarily on agriculture in which over 90% of the popula-
tion, largely at a subsistence level, is engaged. Total GNP in 1975 at
current market prices was estimated at US$755 million, of which agricultural
output accounted for approximately 45% and manufacturing 14%. Between 1970
and 1975, high real growth of investments and domestic savings (11% and 15%
per year, respectively) played an important role in the favorable development
of Malawi's economy. On the basis of present potential, an economic growth
of about 6.5% per year might be possible with manufacturing, the output
of large agricultural estates, and most services growing at a higher rate
than the economy as a whole.
2.03      Since 1968 the growth of wage employment in Malawi has been rapid,
averaging 10%. Employment in the non-agricultural sector, which is most
likely to increase the number of urban dwellers, grew at a rate of about 8.5%,
only marginally lower than the above growth rate, and reached 147,000 by 1975.
However, by mid-1975, the urban population was estimated to represent only 10%
of the total population and it is Malawi's policy to avoid a marked increase
in this ratio. Urban population is concentrated in Blantyre, where most of
the manufacturing industry and service trades are located, and in Lilongwe,
the rapidly-expanding new capital.
Water Resources
2.04      The water resources of Malawi are liberal due to precipitation
ranging from 25 inches (635 mm) to 114 inches (2,895 mm) annually but varying
markedly according to location and season. Good records of precipitation
exist due to the maintenance of 475 monitoring stations widely distributed
throughout the country. Substantial information has been developed rela-
tive to the country's surface water and ground water resources.
1/ Malawi Statistical Yearbook, 1975.
2/   World Bank Atlas, 1975.



-3-
2.05      Partly due to the influence of Lake Malawi and the Shire River,
surface water is the more significant of the country's sources of supply.
Surface water quantity, but not quality, is monitored by a network of 148
stream gauging stations.
2.06      Ground water is widely available from shallow, dug wells and from
boreholes. However, individual yields from the latter characteristically are
low (averaging about 10 Igpm) while water quality varies from fair to poor*
Ground water is classified according to location in three separate hydro-
geological zones, i.e., Plateau-Highland, Escarpment and Rift Valley.
Approximately one-half of the area of these zones have been studied in de-
tail. Ground water management is not provided, partly due to the small
number of observation wells, incomplete information on lithology and water
quality (mainly limited to records of newly drilled wells), but mainly due
to lack of policy and staff. Over 2,000 boreholes have been drilled in
the past ten years with the majority of these located in rural areas and
used for domestic supplies. Despite the recent increase in numbers of wells,
Malawi's ground water resources are under-utilized due to financial con-
straints and limited well production capacities.
Organization
2.07      Apart from BWB, operations within the sector are relatively ineffec-
tive, partly due to the uncoordinated efforts of several ministries but also
due to budget and staffing constraints. National efforts in water resource
development, in particular, need to be better coordinated. Although the
formation of a single national water authority has been considered in the
past, no such change currently is being considered by Government. Although
some institutional changes are advisable, the extent of these changes is
not apparent due to incomplete knowledge of the sector. An IBRD/WHO coopera-
tive sector study mission is scheduled to visit Malawi late in 1977.
2.08      Water resources fall under the province of the Ministry of Agri-
culture and Natural Resources (MANR). The Ministry's Division of Water
Resources is responsible for monitoring precipitation and surface water,
while the Ministry's Geological Survey is responsible for the drilling of
boreholes, the collection of lithologic records, the preparation of geologic
maps, administration of records of boreholes, and a maintenance program for
manually-operated well pumps. The Technical Services Department of the
Ministry is responsible for developing comprehensive agricultural schemes,
most of which also have domestic water supply components.
2.09      The Ministry of Local Government (MLG) has jurisdiction over muni-
cipalities which are empowered to provide water and/or sewer service. However,
only two municipalities, Blantyre and Lilongwe, currently provide either or
both of these services. The Blantyre Town Council is responsible for sewerage
only whereas the Lilongwe Town Council provides sewerage for a portion of the
community and potable water service (the latter of which is administered by
the Lilongwe Water Board). Neither of the two Town Councils currently has the
capability of planning or designing utility improvements. Partial assistance
in planning and engineering is provided to Lilongwe by the Ministry of Works
and Supplies (MWS). Water service is provided in Blantyre by BWB and in
remaining cities and small towns by MWS.



- 4 -
2.10      The Ministry of Trade, Industry and Tourism (MTIT) supervises
BWB, an autonomous water utility responsible for potable water service in
the Blantyre area (see para. 5.02). BWB is able to plan, design and construct
minor works but must depend upon foreign consultants for the implementation
of major works. Maintenance and operation procedures of BWB generally are
satisfactory except possibly in the area of electrical and mechanical equip-
ment (see para. 3.13).
2.11      In addition to its assistance to Lilongwe, MWS is responsible for
designing, constructing and operating water supply systems in two cities
(Zomba and Mzuzu), 35 districts, and 20 small town water supply centers. In
1973, the Ministry was estimated to provide water service to about 135,000
persons. MWS is heavily dependent upon expatriate staff. Facilities appear to
be well engineered although overly sophisticated and highly dependent upon
imported materials and equipment. Levels of maintenance and operation are
good. Due to the Ministry's special responsibilities in providing technical
assistance to the Capital Development Corporation, MWS also is responsible for
planning, designing and implementing water and sewer utility systems within
the Lilongwe area. Upon completion, system improvements then are turned over
to the local authorities, which include the Lilongwe Water Board and, in the
case of wastewater systems, the Town Council, the Malawi Army and various
local institutions.
2.12      The Ministry of Community Development and Social Welfare (MCDSW)
plans, designs and supervises the construction and operation of a number of
small, "self-help" type schemes providing potable water supplies to approxi-
mately 150,000 persons in rural areas from some 950 public standposts. This
program, first started in 1968, has developed simple, low-cost potable water
supplies with a minimum dependence upon staff (two expatriate engineers sup-
ported by several Malawi technical school diploma holders have been responsi-
ble for planning, design and construction) and a maximum dependence upon local
participation for construction and operation.
2.13      The Ministry of Health (MOH), which is responsible for environmental
health, is headquartered in Blantyre and has branch offices within the regions
and in principal municipalities. MOH records of mortality and morbidity are
few, poorly documented, and difficult to obtain. Improved communication is
needed between the Ministry and the country's water supply authorities.
Legislation
2.14      The principal legislation concerning the sector is the "Water
Resources Act of 1969" which provides for "... the control, conservation,
apportionment and use of the water resources of Malawi...." The Act further
decrees that ownership of all public water, which includes surface water
and ground water, is vested in the President whereas control resides with the
Minister of Agriculture and Natural Resources. The latter, in turn, may
delegate such powers to a Water Resources Board (WRB). Abstractors are
required to operate in accordance with conditions of a license issued by WRB.



- 5 -
Water rights based upon prescription are not recognized and existing rights
can be lost due to non-use. Rights also can be reduced or suspended at the
option of the Minister. Charges are levied on abstractions to finance the
administration of the Act.
2.15      In theory, the Water Resources Act provides Government with con-
siderable power to control water development but the legislation is only partly
effective. An example is water pollution, which is recognized in the Act as
an offense but is not defined; nor is the extent of penalty to be levied
identified. A 1975 draft of Water Pollution Control Regulations, which are
proposed as a supplement to the Act, defines pollution but does not provide
the machinery of enforcement.
Finance
2.16      Capital and recurring expenditures of water supply authorities,
in general, are financed through Government's departmental budget appropria-
tions. BWB and Lilongwe Water Board (LWB), which are autonomous, are
exceptions to this. Records of sector expenditures are incomplete. The
capital costs of improvements by BWB and LWB have been met mainly from
bilateral assistance and from Government grants and loans. Other water
systems in urban areas and in small towns have been financed from Government
funding, from bilateral assistance and from grants by charitable organizations
totalling in excess of US$1 million (1975). Village water systems have been
constructed on a self-help basis but have depended upon grants and, in some
instances, upon contributions from local District Councils for procurement
of construction materials.
2.17      Water system operations of remaining urban areas and small towns
supervised by MWS are not autonomous. Although water charges are levied,
they are not necessarily in proportion to costs.  No water charges are levied
in rural areas supplied by MCDSW. Recurring out-of-pocket costs of the latter
systems are met by the Ministry and by the District Councils.
Urban Water Supply
2.18      Approximately 70% (240,000 persons) of the 1975 urban population
(330,000, representing the cities of Blantyre, Lilongwe, Mzuzu and Zomba)
have access to piped water supplies. The level of service varies with about
two-thirds of the customers having individual connections and the balance
being served from kiosks. All connections are metered.
2.19      Capital improvement programs either are underway or are planned
for Blantyre and Lilongwe. Ongoing Phase IV improvements at Blantyre will
increase the Walker's Ferry supply from 8 to 10 Imgd and will provide BWB
with the capacity to serve approximately 220,000 persons (see Annex 1).
The proposed IDA Project would further increase that supply to about 14
Imgd and would satisfy demands through the mid-1980's (see Annexes 2 and 3).
Government has identified a future project for LWB which would double (from 2
to 4 Imgd) the water supply capacity of the existing system for a design
population of 150,000 projected for the year 1984. Financing for the LWB
project, which is estimated to cost MK 2.4 million (equivalent to US$2.6
million), has been requested from the European Development Fund.



-6-
Small Town and Rural Water Supply
2.20      An estimated 1.2 million persons (approximately one quarter of
the total rural population of about 4.7 million) had access to potable water
supplies in 1975. Thirty-eight small towns (with populations ranging from 500
to 6,500) having a 1975 combined population of 60,000 persons have piped water
supplies from systems constructed by MWS since 1971. All connections are
metered and a tariff is levied. Government has proposed a follow-up Rural
Centers Water Supply Project that would extend service to an additional 60,000
persons in 34 towns by the year 1979. Financing for the Project, which is
estimated to cost MK 1.7 million (US$1.9 million equivalent), is being provided
by the AfDF.
2.21      Piped water supply systems by MCDSW provided service to 150,000
persons in rural villages in 1975. This program, begun in 1968, has resulted
in the construction of simple, untreated gravity water supplies using high-
elevation, perennial streams as sources. No metering is provided and de-
liveries are from public standposts. Maintenance and operation is the re-
sponsibility of local District Councils. Follow-on projects designed to
provide similar service to an additional 430,000 persons either are underway
or proposed. Finance for the procurement of construction materials estimated
to cost in excess of MK 2.0 million (US$2.2 million equivalent) is being
sought.
2.22      Domestic water supply to remaining rural areas historically has
consisted of "dambos" (swamps or marshes) or dug wells, both sources of
questionable quality. Recent implementation of comprehensive agricultural
projects 1/ by MANR has provided improved supplies, generally consisting
of manually operated tube wells, to approximately 1.0 million persons residing
in these project areas. Adjacent rural areas also have benefited from a
well-drilling and maintenance program administered by the Geological Survey.
The extent of additional population to be provided with improved potable water
supplies by new or follow-on comprehensive agricultural projects in rural
areas is unknown.
Sewerage and Drainage
2.23      Community wastewater systems exist only in Blantyre and Lilongwe
providing service to about 40,000 persons out of a combined population of
290,000 in these two cities. Both systems provide secondary treatment prior
to disposal. Sanitary sewerage is separate from storm water drainage and,
in most instances, the latter is confined to surface facilities. Elsewhere
in urban areas, sanitation service consists mainly of septic tanks or pit
privies with the latter generally restricted to traditional housing areas.
2.24      Piped wastewater systems in Blantyre, which provide service to about
30,000 persons, are restricted to only three of the area's 13 catchments.
1/  Including the Bank Group's Karonga Rural Development projects, the
Lilongwe Land Development projects, and the Shire Valley Agricultural
Development projects.



-7-
Approximately 110,000 persons are served by septic tanks and the balance by
pit privies. The most recent expansion of the Blantyre sewer system was
completed in 1971. Preparation of that project was financed by Government
while the cost of detailed engineering and construction was financed by a DM
5.2 million (US$2.3 million) soft loan provided by Kreditanstalt fur Wieder-
aufbau (KfW) of the Federal Republic of Germany (Germany). The sewer system
is overloaded and the design of additions, limited mainly to the central
Blantyre catchment, currently is underway. Grant funds of DM 580,000
(US$250,000) have been committed by the German Agency for Technical Coopera-
tion, Ltd. (GTZ) for technical assistance including preparation and detailed
design of this project. Construction, which is scheduled for the period
1977-78, will include the expansion of two existing wastewater treatment
facilities and the extension of sanitary sewers. KfW has agreed to provide a
DM 6.0 million (US$2.6 million) loan on soft terms to finance the construction
of the project. Despite the present and previous programs, planning and
implementation of sewerage projects in Blantyre have not kept pace with
general development of the community.
2.25      Technical assistance in the form of training also is provided to
the city of Blantyre by Germany. Under the auspices of a sister-city program
shared with Hannover, Germany, several operators from Blantyre are to receive
12-months training at Hannover in the operation of wastewater treatment
facilities. Additional on-the-job training of three to six months duration is
to be provided to other selected operating personnel in Blantyre through grant
funds provided by GTZ.
2.26      Piped wastewater systems are of less significance in Lilongwe with
only 10,000 persons (out of 80,000) connected to sewers. Three small systems
currently exist with two additional systems planned. Three of these systems
will be operated by the Town Council and the remaining two by the Army and a
Government hospital. Operation and maintenance of all systems have been poor
mainly due to inexperienced operators and no provision for training.
Comprehensive Urban Projects
2.27      Other projects also having water supply and sewerage components
have been implemented and others are underway. The most significant of
these relative to the Blantyre Water Supply Project (Phase V) is the Malawi
Housing Corporation (MHC) urban development scheme proposed for the South
Lunzu area in northeast Blantyre. The project, which would include land
development, roads, water supply and sewerage, is expected to be constructed
during the period 1977-80. The project is being prepared by MHC while KfW has
indicated interest in financing the DM 7.0 million (US$3.0 million) costs of
the project on soft terms.



III. THE PROJECT
Project Description
3.01      The Project is the fifth phase of BWB's water supply expansion
program.  It would increase the capacity of the WF supply from 10 to 14 Imgd,
the maximum economic capacity attainable from the existing single pipeline,
and would provide other major system improvements. It will include the fol-
lowing principal elements:
(a) Improvements and extensions to existing facilities
at WF including raw water pumping plant and water
treatment plant;
(b) Additions to the WF system consisting of about
15,000 feet of treated water supply main generally
parallel to the existing WF pipeline; balancing tanks
and pumping plant provided at WF, at Chileka and at a new,
intermediate site; and a new terminus of the WF pipeline
in the Blantyre area;
(c) Distribution system changes including the creation
of seven new pressure zones, the modification or
relocation of two existing pump stations, and the
construction of the following additional elements:
nine service reservoirs, a pump station, and approxi-
mately 35 miles (56 km) of transmission and distribu-
tion mains ranging from 2 inches (50 mm) to 24 inches
(600 mm) in size;
(d) Construction of general plant including staff housing,
laboratory and workshop; procurement of vehicles,
maintenance equipment, spare parts, accounting machines and
miscellaneous equipment for laboratory and workshop;
(e) Consulting services for: engineering design and supervision
of construction; management services to evaluate and
improve BWB's accounting practices; engineering services
to determine the most economic mode of future operation of
the WF supply system; and
(f) Training of BWB staff in engineering and accountancy.
A demand forecast and analysis of required future production capacity are
provided in Annex 2 and a detailed description of main elements of the Proj-
ect is included in Annex 3. The locations of the proposed plant and areas
to be served are shown in map IBRD 12376.



-9-
Cost Estimates
3.02      The estimated project costs are detailed in Annex 4 and summarized
below.
Summary of Project Cost Estimates
(MK 1.0 = US$1.10)
MK (thousands)            US$ (thousands)          %
Local  Foreign  Total      Local  Foreign  Total    Total
Civil works            2,461   4,320   6,781      2,707   4,752   7,459       48.0
Equipment                268   2,330   2,598        295   2,563   2,858       18.4
Land                      15               15         17               17       .1
Training                  -      140      140                154     154       1.0
Consulting Services      364     635      999       400      699   1,099       7.1
Subtotal         3,108   7,425  10,533       3,419   8,168  11,587      74.6
Contingencies:
Physical               397     890   1,287        437      979   1,416       9.1
Price                  762   1,542   2,304        838   1,696   2,534       16.3
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS   4,267   9,857  14,124       4,694  10,843  15,537    100.0
Interest during
Construction           679     317      996       747      349   1,096
TOTAL FINANCING
REQUIREMENT          4,946  10,174  15,120      5,441  11,192  16X633
3.03      Cost estimates, as originally prepared by the consultants, were
based upon preliminary project design and were expressed in terms of mid-1976
price levels. These cost estimates were later revised to add components for
training, special engineering studies, and for service to low-income, un-
planned areas and, based upon information provided by BWB and the consultants,
to reflect an apparent trend of increased civil works costs illustrated by
Phase IV project tenders received in late 1976. Baseline cost estimates (see
cost summary above) reflect March 1977 price levels. Consulting services
include engineering and management advisory services and are described in
paragraphs 3.09, 3.14 and 3.15. A provision of 10% on all items, excluding
distribution plant where a 15% provision was used, has been added to baseline
costs for physical contingencies and is considered adequate. Price contingency
allowances, which conform to current Bank Group guidelines and are shown
below, have been applied to the baseline costs and to physical contingencies.
Period         Civil Works          Equipment
1977-79            9%                  7.5%
1980-81            8%                  7%
3.04      Government indicated that it would waive duties on all imported
goods and services required for the Project. The foreign exchange component,
approximately 67% of the total financing requirement, includes both direct and



- 10 -
indirect foreign cost elements. It has been estimated on the assumption
that equipment will be imported and construction contracts and pipe supply
contracts will be won by foreign firms. This has occurred in previous BWB
water supply projects.
Financing of ProJect
3.05      The proposed IDA Credit of US$7 million equivalent would be used
to help finance the costs of selected components of civil works, equipment,
and consulting services and would cover about 42% of the total financing
requirement. The civil works, of which the Association would finance only
foreign exchange costs, would consist of miscellaneous additions at the M4udi
treatment works, Blantyre area distribution system additions of reservoirs,
pumping plant and trunk mains, and general plant. The Association also would
finance the procurement of pumping equipment, vehicles, spare parts and
maintenance and workshop equipment and the foreign exchange costs of consult-
ing services for engineering design and construction supervision.
3.06      Remaining Project financing requirements would be met by AfDF,
CDC and from BWB's internal cash generation. An AfDF loan (of up to US$6
million equivalent) would be used to finance the costs of civil works in-
cluding supply and treatment works at Walker's Ferry and the foreign ex-
change costs of staff housing and Blantyre area reticulation system. AfDF
also would finance the costs of treatment plant equipment and a training
component. CDC funds of US$0.7 million equivalent will be made available
to the Project without any restrictions attached to their use (see para.
6.07). The remaining financing requirements would be available from BWB's
internal cash generation. As a condition of effectiveness of the IDA Credit,
all conditions of effectiveness of the AfDF finance and the CDC loan of
US$3.3 million equivalent (of which US$0.7 million would be used in the
Project) should have been fulfilled.
Disbursement
3.07      The IDA Credit would be disbursed to meet selected portions of
the project costs as follows: (a) 65% of the total costs of civil works;
(b) 100% of foreign expenditures or 90% of local expenditures for vehicles,
equipment and spare parts; and (c) 100% of foreign expenditures for the ser-
vices of consultants for engineering design and construction supervision.
An estimated disbursement schedule is given in Annex 5.
Closing Date
3.08      The proposed closing date for the IDA Credit would be March 31,
1982. This allows a margin of about 15 months after the estimated completion
of the work for settlement of final contract payments and for slippage in
construction.
Design and Construction Supervision
3.09      BWB will be responsible for project implementation but will retain
engineering consultants for construction supervision and for detailed design,
preparation of tender documents, and evaluation of tenders. For this purpose,



- II -
BWB has retained the firm of Sir Alexander Gibb and Partners, the same firm
involved in preinvestment studies and ongoing Phase IV work, with work ex-
pected to begin by April 1977. This arrangement is satisfactory. BWB indi-
cated that it would not seek retroactive financing of any consultant's
fees expended prior to the signing of the Credit Agreement. Engineering
required for planning, design and construction of staff housing, reticulation
system, and facilities for low-income, unplanned areas will be performed by
BWB staff. A Project implementation schedule is included as Annex 6.
Procurement
3.10      All construction and supply contracts financed by the proposed IDA
Credit would be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding in
accordance with Bank Group Guidelines. Foreign contractors are expected to
win all major construction contracts, and foreign manufacturers are expected
to furnish all pipe required in the Project. Major mechanical and electrical
equipment required for pumping plant and treatment plant are not manufactured
locally and will be procured from abroad. Nevertheless, should local manufac-
turers bid for supply contracts, a preference of 15%, or the applicable
customs duty, whichever is lower, would be applied to the evaluation of such
bids. A preference of 7-1/2% would also be applied to the evaluation of bids
by domestic firms for construction contracts. Detailed design work is
scheduled to begin by April 1977, in which case all Project facilities should
be commissioned by December 1980.
Land Acquisition
3.11      The Project will require the acquisition of land for the intermediate
pumping station site of the WF system and for reservoirs and booster stations
within the distribution system. In the estimates it is assumed that land not
owned by Government will be acquired at market value and Government land will
be transferred without cost. Government indicated all land necessary for the
Project can be acquired without exceeding the estimated costs.
Service to Low-Income, Unplanned Areas
3.12      The Project includes provision for the extension of piped water
supplies to Blantyre's low-income, unplanned areas where currently an esti-
mated 50,000 persons reside. Priority will be given to those areas contain-
ing unserved populations of 500 persons or more for which no redevelopment
plan exists or, if such plan exists, where redevelopment is unlikely to be
carried out within specified periods. BWB staff will: (i) determine the
status of piped water service to these areas; (ii) develop a plan to serve
areas of need according to criteria acceptable to the Association; and (iii)
design and construct such facilities.
Maintenance and Operation of Pumping Plant
3.13      Numerous outages of BWB pumping plant have occurred in the past
due to failures of electrical plant. In view of potential hazards posed by
outages and the difficulties and expense of replacing or repairing damaged
units, BWB has taken steps to determine the cause and reasonableness of these



- 12 -
outages. They will develop a plan of action to evaluate and upgrade BWB
maintenance and operation practices, exchange views with the Association
regarding the plan, and thereafter carry out such a plan.
Management Consultants
3.14      Management consulting services are also required to assist in the
selection and introduction of data processing equipment. The equipment is
required initially to improve BWB's capability to provide financial and
statistical information for project and tariff planning and, subsequently,
to improve the efficiency of BWB's accounting by extension of the equipment
to a wider variety of uses. Consultants acceptable to the Association will
be employed to provide these services which are estimated to cost about
US$20,000 equivalent.
Engineering Studies
3.15      The Project includes provision for retention of engineering con-
sultants acceptable to the Association to investigate alternative operations
of the WF system in order to determine a plan for water treatment and pump
operation that reflects minimum overall economic cost. The studies, which are
estimated to cost US$120,000 equivalent, would be deferred until 1980 in order
to accumulate a maximum amount of basic operational data and yet be completed
in time to define principal elements of the next major (Phase VI) project.
Training
3.16      To further strengthen its staff, a training component for under-
graduate engineers and accountants would be included in the Project. The
training component, which is estimated to cost US$150,000 equivalent, would
supplement existing BWB training efforts and would be financed by AfDF.
Project Supervision
3.17      Targets and monitoring guidelines will be used to improve management
planning and to assist monitoring the progress of the Project (see Annex 16).
Environmental Impact
3.18      Although the Project, by itself, will not prevent or reduce pollu-
tion within Blantyre area catchments, present regulations of BWB and Blantyre
City Council assist in controlling same. Most new water connections would be
in high density residential areas being developed by MHC. Water service to
these areas generally will be by kiosk or by private standposts. In view of
the limited water supply capacity of such facilities, rudimentary individual
disposal systems such as pit privies are considered adequate. Where direct
water connections to buildings are proposed, sewer connections or septic tanks
are prerequisites to water service. A continuation of this requirement, in
effect, will result in improved sanitation service to that portion of the
Blantyre population not now receiving water service from BWB.



- 13 -
IV. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
Satisfaction of Demand
4.01      The population of Blantyre, in 1975 about 210,000 persons, is
growing at a rate of 6.5% annually or 2.5 times the national growth rate
of 2.6%. Annual water demand of BWB, however, has grown at approximately
twice the rate of population increase due to many factors. Principal among
these have been industrial growth, the increase in domestic per capita water
usage, and the extension of water service to populations not previously served.
Despite the latter, however, unserved squatter populations, which comprise
most of Blantyre's unsatisfied demand, continue to grow.
4.02      The Project provides increased water supply capacity to satisfy
future growth in demand which is projected to average about 9% annually
through the period ending in 1985 (Annex 2). The population directly served
is expected to increase from 140,000 in 1975 to 360,000 by the mid-1980s
when both the ongoing Phase IV project and the IDA-financed Project (Phase V)
will be complete and in service. The Project is a logical continuation of the
estimated US$20 million (1975 prices) water supply program which BWB has
undertaken since 1963 with financial assistance from the Malawi Government
and from UK (CDC and ODM).
Improved Water Service
4.03      Due to an inadequate distribution system, water customers in some
areas of Blantyre currently are affected by interruptions in supply and/or
deliveries at inadequate pressure. The Project would improve this condition
through the creation of seven new pressure zones and the construction of addi-
tional transmission and distribution mains.
Least-Cost Alternative
4.04      During project preparation, Gibb investigated numerous alternative
measures, each reflective of a different source and conveyance system, to
augment the existing Blantyre water supply. The long-term economic cost of
these alternatives was estimated based upon: (a) development of the existing
WF supply to its maximum capacity of 10 Imgd; (b) consideration of incremen-
tal capital and recurring costs specific to each alternative scheme over a
50-year period; (c) discount rates of 8% and 12%; and (d) sensitivity
analyses reflecting possible increases of 20% in capital costs and electrical
energy charges. The studies indicated the Shire River to be Blantyre's most
economic future supply. Although several abstraction points on the Shire
River also appeared promising, continued development at the existing WF
site was recommended due to less uncertainty of development costs compared
to those of alternative sites.



- 14 -
4.05      Of the alternatives considered, the Project is the least-cost
scheme for supplying treated water to Blantyre. However, to further improve
the economics of the WF conveyance system, modifications may be made to the
mode of operation in the mid-1980s. Engineering studies to investigate this
possibility will be undertaken as part of the Project (para. 3.15).
Return on Investment
4.06      The incremental capital and operating costs used to calculate
the internal rate of return are exclusive of all taxes and subsidies. No
shadow pricing of labor or foreign exchange was deemed necessary since both
markets function fairly efficiently in Malawi. The cost of power was based
on a recent marginal cost pricing study undertaken by ESCOM in connection
with another IDA Credit. Using present tariffs as a minimal measure of
Project benefits results in an internal rate of return on the Project of about
2.9%. The low rate of return is indicative of the underpricing of water, the
long-run marginal cost of which is estimated at MK 1.74 per thousand Ig
(US$1.60 per thousand US gal) using an interest rate of 8% and at MK 2.06 per
thousand Ig (US$1.90 per thousand US gal) using an interest rate of 10%.
4.07      However, with the tariff changes to be attained by 1981 to meet the
financing objectives and to accomplish structural changes (reducing the use
of fixed charges and increasing the progressivity of consumption charges)
(see paras. 6.03 to 6.05), the average tariff rate would be MK 1.62 per
thousand Ig (excluding increases projected to meet future inflation). If
the project benefits were valued at this average tariff, the rate of return
would be 7%. Elasticity effects have been accounted for to some degree in
this calculation through the incorporation of the effect of expected price
increase in the demand forecast (Annex 2) although it is impossible to
accurately predict consumer reaction given data limitations. Annex 7 des-
cribes the method used in calculating average incremental costs and return
on investment and gives details of the calculation.
4.08      The following table summarizes the sensitivity of the rate of return
to different revenue and project cost assumptions.
Rate of return based upon
average water charge, %
1977           1981
(MK 1.12 per   (MK 1.62 per
Assumptions                  thousand Ig)   thousand Ig)
a)  10% increase in capital costs             2.3              6.5
b)  10% decrease in revenues                  1.6              6.0
c)  Both of the above                         1.0              5.3
Non-Quantifiable Benefits
4.09      The Project will reduce health hazards and improve public health
standards within the community through the extension of piped water service
to populations now relying upon local streams and upon other water supplies
of doubtful quality.



- 15 -
4.10      Approximately 50,000, out of an estimated 70,000 persons currently
without piped water service in Blantyre, live in low-income, unplanned areas.
BWB has withheld water service from such areas in accordance with Government's
overall policy of discouraging rural-urban migration. However, as in other
developing countries, there is a lack of evidence in Blantyre that denial of
piped water service has restricted such migration. In fact, unplanned area
populations in Blantyre have continued to grow. For this reason and, in
awareness of the potential adverse impact upon productivity, public health,
and quality of life, the lack of reasonable access to safe water supplies in
these areas no longer can be disregarded. Accordingly, Government is to
institute a program of improved water supply to residents of low-income,
unplanned areas (para. 3.12).
V. BLANTYRE WATER BOARD
The Borrower
5.01      The borrower would be the Government of Malawi who would relend the
proceeds of the IDA Credit to BWB (the beneficiary) on the terms stated in
para. 6.07.
Institutional Framework
5.02      BWB is a body corporate incorporated under the Blantyre Water Works
Act, Cap. 72-02. It is responsible for the supply of water to Blantyre and
to designated areas adjacent to the City. The Board consists of a chairman
and ten members, all of whom are appointed by the Minister. At the present
time, BWB reports to the Ministry of Trade, Industry and Tourism.
5.03      The present chairman of the Board is the General Manager of the
Malawi Housing Corporation. The Board includes members from private indus-
try, a bank, the academic world, the CDC representative in Blantyre and a City
Councilor.
5.04      BWB's capital and revenue budgets and proposals for tariff changes
are submitted to the Minister for approval. BWB is also required to obtain
prior ministerial approval of all senior staff appointments and of all con-
tracts entered into in excess of MK 10,000.
Organization and Management
5.05      The senior management position is Engineer/Manager who has reporting
to him a Clerk/Treasurer and a Deputy Engineer. The position of Engineer/
Manager has recently been filled (effective December 30, 1976) with an expatri-
ate engineer newly hired by the Board after former service with the Public
Utilities Board of Singapore. The Deputy Engineer is a Malawian with pro-
gressively responsible experience with the Board and, prior to that, overseas.



- 16 -
During 1976, he served as BWB's Acting Engineer/Manager and has performed
well. The Clerk/Treasurer is an expatriate with many years of experience with
the Board and his performance has been good. However, the accounting staff
needs to be strengthened at the managerial level to cope with the growing size
of the Board's activities, to improve the accounting information system, and
to help introduce tariff reforms. To help meet these needs, BWB has recently
appointed a Chief Accountant.
5.06      With the recent appointments of an Engineer/Manager and a Chief
Accountant, BWB should, with engineering consulting assistance, be competent
to carry out the Project and other capital works during the project implemen-
tation period. To ensure the continuation of BWB's management capability,
BWB will consult IDA regarding future appointment to the two most senior
posts, the Engineer/Manager and the Clerk/ Treasurer.
5.07      At the middle management level, and below, BWB is adequately staffed.
Continued development of this staff, which is reasonably effective, would be
mainly dependent upon on-the-job experience gained under the leadership of
senior management. BWB's organization chart showing the principal staff
positions is included as Annex 8.
Training
5.08      BWB has been successful in attracting sufficient engineers.  It
has on its staff a number of Malawians holding university degrees in en-
gineering and, by the end of 1976, is expected to have three additional Malawians
studying overseas for such degrees. Technicians are trained at Malawi Poly-
technic in Blantyre. Over the last two years, a number of staff have been
sent to the National Water Council in the United Kingdom for further training.
Financial and administrative staff are mainly recruited from Malawi Polytechnic
and accountants are sent to Britain for studies leading to professional quali-
fications. BWB has had difficulty in retaining the services of those who have
obtained professional qualifications, but this position may improve as the
supply of qualified accountants increases. It is a condition of the recent
ODM loan to BWB that the Board will maintain and, if necessary, expand the
training of its Malawi staff both on the job and in Britain. A training
component covering further undergraduate studies is included in the portion
of the proposed project being financed by AfDF (para. 3.16).
Accounting and Auditing
5.09      BWB's accounting system is adequate for recording transactions,
preparing financial statements and annual budgets. There is a need, however,
to improve the capability of the system to provide improved management infor-
mation especially statistical information for project and tariff planning.
5.10      To assist BWB in this task, the Project includes accounting machines,
consulting assistance in their selection, and the development of related
accounting procedures. BWB is to exchange views with the Association regard-
ing the consultants' recommendations.



- 17 -
5.11      BWB's audit is conducted by the international firm, Deloitte and
Company, and the arrangement is satisfactory. BWB will have its annual
accounts audited by independent accountants acceptable to the Association
and the audited accounts will be submitted to the Association within six
months of the end of the fiscal year.
Billing and Collections
5.12      Meter readings are made monthly and bills normally sent out by
mail within one week. Disconnections are made if payment is not made with-
in 30 days of billing. Collection performance has been good and there are few
bad debts.
VI. FINANCE
Past Performance and Present Financial Position
6.01      BWB's financial policy has been to set tariffs at a level adequate
to meet annual operating expenditures and debt service with only minor capital
expenditures being financed from internal cash generation. BWB has met its
financial objectives, but has not accumulated liquid resources to help finance
capital expenditures. To better determine its operating expenditures and in-
come in its future financial statements, BWB will change its accounting
practices by introducing depreciation accounting.
6.02      BWB's revenues grew from MK 0.9 million in 1970 to MK 1.65 million
in 1975 and water sales from 1,157 Img in 1970 to 2,021 Img in 1975 represent-
ing average annual growth rates of 16% in revenues and 15% in water sales
during the five-year period. The excess of revenues over operating expenses
and debt service was small over the five years amounting to about 4% of reve-
nues. As of December 31, 1975 about 65% of BWB's gross fixed assets had been
financed from loans, 26% from grants, and the remainder from surpluses. After
deducting estimated depreciation from revenues and from gross fixed assets
at historical cost, the rate of return on net fixed assets from 1970 to 1975
was in a low range of 5% to 8%. BWB's 1976-1983 projected cash flow and in-
come statements, balance sheets and debt statement, together with notes there-
on, are presented in Annexes 9 to 13 and 1972-1975 historical income state-
ments and balance sheets in Annexes 14 and 15.
Tariffs
6.03      The effect of BWB's financial policy mentioned in para. 6.01 is
that water generally is priced well below its economic cost. BWB's current
tariff (which became effective January 1, 1977 and is identical in structure
to the 1975 tariff shown in Annex 17) includes a fixed monthly fee for all
consumer categories other than than kiosks and a monthly consumption charge.
The fixed fee varies according to type of customer and the size and assessed
value of property as does the "free allowance" of water delivered without
additional charge. Consumption in excess of this monthly entitlement is



- 18 -
charged at the rate of MK 0.80 per thousand Ig (US$0 73 per thousand US gal)
for the first 5,000 Ig and MK 1.00 per thousand Ig (US$0.92 per thousand US
gal) for the remainder. The tariff is unnecessarily complex and results in
pricing inconsistencies, which are both uneconomic and inequitable, as
customers pay widely differing amounts for water consumed without reasonable
justification. Although it would be desirable to abolish soon water charges
that are based upon assessed valuation of property, the required adjustment
to BWB's billing system will be both difficult and time-consuming. Guide-
lines for structural changes, which have been discussed with Government and
BWB, are shown in Annex 18. BWB, in consultation with the Association, will
introduce changes in structure along these guidelines.
6.04      BWB plans to increase its tariff levels per thousand Ig sold to
close to estimated long-run marginal cost by 1981, through phased increases
between 1978 and 1981. To achieve this objective and meet its cash require-
ments during the construction period and also finance a reasonable proportion
of its expected large future capital requirements from internal cash genera-
tion, BWB will adjust its tariff to provide an annual rate of return on
average revalued net fixed assets of not less than 8% in 1978 and 1979, 10%
in 1980 and 1981, and 9% thereafter. To achieve the minimum 8% rate of re-
turn in 1978 and 1979, BWB will either make a 37% tariff increase in 1978 or
23% and 11% tariff increases in 1978 and 1979, respectively. To achieve the
above rates of return from 1978 to 1981, it has been estimated that it would
be necessary to increase the average revenue per thousand Ig sold from
MK 1.12 per thousand Ig (US$1.03 per thousand U.S. gal) in 1977 to MK 2.20
per thousand Ig (US$2.02 per thousand US gal) by 1981, after taking into
account 8% annual inflation. The average level attained by 1981 would be
only about 7% below long run marginal cost and would be such that large
users would pay the full economic cost of their consumption. In constant
prices the increase attained by 1981 would represent about 45%, raising the
1977 average revenue of MK 1.12 per thousand Ig (US$1.03 per thousand US gal)
to MK 1.62 per thousand Ig (US$1.48 per thousand US gal).
6.05      To measure BWB's annual rate of return on net fixed assets BWB,
in consultation with Government, has (based on a modified application of the
British General Index of Retail Prices) revalued these assets at December 31,
1975 at a gross value of MK 17.11 million less accumulated depreciation of
MK 6.17 million. Although a better method of revaluation should be
established in the future, the initial revaluation is acceptable in view of
the large additions to fixed assets in future years. BWB is to revalue
its fixed assets annually in accordance with methods satisfactory to the
Association, and a proposed method will be submitted to the Association
before the end of 1977. In the financial projections, an 8-1/2% annual
revaluation increase of fixed assets has been assumed from 1976 to 1981, after
which prices are assumed to be constant.
Proposed Financing Plan
6.06      The total financing requirement, which is estimated to approximate
MK 15.1 million (US$16.6 million) including interest during construction,
would represent about 53% of BWB's estimated capital expenditures and



- 19 -
additions to working capital between 1977 and 1981. Under the proposed
financing plan for this period, which is giv-n belot., BWB would provide 28% of
its estimated capital requirements from internal cash generation, 68% would be
provided from loans, and 4% from capital contributions.
Millions of      Millions of
Kwachas           US$           %
Requirements
Project Expenditures (including
interest during construction)
Development Program
Phase IV /1                            8.0              8.8         28
Phase V (Proposed Project)            15.1             16.6         53
Phase VI /1                            0.2              0.2          1
Other                                    1.5              1.6          5
Additions to Working Capital                  4.0               4.4         13
28.8             31.6        100
Sources
Internal Cash Generation                     13.8              15.2         48
Less: Debt Service and Sinking
Fund Contributions /2                  5.9              6.5         20
Net Internal Cash Generation                  7.9               8.7         28
Capital Contributions                               1.2              1.3          4
Borrowings
Phase V
(1DM                                     3.4               3.7        11
CDC ,3                                   4.0               4.4        14
Phase V (Proposed Project)
IDA                                      6.4                7.0       22
AfDF (up t; US$6 m)                      5.2                5.7       18
CDC /3                                   0.6               0.7          2
Phase VI /1                                    0.1               0.1         1
19.7              21.6        68
28.8              31.6       100
/I   The amounts shown opposite th se items are those portions of projec- ex-
penditures and borrowings incSirred between 1977 and 1981 only.
/2   Excludes interest during cons ruc. ton.
/3   CDC ioans consist of US$1.8 m equiva ent approved 1976 and a proposed
US$3.3 m equivalent loan expected to be s-bmitted to the CDC Board in
June 1977.



- 20 -
6.07      External finance for the proposed Project would come from IDA, AfDF
and CDC.  Government will make the proceeds of the IDA Credit of US$7 million
available to BWB at an 8-1/2% interest rate. Principal repayments would com-
mence in 1981 over 20 years and would be included in combined level principal
and interest payments over that period. AfDF finance (up to US$6 million) is
expected to be made available to Government with a service charge of 3/4 of
1% and repayment terms similar to the IDA Credit. Relending to BWB is likely
to be on similar terms but has been conservatively projected in this report at
an interest rate of 3-1/2%. CDC project finance of US$0.7 million would be
part of a MK 3 million (US$3.3 million) loan to be made directly to BWB the
balance of which would, together with a previously approved CDC loan, be used
to help finance the previous phase of BWB's development program which, based
on recent civil works bids, is likely to cost significantly more than originally
anticipated.
6.08      The proposed Project would be followed by a Phase VI project to be
constructed between 1981 and 1985 at an estimated cost of MK 20 million
(US$22 million) and, in the financial projections, it has been assumed that
this would be 60% debt-financed. As it is impossible to predict the price
elasticity of water demand, water consumption may be less than forecast as
a consequence of the proposed tariff changes (para. 6.04). In this case,
the construction of the Phase VI project may be postponed.
6.09      With the change in tariff levels referred to in para 6.04, BWB will
be able to improve its financial performance as indicated by the following
projected financial data:
1977     1979      1981     1983
-----(millions of Kwacha)-----
Operating Revenues                2.6       4.3      7.5        9.4
Operating Expenses                2.1       3.0      4.5        5.6
Net Income before Interest        0.5       1.3      3.0        3.8
Net Income Cash Generation        0.3       0.7      2.5        3.0
Operating Ratio                    81        69       60         59
Debt Service Coverage             1.7       1.6      2.3        2.3
6.10      To help ensure a sound financial structure, BWB will not incur
debt without IDA approval, unless future debt service is covered at least
1.5 times by internal cash generation.
VII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      Agreement was reached with Government on the following points:
(a)  BWB will provide piped water supplies to Blantyre's
low-income, unplanned areas (para. 3.12);
(b)  BWB will consult with the Association before making
any appointments to the positions of Engineer/ Manager
and Clerk/Treasurer (para. 5.06); and



- 21 -
(c) BWB will maintain its tariffs at a level which
will yield at least 8% on its average revalued net
fixed assets in 1978 and 1979, 10% in 1980 and 1981,
and 9% thereafter (para. 6.04).
7.02      A condition of effectiveness of the proposed IDA Credit would be
that all conditions of effectiveness of the proposed CDC and AfDF finance
have been fulfilled (para. 3.06).
7.03      The Project is suitable for a US$7 million equivalent IDA Credit.
April 19, 1977



I



ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 4
MALAWI
BLANTYRE WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Description of Existing Facilities
Background
1.        The existing water system dates back to January 1929 when the
Blantyre Water Board (BWB) was formed. Although the attractiveness of the
area due to high elevation and pleasant climate have been partly responsi-
ble for Blantyre's rapid growth, its highland location also has made the
securing of firm water supplies difficult. Local supplies, which are rela-
tively insignificant during all seasons due to geographic location on the
catchments, taper off markedly during the dry season (July-December) when
peak water demands normally occur. Urban growth has made local supplies less
secure through encroachment upon their catchments. With the continuing growth
of the community, BWB has had to reach out to more distant sources of supply
outside the area of influence of urban development in order to meet increasing
water demands.
Sources of Supply
Mudi Catchment
2.        The Hynde dam impondments, which are in the upper portion of
the Mudi catchment, represent BWB's earliest source of supply. They were
constructed in 1930 and are effected by four, small sarth-fill dams provid-
ing a combined storage capacity of 25 Img (114,000 m ). A small treatment
plant, which processed water from this source for many years, was finally
taken out of service upon the completion of the Mudi works in 1953 due to
obsolescence and the high cost of retaining it in service.
3.        Steadily increasing water demands subsequently forced the construc-
tion of the Mudi works whi5h include an earth-fill dam providing a total stor-
age of 290 Img (1,320,000 m ), a raw water pumping station, a conventional
filtration plant using gravity-flow, rapid-sand filters, and a high-service
pumping station. Due to insufficent raw water pumping capacity, the maximum
daily output of the Mudi works is limited to 3.0 Imgd. The annual sustain-
able yield available from the Mudi catchment (including abstractions from the
Hynde dam reservoirs) varies from year to year but generally ranges from 0.5
to 1.0 Imgd. The Mudi works are an important asset to the BWB system due to
their closeness to the center of demand and the extent of raw water storage



ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 4
capacity available at the site. With BWB's increasing dependence upon
the Walker's Ferry source as its basic supply, the Mudi works have taken
on a changed role and are now mainly used for peaking and for emergencies.
This role is expected to continue in the future despite the continued
pressure of urban development on lands immediately adjacent to the catch-
ment. It is important that Government be convinced of the need to protect
the catchment from further encroachment and actually takes steps to provide
such protection.
4.        Ground water potential in the area is not significant.  Numerous
boreholes and testholes exist largely as a result of the droughts of 1949 and
1950 which spurred the development of all potential sources. Unit capacities
are low (the highest reported capacity approximates 50 Igpm) and water quality
is poor. Many of the boreholes were developed by individual industries and
some of these have now been abandoned. Only one of an original eight bore-
holes and/or testholes constructed by BWB is still active. Due to poor water
quality, its production (less than 50 Igpm) is delivered to the lower Hynde
dam reservoir for blending rather than sent directly to the distribution
system.
Nankhunda Catchment
5.        The Nankhunda works were constructed in 1919 and consist of Nankhunda
reservoir with storage capacity of 40 Img (180,000 m ), a gravity raw water
supply, a pressure rapid sand filter, and a high-service pump station pumping
directly to the distribution system. Nominal capacity of the works is about
0.4 Imgd. Due to the construction of Government housing projects, the Nankhunda
catchment increasingly is subjected to water pollution. For this reason, the
Nankhunda works normally are held in reserve for emergency or for use during
the peak summer demand. Government's plans to further expand public housing
within the catchment are likely to require the abandonment of the Nankhunda
works by the end of the current (Phase IV) capital improvement program.
Walker's Ferry Supply from Shire River
6.        The Walker's Ferry (WF) supply, which constitutes BWB's principal
supply, was first developed in 1963 and consists of an intake and raw water
pumping station located at WF, raw water supply mains, water treatment
works, and a treated water conveyance system extending from WF to the Blantyre
area. Additions and improvements subsequently were made to the WF supply
several times with the most recent (Phase III) additions completed by late
1976.
7.       Abstraction from the Shire River occurs at an intake pumping tower
located approximately 4,000 ft (1,200 m) upstream of the intake of the
Electricity Supply Commission of Malawi (ESCOM) Nkula Falls hydroelectric
station. The tower is of reinforced concrete construction and currently
houses seven electric-drive pump units totalling 895 horsepower (hp) and



ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 4
having a combined pumping capacity in excess of 8 Imgd. The tower was con-
structed to a level consistent with the modifications proposed as part of the
ongoing Nkula Falls II project recently approved for Bank Group financing
where the forebay maximum operating level will be increased by about 20 feet
(6 m). A raw water supply system consisting of two 12-inch diameter, 1,800-
feet long pressure pipelines connect the raw water intake to the treatment
works.
8.        The treatment works have a nominal capacity of 6 Imgd although they
can be operated at a rate of 8 Imgd during periods of low raw water turbidity.
Pretreatment facilities include a pre-sedimentation basin and a flash-mix
chamber (currently inactive) with aluminum sulfate added as coagulant and
Decapol used as a coagulant aid. The treatment works include upward-flow,
sludge blanket-type clarifiers, conventional rapid sand gravity filters,
post-chlorination and a chlorine-contact tank.
9.        The treated water is pumped from a clear water tank at the WF
site a distance of over 23 miles through a 24-inch nominal diameter supply
main to the Ndirande terminal reservoir in Blantyre. The pumping is accom-
plished in two separate pump lifts of 1,296 ft and 1,215 ft, respectively, by
pumping stations located at WF and Chileka. Although the hydraulic capacity
of the pipeline in its current configuration is 9.7 Imgd (based upon a 10 fps
velocity), the actual capacity of the WF scheme is limited to 8 Imgd due
to limitations in installed pumping plant. The WF site includes a 1.0-Img
balancing tank and a pumping plant with five electric-drive units with a total
installed capacity of 5,000 hp. The Chileka site includes a 1.0-Img balancing
tank and a pumping plant of six electric drive units having a total installed
capacity of 4,575 hp.
Distribution System
10.       The distribution system provides service to about one-half of the
56-square mile net area currently planned for development within the Blantyre
city area. Additional small areas (Sanjeka, Chileka village and several ESCOM
field installations) external to the Blantyre municipal boundary also are
served. Service within the City is provided through six separate pressure
zones ranging in elevation from 3,600 feet (1,097 m) to 4,309 feet (1,313 m)
and formed by eight separate reservoirs having a combined storage capacity of
7.0 Img (31,800 m ).
11.       Treated water is introduced to the distribution system from the
WF system via Ndirande reservoir and from the high-service pumping plant
at Mudi treatment works. Pumping plant located at four booster stations
located within the distribution system includes 14 separate pump units all
of which are electrically driven, with a total installed capacity of 1,070 hp
and delivering 9.2 Imgd.
12.       The transmission and distribution systems consist of over 100 miles
of pressure main ranging in size from one inch (25 mm) to 21 inches (530 mm)
and constructed of asbestos cement, welded steel, cast iron and PVC. There
were 9,754 metered connections providing service to an estimated 140,000
persons out of an estimated total Blantyre population of 210,000 in 1975.



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 4
Twenty-three of these connections were to kiosks (two of which were in
squatter areas) and over 1,000 connections to private standposts in high
density and traditional housing areas. There also are approximately 100
fire hydrants attached to the system that were paid for by the municipal-
ity but owned and maintained by BWB.
Ongoing Phase IV Project
13.       The Phase IV project, which is scheduled to be completed by early
1979, will increase BWB's basic water supply, improve the ability to meet peak
and emergency water demands, and provide minor distribution system additions.
The Project is being financed through external assistance provided by Common-
wealth Development Corporation (CDC) and the Ministry of Overseas Development
(ODM), both of the United Kingdom, and through internal assistance provided by
Government.
14.       The nominal capacity of the WF system will be increased from 8 to
10 Imgd. Source of supply improvements will include modification of the raw
water intake and piping, construction of an access bund, and the addition of
a 24-inch raw water supply main. Additions at the treatment plant site will
increase treatment capacity to a nominal 10 Imgd, and will increase pumping
capacity at the WF pump station through the enlargement of the pump build-
ing and the addition of two 4.0 Imgd pump units. The project also will
provide for the enlargement of the Chileka pump building, the addition of two
4.7 Imgd pump sets, the procurement of a spare 4.7-Imgd pump set, installation
of additional surge equipment at the Walker's Ferry and Chileka sites, and
increase the capacity of the Walker's Ferry pipeline to a maximum of 10.3 Imgd
through the removal of existing restrictions.
15.       The nominal capacity of the Mudi works, which will provide increased
capability to meet peak and emergency water demands, will be increased from 3
to 10 lmgd. These improvements will include modification of the existing raw
water intake, construction of a new raw water pump station immediately down-
stream of Mudi Dam and a new 27-inch raw water supply main to the treatment
works. Treatment plant improvements will include modification of the existing
clarifiers, provision for an additional reactioI tank and gravity, dual media
filters, and construction of a 0.5 Img (2,300 m ) clear water reservoir
and a new high-service pump station boosting to the Ndirande zone (elevation
3,780 feet) reservoir.
16.       Additions to the Blantyre area works, consisting mainly of a 0.6-Img
reservoir at South Lunzu (elevation 3,660 feet), three transmission mains, and
minor reticulation works, also are scheduled for construction.
April 1977



ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 11
MALAWI
BLANTYRE WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Water Demand and Production Capacity
Introduction
1.        The designers of the original Walker's Ferry (WF) pipeline planned
that it would have an ultimate capacity of 10 Imgd and that construction
of a parallel pipeline would be necessary to transport flows in excess of
that rate. Subsequent preinvestment studies by BWB's consultants have indi-
cated that it is economically feasible to increase pipeline capacity to
14 Imgd by making certain additions and changes in configuration not originally
considered. However, due to the remote location and the low elevation of
the WF source of supply in relation to center of demand, any significant
increase in capacity is likely to be costly and have a marked effect upon BWB
recurring expense. For this reason, considerable efforts were made during
project preparation to ascertain the extent and trend of future water demands.
Historical Water Demands
2.        BWB maintains good records of water consumption (metered sales) but
less satisfactory records of production (demand at source). Provision for
improving the metering of production is included in the ongoing Phase IV
project. This will permit a closer check on unaccounted-for water production
which probably has been underestimated in the past. Since completion of the
WF pipeline, annual water demands have increased markedly, mainly due to rapid
urban growth, but also because the water tariff tended to encourage consump-
tion. Table 1 of this annex indicates that, for the period 1964-1975, annual
increases in system demand have averaged over 14% ranging from a minimum of
about 8% to a maximum of approximately 20% for individual years.
Factors Affecting Future Demand
3.        BWB's metered records have been helpful in identifying historical
trends of water usage but provide little assistance in projecting future growth.
Improved statistics on population and water customers are needed. This need
has resulted from a lack of census information (the most recent National
Census was in 1966), the use of some bulk rather than individual water meters
to monitor consumption, and a BWB system of records that is cumbersome to use
in future planning.
4.        In 1975 only about 140,000 of an estimated 210,000 persons living
within Blantyre City were directly served by BWB. To assist in estimating
future water demands, Gibb assumed that future gross Blantyre populations



ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 11
would increase from this base at an 8% (compounded) annual rate. The Gibb
demand forecasts, which reflect five separate components of water demand,
were mainly tied to population growth. Only the Commercial/Industrial demand
component, which was assumed to match the growth of the national economy, was
an exception. Remaining components, i.e., Government/Institutional and
residential, were indirectly tied to population growth.
5.        Modifications to the Gibb demand forecasts, which are described
later in this annex (see para. 7), were made by the mission and reflect a
somewhat diminished annual growth rate for residential water demands. The
reasons for the change were as follows. First, a lower (6.5% as against
8.0%) population growth rate seemed appropriate based upon the results of
a recent sample census obtained by Government's Regional Planning Office.
This lower rate had been adopted by Government for future Blantyre area
planning, but it was obtained too late to be used in the Gibb studies.
Second, constraints on housing starts effected by the Malawi Housing Corpora-
tion (MHC) annual budget are likely to place an effective limit on the
growth of numbers of house connections and thus water demands for the fore-
seeable future. This is particularly true since MRC currently is responsible
for over 90% of all Blantyre area housing starts. While the number of persons
served by BWB generally will increase in accordance with population, total
water consumption is expected to increase at a slightly higher rate, despite
the emphasis on low-income housing and sites and services type developments,
due to increased per capita demands (see para. 7). MHC developments generally
have reflected low per capita consumption due to increased dependence upon
kiosks and private standposts. A third consideration leading to revised
demand estimates was the sensitivity of demand to future tariff increases.
The latter, which have been recognized as necessary and are recommended
by the mission, are likely to reduce the rate of growth of water demands.
6.        Currently, some unsatisfied demand exists in the Blantyre area
by population not served (70,000 persons estimated of a total population of
210,000 in 1975). Most of this is represented by the approximately 50,000
persons living in four widely scattered squatter areas (Bangwe, Kabula,
Ndirande and Nkolokoti) adjacent to developed areas of Blantyre. The current
extent of unsatisfied demand partly is explained by BWB's stand of withhold-
ing water service from squatter areas. This stand is an extension of Govern-
ment policy established to discourage uncontrolled growth in urban areas.
Service to these areas is likely to have little impact on water demand since
per capita water use is expected to be low.
Future Water Demands
7.        Projections of future water demands which were developed by the
mission for the period 1976-85, based upon considerations mentioned above,
are shown at the back of this Annex. Table 2, the first of these, identifies
the composition of future demands by principal class of consumer and in terms
of average daily consumption. Residential consumption projected for any
future year is expected to increase from 1975 consumption based upon expected



ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 11
future growth in numbers of residential connections and a continuation
of the trend of annual increase (3.9%) in per capita water use noted for
the years 1972 and 1975. Projections of non-residential consumption are
in accordance with the Gibb forecasts. Table 3 shows both consumption
and production. Unaccounted-for water, the difference between consumption
and production, has been assumed to remain at close to the historical rate,
13% of production. Annual increases in required annual production would
average about 9%, ranging from a minimum of 6.3% to a maximum of 10.1%
during the period.
Variations in Demand
8.        In planning and sizing elements of a water utility, evaluation
of likely variations in demand is important. The Blantyre system is particu-
larly sensitive in this respect due to the distant location of Walker's
Ferry, which constitutes the principal source of supply. Table 4 shows the
likely monthly variation in demand based upon previous BWB experience during
the period 1969-72. Table 5, which is based upon historical demand character-
istics, shows projected flow rates for selected short-term periods that were
used in the planning and design of the Project.
Source Utilization
9.        Studies by Gibb have indicated that, in order to avoid excessive
electricial demand charges due to pumping and to minimize capital require-
ments, it would be desirable to operate the WF supply at relatively uniform
production rates. Local sources of supply and other local elements of sys-
tem input, which are not penalized to the same degree by variations in flow
rate, would be used to meet system variations in demand. Design of the
Project has been based upon this rationale. The WF supply normally would be
operated at, or close to, the average annual demand rate. During below-
average seasonal periods of demand, water surplus to immediate needs could
be bled off from the WF pipeline for storage in Mudi reservoir, subsequently
treated at the Mudi treatment works, and thereafter delivered to the distri-
bution system. The facilities at the Mudi site, including raw water pumping
facilities, treatment plant, and high-service pumping facilities, would be
designed to meet maximum-day demands. Demands during shorter-term periods
(of less than one-day duration) would be met by withdrawals from distribution
system storage.
Production Capacity
10.       Table 6 shows effective production capacity planned for the BWB
system in order to meet future water demands. The total capacity shown for
any given year equals the long-term sustainable capacity available from the
WF works plus short-term yields available from local catchments. The capacity
shown for the year 1984 is tentative due to uncertainty about future water
demand. There also are uncertainties relative to optimum operation of future
additions to the WF supply that could affect required production capacity
(see para. 12 this annex).



ANNEX 2
Page 4 of 11
11.       Page 11 presents a graphical representation of water demands
and production capacity according to two separate categories relative to time,
i.e., short-term and long-term. Short-term production capacity refers to that
capacity that is sustainable by the end of the design period for a matter of
days or, possibly, weeks. Long-term production capacity would be sustainable
indefinitely, assuming no change in annual demand. The graph illustrates that
total BWB production capacity must be chosen in consideration of both short-
term and long-term needs. More specifically, it illustrates that the need for
production capacity added by the proposed Bank Group (phase V) project is
based upon long-term rather than short-term considerations. If short-term
capacity is compared to maximum-day demand, there would be an apparent
surplus of about 5 Imgd by the year 1980 when the Bank Group project is
scheduled for completion. This is due to the extent of supply capacity
added at the Mudi site for emergency protection by the ongoing Phase IV
project. Since supply capacity at Mudi is not sustainable for extended
periods, no additions in treatment plant capacity at the Mudi site are
proposed as part of the Bank Group project.
Future Operation of WT System
12.       Prior to appraisal it became apparent to Bank Group staff that
certain alternative operations of the WF system that could reflect lower
economic costs were insufficiently considered. In particular, use of off-peak
electrical energy for pumping and the conveyance of raw water, rather than
treated water, to Blantyre appeared likely candidates for consideration. The
mission investigated the attractiveness of such changes in future operation
and the sensitivity of these changes, if desired, on future project timing.
This investigation convinced the mission that, for Phase V, raw water pumping
would be less economic than the more conventional current configuration.
Since analysis by the mission relied upon cost information developed in the
earlier Gibb studies, substantial updating of the analysis may be required.
Additional studies to determine an optimum plan in operating the WF system
should be completed prior to preparation of the next major (Phase VI) project.
However, there is no need to conduct these studies, which are included in the
Project, prior to 1980 since the current mode of operating the WF system, by
necessity, must be retained until a second WF to Blantyre supply main is
commissioned. This additional supply capacity is scheduled for Phase VI.
Delaying the studies until 1980 should allow sufficient time to accumulate the
substantial amount of basic operational data which will be required for the
study.
April 1977



ANNEX 2
Page 5 of 11
TABLE 1:   PAST GROWTH IN WATER PRODUCTION
Calendar                  Average               Annual Increase
Day
Year                   Production I/          Amount         %
(Imgd)               (Img)
1964                      1.52
1965                      1.82                 .30        19.7
66                      2.15                 .33        18.1
67                      2.54                 .39        18.1
68                      2.98                 .44        17.3
69                      3.23                 .25         8.4
1970                      3.70                 .47        14.6
71                      4.17                 .47        12.7
72                      4.60                 .43        10.3
73                      5.00                 .40         8.7
74                      5.49                 .49         9.8
1975                      6.40                 .91         16.6
Note:
1/   Average daily production by high service pumps at treatment plants.
January 1977



ANNEX 2
Page 6 of 11
TABLE 2: COMPOSITION OF FUTURE WATER CONSUMPTION 1/
Calendar Number of   Residential Consump. Commercial/ Governmental/    Total
Residential  Annual                Industrial  Institutional
Year   Connections Increase, %   Amount Consumption Consumption   Consumption
(Imgd)    (Imgd)      (Imgd)           (Imgd)
1975       8,696                    2.78
76       9,386       11.3         3.09       1.73        1.09             5.91
77      10,086       10.8         3.43       1.83        1.19             6.44
78      10,796       10.5         3.79       1.94        1.30             7.03
79      11,516       10.2         4.17       2.11        1.44             7.72
1980      12,246        9.9         4.59       2.30        1.59             8.48
81      12,986        9.6         5.03       2.51        1.75             9.29
82      13,736        9.4         5.50       2.74        1.94            10.18
83      14,496        9.1         6.00       3.00        2.14            11.14
84      15,266        9.0         6.54       3.26        2.37            12.17
1985      16,046        8.8         7.12       3.60        2.60            13.32
Note:
1/   Average daily consumption in terms of projected metered sales.
January 1977



ANNEX 2
Page 7 of 11
TABLE 3: PROJECTED FUTURE WATER CONSUMPTION AND PRODUCTION
1/   Unaccounted-                    3/      Annual
Calendar       Consumption         for Water 2/    Production            Increase
Year        Imgd       Img           %           I_mg      Imgd            %
1975                                                       6.4
76        5.91    2,157          13          2,482       6.8            6.3
77        6.44    2,352          13          2,701       7.4            8.8
78        7.03    2,566          13          2,957       8.1            9.5
79        7.72    2,818          13          3,249       8.9            9.9
1980        8.48    3,095          13          3,577       9.8           10.1
81        9.29    3,391          13          3,906      10.7            9.2
82       10.18    3,716          13          4,271      11.7            9.3
83       11.14    4,066          13          4,672      12.8           9.4
84       12.17    4,442          13          5,110      14.0           9.4
1985       13.32    4,862          13          5,585      15.3            9.3
Water demand in terms of projected:
I/   Metered sales;
2/   In terms of water production;
3/   Production by high service pumps at treatment plants.
January   1977



ANNEX 2
Page 8 of 11
TABLE 4:   SEASONAL VARIATIONS IN DEMAND 1/
Average Daily Demand
During Indicated Month
Calendar                             As Against Average Daily
Month                                  Demand for Year, %
January                                           86
February                                          88
March                                             89
April                                             90
May                                               97
June                                              97
July                                             100
August                                           106
September                                        116
October                                          123
November                                         111
December                                          97
Note:
1/   Based upon experience during period 1969-72.
January   1977



ANNEX 2
Page 9 of 11
TABLE 5: PROJECTED SHORT-TERM VARIATIONS IN DEMAND 1/
(Imgd)
Average Daily Demand During:
Maximum      Maximum       Maximum        Peak
Calendar                Demand        Demand        Demand        Hour
Year        Year        Month  2/    Week   3/   Day    4/   Demand
1976         6.8         8.8           9.2          10.2         15.0
77         7.4         9.6          10.0         11.1          16.3
78         8.1        10.4          10.9          12.2         17.8
79         8.9        11.5          12.0          13.4         19.6
1980         9.8        12.6          13.2          14.7         21.6
81        10.7        13.8          14.4          16.1         23.5
82        11.7        15.1          15.8          17.6         25.7
83        12.8        16.5          17.3          19.2         28.2
84        14.0        18.1          18.9          21.0         30.8
1985        15.3        19.7          20.7          23.0         33.7
Note:
I/   In terms of production:
Average demand during indicated period is projected
based upon following relationship to average demand during year:
2/     Maximum month : 1.29:1
3/     Maximum week : 1.35:1
4/     Maximum day : 1.5:1
5/     Peak hour  : 2.2:1
January   1977



ANNEX 2
Page 10 of 11
TABLE 6: EFFECTIVE PRODUCTION CAPACITY
(Imgd)
Indicated
Phase of            Source of Supply
Calendar   Improvements                                         Total
Year      In Service    WF 1/    Mudi 2/   Nankhunda 3/   Capacity 4/
1975        II           6.3       3.0          .4              9.7
1976        III          8.0       3.0          .4             11.4
1978        IV          10.0      10.0                         20.0
1980        V           14.0      10.0                         24.0
1984        VI          19.0 5/   10.0                         29.0
Notes:
1/   Walker's Ferry system forming BWB's basic, year-round supply;
2/   Local source normally reserved for peaking and for emergency
usage; sustainable yield approximates 0.5 Imgd;
3/   Normally reserved for meeting peak or emergency demands only;
scheduled to be phased out of service by 1978 due to urban
development planned for catchment;
4/   Long-term production capacity plus short-term yield from local
catchments in excess of long-term sustainable yield;
5/   Estimated capacity required based upon continued utilization
of WF system for supplying treated water only.
January   1977



ANNEX 2
Page 11 of 11
MALAWI
BLANTYRE WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
BWB Water Demands and Production Capacity
z
0
30
<0
0
< 0           SHORT-TERM
9L aaPRODUCTION CAPACITY
25                                         6<
>~~0                           A
- 6a                       MAXIMUM-DAY
E                              I Ca                       DEMAND-        /
z
a- 15 ____ 
0                                  - - - - - - -           00-
z                                                                 0
a                   9- - - - ~~~~ -a             - -0
10          19
0.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
000 000  AVERAGE DAY DEMAND1
LONG-TERM PRODUCTION CAPACITY
5                   ~~~~~~~(SUSTAINABLE YIELD)
1975   1976   1977   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985
CALENDAR YEAR
NOTE: 1/ Demand at source                                        World Bank-16458



ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 3
MALAWI
BLANTYRE WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Description of Main Elements of Project
Introduction
1.        The Project consists of the expansion and modification of the exist-
ing water system of Blantyre Water Board (BWB). Construction is scheduled
for the period 1977-80. The Project represents Phase V of a multi-phase
water supply development program identified for the Blantyre area for the
16-year planning period ending with the year 1990. The program was developed
by the consulting firm of Sir Alexander Gibb and Partners with the assistance
of BWB staff. Principal BWB facilities, both existing and proposed, are shown
on map IBRD 12376.
Project Objectives
2.        BWB's objectives are to extend potable water service to a larger
proportion of the City's total population. More specific project objectives
are to increase the capacity of the existing Walker's Ferry (WF) pipeline to
its ultimate hydraulic capacity of 14 Imgd (735 L/sec) and expand the distri-
bution system.
Walker's Ferry Supply
3.        The capacity of the WF supply would be increased from 10 Imgd
(after completion of Phase IV) to 14 Imgd. Raw water supply would be in-
creased through modifications of the existing Shire River intake and the
addition of two 7.0-Imgd pump sets.
4.        The capacity of the existing WF treatment plant would be expanded
to a nominal capacity of 14 Imgd (740 L/sec) and a maximum throughput of 20
Imgd (1050 L/sec) by the addition of sludge blanket, upflow-type clarifiers,
dual-media filters, piping and miscellaneous equipment. Provision would be
made for bypassing the pre-treatment facilities in applying the raw water,
after the addition of chemicals, directly to the filters.
5.        Extensive changes and additions also would be made to existing
treated water pumping facilities. These improvements would be made at three
separate locations: at the WF site, at a new intermediate site between WF
and Chileka, and at the Chileka site. Improvements at the WF site would in-
clude the addition of a 0.5 lmg balancing tank, the modification of existing
pumps, the addition of a new 4.0 Imgd (210 L/sec) pumpset, surge protection
equipment, and miscellaneous piping and electrical equipment. Installations
at the intermediate pump station site will include a 1.25 Img balancing tank,



ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 3
and a pump building to house four 5-Imgd (260 L/sec) units and two 2.5-Imgd
(130'L/sec) units. Piping and miscellaneous electrical equipment also would
be added. Improvements scheduled for the Chileka site include the addition of
a 0.5 Img balancing tank, extension of the existing pump building, modifica-
tion of existing pumps, addition of a new 4.7 Imgd (247 L/sec) pumpset, and
the addition of piping and miscellaneous electrical equipment.
6.        Extensive changes also would be made to the WF pipeline in order
to increase its capacity and also to change the location of its terminus in
the Blantyre area. The increase in capacity would be effected through the
construction of approximately 8,000 feet of 27-inch (700 mm) diameter main
parallel to the existing treated water pipeline at the WF end and approxi-
mately 7,300 feet of 24-inch diameter pipeline terminating at the proposed
Nyambadwe reservoir site in Blantyre.
Distribution System
7.        Substantial changes would take place in the distribution system.
In order to maintain system pressures within reasonable limits, seven new
pressure zones would be created (raising the total to 13) and nine new dis-
tribution system reservoirs (of 5.25 Img capacity) would be constructed. The
most important of these would be the Nyambadwe reservoir which would provide a
dual function as a distribution system reservoir and also as a terminal
reservoir receiving treated water from the WF pipeline. With the completion
of the Nyambadwe reservoir and connecting link, the Ndirande reservoir would
cease operation as a terminal reservoir but would continue to provide opera-
tional and emergency storage for the Ndirande (elevation 3,780 feet) zone and
also would provide emergency storage for zones in the South Lunzu area. The
existing Midima pump station would be abandoned and the Chichiri and Zomba
Road pump stations will be reconstructed. A new pump station, taking suction
from the adjacent Nyambadwe reservoir, also will be constructed to boost to
the Ndirande zone.
8.        The Project also will provide approximately 90,000 feet (27,400 m)
of transmission mains varying in size from ten inches (250 mm) to a maximum
of 24 inches (600 mm) and an additional 93,000 feet of distribution mains (six
inches to ten inches in diameter). These mains will improve the distribution
of treated water throughout BWB's service area and will permit connections to
minor reticulation system to be provided by the Malawi Housing Corporation.
The Project also will provide kiosks and minor (less than six inches in dia-
meter) distribution mains to extend piped water service to low-income, un-
planned areas.
General Plant
9.        The Project also will include a laboratory (to be provided at
the Mudi treatment plant site), staff housing, and a workshop. Also to be
provided are accounting machines, vehicles, spare parts, maintenance equipment
and miscellaneous equipment to outfit the laboratory and workshop.



ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 3
Engineering
10.       Design and supervision of construction of principal project elements
will be accomplished by engineering consultants with the work effort estimated
at 275 man-months, and the total cost (including travel and subsistence) at
US$1.3 million equivalent. BWB intends to utilize its own staff to design and
supervise the construction of minor improvements such as staff housing, reti-
culation system and facilities for service to low-income, unplanned areas.
Facilities Provided by Others
11.       Substantial additions to the distribution system are anticipated
outside the scope of the Project. These additions will consist mainly of
distribution mains, service connections, customer meters and fire hydrants.
The costs of these facilities would be borne either by the developer, by the
individual consumer, or by the city of Blantyre, as indicated below.
12.       The cost of reticulation systems or main extensions required to pro-
vide service within industrial estates, housing areas, or sites and services
schemes, is to be borne by the developer which, in the majority of instances,
will be the Malawi Government. In such cases, planning, design and construc-
tion of the facilities would be carried out by BWB staff with BWB costs to be
reimbursed by the developer.   The cost of service connections and meters
are borne by the individual customer. Fire hydrants and appurtenances are
installed at the request and at the cost of the city of Blantyre.
April 1977



ANNEX 4
MALAWI
BLANTYRE WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Project Cost Estimates
Local Costs                               Foreign Costs
Sub-                                        Sub-    Total
Year Ending December 31                     1977  1978  1979   1980   1981  total   1977  1978   1979   1980   1981  total   Costs
Civil Works
Source of Supply
Intake and pumping plant                              173    125    17    315                      321    233    29    583        898
WF pipeline, furnish and lay                           262    190    24    476                     486    354    44    884   1,360
Treatment Works
WF site                                                 40     30      4      74                     73     57      9    139      213
Mudi site                                                7       3            10                     12      4             16      26
Blantyre Area Works
Reservoirs and pumping plant                           309    224    29    562                     574    417    52  1,043   1,605
Trunk mains, furnish and lay                           282    206    25    513                     524    382    47    953   1,466
Reticulation system, furnish and lay                   174    131           305             154    301                   455      760
Service to unplanned areas               20    40       20     20           100              60     30      30           120      220
General Plant
Staff Housing                                           81                    81                    80                    80      161
Laboratory and Workshop                                 11     11      3      25                     21     22      4      47      72
Equipment
Pumping Plant
Source of supply                                        18    134      9    161             202    928    248    72  1,450   1,611
Blantyre area facilities                                 4     37      2     43              54    244      63    19    380       423
Treatment Plant                                            4     28      2      34             43    197      52    16    308       342
Vehicles and Maintenance Equipment                  5      2       2             9             15      22     12      2      51       60
Miscellaneous Equipment
Accounting Aachines                                                                          64                           64       64
Spare parts & workshop equipment                 2       8      5      1     16              17      3      19      5     44       60
Laboratory & WT equipment                                       5              5                    13      20            33       38
Land                                                 15                           15                                                    15
Training                                                                                  4      26      36     36    38    140       140
Subtotals                            20    62  1,395  1,151   116  2,744         4    635  3,865  1,949   337  6,790   9,534
Consulting Services
Advisory Services                                  5                             5             12                            12      17
Special Studies                                                                                               82            82       82
Engineering Design                                                                     95    307       70     69           541      541
Supervision of Construction                       41    159    159            359                                                   359
Contingencies
Physical                                     3    14    199    167    14    397        12    113    475    253    37    890   1,287
Price                                        1     8    308    396    49    762         4      76    728    615   119  1,542   2,304
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                           24   130  2_061  1,873   179  4,267    115  1,143  5,138  2,968   493  9,857  14,124
April 1977



ANNEX 5
MALAWI
BLANTYRE WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements from IDA Credit
IDA                       Cumulative Disbursement
Fiscal Year                       at End of Quarter
and Quarter                           US$000s                           Percentage
1977-78
December 31, 1977                       70                                  1
March 31, 1978                         140                                  2
June 30, 1978                          210                                 3
1978-79
September 30, 1978                     420                                 6
December 31, 1978                      770                                11
March 31, 1979                       1,610                                23
June 30, 1979                        2,100                                30
1979-80
September 30, 1979                   2,940                                42
December 31, 1979                    3,850                                55
March 31, 1980                       4,550                                65
June 30, 1980                        5,250                                75
1980-81
September 30, 1980                   5,740                                82
December 31, 1980                    6,300                                90
March 31, 1981                       6,650                                95
June 30, 1981                        6,650                                95
1981-82
September 30, 1981                   6,650                                95
December 31, 1981                    6,650                                95
March 31, 1982                       7,000                               100
April 1977



MALAWI
BLANTYRE WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Implamentation SchIedule
_                               d               ~~~~               ~              ~~~~              ~~~1000  ro7e    10,0                               000                              1e91                              lff2
SOURCE OF SUPPLY PLANT
Irr-ke. . Shire River
Civil Works                            4A
Me.berivel & Electri- I                5
Welker,s Ferry Pvmp Sessin
Civil Works                            4A
Riecheflival 6 biseqrivel              S
In.earediste Pump Sesri-
Civil Works                            4A
M.chnirsl ff Eleorricl                S
Chileka Pv--- 8rerio-
Civil Works                            4A                                                                                                                -
Mfchvnivel & ElecIricl                5
W.1lkerSP',, F Pi-Peirr                   4A
WATER TREATMENT PLANT
W.rkers Ferry Sile
Clvii Works                            4A
Mavh-niql & El-vrrivI                 S_
Mudi Sire
Civil Wvrks                            4B
Mrv-anl    Eleveriver                  5
TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION PLANT
Pump Sa-ivns
Civil Wvrks                            4m
Meorranivl & Eleo-rival                5
Rerrivo--  WCWI                           40
Tr-nk Mmins (CWI                          40
Miror Diesr,bulor    Maine (CW)
Service rv U,rplar-d Ares ICW)
GENERAL PLANT
rSh H-msing (CWI                           7
VeWirves & Risirrence Eqt,ivnrv            4B
LEor0rvr-   & Wvrkrrhop ICW)              40                                                                                           -
Mi-v11-e-eus E- -imenr
Mev-arrivl & Evrcica1 E-prrrenr         S_
Waler T-esrrrrr Eqv,prrenr             6                                                                                                    _
SUMMARY BY MAJOR ELEMENT                                            P                            T     oT        A     CIC                                                                                             EM
Co.rrrct No. 4A. Cvl Wors, WF Scheme                               5.......... ....l4                                                                                                 C -                               EM
Cvrrr- Nv. 4B: Civil Wvrks. 1lan-ryr A-ea                          P                                           A    C                                                                 C f E.  C                         EM 
C-nrracr Nv. 5  P-mi,g Pivn.                              ....a.......              .._._
P             T____SE__                                                                                              C                                 EM
Co-rIrt No. 6  W.r, Tr-atvrrr Planr                        .....I......                   A                                  I C                                                              E C
P                       OT       A                Err 
C-1-1ev  No 7: Civl Works Salff Housirrg                         Is.........  ...... 1 ...I
OirerZ Labor: Civil Works. Miror                                  P          T          A          SC                                                                            C
M,inlJUn-l-rned Ares Servce                                    I .        555555  e.                                                                                          C
LEGEND                                                                                                                                     NOTES
P     OsOrin cianrivo arid dessrOflCflifleriflO
5555    ..-.-I Planng. d-sigo, prsrer.i-o ot r-nder dg-omrrrs and -jlysi- of bids                                                                    T     B            Pid                                                    Word B.k-17348
Cvnrr-or work                                                                                                                           OT   Oprn -deiers
_  -  _     ~ Mainre-ance period                                                                                                                      A     Award co_lirav
BC    BeOrcnsrvrir
SE    Sorr ersov-i-
EM    Errd gf -,,ineo.ns period



ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 3
MALAWI
BLANTYRE WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Incremental Costs and Return on Investment
General
1.        Revenues and costs attributable to the Blantyre Phase V water
supply project are shown in Table 1 of this annex. From these data were
estimated average incremental costs (AIC) and return on investment (ROI).
Average Incremental Costs
2.        The same input information used in the rate of return calculation
can be used to calculate the average incremental cost (AIC) of the water sold.
The AIC is the cost per thousand gallons of the incremental water sold, aver-
aged over the Project's life and discounted back to the present using the
opportunity cost of capital. Thus, if the price of water is set equal to
its AIC, the return on investment will just equal the opportunity cost of
capital. Based upon the data (Annual Incremental Costs and Incremental
Consumption, respectively) shown in Table 1 and an opportunity cost of capital
ranging from 8% to 12%, AIC would range from MK 1.74 to MK 2.43 per thousand
Ig sold. Similarly, based upon an opportunity cost of capital of 10%, AIC is
MK 2.06 per thousand Ig.
Return on Investment
3.        ROI of the Project is defined as the discount rate at which the
present worth of estimated annual incremental costs equals the present worth
of revenues attributable to the Project over its projected service life.
If the price of water is set equal to its AIC, ROI will equal the opportunity
cost of capital. ROI has been calculated to be about 2.9% based upon net
cash flows shown in Table 1 (page 3 of this annex) and measuring incremental
benefits according to the willingness to pay the BWB tariff effective in
January 1977 (which provides an average revenue of about MK 1.12 per thousand
Ig sold).
4.        The low rate of return shown above is the natural consequence of
the method of benefit valuation used, the high costs of BWB production,
and the fact that water currently is priced well below AIC. BWB's tariff
structure is to be reformed in line with the Association's recommendations and
tariff levels will be increased during the Project construction period to a
level more closely approximating marginal production costs. After implementa-
tion of these changes, average 1981 revenues will rise to MK 1.62 per thousand
Ig (in terms of 1977 prices) and ROI over the life of the Project would be
7.2%.



ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 3
5.        The sensitivity of ROI to changes in project costs and in revenues
also was investigated. Using benefits of MK 1.62 per thousand Ig mentioned
in para. 4, ROI would decline to 6.5% should a 10% increase in project costs
occur and, alternatively, to 6.0% with a 10% decrease in annual revenues.
With both of these changes in effect concurrently, ROI would decline to
5.3%.
Assumptions
6.        The following assumptions were made in developing these data:
a)   Constant prices (as of 1977) were used throughout;
b)   The effective service life of the Project was esti-
mated at 35 years beginning with the year 1982;
c)   Annual costs include capital and recurring costs
exclusive of taxes and duties;
d)   Capital costs consist of Phase V project costs plus
other capital costs required for minor reticulation
elements such as local mains, customer services and
meters excluded from the Project but which are needed
to fully utilize the project facilities;
e)   Annual maintenance expense has been estimated to equal
1% of cumulative capital costs of the Phase V project
and other additions;
f)   Annual operational expense consists of the costs of
pumping, purchase of chemicals, and other operating
costs per thousand Ig produced as shown below:
Pumping cost                    MK 0.35
Cost of chemicals               MK 0.04
Other operating costs           MK 0.03
April 1977



TABLE 1
Calculation of Rate of Return on Investment
Using Two Alternative Revenue As umptions
(Phase V Improvements)
--------------------------------------------------------------------- E Thoussand ---------------------------.---------------------_-____----_
Incremental Maintenance and Operation Expense
C  ital Cs ts                          Operational Expense                                     Incremental Revenue
Incremental                Annual       Annual      Incremental
Calendar  Phase V    Other                 Maintenance  Production   Annual          M and 0   Incremental  Consumption  Annual Revenue                N Net Cash Flow
Year    Project  Additions  ,  Total   Expense           Img 3/      Expense  /  Expense        Cost  /       Im   /       "A"       "B"       Revenue "A"  Revenue "B"
1977          134                     134                                                           134                                             (  134)       (  134)
78       1,189                   1,189                                                          1,189                                             (1,189)       (1,189)
79       6,163                   6 163                                                          6,163                                             (6,163)       (6,163)
1980        3,830      200         4,030                                                          4,030                                             (4;030)       (4,030)
81          504      200            704      119               0         0           119          823             0         0         0           (  823)       (  823)
82                   200           200       121             146         61          182          382            127       142        206         ( 240)        (  176)
83                   200           200       123            547        230           353          553            476       533        771         (   20)          218
84                   200           200       125            985        414           539          739            857        960    1,388             221           649
1985     o/                                     125         1,460         613          738          738          1,270    1,422    2,057               684         1,319
1986-2016-9/                                    125         1,460         613          738          738          1,270    1,422    2,057               684         1,319
/ Minor reticulation works;
2   Incremental annual maintenance expense estimated ts be equivalent to 1% of combined cumulative capital cost of phase V and other additions;
3/  Projected annual treated water production less 4,125 Img (effective capacity of BWB plant after completion of ongoing phase IV project);
Product of annual production and unit operating expense; latter includes following components:
Pumping cost        =  MK 350/Img
Cost of chemicals  =        40/Img
Operating cost              30/Img                Total Operational Expense  =  MX 420/Img of productiou
/ Annual total, capital plus recurring costs;
Portion of annual consumption attributed to phase V project;
7   Incremental gross revenue based upon following average tariff levels:
Alternative revenue "A" = MK 1,120/Img
Alterm tive revenue "B" = MK 1,620/Img
Annual revenue less annual cost;
2/  Indicated figures are for each year.
April 1977



MALAWI
BLANTYRE WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART OF BLANTYRE WATER BOARD
Ministry of Trade, Industry and Tourism
Blantyre Water Board
re
Engineering Department                                                                                              Finance |Admiistrtion
Deputy Engineer                                                                                                      Clerk/Tr-asurer
Chief Acco.ntant
Electrical                                                                                                                                           Administratve              Accountant 
&Mecha nCal                                                                                                                              Auditor                   Officer                  Revenue                Expenditure
Engineer
Wle'Ferry Plant       Eantyre Area Plant                                         Distribution               CDnsrcion &Sapply                                       Laoatory
Section Engineer           Section Engineer                                                     Section Engineer           Section Engineer=Rgnsnre  Chemist
|  Walker's Ferry  j    X    Mechanical                                              Services                    Design
Assistant Engineer         Assistant Engineer                                     Assistant Enginr            Superlntenden
l  Chileka   l    |       Electrical                                               Maine                   Construction
Assistant Engineer |   H   Assistant Engineer                                    Assistant Engineer           Superintendent
World Bank-16353               co



MAL A  W  I
BLANTYRE WATER BOARD
Cash Flow Projections
(thousands of Kwachas)
-Summary
1976    1977    1978    1979    1980    1.981    1977 -          1982    1983
INTERNAL SOURCES                                                                           1981.
Net Income Before Interest           227     547    1046    1408    2216    3055    8272             3415    3915
Depreciation                         631     695      763      977    1211    1591    5237           1922    1935
Sinking Fund Liquidation               0       0        0        0        0      336     336            0        0
Total Internal Sources              858    1242    1809    2385    3427    4982   13845             5337    5850
OPERATIONAL REQUIREMENTS
Working Capital                      -13     153      182      152      276      306    1069          221      162
Debt Service                         563     731    1063    1477    1822    2160    7253             2313    2589
Sinking Fund Deposits                 32      34       37       40       40       46     197            0        0
Total Operational Requirements  582        918    1282    1669    2138    2512    8519             2534    2751
Net Available from Operations        276     324      527      716    1289    2470    5326           2803    3099
CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS
Phase III                            150       0        0        0        0        0        0           0        0
Phase IV                              91    3396    3486       469       45        0    7396            0        0
Phase V                                0     139    1273    7199    4841         672   14124            0        0
Phase VI                               0       0        0        0        0      200     200         1800   10200
Other                               223      239      256      297      324      354    1470          368      381
Total Construction Requirements 464    3774    5015    7965    5210    1226   23190               2168   10581
Balance to Finance                  188    3450    4488    7249    3921   -1244   17864              -635    7482    o



Summary
1976    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981    1977 -          1982    1983
1981
FINANCED BY:
ODM, Phase. III Project              99        0       0        0        0       0        0           0        0
CDC, Loan 1                           0    1437      133        0        0       0    1570            0        0
ODM, Phase IV Project                91    1960    1200       230        0       0    3390            0        0
IDA, proposed Project (Phase V)       0      111     717    3192    2019       325    6364            0        0
AfDF, proposed Project (Phase V)    0          4     267    2911    1762       257    5201            0        0
CDC, Loan 2                           0        0    2153      802      45        0    3000            0        0
Unarranged, Phase VI Project          0        0       0        0        0     120      120        1080    6120
Grants & Contributions              121      226     336      425     124      125    1236          125      125
TOTAL                             311    3738    4806    7560    3950        827   20881         1205    6245
Additions (Deductions) to
Cash other than Operational
Requirements                        123      288     318      311       29    2071    3017         1840   -1237
Debt Service Coverage               1.5      1.7     1.7      1.6     1.9      2.3      1.9         2.3      2.3
April 1977
0
}d h



MALAWI
BLANTYRE WATER BOARD
Income Statement Projections
Year to December 31                     1976      1977     1978      1979      1980     1981      1982      1983
Water Produced, Img                     2480      2703     2950      3240      3559      3899     4273      4676
Water Sold, Tmg                         2157      2351     2566      2818      3095      3391     3716      4066
Average Revenue per thousand Ig, MK   0.878    1.120    1.383    1.539    1.877    2.207    2.310    2.310
thousands of Kwachas----------------
OPERATING REVENUES
Water Sales                             1893      2633     3550      4337      5810      7485     8583      9392
OPERATING EXPENSES
Wages & Employee Benefits                255       374      433       502       582       675      729       787
Chemicals                                100       110      127       147       170      197       213       230
Electricity                              487       710      950      1032      1314     1596      1906      2098
Maintenance                              108       123      142       164       190      220       237       255
Administration & Other                   127       124      144       167       193      223       240       259
Depreciation                             631       695      763       977      1211     1591      1922      1935
Total Operating Expenses              1708      2136     2559      2989     3660      4502      5247      5564
Operating Income                         185      497       991      1348      2150     2983      3336      3828
Miscellaneous Income                      42        50       55        60        66        72       79        87
Net Income Before Interest               227       547     1046      1408      2216     3055      3415      3915    OQ
Interest Charged Operations              301       296      274       892       803     1592      1523      1467
o I1
Net Income                               -74       251      772       516      1413     1463      1892      2448
t'J



1976     1977      1978      1979     1980      1981      1982      1983
Rate of Return on Average Revalued
Net Fixed Assets in Service, %         1.6       4.2       8.0      8.0      10.0      10.0       9.0      10.8
Average Revalued Net Fixed Assets
in Service                          11,268   11,869   12,396   16,854   21,502   29,835   36,940   35,386
Operating Ratio,%
(after depreciation)                    90        81       72        69        63        60        61       59
Operating Ratio,%
(before depreciation)                   57        55       51        46        42        39        39       39
April 1977
NJ:
o o
Frt'



MALAWI
BLANTYRE WATER BOARD
Balance Sheet Projections
(thousands of Kwaches)
At December 31                1976      1977     1978      1979      1980     1981      1982      1983
ASSETS
Plant in Operation           18931    20779    22801    33033    36165    54727    55095    55476
Less: Depreciation            7327      8645    10143    11982    14211    17010    18932    20867
Net Plant in Operation       11604    12134    12658    21051    21954    37717    36163    34609
Work in Progress                 95     3789      9042     8982    14553       296      2152    12714
CURRENT ASSETS
Cash
Operational Requirements    200        220      240       260       280      300       320       340
Temporary Surplus            123       411      729      1040      1069     3140      4980      3743
Accounts Receivable            360       500       674      824      1104     1422      1631      1784
Inventories                    375       400      425       450       475      500       525       550
Other                            20       20        20       20        20       20        20        20
Total Current Assets        1078      1551     2088      2594      2948     5382      7476      6437
Sinking Fund Investment        139       173      210       250       290        0         0         0
TOTAL ASSETS               12916    17647    23998    32r77    397EZ5    43395    45791    5371
EQUITY & LIABIL.ITIES
Retained Earnings               10       261     1033      1549      2962     4425      6317      8765
Capital Contrihutions         2683      2909     3245      3670      3794     3919      4044      4169
Revaluation Surplus           6043      7029     8060      9136    10926    12792    12792    12792
TOTAL EQUITY                8736    10199    12338    14355    17682    21136    23153    25726
Long Term Debt                3980      7216    11391    18210    21702    21841    22187    27547
CURRENT LIABILITIES
Accounts Payable               200       232      269       312       361      418       451       487
Total Current Liabilities   200        232      269       312      361       418       451       487
TOTAL EQUITY & LIABILITIES 12916    17647    23998    32877    39745    43395    45791    53760
Debt as % of Long Term
Capitalization                 31        41       48        56        55       51        49        52
April, 1977



ANNEX 12
Page I of 4
MALAWI
BLANTYRE WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
BLANTYRE WATER BOARD
Notes and Assumptions to Financial Projections
1.        The financial projections from 1976 to 1983 are based on informa-
tion supplied by BWB and were updated and reviewed with BWB during nego-
tiations.
Income Statements
Revenues
2.        Annex 2 gives a detailed breakdown of the projected quantity of
water sales. To achieve the projected rates of return of 8% in 1978 and
1979, 10% in 1980 and 1981 and 9% thereafter, the following minimum tariff
increases, allowing for inflation, are estimated to be required: 1978 23%;
1979 11%; 1980 22%; 1981 17%; and 1982 5%.
Expenses
3.        1976 expenses are based on expected actuals and 1977 expenses on
BWB's budgets. It has been assumed that (1) salaries, wages and employee
benefits, (2) maintenance, and (3) administrative expenses will increase by 8%
per annum. To this has been added a further 8% per annum to cover estimated
inflation from 1978 until the end of the construction disbursement period in
1981.
Electricity
4.        This is based on the consultant's estimates of the use of pumping
equipment and relevant maximum demands and estimated unit consumption. Tariff
levels are based on ESCOM's latest tariff. Further increases of 30% are
assumed on January 1, 1978 and 10% on January 1, 1981.
Chemicals
5.        It is estimated that chemicals cost MK 0.03838 per thousand Ig
of water sales to which has been added 8% per annum for estimated inflation
as mentioned in para. 3 above.



ANNEX 12
Page 2 of 4
6.        BWB's fixed assets were revalued at December 31, 1975 at a gross
value of MK 17.11 million less accumulated depreciation of MK 6.17 million.
Estimated annual asset revaluations have been made thereafter at 8-1/2% per
annum until 1981. Depreciation is at a rate of 3.5% on average gross fixed
assets in operation.
Balance Sheets
Debtors
7.        It has been assumed that about 68 days annual sales will be out-
standing at the end of each year.
Inventories
8.        Inventories consist principally of pipe and fittings, water meters
and chemicals. They are high because of the impossibility of predicting
delivery dates under present conditions. They have been assumed to increase
by R 25,000 per annum.
Grants and Contributions
9.        This represents an estimate of reticulation costs for housing,
commercial and industrial developments financed by Malawi Housing Corporation,
Government and others and an expected Government contribution towards interest
during construction on the ongoing Phase IV project.
Payables
10.       Payables are assumed to increase by 16% per annum until the end
of the construction disbursement period in 1981 in line with most operating
expenses and, thereafter, to increase by 8% per annum.
Sinking Fund Investments
11.       Under an agreement with the Commonwealth Development Corporation
(CDC) dated April 6, 1975, capital repayments cannot be made on any money
borrowed after that date from the Malawi Government without the written
consent of CDC. CDC loans outstanding at December 31, 1975 will be fully
repaid in 1981. BWB makes provision for capital repayments through annual
sinking fund investments.
Capital Expenditures
12.       During the period covered by the financial projections, in addition
to Phase V of the Blantyre Water Board's capital development program, other
major capital expenditures are as follows:



ANNEX 12
Page 3 of 4
Phase III - This is expected to increase the reliable capacity of
the Walker's Ferry pipeline from 6 to 8 Imgd and be
completed by late 1976.
Phase IV - This is expected to increase the reliable capacity of
the Walker's Ferry pipeline from 8 to 10 Imgd at an
estimated cost of MK 7.4 million (excluding IDC). The
Project should be completed by late 1978 or early 1979.
Phase VI - This is expected to increase the reliable capacity of
the Walker's Ferry system from 14 to 19 Imgd at an
estimated cost of MK 20 million to be disbursed be-
tween 1980 and 1984.
Other Capital Expenditures
13.       These consist of motor vehicles, minor main extensions, reticula-
tion connections, etc.
Source and Application of Funds
14.       The terms of project loans from 1976 to 1983, the period covered by
the financial projections, are assumed to be as follows:



ANNEX 12
Page 4 of 4
No. of
Amount       Principal   Years of        Basis of
Source      (millions    Repayments  Principal    Principal    Interest
Project    of Loan    of Kwachas)  Commence    Repayments   Repayments               %
Phase IV    ODM             3.48         1982           20        Annuity           8-1/2
CDC/1         4.00          1981/82    see note /1 Graduated          8-1/2
Total Project
Cost without
IDC           7.48
Phase V      CDC/l          0.60         1981/82      - do -       Graduated        8-1/2
IDA
(US$7 m)        6.40         1981           20         Annuity          8-1/2
AfDF             5.20         1981           20        Annuity           3-1/2
Phase VI  Un-
identified/2   7.30          After          Not        Not known        8-1/2
1983          known
/1   CDC loans for Phase IV (repayable over 15 years commencing 1981) and
Phase V (repayable over 16 years commencing 1982), which would be made
directly to BWB, are as follows:
Approved 1976                             MK 1.60
Expected to be approved June 1977            3.00
MK 4.60
The MK 3 million loan will be MK 3 million in sterling equivalent with
a maximum of E 2. 2 million.
/2   In the financial projections, it has been assumed that 60% of project
costs would be debt financed.
April 1977



MALAWI
BLANTYRE WATER BOARD
Estimated Debt Statement
1976 - 1983
(thousands of Kwachas)
.1.976       :1977         :1.978        J .979        1980          1981          1982         :1983
1...)   R:: L Wl (i:. S                              437           I33                     0
*  WO  -: l(.fl lZIC)ON                                                    0             0                   79            79            79
B () I (-'i N C.,                        0       1437           1.570        :1.           1.570          [49:1.      :1.4:1.2       :,.333
*-:1:NT1.:1k1::T,7                      0)           d>61        128           :1.33        :1.33          :1.30         :1.23         :1.:1.7
l,;' 4.l, -  .s 1...   36 ll
Rt R(:i  (1W :,; N t3.                 9:1.      :1 96()       1 200          230()            0             0             0 
*AMOk    ZA(i  V': ... C N                00                                       0             0             0             2            79
*HA,e':II A N4tt:.E: i9:1.                       205:1.        3251.         3481          3481.         348:1.        3409          3330)
:1: iN .i 1**:  i: .E  i4                          9:1         225           286           296           2:?6          29            286
1 li C    1 : W:IN i .                             :1. :1. :1.   7:1.7       3192          20() 1.9        325              0             0
*:1: . f - 1   iN                  0             0             0             0                       :1.3:1.       :1.43          i.i55
L. A IN C, F.                        0          1 :1.          28         4020          6039          6233          6090          5935
:1 1  1::: 1       i                                  5            40          206           42            524 A 2                          :1.
F:'I IASE ' s**4
i (:3, , R 1:1 W :1: N C:i .. 4                                  267         291 LI        :1.762          25:              0             0
Avj iL  :1:0 -:Z   :1:(3 N                                          000 1.  O4                                                        :19.1 :1:            r
1-.i A Ir-) N l:, E.:                   m)4A.                                 .; .{3       A4R44'iH(                   |'i( |7}f3{  
1           :4          2I1 71. :2                4944          5201.         50:1.7        4826
:, N T::l.: R  I:0                                                  5            60          :.42          :1. 78       .17 9           . 72
*f C.) R11 (:1 W:1 N                     0 3:1.53                              802             45 Ci                        0             0
M (':.: 1. AT: 1 lON                                 O                                                                 :1.0 57         I.7
I:4f-4i ,ANC'i:'                                            2) ()    ^ :.:1.'53 S   X-.>t,2955  30((O  I3  (        2843          2686
:1:                                              1.: . .          9                1.7       2      ,      J      ':35   24    234 :3



:1. 9' 6      9.,         9 :  E.1   .1 979       J. 9 L       19 813.1.   1 9 823 2    :1. 9 3 83
-       TN                            0            ) O) R R  W                                     '?        : O 2  ( 12  1   6120
X:.sf:i A1L.;                                     0           0            0           01)                  1 2 :L 2  O  1200  7;320
-- I:Nli:i: N .EREST                   0           0            00                       K)           5          5 6        362
I..:.'a: S IN [T   I ... 0I  A N ,
o -i~ ~O  W I NU                    90                                                                            
I RT .. .      1N                 25:          276         295 9316 3L 6            334          353           9 9          9 9
I.. .N CE1::                     ;3 8 9 9     36 :L 3                   30)02         6 6 8      2 3 1 1.5    2 :216      2: 117
Si 1 N V FR: .F                  0.1         2 9 E2 7..?9             258          236         2:1.         : . 56       :146
C1ER iW NR S N f .                19         35 1. 2     447)         71;3 5       3 8.2 26      702        J. K 0 t      : L20
....I I::F F; Y A   Ei .N TS        .     ':  276          29' :9                   .'31 6  334  563          734         760
*-t   N:L              f            7 I39     72:16    :.1.1.391  1. 8  1) 2     1 21702       2:81  .    2 2:1. 8 7    2754 7
I N 1R ; 1                                    45           768        :.           1.4 I       :14597       .1579        1.829
April  1977
fD
OQ w
o_ Lia
Ht



ANNEX 14
MALAWI
BLANTYRE WATER BOARD
Historical Income Statements
(Thousands of Kwachas)
YEAR ENDED December 31                1972         1973         1974        1975
Water Sales, Img                      1,477        1,586        1,740       2,021
REVENUES
Water Charges                    1,103        1,167       1,256        1,658
EXPENDITURE
Pumping, filtration &
distribution                 431          456          544          761
Administration and general         135          134         161          179
Loan servicing charges             494          518         534          560
Exceptional expenditures            -           -             5           -
Total Expenditure          1,060        1,108        1,244        1,500
Miscellaneous Income                     36           40           41           38
SURPLUS FOR YEAR                         79           99           53          196
September 1976



ANNEX 15
MALAWI
BLANTYRE WATER BOARD
Historical Balance Sheets
(Thousands of Kwachas)
At December 31                                1972      1973      1974      1975
FUNDS EMPLOYED
Long-Term Liabilities, Loans             4,204    4,185    4,055    4,047
Sinking fund                                44        61        83      111
Grants and Contributions for
Capital Works                      2,404    2,504    2,529    2,562
Loans Redeemed                           1,364    1,572    1,797    2,036
Revenue Contributions to Capital           446       580       658      763
Exchange Reserve                                                 5      137
Accumulated Revenue Fund                    99        88        95      224
8,561    8,990    9,222    9,880
EMPLOYMENT OF FUNDS
Fixed Assets                             8,435    8,778    8,958    9,531
Deferred Charges                            14        12        16       14
Sinking Fund Investments                    50        60        82      107
CURRENT ASSETS
Stocks and Stores                           94       188      239       323
Debtors                                    159       169      196       295
Short call deposits                        282       243      143       126
Bank Balances and Cash                      40        26       58        13
575      626       636       757
CURRENT LIABILITIES
Creditors                                  167       132      116       155
Loan Interest and Capital Repayments    346          354      354       374
513      486       470       529
Net Current Assets                          62       140      166       228
8,561    8,990    9,222    9,880
September 1976



ANNEX 16
Page 1 of 6
MALAWI
BLANTYRE WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Project Targets and Monitoring Guidelines
General
1.        The following targets and guidelines are proposed to facilitate
planning and to evaluate achievement of technical, financial, administrative
and training goals. Certain of these would be included in periodic reports to
be submitted to the Association. An effort would be made, through discussions
with BWB management during project implementation, to expand the list of
targets through quantification of certain indices described in the monitoring
guidelines.
Targets
2.        Targets are projected in Table 1 of this annex on an annual basis
for the 8-year period ending with the year 1983. Although certain of the in-
dices quantified below are currently maintained in BWB records, others are
not. Categories in which current record-keeping will require upgrading are:
population, service connections (numbers of each type of connection should be
identified where major categories of residential connections, i.e., kiosks,
private standposts and direct connections to structures, are distinguished
from Commercial/Industrial and Governmental/Institutional service connections),
and water production (current records are unreliable due to inoperative flow
meters). Monitoring of MHC developments is intended as a planning tool for
BWB.
Monitoring Guidelines
3.        An attempt also would be made by BWB to develop and maintain records
for the following:
a. Operating Data
1) Water Production - average daily metered production
(demand at source excluding treated water produc-
tion diverted to Mudi raw water reservoir) for each
month.
2) Water Consumption - average daily consumption for each
month.



ANNEX 16
Page 2 of 6
3) Unaccounted-for-Water - volume and percentage (in
terms of production) for each month.
4) Number of connections by month listed by size and category
including residential connections of the following types:
a) House connections;
b) Private standposts; and
c) Kiosks. 1/
5) Population served by BWB at end of year by principal categories
of service including, but not limited to, each of the indicated
residential types of connections:
a) House connections;
b) Private standposts; and
c) Kiosks. 1/
6) Customer Water Meters
a) Number of meters by size in stock at end of
quarter;
b) Number of meters repaired or replaced during
quarter.
7) Leaks
a) Number of leaks investigated by month;
b) Number of leaks repaired by month.
8) Distribution System Pressure - pressure at selected points
in distribution system.
b.   Status of Unplanned, Low-Income Areas (information required quarterly)
1)   Description by name and location of individual areas having
populations of 500 or more persons;
2) Dwelling units by area, number;
1/   Includes public standposts in unplanned, low-income areas.



ANNEX 16
Page 3 of 6
3)   Resident populations by area:
a) Total population;
b) Population served. 1/
4)   Connections to piped water system by area, number:
a) Individual service connections;
b) Public standposts.
5)   Identification of redevelopment planning by area:
a) Areas for which Government-approved redevelopment plan exists;
b) Areas for which land clearance in accordance with Government-
approved redevelopment plan is programmed to begin by
December 31, 1978.
6)   Completed sites and services schemes by area, number of plots:
a) Total number of plots developed;
b) Number of plots assigned or committed;
c) Number of plots actually occupied.
c. Water Quality
1) Physical - Water turbidity values by month in terms of maximum,
minimum and mean values as determined for:
a) Raw water produced from each principal source;
b) Settled water at each active water treatment facility;
c) Filtered water at each active water treatment facility.
1/   Includes populations served from individual service connections and popu-
lations resident within 100 m distance of public standposts.



ANNEX 16
Page 4 of 6
2) Chemical
a) Representative complete chemical analysis by month for
finished water for each active water treatment
facility;
b) Chlorine residual of delivered water at selected points in
distribution system, monthly:
i. Number of samples;
ii. Test results indicating type of residual (combined or
free), range of monthly values for each sampling point in
terms of maximum, minimum and mean value.
c) Corrosion index (Langelier, or suitable alternative)
by month for water sampled at selected points in supply
and distribution systems.
3) Bacteriological
a) Number of samples obtained from distribution system by month
for which determinations of bacterial counts (MPN) were
carried out;
b) Number of samples by month for which positive analyses
were obtained.
d. Public Health Statistics - Public health statistics will be reported
quarterly. The statistics will record incidence of illness in terms of
morbidity and mortality for the Blantyre area for the following diseases:
cholera              intestinal diseases
typhoid             diarrhea
malaria
e. Staffing and Training
1) Staffing
a) Number of permanent employees;
b) Number of permanent employees:
i. per 1,000 connections;
ii. per m /day supplied.



ANNEX 16
Page 5 of 6
2) Training
a) Number of employees being trained by category:
i. Professional
ii. Subprofessional
b) Estimates of future annual training requirements by year in
man-months and proposals for meeting them.
3)  Project Implementation - Quarterly forecast of expenditures
are to be prepared for each contract within three months of
signature of contract. Quarterly reports are to indicate
percentage completion of original forecast and revised forecast
of expenditures for remainder of contract.
f. Financial Indicators (required annually)
1) Contribution to capital expenditure from internal cash generation
during the project construction period (1977-81) as measured by
historic performance and BWB's five-year forecast;
2) Annual rate of return on revalued average net fixed assets in
operation;
3) Operating ratio;
4) Number of days water sales uncollected;
5) Average operating revenue per unit of water billed (total and
by consumer category);
6) Debt service coverage.
g. Miscellaneous Population Statistics - number of water system customers
provided with indicated sanitation service at end of year:
1) Sewers
2) Septic tanks
3) Pit privies
4) Other
April 1977



ANNEX 16
Page 6 of 6
TABLE 1:  TARGETS FOR OPERATION AND PLANNINGL'
Historical                                Projected Future
1974   1975    1976    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981    1982    1983
Operating Data
Population of Blantyre, 000's                      198    210       223      236      251      266       282      300      318      337
Level of Service
Population Served, End of Year
Persons served by service level, 000's
by house connection
by private standpost
by kiosk
Total persons served
Number, 000's                               132     140      152      163      178       197      217      243      270       300
% of total population                        67      67       68       69        71       74       77       81        85       89
No. of Connections, End of Year
Residential
House connections
Private standpoats
Kiosks
Commercial/Industrial
Government/Institutional
Total No. of Connections                        9,754  10,530  11,310  12,110  12,920  13,740  14,570  15,410  16,260
Production and Consumption
Net Production, 2/ 1mg                      2,005  2,348   2,482   2,701   2,957    3,249   3,577   3,906   4,271   4,672
Consumption, Img
Residential
House connections
Private standposts
Kiosks
Commercial/Industrial
Government/ Institutional
Total Consumption                      1,740  2,021   2,157   2,352   2,566   2,818   3,095   3,391   3,716   4,066
Unaccounted-for-Water
Amount                                      265    327       325      349       391      431      482      515       555      606
% of production                              13      14       13       13        13       13       13       13        13       13
Non-Scheduled Outages 3/
Cause-related frequency, Nos.
Due to electric faults                       58      75        78       70       60       55       50        45       40       40
Due to other causes                           5       5       16        12       10        8        6         4        3        3
Duration-related frequency, Nos.
Duration>   1 hr.                            10      20        24       20       18       16       14        12       10       10
Duration,   8 hrs.                            2        5        6        5        3        3         2        2        2        2
Duration    24 hrs.                           2        4        3        3        2        2        1         1        0        0
Financial Data
Return on average revalued net fixed
assets in operation, X                                            1.6      4.2      8.0      8.0    10.0    10.0         9.0    10.8
Operating ratio                                                      57       55        51       46       42       39        39       39
Uncollected water sales, days                       70      68       68        66       64       62       60        58       56       54
Unit operating revenue, MK/OOO Ig                 0.72   0.83      0.88    1.12       1.38     1.54     1.87     2.20     2.31      2.31
Debt service ratio                                                  1.5      1.7       1.7      1.6      1.9      2.3      2.3       2.3
Other Statistics
Annual Development by MHC
No. of traditional housing plots                               1,000   2,000   2,000   2,000   2,000   2,000   2,000   2,000
No. of family housing units                                       200      400      400      400       400      400      400      400
1/ Incomplete records currently prevent the establishment of targets for certain categories descriptive of service.
Targets for these categories would be developed later as better information is developed by BWB;
2/ Excluding Increment of treated water production diverted to Mudi raw water reservoir;
3/ Outages of BWB pumping equipment.
April 1977



ANNEX 17
Page 1 of 11
MALAWI
BLANTYRE WATER BOARD
Blantyre Waterworks Act
(CAP. 72:02)
BLANTYRE WATERWORKS (AMENDMENT) BY-LAWS, 1975
IN EXERCISE of the powers conferred by Section 48 of the Blantyre
Waterworks Act, the Blantyre Water Board, subject to the approval of
the Minister, hereby makes the following By-laws
Citation and   1.  These By-laws may be cited as the Blantyre
Commencement        Waterworks (Amendment) By-laws, 1975 and
shall be deemed to have come into operation
on the 1st October, 1975.
2.   By-law 79 of the Blantyre Waterworks By-laws (hereinafter    Amendment
referred to as the principal By-laws) is amended by the deletion  of By-law 79
of sub-paragraph (1) thereof and substituting the following new   Local Govern-
paragraph :-                                                          ment Supple-
ment
"(1)  Any quantity of water ascertained by meter    Cap. 72:02
as having been used in a month over and above         sub. leg.
any free monthly allowance specified in the           p.F20
Blantyre Waterworks Rate Rules shall be charged
for as follows :-
(1) where the quantity of water is
measured by meter in Imperial
gallons, at the rate of KO.60
per thousand gallons for the
first 5,000 gallons and there-
after at the rate of KO.80 per
thousand gallons;
(ii) where the quantity of water is
measured by meter in cubic meters
at the rate of KO.132 per cubic
meter for the first 23 cubic
meters and thereafter at the
rate of KO.176 per cubic meter."



ANNEX 17
Page 2 of 11
3.   By-law 79 of the principal By-laws is further amended by         Amendment of
the deletion of sub-paragraph (3) thereof and substituting the    By-law 79 of
following new paragraph                                               the principal
By-laws
"(3) Notwithstanding the date upon which this
By-law came into operation, all metered water
charges determined by meter readings taken in
October, 1975 and shall be calculated at the
rates set out in sub-paragraph (2) hereof."
Made by the Blantyre Water Board on the 22nd July, 1975
Chairman
Approved by the Minister on the
Minister for Trade,
Industry & Tourism



ANNEX 17
Page 3 of 11
BLANTYRE WATERWORKS ACT
(CAP. 72:02)
BLANTYRE WATERWORKS (AMENDMENT) BY-LAWS, 1975
IN EXERCISE of the powers conferred by Section 48 of the Blantyre
Waterworks Act, the Blantyre Water Board, subject to the approval of
the Minister, hereby makes the following By-laws
Citation and   1.  These By-laws may be cited as the Blantyre
Commencement        Waterworks (Amendment) By-laws, 1975 and
shall be deemed to have come into operation
on the 1st January, 1975.
2.   By-law 79 of the Blantyre Waterworks By-laws (hereinafter    Amendment of
referred to as the principal By-laws) is amended by the deletion  By-law 79
of sub-paragraph (1) thereof and substituting the following new   Cap. 72:02
paragraph :-                                                         sub. leg.
p.F20
"(1) Any quantity of water ascertained by meter
as having been used in a month over and above
any free monthly allowance specified in the
Blantyre Waterworks Rate Rules shall be charged
for as follows :-
(i) where the quantity of water is measured
by meter in Imperial gallons, at the
rate of KO.60 per thousand gallons;
(ii) where the quantity of water is
measured by meter in cubic meters
at the rate of K0.132 per cubic meter."
3.   By-law 79 of the principal By-laws is further amended by        Amendment of
the deletion of sub-paragraph (3) thereof and substituting the    By-law 79
following new paragraph :-                                           Cap. 72:02
sub. leg.
p.F20
"(3) notwithstanding the date upon which this
By-law came into operation, all metered water
charges determined by meter readings taken in
January, 1975 and shall be calculated at the
rate of 60 tambala per thousand gallons where
the quantity of water is measured by meter in
Imperial gallons, or at the rate of KO.132 per
cubic meter where the quantity of water is
measured by meter in cubic meters."



ANNEX 17
Page 4 of 11
4.   By-law 80 of the principal By-laws is amended by the           Amendment of
deletion of sub-paragraph (1) thereof and substituting the          By-law 80
following new paragraph :-                                          Cap. 72:02
sub. leg.
"(1)  When application is made under By-law                p.F20
62 for a supply of water for domestic purposes
to premises within the distance specified in
Section 20(2) of the Act a fee in accordance
with the following scale shall be payable:
Size of Meter                      Fee
A 1/2 inch connection to a
dwelling house erected on a
plot of land less than 0.2
of an acre                         K60
All other 1/2 inch connections    KIOO
Connections exceeding 1/2 inch    A fee is to be prescribed
by the Board having regard
to the costs which would
be incurred in making such
a supply of water available."
5.   By-law 81 of the principal By-laws is amended by the           Amendment of
deletion of sub-paragraph (1) thereof and substituting the          By-law 81
following new sub-paragraph:-                                       Cap. 72:02
sub. leg.
"(1)  Meter rents shall be payable according               p.F20
to the following scale:-
Size of Meter            Annual Rent
K
1/2 inch                     Nil
1 inch                       10.00
1 1/2 inches                 20.00
2 inches                     30.00
3 inches                     50.00
4 inches                     75.00
6 inches                    100.00 "
Made by the Blantyre Water Board on the
Chairman
Approved by the Minister on the
Minister for Trade,
Industry & Tourism



ANNEX 17
Page 5 of 11
THE BLANTYRE WATERWORKS ACT, 1962
(Act No. 13 of 1962)
THE BLANTYRE WATERWORKS RATE RULES
(Amended and Converted to Decimal Currency
GN 252 of 1966, 260 of 1967, 75 of 1971.)
IN EXERCISE of the powers conferred upon me in Section 25 and 56
of the Blantyre Waterworks Act, 1962, I
Minister of Trade and Industry, make the following Rules:
PART I - PRELIMINARY
1.  These rules may be cited as the Blantyre Waterworks    Short title
Rate Rules 1971 and shall come into operation on the 15th            and
day of February, 1971                                                Commencement
2.  In these rules unless the context otherwise requires - Interpretation
itagricultural premises" includes premi.ses used for
growing or keeping for sale or trade or for the prep-
aration for sale or trade other than by manufacture of
any fruit, vegetable, seed, flower, bush, tree, animal
or fowl or the produce or issue thereof, land used as
grazing land, meadow land, market garden, nursery gar-
den and any dwelling occupied by persons engaged in
agriculture within such premises;
"business premises" means premises other than agri-
cultural premises used primarily either for any trade
or business, or for any commercial or industrial activ-
ity or for the practice of any professi.on for gain or
profit;
"domestic employees quarters" means any building
having its own supply pipe constructed or adapted to
be used exclusively or principally for habitation by
domestic employees of the owner or occupier of any house
or flat;
"flats" means a building within which accommodation
is divided into separate and self-contained units used
or intended to be used as dwellings let for rent or other
valuable consideration;
"house" means any building or part of a building,
constructed or adapted to be used wholly or principally



ANNEX 17
Page 6 of 11
for human habitation together with any land, gardens,
outbuildings or appurtenances thereto or usually enjoyed
therewith but does not include flats, or domestic em-
ployees' quarters;
"housing estate" means two or more houses on any
land held as a distinct or separate holding or tenancy
either unconnected to a water main or with not more than
one supply pipe serving all the houses thereon;
"institutional premises" includes any premises other
than undeveloped premises occupied either by a local
authority constituted under any law in force in Malawi
or by any association, club or society of a social,
recreational or religious character not operating pri-
marily for gain;
"month" means the time between consecutive readings
of a meter which shall be as near to 30 days as is con-
veni.ent to the Board, provided that no interval between
consecutive readings shall be less than 28 days;
"'supply main" means a water main or part of such a
main constructed or managed by the Board which is used or
intended to be used for the purpose of providing supply
pipes and water services to individual consumers and in-
cludes any apparatus used in connection with such a pipe
other than supply pipes and services;
''undeveloped premises" means any premises valued at
more than K500.00 on which either no improvements exist
or whi.ch is not defined under any other classification;
''unused property" means business premises which are
not used for a period of one month or more.
PART II - CATEGORIES OF PREMISES AND RATES
"Rates   3.  (1)  Subject to the provisions of paragraph (2) of this
and                rule, the rates specified in these Rules shall be
exemption          payable to the Board by the respective occupier
therefrom          of the various premises hereinafter described in
these Rules when, and only when, a supply main lies
within 100 yards of the boundary of such premises.
(2)  The premises described in the Fifth Schedule are
hereby exempted from rates levied under these
Rules".



ANNEX 17
Page 7 of 11
Monthly 4. (i) A monthly rate of K1.25 shall be payable by occupiers of -
Rates
(a) domestic employees' quarters;
(b) houses and unused property having a separate
supply pipe and valued at not more than K500;
(c) Flats, housing estates, agricultural premises,
business premises or institutional premises having a separate
supply pipe and valued at not more than K500.
An occupier of any premi.ses rated in accordance with this rule
shall be entitled to a free supply of 1,500 gallons of water per month.
(ii) Occupiers of houses and unused premises other than as
defined in paragraph (i) shall pay a monthly rate in accordance with
the First Schedule. Where any premises rated in accordance with this
rule are provided with a supply pipe an occupier shall be entitled to
a monthly free supply of water shown in the First Schedule.
(iii) Occupiers of flats, housing estates, agricultural prem-
ises, institutional premises and business premises having a value
of more than K500 but not more than K8,000 and undeveloped land shall
pay a monthly rate in accordance with the Second Schedule provi.ded
that in cases where the registered value of a plot of undeveloped
land exceeds K8,000 the monthly rate payable shall be K7.50. Where
any premises rated in accordance with this rule are provided with a
supply pipe an occupier shall be entitled to the monthly free supply
of water shown in the Second Schedule.
(iv) Occupiers of flats, housing estates, agricultural
premises, institutional premises and business premises other than
as defined in either paragrpah (i) or paragraph (iii) shall pay a
monthly rate in accordance wi.th the Third Schedule and where any such
premises are provided with a supply pipe an occupier shall be en-
titled to the monthly free supply of water shown in the Third
Schedule subject to the provisi.ons in rule 5 in the cases of agri-
cultural premises and institutional premises and rule 6 in the case
of certain housing estates.
5. -  (i)  A rebate of two thirds of the rate shall be          Rebates
allowed to occupiers of institutional premises. In such cases
the appropriate entitlement to a free supply of water shall be
reduced to the same extent.
(ii) A rebate equivalent to the rate payable on acreage
in excess of one acre shall be allowed to occupiers of agricultural
premi.ses rated in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (iv)
of Rule 4.



ANNEX 17
Page 8 of 11
6. -  (i)  For the purpose of computing the monthly rate    Housing
payable on a housing estate according to the Third Schedule          estates
values in excess of K20,000 shall be disregarded and an
occupier of such premises shall be entitled to a monthly free
supply of water of 6,000 gallons.
(ii) Where on any housing estate the value of build-
ings is less than K2,000 per acre computed by dividing the
acreage of the land into the value of the buildings, an
occupier of such premises shall pay a monthly rate of either
K7.50 or the amount of the rate payable on a house valued at
more than K500 on an area of less than 0.200 of an acre rated
in accordance with paragraph (ii) of rule 4 multiplied by the
number of houses valued at more than K500 comprising the
housing estate whichever is the greater. An occupier of such
premises shall be entitled to a monthly free supply of water
of 6,000 gallons.
7. -  (a)  The entitlement of a free supply of water shall  Monthly
not be accumulative from month to month.                             Free
Supplies
(b)  Where in accordance with these Rules the Board   of
is required to provide a free supply of water and where the          Water
meter is calibrated to register in metric quantities the free
supply of water shall be calculated by taking 4.6 cubic meters
as being equal to 1,000 gallons.
8. -  Where an occupier vacates or occupies any premises    Pro-Rata
on a date other than the last day or the first day of a month   Monthly
respectively the rate payable and the entitlement to a free          Rate
supply of water for such a period of time shall be that pro-
portion of both the monthly rate and the entitlement to a free
supply of water as the period of occupation bears to 30 days.
9. -  The rates prescribed in this part shall not apply    Special
to any person who has, in accordance with Section 18 of the    Contracts
Act, entered into a contract with the Board.                        Section 18.
PART III - REGISTER
10. - (1) The register shall be kept in the form set out
in the Fourth Schedule and shall include -                         Register
(a) The name and address of the owner of any
premises registered therein;
(b) The name and address of the occupier of
any premises registered therein;



ANNEX 17
Page 9 of 11
(c) Where any land is public land or customary
land, a description of the location of the land sufficient
to enable such land to be distinguished or identified;
(d) Where any land is neither public land nor
customary land, then either -
(i) the area of the sub-division of land for
planning purposes recorded by the City of Bantyre Town
Planning Committee; or
(ii) the area of premises served by one supply
pipe and meter; and
(iii) where appropriate, the plot -umber of num-
bers assigned to the area in any local authority valuation
roll adopted and in force within the water area;
(e) the acreage of the land;
(f) the nature of any buildings on the land and
their use;
(g) the value of the land;
(h) the value of any buildings on the land.
(2) The entries in the register relating to the nature,
use acreage and value of land and buildings shall determine the
appropriate monthly rate chargeable in accordance with these Rules
and for the purposes of these Rules the value of any premises shall
be the value of the land together with the value of any buildings
erected thereon.
11. - No change in the classification of business premises to
unused property shall be made unless the owner or person entitled
to lawful possession of the premises applies in writing to the
Board for such a change. Upon receipt of such application the
Board shall cause the classification of the premises to be changed
with effect from the date of the next monthly meter reading, and
such classification shall remain in effect for each full month
that the premises remain unused.
PART IV - MISCELLANEOUS
12. -  For the purpose of these Rules, the occupier of          Domestic
any house or flat, shall be deemed to be the occupier of the   Employees'
domestic employees' quarters relating thereto.                      Quarters



ANNEX 17
Page 10 of 11
13. -  (1)  The premises served by a single supply pipe        Single
and meter shall be regarded as one entity for the purposes        Supply
both of its classification under Part II, and its registra-    Pipe and
tion under Part III.                                             meter
(2) Where in order to make available a sufficient
supply of water the Board has agreed to provide more than
one meter for any premises, then notwithstanding the provisions
of paragraph (1), the register shall record such premises as
one entry.
(3) In the event of any premises being used for
more than one purpose, such premises shall be classified and
registered according to the purpose which attracts the highest
water level.
14. -  Nothing in these Rules shall require the Board to    Meter
provide more than one meter to any premises.
15. -  The Blantyre Waterworks Rate Rules are hereby          Revocation
revoked.                                                          of GN.252
of 1966.
FIRST SCHEDULE
Limits of Value          Limits to Acreage            Monthly free
supply of water
To less
More     But not         From     than       monthly              (cubic
than     more than    (acres)   (acres)       rate    (gallons)  meters)
K 500    unlimited         -      0.200       K1.25     1,500       6.9
K 500    K2,000         0.200   unlimited    K1.88      1,500       6.9
K2000    unlimited      0.200     0.400       K3.12     3,000      13.8
K2000    unlimited      0.400     5.000       K5.00     6,000      27.6
K2000    unlimited      5.000    10.000       K6.25     6,000      27.6
K2000    unlimited    10.000   unlimited    K7.50       6,000      27.6
Limits of Value                       Monthly free
_______________________    supply   of   water
More        But not       monthly                    (cubic
than        more than    rate        (gallons)       meters)
K 500       K2000         K1.88        1,500           6.9
K2000       K4000         K5.00        6,000          27.6
K4000       K6000         K6.25        6,000          27.6
K6000       K8000         K7.50        6,000          27.6



ANNEX 17
Page 11 of 11
THIRD SCHEDULE
Limits cf acreage                      Linmits of Value
including less thani  more than  moro than    more than        more than  IH
and over   (acres) K8n0o -but K20,000 but         g 000 but  KIOO 000 but    an
(acres)             n6morle   riov more,    Rot miore        not more    K200,000
than K20000 than K50000 than K1001000 than K200,000
_          0.500  1 K 10.00      K 12.50       K 15.00      K 17.50       K 20.00
0.500      0.625       12.50       15.62         18.75         21.88        25.00
0.625      0.750       15.00       18.75         22.50         26.25        30.O0
0.750      0.875       17.50       21.88         26.25         30.62        35.00
0.875      1.000       20.00       25.00         30.00         35.00        40.00
1.000      1.125       22.50       28.12         33.75        39-38         45,00
1.125      1.250       25.00       31.25         37.50         43.75        50.00
1.250      1.375       27.50       34.38         41.25         48.12        55.00
1.375      1.500       30.00       37.50         45.00        52.50         60.00
1.500      1.625      32.50'-      40.62         48.75        56.88         65.00
1.625      1.?50       35.00       43.75         52.50         61.25        70.00
1.750      1.875      37.50        46.88         56.25         65.62        75.00
1.875      2.000       40.00       50.00         60.oo        70.00         80,00
2.000      2.250       42.50       53.12         63.75         74.38        85.00
2.250      2.500      45.00        56.25         67.50         78.75        90.00
2.500      2.750       47.50       59.38         71.25         83.12        95.00
2.750      3.000      50.00        62.50         75.00         87.50       100.00
3.000      3.250'    52.50         65.62         78.75         91.88       105.00
3.2Z50     3.500      55.00        68.75         82.50         96.25       110.00
3.500      3.750       57.50       71.88         86.25        100.62       115.00
3.750      4.ooo       60.00       75.00         90.00        105.00       120.00
4.000      4.250       62.50       78.12         93.75        169.38       125.00
4.250      4.500       65.00       81.25         97.50        113.75       130.00
4,500      4.750       67.50       84.38        101.25        118.12       135.00
4.750      5.000       70.00       87.50        105.00        122.50       140.00
5.000      5.500       72.50       90.62        108,75        126.88       145.00
5.500      6.ooo       75.00       93.75        112.50        131.25       150.00
6.ooo      6.500       77.50       96.88        116.25       135.62        155.00
6.500      7.000       80.00      100.00        120.00        140eOO       160.00
7.000      7.500       82.50      103.12        123.75        144.38       165.00
7.500      8.000       85.oo      106.25        127.50        148.75       170.00
8.000      8.500       87.50      109.38        131.25        153.12       175.00
8.500      9.000       90.00      112.50        135.00        157.50       180.00
9.000      9.500       92.50      115.62        138.75        161.88       185.00
9.500     10.000       95.00      118.75        142.50       166.25        190.00
10.000     11.000       97.50      121.88        146.25        170.62       195.00
11.000     12.000      100.00      125.00        150.00        175.00       200.00
12,000     13.000      102.50      128.12        153.75       179.38        205.00
13,000     14.000      105.00      131.25        157.50        183.75       210.00
14.000    mnlimited   107.50       134.38        161.25       188.s2        215.00
Monthly free
supply o{f water
(gallonls)            6,000        9,000         12,000       15,000        1g,000
(CubJi raetres)       27..6        41.4          55.2         69.00         82.8.



ANNEX 18
Page 1 of 7
MALAWI
BLANTYRE WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Proposed Tariff Reforms and Revenue Projections
Introduction
1.        A good tariff structure is one which reconciles economic efficiency
objectives with financial, administrative and equity constraints. In par-
ticular, the problem facing the Blantyre Water Board (BWB) is how to shift
from a tariff structure that was designed to encourage consumption during the
Board's early years of excess capacity and grant-financed expansion to a
structure which better reflects the present situation of capacity constraints
and increased capital and operating costs.
2.        The financial objectives of BWB have been to meet all expenses and
debt service obligations out of tariff revenues on an annual basis. They
have been remarkably successful at this in the past, but rising electricity
rates and increased interest charges make future performance conditional upon
tariff revisions. In addition, there is a growing concern that new capacity
increments should not be entirely debt-financed, so that BWB's financial
targets (and tariff levels) may have to be adjusted to permit some internal
contribution to the capital cost of future projects.
3.        Equity considerations also point to the need for changes in the
tariff structure. Present rates are based in part on property size and value
which often leads to significant differences in the amount that two consumers
of equal income but different lot sizes pay for the same quantity of water.
The highest average rate (MK 1.25/000 Ig) of all is borne by those without
connections who must use the public kiosks.
4.        For the economist or development planner who is concerned with
promoting efficient resource allocation, these financial and fairness con-
siderations are supplemented by a concern that the price of water be set as
near as possible to its marginal cost. If water is priced above marginal
cost, use will be artificially restricted. Conversely, if it is priced below
marginal cost, the consumption of water (as opposed to other goods) will be
unduly encouraged, and expensive capacity expansions, which could otherwise
be postponed, will be required to keep up with the stimulated demand. As
described in Annex 7, the estimated long-run marginal cost of supplying
water to Blantyre based upon an opportunity cost of capital of 10% is
MK 2.06/000 Ig (in 1977 prices), while the average revenue expected during
1977 is MK 1.12/000 Ig.
5.        Thus, the grounds for a change in the tariff structure are clear.
In addition, one of the biggest obstacles hampering improvement in the utili-
ties of many developing countries has been overcome by BWB: all water supplies
are metered and the administrative functions are well organized and run.



ANNEX 18
Page 2 of 7
Present Tariff Structure
6.   BWB's current tariff, which became effective on January 1, 1977, includes
a fixed monthly fee for all consumer categories other than kiosks and a monthly
consumption charge. The fixed fee varies according to type of customer and
the size and assessed value of property as does the "free allowance" of water
delivered without additional charge (see Annex 17 of the prior 1975 Blantyre
Waterworks Bylaws for specific levels). Consumption in excess of this monthly
entitlement is charged at the rate of MK 0.80/000 Ig for the first 5,000
gallons and MK 1.00/000 Ig for the remainder. There is also an initial connec-
tion fee which covers the connection and meter expense and ranges upwards from
MK 60 for a 1/2-inch connection on a small plot.
7.   Since the initial water consumed under the "free allowance" is actually
quite costly (averaging about MK 1.25/000 Ig for residential customers and
two to three times that for commercial customers), 1/ the tariff structure
has first a decreasing and then an increasing block. This sort of pattern is
difficult to justify on either economic or equity grounds. There is, however,
a very strong feeling in BWB that some sort of fixed fee must be preserved for
financial planning purposes although such charges now account for under
one-third of the total revenue and marginal costs are clearly higher than
average total costs. However, it is also felt that the residential users
regard the allowance as "free" and would resent paying consumption charges on
it even if the fixed fee were lowered.
Proposed Tariff Charges
8.        Based on the project costs and operating expenditures detailed in
Annexes 4 and 7, the IDA mission estimated that the long-run marginal cost
of supplying water to Blantyre is approximately MK 2.50/000 Ig during the
peak months of September through November and MK 1.95/000 Ig during the rest
of the year (in 1977 prices). While economic concerns alone might suggest
that rates be immediately raised to these levels, the impact of a strict
implementation of marginal cost pricing would range from a near tripling of
the average water bill for customers in areas of highest density to a 150%
increase for those in lowest density areas.
9.        Due to the extent of this impact, the movement to a full economic
tariff should probably be done in stages and with some subsidy incorporated
for the lower consuming classes. The benefits provided to the community by
ensuring that the amount of water necessary for adequate sanitation standards
is available to all at an affordable price are likely to justify some subsidy
from an economic standpoint as well as promoting social objectives.
1/   For many businesses, the initial increment of consumption costs even
more than what is implied by dividing the fixed fee by the "free
allowance" since they do not use as much water as the allowance would
provide.



ANNEX 18
Page 3 of 7
10.       It has been estimated that the minimum amount of water required
for the control of water-borne disease is about three gallons per capita per
day (Igcd), while 5-10 Igcd is recommended for minimum satisfactory sanita-
tion. The monthly water consumption of an average Blantyre household of five
persons 1/ using 10 Igcd would be 1,500 gallons. This coincides with the
"free allowance" currently provided to the two highest density housing classes
(HO/O and HO/1) for MK 1.25 per month by BWB. Thus, it is suggested that BWB
continue subsidizing the first 1,500 gallons sold monthly to those two groups
at MK 1.25 (or MK 0.83/000 Ig) per connection while charging the full cost for
any additional water consumed.
11.       During appraisal, although it was apparent that administrative
adjustments necessary to alter the tariff structure would be difficult and
time-consuming, an early increase in revenue also was recognized as essential.
Subsequently, in January 1977, BWB followed the mission's recommendations and
effected the Stage I tariff change (see Table 1, this Annex) which increases
consumption charges from MK 0.60 to MK 0.80 and from MK 0.80 to MK 1.00 per
thousand I gallons, respectively, for the two consumption blocks. This adjust-
ment is an improvement over the former structure since it reduces differences
in unit costs effected by successive blocks of consumption. Based on 1975
consumption levels, this tariff increase will yield about a 22% increase in
revenue (see Table 2). Its effect on individual residential classes, which is
shown in Table 3, is an increase ranging from 15 to 22%.
12.       Meanwhile, preparations should begin now for Stage II incorporat-
ing more pervasive structural tariff changes which could be introduced 12
months later (in January 1978). This second stage would replace the current
rate structure with a straight consumption charge for all categories except
the two lowest residential classes (those with property valued at less than
MK 500 or comprising less than 0.2 acres). It is suggested that the Stage II
consumption charge be set to yield an average revenue of MK 1.38/000 Ig and
then be adjusted upwards as financial considerations warrant. If it is
felt necessary for financial and/or political reasons to retain a fixed fee
and free allowance, then consumers (excluding the two lowest classes) could
be provided with the first 1,500 gallons per month at a flat rate of MK 2.05.
1/   Five persons per household is the figure developed from the 1966 census
for Blantyre City and used by the Regional Planning Office in all pop-
ulation and housing density plans.



ANNEX 18
Page 4 of 7
(which averages MK 1.38 per thousand I gallons). For the two lowest cate-
gories of residential consumers 1/, the initial 1,500 gallons could be sup-
plied at the subsidized rate of MK 1.25. Kiosk sales also would remain
at their present rate. For consumption in excess of the allowance, an
increasing block tariff would be applied. Abstracting from elasticity effects,
the revenues generated by the Stage II tariff would be 33% larger than thos-
of Stage I (based on 1975 consumption) and over 60% larger than the 1975
revenue (see Table 2). The effect on individual residential classes is an
increase ranging from 33 to 60% over Stage I levels (see Table 3). Having
accomplished these structural changes, subsequent tariff increases (para.
6.04) can be accomplished simply through an upward adjustment in consumption
charges.
1/   If this subsidy system is implemented, it would be desirable to refine
soon the criteria for obtaining the reduced rate since any household with
less than 0.2 acres of land currently is eligible, regardless of the
value of that property. While, ideally, eligibility should be based on a
broad wealth measure which includes income levels, the easiest revision
would be to replace the acreage ceiling with a straight property valua-
tion ceiling of, say, MK 2,000. This rule also could include the small
businesses and institutions which are valued at below that level since
they are often store-front residences whose water usage is related more
to domestic than business needs.
April 1977



ANNEX 18
Page 5 of 7
- Table 1: PRESENT TARIFF STRUCTURE
Stage I Tariff /1
Unit
Monthly    Monthly       Consump-
Consumer             Fixed      Entitle-      tion
Category            Charge     ment          Charge /2
---MK---   --Ig/mo--    ---MK----
HO/O, HO/i            1.25        1,500        .80 /3, 1.00
Other Residential (See pp. 10 and 11 of
Annex 17)               .80 /3, 1.00
Kiosk Users               -           -        1.25
Business,
Institutions,
and Others          (See pp. 10 and 11 of
Annex 17)                  .80 /3, 1.00
/1   Effective January 1, 1977;
/2   Unit charge per thousand Ig;
/3   MK 0.80/000 Ig would apply to first 5,000 gallons consumed in excess of
monthly entitlement. Remaining consumption is billed at MK 1.00/000 Ig;
April 1977



ANNEX 18
Page 6 of 7
Table 2:  TOTAL REVENUE IMPLICATIONS OF
PROPOSED CHANGES IN TARIFF
Total Annual Revenue (MK)
Consumer                1975             1975
Category           Water Sales        Tariff /1      Stage I /2       Stage II
(000 Ig)
Residential /3       (792,879)         (567,329)       (627,044)      (1,027,827)
HO/O                22,985            16,089         17,558           26,299
HO/1               332,262           222,616        251,677          401,972
HO/2                19,709            14,979         17,137           27,001
HO/3                65,275            50,915         56,971           89,427
HO/4               337,124           249,472        269,247          461,860
HO/5                 7,975             6,539          7,200           10,926
HO/6                 7,549             6,719          7,254           10,342
Kiosks                 30,044            18,026          18,026           18,026
Business,
Institutions,
and Others          1,198,033        1,072,938       1,377,738        1,641,305
TOTALS              2,0202956         1,658,293      2,022,808        2,687,158
Increase from
previous tariff         -                             21.9%            32.8%
level
]1   As amended in July 1975;
/2   Effective January 1, 1977;
/3   The HO water customer categories are described in the Blantyre Waterworks
Bylaws, 1975 (see Annex 17), and range in ascending order from the
customer resident in the area of the highest (HO/0) to the lowest (HO/6)
population density.
April 1977



ANNEX 18
Page 7 of 7
Table 3: REVENUE IMPLICATIONS OF TARIFF CHANGES
FOR RESIDENTIAL USERS
Percent Increase
in Average Bill
Average Monthly Bill        from Previous
Average Monthly                (MK)                     Level
Consumption per        1975    Stage       Stage  Stage        Stage
Category         Connection          Tariff      I   /1   II       I   /1      II
 Ig--------
HO/O               3,360             2.37    2.74         3.80    16          39
HO/I               4,730             3.19    3.83         5.68    20          48
HO/2               8,490             6.47    7.89       11.63    22           47
HO/3              12,260             9.53   11.44        16.80    19          47
HO/4              13,680            10.14   11.68        18.74    15          60
HO/5              21,440            17.60   20.69       29.37    18           42
HO/6              18,390            16.41   18.89       25.19    15           33
11   Effective January 1, 1977.
January 1977



< f _ tr.~~~~~~~chilek                                                                              T.x |T. Ln , lorns rZ..bo
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Fom Wlker<ts                                                                                                           .Z /v 
aHIWH,H Err ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~Fer ~oChl
CHL                *                           :                                                                         0                  
/ '-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
P'o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
K~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
0 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~!r f rf0te.:/;; 
\               A N T
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
/    \   T   .   V  lfirBuNam               /           .             if t:  ?,         W       >     - ^r %           SURN                                   T.M~I.r
T. Ch,k...                     /                                                                  S ;        :-        :;
-95. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~       ~      ~       ~       ~       ~       ~      ~       ~      ~      ~      ~      ~     ~      -
MALAWI                                           Vi.a9
BLANTYRE WATER SUPPLY PROJECT                                       z                                       i                     Dii 
E.istmg    P,.ject   Fulwre                                                         K r            try                   e        re
End   PH- IV)l977-19 84111985-19901                                                                               ,
_ Supply moins                                                                                                                                                                      TP M;.k5r-d
13                         Wt., fri-t-et pirt .P                                                                r         di
Frincip. mg plows I r
Wt                     -c--/ boudory 
R   HppIy Hav
Ricers
Lan,d reserve areas                                                                                                                               Hv.
Squatter areas
City b0o,vd-r' 
Lirmit oF plaveed                                                                                                                                            4     oo
-rban development                         KILOMETER,                                                r S     -          I
;npI,  ,rdH,.ynyr~~~~~~~~~~rp,~~~~                              MILES
11,. a . J ,cS o / e. h I.r .{] *e  \ ] Z - * *> e>:.    CHI



