CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 711 MAI
Development Credit Agreement
(Blantyre Water Supply Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated June 3, 1977


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 3, 1977, between REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association
to assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Borrower intends to contract a loan from the
African Development Fund (AfDF) on the terms and conditions set
forth in an agreement to be entered into between the Borrower
and AfDF, and to relend the proceeds of said loan to the Blantyre
Water Board (BWB) to assist in the financing of the Project;
(C) BWB intends to contract a loan from the Commonwealth
Development Corporation (CDC) to assist in the financing of the
Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement to
be entered into between CDC and BWB;
(D) the Project will be carried out by BWB with the
Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower
will make available to BWB the proceeds of the Credit as
hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and BWB;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set
forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and Blantyre Water Board of even date herewith, as the
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all
schedules to the Project Agreement and all agreements supplemental
to the Project Agreement; and
(b) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and Blantyre Water Board
pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same
may be amended from time to time.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent
to seven million dollars ($7,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association, for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be
procured in accordance with the provisions set forth or referred
to in Section 2.04 of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1982
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The


﻿-4-
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually
on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each May 1
and November 1 commencing November 1, 1987, and ending May 1,
2027, each installment to and including the installment payable
on May 1, 1997, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such
principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01.(a) Without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the Borrower shall cause BWB to perform in accordance
with the provisions of the Project Agreement and the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement all the obligations therein set forth, shall take
and cause to be taken all action necessary or appropriate to
enable BWB to perform such obligations, and shall not take or
permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere
with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit
to BWB under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and BWB under terms and conditions which
shall have been approved by the Association and.which shall
include repayment within 24 years including 4 years of grace, and
interest at the rate of 8-1/2% per annum.
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the


﻿-6-
interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish
the purposes of the Credit, and except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate,
waive or fail to enforce the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any
provision thereof.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall take, from time to time,
all action required on its part to enable BWB to obtain the
revenues referred to in Section 4.03 of the Project Agreement.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) BWB shall have failed to perform any covenant, agreement
or obligation of BWB under the Project Agreement.
(b) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable that BWB will be able to perform its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
(c) The laws of the Borrower shall have been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived in such a way as to
materially and adversely affect the ability of BWB to carry out
the covenants, agreements and obligations set forth in the Project
Agreement.
(d) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of BWB or for the suspension of its operations without having made
arrangements satisfactory to the Association for the transfer of
its operations to another entity.


﻿(e) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) the right of the Borrower or BWB to withdraw
the proceeds of any loan made to the Borrower
or BWB for the financing of the Project shall
have been suspended, cancelled or terminated
in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of
the agreement providing therefor, or
(B) any such loan shall have become due and
payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Borrower or BWB establishes to the
satisfaction of the Association that:
(A) such suspension, cancellation, termination
or prematuring is not caused by the failure of
the Borrower or BWB to perform any of its
obligations under such agreement, and
(B) adequate funds for the Project are available
to the Borrower or BWB from other sources on
terms and conditions consistent with the
obligations of the Borrower under this
Agreement and of BWB under the Project
Agreement.


﻿-9-
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) any of the events specified in paragraphs (a), (b) and
(d) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall
continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have
been given by the Association to the Borrower and Blantyre Water
Board; and
(b) any of the events specified in paragraphs (c) and (e)
(i) (B) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur.


﻿- 10 -
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions:
(a) the execution of the Project Agreement on behalf of
BWB has been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate
and governmental action;
(b) the execution of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement on behalf
of the Borrower and BWB, respectively, has been duly authorized or
ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental action;
and
(c) all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of
agreements referred to in Recitals (B) and (C) of the Preamble
hereto, and all conditions precedent to the first disbursement of
the proceeds of the loans provided thereunder, if any, except for
the effectiveness of this Agreement, have been fulfilled.
Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:


﻿- 11 -
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by BWB, and is legally binding upon BWB in accordance
with its terms; and
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and BWB, and is legally
binding upon the Borower and BWB in accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03. The date October 3, 1977 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Article
III of this Agreement and the provisions of Section 4.02 of this
Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the
Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date 24 years
after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.


﻿- 12 -
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time
responsible for Finance is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 30049
Capital City Lilongwe 3
Malawi
Cable address:
FINANCE
Lilongwe
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.


﻿- 13 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
By Is/ D.Y.J. Kalilangwe
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Willi A. Wapenhans
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of
the amount of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Credit Allocated           % of
( Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)  Civil works              2,300,000            65%
(2) Pumping equip-
ment, spare
parts, work-
shop equipment
and vehicles
(a) directly             2,200,000           100% of foreign
imported                                expenditures
(b) locally                100,000            90% of local
purchased                                expenditures
(3) Services of                 600,000            100% of foreign
engineering                                   expenditures
consultants
(4) Unallocated               1,800,000
TOTAL     7,000,000


﻿- 15 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule: (a) the term "foreign
expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any country
other than the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from
the territory of any country other than the Borrower; and (b) the
term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from the territory
of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in
compliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of
the Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes
levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or
services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or
supply thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such taxes
levied on or in respect of any item to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit decreases or increases, the Association
may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or decrease the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such item as required
to be consistent with the aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph 1
above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that the amount


﻿- 16 -
of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be insufficent
to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that
Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower: (i)
reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the
estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Association are not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if
such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category
may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been
made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the
Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such
expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following:
Part A:
Improvements and extensions to existing facilities
at Walker's Ferry, including raw water pumping plant
and water treatment plant, so as to increase the
capacity of such facilities from 10 to 14 million
imperial gallons per day.
Part B:
Construction of the following additions to the Walker's
Ferry system: (i) about 15,000 feet of treated water
supply main, parallel to the existing pipeline; (ii)
balancing tanks and pumping plants at Walker's Ferry,
at Chileka, and at an intermediate site; and (iii) a
new terminus of the pipeline in the Blantyre area.
Part C:
Improvements in the distribution system, including
creation of seven new pressure zones; modification or
relocation of two existing pump stations; and
construction of the following additional elements: nine
service reservoirs, one pump station, and about 35 miles
of transmission and distribution mains.


﻿- 18 -
Part D:
Construction of staff housing, and workshop
building, and provision of office equipment,
including data processing equipment, vehicles,
tools and shop equipment.
Part E:
-    A study to evaluate and improve BWB's accounting
practices.
-    Studies to determine the most economic mode of
future operation of the Walker's Ferry Water Supply
system.
Part F:
Training of BWB's staff in engineering and accountancy.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1980.


