CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 711 MAI
Project Agreement
(Blantyre Water Supply Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
BLANTYRE WATER BOARD
I
Dated June 3, 1977


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 3, 1977, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOP-
MENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and BLANTYRE
.           WATER BOARD (hereinafter called BWB).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between Republic of Malawi (hereinafter called the
Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to
make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies
equivalent to seven million dollars ($7,000,000), on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only
on condition that BWB agree to undertake such obligations toward
the Association aF hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS BWB, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth, and the
symbol "MK" means Malawi Kwacha, the unit of the Borrower's
currency.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. BWB shall carry out the Project described in
Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial and engineering practices.
Section 2.02. In order to assist BWB in (a) carrying out
detailed design of the facilities included in the Project,
preparing tender documents, evaluating bids, and supervising
their construction; (b) selecting and introducing the data
processing equipment under Part D of the Project; and (c) carrying
out Part E of the Project, BWB shall employ engineering and
management consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Association.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be
procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.04. AWB shall: (a) from time to time starting not
later than December 31, 1977, select the low-income areas of
Blantyre to be included in the Project in accordance with criteria


﻿-4-
satisfactory to the Association, and (b) promptly carry out
the Project in respect of such areas.
Section 2.05. (a) BWB undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower
against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such
insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely
usable by BWB to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association may otherwise agree, BWB shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit relent to it by the Borrower to be used exclusively for the
Project.
Section 2.06. (a) BWB shall furnish to the Association,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modificatauns thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b) BWB: (i) shall maintain records adequate to reflect the
progress and cost of the Project and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it
by the Borrower, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project;
(ii) shall, without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph


﻿-5-
(c) of this Section, enable the Association's representatives to
visit the facilities and construction sites included in the Project
and to examine the goods financed out of such proceeds and any
relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the
Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably
request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of
the Credit so relent to it and the goods and services financed out
of such proceeds.
(c) BWB shall enable the Association's representatives to
examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment of BWB and any relevant records and
documents.
Section 2.07. BWB shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, BWB shall not take or concur in any action
which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.08. (a) BWB shall, at the request of the Association,
exchange views with the Association with regard to the progress of
the Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement
and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other matters relating
to the purposes of the Credit.


﻿-6-
(b) BWB shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with, the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit, or the performance by BWB of its obligations under this
Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.09. BWB shall take all such action as shall be
necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land and rights
in respect of land as shall be required for the construction
and operation of the facilities included in the Project.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of BWB
Section 3.01. BWB shall at all times manage its affairs,
maintain its financial position, plan its future expansion and
conduct its business and undertaking, all in accordance with
sound business, financial and public utility practices, and under
the supervision of experienced and competent management assisted
by adequate and competent staff.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree:
(a) BWB shall at all times take all necessary steps to
maintain its existence and its right to carry on operations, and
to acquire and retain all rights, powers, privileges and
franchises which are necessary or useful for the purpose of
complying with its obligations under this Agreement or for the
efficient conduct of its business and undertaking.
(b) BWB shall at all times operate and maintain the plants,
machinery, equipment and other property owned or operated by it
and promptly make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all
in accordance with sound engineering and public utility practices.
(c) BWB shall not sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose
of any of the property or assets owned or operated by it which


﻿-8-
are necessary or useful for the efficient conduct of its business
and undertaking.
Section 3.03. BWB shall exchange views with the Association
on the qualifications of the candidates, before making any
appointment to the positions of Engineer/Manager or of
Clerk/Treasurer of BWB.
Section 3.04. BWB shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory
to the Association for, insurance against such risks and in
such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.05. BWB shall: (a) not later than December 31,
1977, furnish to the Association a Lv.an of action to evaluate
and upgrade BWB's maintenance and operation practices; (b) give
the Association a reasonable opportunity to comment thereon;
and (c) carry out such plan promptly thereafter.
Section 3.06. BWB shall exchange views with the Association
on the recommendations made by the consultants referred to in
Section 2.02 of this Agreement in assisting BWB to select and
introduce the data processing equipment under Part D of the
Project, and to carry out Part E of the Project.


﻿-9-
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) BWB shall maintain records adequate to
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
(b) BWB shall use depreciation accounting to reflect its
net income in accordance with generally accepted public utilities
and commercial practices.
Section 4.02. BWB shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish
to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later
than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified
copies of its financial statements for such year as so audited and
(B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and
in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested;
and (iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements of BWB and the
audit thereof as the Assocation shall from time to time reasonably
request.


﻿- 10 -
Section 4.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, BWB shall take from time to tirae all such action required
on its part (including, without limitation, action with regard to
the level and structure of its tariffs for the services it
provides) as shall be required to obtain revenues to produce an
annual rate of return of not less than 8% in 1978 and 1979, not
less than 10% in 1980 and 1981, and not less than 9% in each year
thereafter.
For the purposes of this Section:
(i) the annual rate of return shall be calculated as
a percentage which shall be determined by dividing
the net operating revenues for the year in question
by half the sum of the value of the net fixed assets
in service at the beginning of such year and the
value of net fixed assets in service at the end of
such year.
(ii) "net operating revenue" means gross revenues
from the application of its water supply tariff
less all operating, maintenance and administrative
expenses, taxes and any payments in lieu thereof,
and provision for depreciation in accordance with
methods satisfactory to the Association, but before
provision for interest and other charges on debt.


﻿- 11 -
(iii) "value of net fixed assets in service" means the
gross value of fixed assets in service, valued
in accordance with sound and consistently
maintained methods of valuation (and annual
revaluation) satisfactory to the Association, less
the amount of accumulated depreciation; provided
that when a major asset shall be brought into
operation during the fiscal year the value of such
asset shall be included in the foregoing
computation only in respect of that part of the
fiscal year during which such asset has been in
operation.
Section 4.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, BWB shall not incur any debt unless its net revenues for
the fiscal year next preceding such incurrence or for a later
twelve-month period ended prior to such incurrence, whichever
amount is the greater, shall be not less than 1.5 times the
maximum debt service requirement for any succeeding fiscal year on
all debt, including the debt to be incurred.
For the purposes of this Section:
(a) "debt" means all debt of BWB maturing by its terms
more than one year after the date on which it is incurred;


﻿- 12 -
(b) debt shall be deemed to be incurred (i) under a loan
agreement, on the date and to the extent the amount of the loan
is drawn down and outstanding pursuant to such agreement, and
(ii) under a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement
providing for such guarantee has been entered into but only
to the extent that the guaranteed debt is outstanding;
(c) "net revenues" means gross revenues from all sources,
adjusted to take account of BWB's water supply tariff in effect at
the time of incurrence of debt even though such tariff were not in
effect during BWB's fiscal year or the twelve-month period to
which such revenue relate, less all operating, maintenance and
administrative expenses, and including provision for taxes, if
any, but before provision for depreciation, interest and other
charges on debt;
(d) "debt service requirement" means the aggregate amount
of amortization (including sinking fund contributions, if any),
interest and other charges on debt; and
(e) whenever it shall be necessary to value, in terms
of the currency of the Borrower, debt denominated or payable
in another currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis
of the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such other
currency is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable by BWB for


﻿- 13 -
the purpose of servicing such debt, or if such other currency is
not so obtainable, at the rate of exchange that will be reasonably
determined by the Association.
Section 4.05. BWB shall consult with the Association from
time to time regarding its tariff structure, and any change
thereof.
Section 4.06. BWB shall revalue annually its fixed assets,
in accordance with methods satisfactory to the Association.


﻿- 14 -
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of
the Association and of BWB thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit
Agreement shall terminate in accordance
with its terms; or
(ii) a date 24 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
BWB of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of- this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the Development Credit Agreement.


﻿- 15 -
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address here-
inafter specified or at such other address as such party shall
have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or
making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
For BWB:
Blantyre Water Board
P.O. Box 30369
Chichiri, Blantyre 3
Malawi
Cable address:
WATERBOARD
Blantyre, Malawi


﻿- 16 -
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of BWB may be tiken or executed by
the Chairman of BWB or such other person or persons as the
Chairman of BWB shall designate in writing.
Section 6.03. BWB shall furnish to the Association sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature
of the person or persons who will, on behalf of BWB, take any
action or execute any documents required or permitted to be taken
or executed by BWB pursuant to any of the provisions of this
Agreement.
Section 6.04. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.


﻿- 17 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By Is/ Willi A. Wapenhans
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa
BLANTYRE WATER BOARD
By /s/ D.Y.J. Kalilangwe
Authorized Representative


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works shall
be procured in accordance with procedures consistent with those
set forth in the Introduction and in Part A of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in August 1975 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on
the basis of international competitive bidding.
2.   Bidders for civil works shall be prequalified as described in
paragraph 1.3 of Part A of the Guidelines.
B.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods, or the
ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured goods; (ii) customs
duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and
similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded;
and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other
expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the place
of their use or installation shall be included.


﻿- 19 -
2.   Goods manufactured in Malawi may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Malawi if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Association
that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes
a value added in Malawi equal to at least 20% of
the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods
manufactured in Malawi.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on


﻿- 20 -
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then
be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison,
a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of custcims
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Civil Works; Preference
for Domestic Contractors
With respect to any contract for civil works to be procured
in accordance with the procedures described in Part A.1 of this
Schedule, BWB may grant a margin of preference of 7-1/2% to


﻿- 21 -
domestic contractors, in accordance with, and subject to, the
following provisions:
(a) Contractors shall be required to prequalify as provided
in Part A of this Schedule and applicants for qualification
applying also for such preference shall be asked to provide,
as part of the data for qualification, such information, including
details of ownership, as shall be required to determine whether,
according to the classification established by the Borrower and
accepted by the Association, a particular firm or group of firms
qualifies for a domestic preference. The bidding documents shall
clearly indicate the preference and the method that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids to give effect
to such preference.
(b) After bids have been received and reviewed by BWB,
responsive bids will be classified into the following groups:
(i) bids offered by domestic contractors eligible
for preference; and
(ii) bids offered by other contractors.
For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids an amount
equal to 7-1/2% of the bid amount shall be added to bids received
under group (ii) above.


﻿- 22 -
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of prequalification. BWB shall, before qualification
is invited, inform the Association in detail of the procedure to
be followed, and shall introduce such modifications in said
procedure as the Association shall reasonably request. The
list of prequalified bidders, together with a statement of their
qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusion of any
applicant for prequalification shall be furnished by BWB to
the Association for its comments before the applicants are
notified of BWB's decision, and BWB shall make such additions to,
deletions from, or modifications in, the said list as the
Association shall reasonably request.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the
equivalent of $50,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, BWB shall furnish to the
Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for the
bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said documents
or procedures as the Association shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the


﻿- 23 -
Association's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, BWB shall,
before a final decision on the award is made, inform the
Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report,,by the
consultants referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement,
on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together
with the recommendations for award of the said consultants and
such other information as the Association shall reasonably
request. The Association shall, if it determines that the intended
award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform BWB and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, with-
out the Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.


﻿-24-
3.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
BWB shall furnish to the Association, promptly after its execution
and prior to the submission to the Association of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in
respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of the respective bids, recommendations
for award and such other information as the Association shall
reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines that
the award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform BWB and state the reasons for
such determination.


