Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16193
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BOTSWANA
TULI BLOCK ROADS PROJECT
(LOAN 3248-BT)
DECEMBER 31, 1996
Transport, Eastern and Southern Africa
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$ 1.00 = Pula 1.87 (March 1990)
US$ 1.00 = Pula 2.87 (March 1996)
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB         -      African Development Bank
BADEA        -      Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa
ERR          -      Economic Internal Rate of Return
GDP          -      Gross Domestic Product
HDM3         -      Highway Design and Management System (third version)
MOA          -      Ministry of Agriculture
NDP          -      National Development Plan
RD           -      Roads Department, Ministry of Works
RMI          -      Road Maintenance Initiatives
RMS          -      Road Maintenance System
RSA          -      Republic of South Africa
SACU         -      Southern Africa Customs Union
SADC         -      Southern African Development Community
SAR          -      Staff Appraisal Report
SPRDU        -      Selebi-Phikwe Regional Development Unit
TOR          -      Terms of Reference
VOC          -      Vehicle Operating Cost
Callisto E. Madavo,Vice President    Africa Region
Pamela Cox, Country Director,        South Africa, Lesotho and Botswana
Yusupha B. Crookes, Technical Manager   Transport, Eastern and Southern Africa
Toshiyuki Iwama, Transport Planner,  Transport, Eastern and Southern Africa



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BOTSWANA
TULI BLOCK ROADS PROJECT
LOAN 3248-BT
CONTENTS
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY
PART I: IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Introduction .....................................................1
B. Statement/Evaluation of the Objectives .....................................................2
C. Achievement of Objectives ...................             ..................................4
D. Implementation Experience and Major Factors Affecting the Project .......6
E. Project Sustainability .....................................................8
F. Bank Performance ...........8.........................................8
G. Borrower Performance .............9.......................................9
H. Assessment of Outcome ................                .................................... 10
1. Future Operation ....................................................                   10
J. Key Lessons Learned .................................................... 11
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PART II      STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1:     Summary of Assessments
Table 2:     Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:     Project Timetable
Table 4:     Loan/Credit Disbursement; Cumulative Estimates and
Actual
Table 5:     Key Indicators for Project Implementation and
Operation
Table 6:     Studies Included in the Project
Table 7:     Project Costs
Table 8:     Project Financing
Table 9:     Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10:    Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11:    Bank Resources: Staff Input
Table 12:    Bank Resources: Missions
APPENDICES
A     Completion Mission Aide-Memoire
B     Evaluation of the Government of Botswana
C     Comment from Government of Botswana
D     Comment from AfDB
E     Map



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BOTSWANA
TULI BLOCK ROADS PROJECT
LOAN 3248-BT
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Tuli Block Road
Project in Botswana, for which Loan 3248-BT in the amount of US dollars 14.9 million
equivalent was approved on July 31, 1990 and made effective on December 11, 1990.
Because of the early completion of the project the borrower requested loan
closing. Accordingly, the remaining balance of US$ 2,453,891.71 was canceled on May
10, 1996. The African Development Bank (AfDB) and the Arab Bank for Economic
Development in Africa (BADEA) provided co-financing to the equivalent of US$ 1.3
million and US$ 6.4 respectively. The total foreign exchange cost of the project was
financed by these sources; the Government of Botswana financed the local cost of the
project.
The ICR was prepared by Toshiyuki Iwama, Transport Planner, Africa Transport
1 and reviewed by Imogene Jensen, Transport 1 and Jacomina de Regt, Operations
Advisor, Africa Region. The borrower and co-financiers comments are included as
appendices to the ICR.
Preparation of this ICR began during the Bank's final supervision/completion
mission in March 1996. It is based on material in the project file. The borrower
contributed to the preparation of the ICR by putting forward views reflected in the
mission's Aide-Memoire, and preparing the borrower evaluation report, which is attached
to the ICR as Annex B.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BOTSWANA
TULI BLOCK ROADS PROJECT
LOAN 3248-BT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
A. The Project and its Objectives
1.    Objectives. The project had two main objectives. One was infrastructure
construction consistent with the strategy of the Sixth National Development Plan
(NDP6). This aimed at diversifying the economy from high dependence on mining, and
promoting private employment. In Selebi-Phikwe there was a particular urgency, as this
town heavily depended on a failing copper/nickel mine. Supporting manufacture in
Selebi-Phikwe and promoting horticulture in the Tuli Block were the options chosen by
the Government as vehicles in this area for regional development. Its close proximity to
the Republic of South Africa (RSA) raises the need to connect Selebi-Phikwe with RSA.
However, since the South African farmers agricultural inputs were heavily subsidized the
Tuli Block farmers had no chance to compete with them on equal items. As a result of
this the Government saw the urgent need to develop new business in Selebi-Phikwe and
to integrate the Tuli Block (the major agricultural area of the country) into the local
economy. To achieve this objective roads had to be built to link Selebi-Phikwe with RSA
and to the Tuli Block.
2.    The second main objective was to increase the capacity of the Roads Department
(RD) which at the time was thinly staffed and reliant on personnel from Europe and
neighboring countries. The coverage of the road network, although adequate for present
conditions, needed further expansion for the planned national development. Road
construction and maintenance were proceeding well, and periodic road maintenance was
being contracted out. However. road maintenance and construction were particularly
difficult in Botswana: a large portion of the country is semi-desert with poor sandy soils,
and suitable material for roads is scarce. The revenue from road users covered 20 percent
of road sector expenditure and the rest was financed by the government budget. RD was
able to maintain and manage the roads at the current level of use, but with a further
substantial increase in road network and expenditure, RD was concerned that they would
not be able to continue to do so. In view of this, the project aimed at a) strengthening the
capacity of the RD to organize and carry out effective road maintenance at the increased
level mandated by the expansion of the road network; and b) improving road planning
and programming capability in anticipation of the Seventh National Development Plan
(NDP7).



- ii -
3.    The project components were: construction of Sefophe-Martin's Drift road, 134
km, to bitumen standard; construction of Bobonong-Lekkerpoet road, 66 km, two-thirds
of the length to bitumen standard; both roads to include village access roads; construction
supervision for the road works; and a study of a new maintenance management and
organization system for roads, combined with a network planning study. An agricultural
development study was to be conducted in connection with the Bobonong-Lekkerpoet
road. The loan was approved by the Board on July 31, 1990, and made effective on
December 11, 1990.
B. Summary of Findings and Implementation Experience
4.    Summary of Findings. The two roads were completed well within the project
implementation period. The ERR of the total road project yielded 23 percent. The ERR
was higher than the appraisal estimate for both roads but the project was affected by
unexpected changes such as the opening of the South African economy and by a
simultaneous decrease in subsidy to the South African farmers. Consequently, the RSA
link provided by the Sefophe-Martin's Drift road gained in importance. Because
horticulture has not been extended in the Tuli Block so far, expected agricultural benefit
of the Bobonong-Lekkerpoet road could not measured.
5.    The Sefophe-Martin's Drift road provided improved access to RSA as it reduced
the distance from Selebi-Phikwe to RSA by about 70 km. The traffic volume in August
1995 was 339 as compared to 200 at the appraisal estimate. The benefits were
considerable savings of time, reliability of transport time and reduction in vehicle
operating costs (VOC). The local transport industry benefited substantially from the new
road. Using the VOC savings, the ERR on this road was 25 percent compared to 16
percent at appraisal.
6.    The Bobonong-Lekkerpoet road provided a direct, all-weather route from Selebi-
Phikwe to the Tuli Block. It opened up an area of farms and villages, which had been
completely inaccessible during the rainy season. The SAR estimated traffic volume in
1995 at 95 per day and the ERR at 12 per cent with increased agricultural output. In
March 1996 the actual traffic volume was 127 per day. The improvement of this road
afforded the rural population better access to town markets, supplies and public services.
The ERR from the savings in VOC only was 10 percent compared to 7 percent at
appraisal.
7.    The major output of the project for improving institutional capacity was
development of the Road Maintenance System (RMS) and the road maintenance study
report. The study addressed all the key issues and presented recommendations on
administration, legislation, human resources and finance. The most significant outcome
was the calibration of the HDM3 for local use. In addition, an appropriate pavement
surfacing technology for low-volume roads was developed. The study included a seminar
and developed a calibrated road management model as the Southern African



- iii -
Development Community (SADC) had intended. RD created a road data base during the
study, which will help RD to plan more effective maintenance and rehabilitation
programs. One RD staff member became competent with the operation of the model.
The study also led to revisions being made in the Public Roads Act and the Road Traffic
Act to include for a Public Highway Classification System and the formulation of a route
numbering system for primary and secondary roads. However, the sub-objective of
restructuring the road user charges was not achieved, because the key component of this
reform, transit fees, had to be determined through regional negotiations.
8.   Implementation Experience. There was a change in road structure and an
increase in pavement; some delays occurred which did not affect overall project
implementation. The thickness of the pavement base layer and the width of the Sefophe-
Martin's Drift road was adapted to meet the rapid increase of heavy traffic. The
Bobonong-Lekkerpoet road was paved over its full length (para. 10). Launching
construction of the Bobonong-Lekkerpoet road was delayed for one and a half years
because extra time was necessary to complete the loan procedure with the Arab Bank for
Economic Development in Africa (BADEA). The agriculture development study was
also two and a half years behind the schedule because coordination was difficult as the
Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) was not the project implementing agency. It should be
also mentioned that the borrower was well ahead of time considering the environmental
mitigation. The pit holes were filled and the road alignment was relocated where
valuable archeological sites were identified. All the project components were completed
in July 1995, and the audit reports were sent to the Bank in May 1996. The Bank
canceled the loan on May 10, 1996 in response to the Government's request.
9.    The Bank's performance was satisfactory except for the second half of the
supervision phase. The project was identified during the Selebi-Phikwe Technical
Assistance Project. The Bank was actively involved in the review of agricultural
development in the Tuli Block through participating in the discussions during the
appraisal and providing assistance in preparing the TOR for the agricultural development
study. The Bank expressed its concern regarding the low traffic benefit on the
Bobonong-Lekkerpoet road throughout the project. At the appraisal, the Bank advised
the Government to review various options for road construction. The Bank sent an
experienced highway engineer to assist in developing the Road Management System
(RMS); the engineer also participated in the discussions on road user charges. However,
subsequent to completion of the road maintenance study and completion of the Sefophe-
Martin's Drift Road the Bank ceased to provide adequate supervision.
10.   The borrower's performance was satisfactory except for the aspects of reporting
and auditing. The borrower identified the roads, took the initiative to find the donors and
was able to mobilize its own funds. In line with its own policy on rural road development
correspondent by the lack of suitable gravel material in the corridor, the borrower planned
the Bobonong-Lekkerpoet as a paved road. After numerous discussions with the Bank, it
was agreed that two-thirds of the road would be paved and one-third gravel. The
borrower used its own fund to construct a bridge on Motloutse river, and after revised



- iv -
traffic projection, which showed higher traffic volume, it paved the remaining one-third
of the road. As agreed with the Bank, the borrower made progress in adopting a new
system of permit fees and higher fuel taxes before negotiation. However, further action
was not forthcoming, in past due to the reassignment of key staff and Botswana' s
membership in SACU which was planning to regionally harmonize the road user charges.
Since the borrower mobilized consultants to conduct feasibility studies and supervise the
civil works, the supporting documents and supervision reports have been produced
satisfactorily. However, the borrower did not prepare an overall progress report or audit
report despite several reminders from the Bank.
11.   Sustainability. Maintenance of the road network overall has been successful
given the excellent track record and the continuing availability of sufficient funds and is
likely to be sustained. More efficient plarming and management has been achieved by the
development of the calibrated RMS. The Government has plans underway to establish a
cost-accounting system, and is considering reforming the whole road authority to become
the more effective entity needed to implement the road works planned under NDP8.
Further study on the institutional development is in progress with the result expected in
the first quarter of 1997. The sustainability of regional development in Selebi-
Phikwe/Tuli Block depends much on agricultural development and its marketing. As the
survey on water and soil conditions to determine the possibility of the extension of
horticulture is continuing, the timing and scale of implementation are not yet known.
However, provision of an improved road network in this area would enhance the
movement of people and goods and would have a positive impact generally on
agricultural development.
12.   Assessment of Outcome. The outcome of the project was satisfactory if the
agricultural benefit is not considered. The project was affected by unexpected factors, in
particular, the dramatic change in trade with RSA. The physical project component,
especially in relation to the Selebi-Phikwe regional development, successfully provided
the roads necessary to link Selebi-Phikwe with the hinterland and RSA. The roads are
well constructed to carry heavy traffic. In addition to VOC savings, the time saving is
significant. The transport industry is benefiting greatly from the Sefophe-Martin's Drift
Road and is increasing its fleet to meet the increased trade demand with RSA. However,
the original objective of regional integration was to include Tuli Block agriculture into
the local economy. At present the local market is still underdeveloped, traders still prefer
purchasing in RSA and the farmers still cross the Limpopo river to enter RSA. Further
extension of the Bobonong-Lekkerpoet road would bring additional traffic capacity to
meet the current demand of cross-border traffic. As agricultural development is still in
the planning phase, it is too early to evaluate the effect of the road on the agricultural
output.
13.   The project contributed to enhancing the capacity to manage road planning,
rehabilitation and maintenance in a more efficient way to meet future demand. It
developed the SADC standard for the road maintenance. Since. unlike other Sub-Saharan
countries, Botswana did not have chronic road maintenance problems, the project aimed



- v -
at developing a framework to increase future capacity rather than address present needs.
The recommendations of the road maintenance study provided the Government with
options for future institutional development. The Government is following up this issue
as part of the discussion of creating a Road Fund.
C. Key Lessons Learned and Future Operation
14.   Key Lessons Learned. Four significant lessons emerge: (a) insufficient
supervision cannot enhance sector policy dialog and partnership; (b) the project
implementation becomes difficult when a key component is effected by ministries other
than the implementing agency; (c) it is difficult to evaluate institutional capacity where
no performance indicators were established; (d) Botswana is a case where regional
considerations needs to be negotiated before setting up any project and sector specific
policy on the country basis.
15.   Future Operation. Since the project's main objective was physical construction,
the Bank has no further arrangements for following-up in the road sector. The creation of
the Road Fund and the Road Board are the major institutional developments for the
NDP8. The Government needs to continue discussions on the future road management
with all relevant stakeholders. In terms of regional integration, the Government needs to
carefully consider the future relationship of the Tuli Block to RSA. More bridges will be
needed in case to accommodate the increase in cross-border traffic in the Tuli Block.
Development of a local market is necessary to involve farmers in the local economy. A
survey of the soil and water conditions in the Tuli Block is underway to determine the
possibility of horticulture. Several staff of MOA have been trained in horticulture, and
foreign investors have been invited to consider investment in this region.



I



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BOTSWANA
TULI BLOCK ROADS PROJECT
LOAN 3248-BT
PART I: PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT
Project Identity
Name:             Botswana, Tuli Block Roads Project
Loan number:      3248-BT
Loan amount:      US$ 14.9 million
RVP Unit:         Transport 1, African Region (AFTT1)
Sector:           Transport
A. Introduction
1.    Botswana has shown impressive economic growth over the past two decades, with
average real GDP growth of 10 percent per annum during the 1970s, and 11 percent per
annum during the 1980s. Consistent with this high growth, per capita income rose from
US$ 110 in 1970 to US$ 2,590 in 1993. Most of this growth has been the result of gains
in the production of minerals and, to a lesser extent, the export of beef and output from a
small industrial and commercial sector. The share of GDP attributable to mining and
quarrying was 32.6 percent in 1995, while agriculture's share was 4.2 percent. According
to an income survey in 1993/94, the poorest, middle and richest households, (40, 40, 20
percent of the total respectively) receives 9, 30 and 61 percent of the total national
income respectively. The GINI coefficient is 0.537. Fifty-four percent of the population
live in rural areas working in or dependent on traditional agriculture and cattle-raising;
where the unemployment is more than 25 percent and the median household income is 52
percent of the urban household income.
2.    Botswana's economy is undiversified and is concentrated in the capital-intensive
mining enclaves. The manufacturing and service industries began to grow recently but
the economy is still highly vulnerable because of the dependence on mining. The
Government's policy, reflected in the Sixth National Development Plan (NDP6), was to
use the resources available from diamond exports to diversify the economy and so
promote private sector productive employment, especially outside the mining sector.
However, the large volume of investment required exceeds even Botswana's ample
domestic resources. The town of Selebi-Phikwe heavily depended on a copper/nickel
mine. As the output of the mine is declining, the Government has given priority to
developing other economic activities locally.



- 2 -
3.   Immediately to the east of Selebi-Phikwe is the Tuli Block; to the west is a
triangle of the semi-urban villages of Serowe, Palapye and Mahalapye. The Tuli Block, a
major agricultural area in Botswana, is located along the Limpopo river which borders the
Republic of South Africa (RSA). The total population of this region is about 200,000,
representing about 15 per cent of the country's total population. Compared to the water-
scarce and densely populated capital area of Gaborone-Lobatse, this area offers better
water availability and has the potential to be a growth pole through the development of
agriculture and manufacturing. Although vegetables are produced in this area, with the
opening up of trade with RSA, supermarkets and other retailers find it easier to obtain
consistent supplies of graded products from Johannesburg wholesale markets. At the
time the project was prepared, farmers in RSA were heavily subsidized for water,
electricity, fertilizer and seed. The farmers in the Tuli Block who sought to rely on a
foreign market had worked at a disadvantage as they had incurred higher input costs for
production. The poor road conditions had been on additional disadvantage. The
Government attempted to support the farmers by creating a large local economy. To
increase agricultural production, the long-term agricultural development plan of the area
included dams to develop irrigated agriculture in the Tuli Block. The Government
promoted industry and manufacture in Selebi-Phikwe. Electricity and telephone lines in
the area had been improved and further improvements were planned. The Tuli Block
Roads Project was planned to provide the infrastructure necessary for regional
integration.
4.    The Bank began financing consulting services for the construction of water, rail
and housing facilities in this region in 1969 (Cr. 172-BT). A Shashe river dam
construction was financed in 1971 (Ln. 776-BT). A loan to the Botswana Development
Corporation (Ln. 1019-BT) included sub-loans for Talana Farm and for commercial
property development. The Tuli Block roads plan was first discussed during the Fifth
Highway Project (Ln. 1941-BT). In 1986 the Bank financed the Selebi-Phikwe Technical
Assistance Project (Ln. 2695-BT) to promote regional development. At project
completion 4000 jobs had been created. A pilot irrigated agriculture program and
training for local government staff were implemented. The project included detailed
engineering for the proposed two roads of the Tuli Block Roads Project, which was a
continuation of the Bank's support for the regional development in this area.
B. Statement/Evaluation of the Objectives
5.    Statement of Objectives.   The main objectives of the project as stated in the
Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), were to: (a) provide road links necessary for the
development and integration of the Selebi-Phikwe area and its hinterland; (b) strengthen
the capacity of the Road Department (RD) to organize and carry out effective road
maintenance at the increased level mandated by the expansion of the road network; and
(c) improve road planning and programming capability in anticipation of the seventh
National Development Plan (NDP7) in 1991.



6.    To achieve the preceding objectives, the project consisted of the following
components:
(a)   Construction of the Sefophe-Martin's Drift road (134 km) to bitumen
standard, including a 1 0-km spur road to the village of Kgagodi, and other
village access roads;
(b)   Construction of the Bobonong-Lekkerpoet road (66 km), paved for about
50 km, the reminder with a gravel surface, including two access roads to
the villages of Molalatau and Mathathane;
(c)   Provision of consulting services for (i) construction supervision for (a) and
(b); and (ii) a study of a new maintenance management/organization
system for roads, combined with a network planning study.
7.    Evaluation of Objectives.  The project was consistent with the goal of
economic diversification targeted in NDP6. Particularly, in Selebi-Phikwe, with its high
dependence on mining, the development of other forms of economic activity was a
priority. From a strategic perspective, the Tuli Block is a relatively fertile area along the
Limpopo river with access to the markets in Zimbabwe and RSA as well as those in
domestic towns. With its potential for agricultural development, the area offered an
alternative growth pole to the water-scarce and congested Gaborone-Lobatse area.
Despite these advantages, the town has been isolated and remained solely reliant on
mining because of lack of accessibility from the rural areas. Thus, the plan of
constructing a surfaced road from the Selebi-Phikwe area to the South African border - as
well as linking isolated areas in the Tuli Block with the northeast cities in Botswana - was
raised in response to complaints from the farmers who wanted to have quick access to the
markets of the Transvaal and Witwatersrand.
8.    The objectives for the infrastructure construction were clearly defined. The two
project components were intended to solve two different problems raised, namely a) to
connect Selebi-Phikwe with the South African border and b) to integrate isolated areas in
the Tuli Block. The first problem was well addressed by constructing the Sefophe-
Martin's Drift road which provided substantial benefits to the cross-border traffic from
the towns of Sefophe and Selebi-Phikwe. The Bobonong-Lekkerpoet road provided close
and reliable access from Selebi-Phikwe to its hinterland, the Tuli Block. However, for
historical reasons (and because of the Government's indigenization policy) the concept of
regional integration was focused on the domestic side. Even if there had been a
possibility of exporting agricultural production, the Tuli Block farmers could not have
hoped to compete with the then subsidized South African farmers. So, despite the
proximity of this area to RSA with its large economic and human potential, the project set
out to integrate the Tuli Block into the local economy.
9.    The objective of improving the capacity of road planning and maintenance
activities was also well defined. Unlike many Sub-Saharan countries, where roads had



- 4 -
been deteriorating, Botswana has been performing the necessary road maintenance. The
size of the road network was adequate for present conditions but the network needed
further expansion for national development. Although the Government has reviewed its
road planning regularly, road maintenance and construction are difficult in Botswana as a
large portion of the country is semi-desert with poor sandy soils, and suitable material for
roads is scarce. The greater part of the road budget comes from the general budget.
Revenue from road users covered 20 percent of the expenditure. The Roads Department
(RD) was thinly staffed at this time and was reliant on personnel from Europe and
neighboring countries. To meet the increased demand (and to offset a possible decline of
Government revenue), efficient road management and securing funds for road works were
urgent issues for the Roads Department (RD). An in-depth and systematic study of the
entire network was needed to identify viable road projects, reorganize maintenance
arrangements and optimize the use of manpower and funds for the road works.
C. Achievement of Objectives
10.   Provision of the road infrastructure for this region was well achieved. The overall
ERR of the two roads was 23 percent. The Sefophe-Martin's Drift road is a new and
direct connection from Sefophe to Sherwood Ranch where it meets the gravel road from
Palapye, and leads to the border to RSA, where it connects to R35 of the South African
road network. A new weigh bridge at the border was included in the project. Before the
project there had been only a gravel road from Palapye; heavy vehicles had to use the
paved route via Gaborone. The opening of the road reduced the distance from Selebi-
Phikwe to RSA by about 70 km and provided easy and quick access to RSA from the
northeastern part of the country and from Zimbabwe.
11.   The principal economic justification for the Sefophe-Martin's Drift road was
savings in vehicle operating costs (VOC). The SAR estimated the traffic volume for
1995 to be about 200 per day, yielding an ERR of 16 percent, based on the traffic survey
and assuming a traffic increase of 20 percent for the first year and 7.5 percent thereafter.
The traffic count in August 1995 on the section between Kgagodi road junction and
Palapye road junction showed 339 vehicles per day, mainly vans and lorries. The traffic
is much higher with up to 500 per day for each direction near Sefophe. Using the actual
costs, the traffic volume of 339. and assuming an annual traffic growth of 5 percent the
ERR was calculated at 25 percent.
12.   The Bobonong-Lekkerpoet road contributed to regional integration by forming a
part of the road network in the Tuli Block. It is an alternative route from Selebi-Phikwe
to the Tuli Block and opened up an area of farms and villages for further agricultural
development. Before the project there was only a low-standard earth road and the area
was completely inaccessible during the rainy season. The road begins in Bobonong as a
continuation of the Selebi-Bobonong road. it ends at the T junction., called Lekkerpoet,
where it meets the unimproved gravel road along the Limpopo river. At the one end of



- 5 -
the gravel road there is Talana Farm, the biggest farm in the area; it meets the Sefophe-
Martin's Drift road at Sherwood Ranch, at the other end.
13.   According to SAR, the Bobonong-Lekkerpoet road was to promote agricultural
production, but the effect has not yet been measured. The SAR estimated 5 per cent
annual traffic growth with a 20 per cent increase in the opening year, and a daily traffic of
96 in 1995. Despite the low traffic, the road was thought to be justified because of the
expected agricultural development in the Tuli Block. The SAR used the increase in
horticultural and livestock production as benefits to calculate the ERR which was 12 per
cent. In March 1996 the traffic between Bobonong and Molalatau was 127 per day, the
majority being vans and trucks. The benefits of the road could be summarized as follows:
(a) bus service has been started between the villages and Selebi-Phikwe; (b) villagers
commuting to Selebi-Phikwe saved travel time; (c) cattle and goats are now carried in
trucks and buggies to market instead of being driven for days on foot; (d) dust clouds
from passing vehicles are diminished by the surface pavement and this has improved the
environment along the road; (e) the road has improved access to a game lodge that was
previously accessible only by road from RSA. The improvement of this road has
afforded the rural population better access to markets, supplies and public services. ERR,
taking only savings in VOC into account, was 10 percent compared to 7 percent at
appraisal.
14.   The major output of the institutional building was development of the Road
Maintenance System (RMS) and the road maintenance study report. The RMS became a
standard model of road maintenance for the Southern Africa Development Community
(SADC) with precisely calibrated inputs now available to calculate the VOC. Selection
of appropriate pavement surfacing technology for low-volume roads was also developed.
RD created a data base for the road network which is being used as the main input for
determining the optimum level of maintenance effort, developing an upgrading strategy
and planning a phased investment. The planning module and maintenance standards
developed met RD's immediate needs for a road rehabilitation and upgrading plan. All
the necessary road condition data and vehicle operation data have been input, so that the
viability of adapting the Highway Design and Maintenance Model (HDM3) to the local
conditions was proved.
15.   The road maintenance study addressed all the key issues presenting
recommendations on administration, legislation, human resources and finance. It
provided a clear strategy for optimizing resource allocation to the road sector as a basis
for managing the road network in a cost-effective manner with due consideration to
maximizing the use of local capabilities. The output of the project becomes a useful
source for the Government in considering options for the further institutional building in
the road sector. The study also led to revisions being made in the Public Roads Act and
the Road Traffic Act to include for a Public Highway Classification System and the
formulation of a route numbering system for primary and secondary roads.



- 6 -
16.   Road sector policy implementation, although not stated as a project component,
was partly achieved. The enforcement of the axle road control and road traffic act was
successful. The weigh bridge at the border on the Sefophe-Martin's Drift road
constructed within this project is staffed regularly and controls overloading of trucks
entering Botswana. However, restructuring the road user charges has not been achieved
because setting the transit fees, the key component of this reform, has to be determined
through regional negotiations.
D. Implementation Experience and Major Factors Affecting the Project
17.   The most important events affecting the project were the opening of the South
African economy and the decrease in subsidy to South African farmers. At the time of
project preparation, the farmers in RSA were heavily subsidized for agriculture inputs so
there was in effect no chance for Botswana farmers to trade competitively in the South
African market. Because of the recent increase of the cross-border trade and reduced
level of subsidy, the big market in Witwatersrand-Pietersburg attracted farmers in the
Tuli Block who now have become highly dependent on South African economy . As an
example of the current cross-border trade, nearly all production from the Talana Farm,
valued at 2.5 million Pula (about US$ 870 thousand) for 1995, is now exported to RSA.
This means that even though fresh fruits and vegetables are produced locally, these are re-
imported from the South African market, resulting in relatively high local retail prices.
The import of agricultural products amounts to about 100 million Pula (about US$ 35
million) a year. Consequently, the traffic demand from the Tuli Block is more to RSA
than to Selebi-Phikwe, resulting in the difference in outcome of the two road projects.
18.   Construction of the Sefophe-Martin's Drift road proceeded well and the
construction was completed in July 1993, about a half year later than the SAR estimate.
A new weigh bridge was constructed near the border. Construction supervision was
provided by a consultant and monthly progress reports were submitted regularly.
Because of the rapid increase of heavy vehicle traffic using the road, RD increased the
thickness of the pavement base layer and the road width. The revised width was 6m
carriageway with lm shoulder on both sides. Access roads were also provided to three
more villages. These changes resulted in cost increase of about 22.5 percent on
construction and 40 percent on supervision.
19.   The Bank and the borrower had different opinions regarding the standard of the
Bobonong-Lekkerpoet road. As the low-standard earth road carried very little traffic and
future agricultural benefit was uncertain, the Bank investigated the appropriateness of the
economic analysis and compared several alternatives. However, the Government had
already planned a paved road. The main reason for this was the difficulty and high cost
of obtaining suitable gravel material and consequently higher cost of maintenance. The
expected large-scale agricultural development was a second reason. As the Bank
objected because of the ERR of less than 4 percent, it was then agreed that the last section



- 7 -
(16 km) of the road should remain unpaved. The Government constructed a bridge over
the Motloutse river close to the Lekkerpoet end to provide access to several villages and
the Mashatu game reserve. The Government then re-estimated the future traffic as much
higher than originally estimated and decided to pave the road over its full length using
Government funds. Launching the construction of the Bobonong-Lekkerpoet road was
delayed for one and a half years. Although the Arab Bank for Economic Development in
Africa (BADEA) showed its interest on this project at the appraisal, the loan procedure
took longer than expected.
20.   The agricultural development along the Bobonong-Lekkerpoet road had been a
focus during appraisal and implementation. The Selebi-Phikwe Regional Development
Unit (SPRDU), established by the Selebi-Phikwe Technical Assistance project, had
agricultural development plans ready to implement near Lekkerpoet when the Tuli Block
Roads project was being appraised. At that time SPRDU was staffed by an agricultural
expert. The quantitative analysis on agricultural development was discussed between
SPRDU and the Bank, and the increased agricultural output was used as the expected
major benefit of the road project. To realize the expected benefit, an agricultural
development study was conducted by the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA). The
coordination of this was difficult as MOA was not the project implementing agency. The
study was completed in March 1994, about two and a half years behind the original
schedule. The separation of the agricultural expert from SPRDU affected the progress of
the study. The study was then transferred to the MOA in Gaborone, who expressed need
for the assistance of an experienced agricultural economist. As the Government intends
to conduct a further survey on soil and water conditions, implementation of the
development plan has not yet started.
21.   The road user charges had not been increased to cover the maintenance cost
during project implementation. The newly-constructed weigh bridge at the border on the
Sefophe-Martin' s Drift road is used to control the axle weight of the trucks entering
Botswana. The Government was to take measures to restructure road user charges by end
1993. It was agreed at the negotiation to recover full maintenance cost from transit
traffic, and variable maintenance cost from domestic traffic. However, Botswana
followed in 1990 the decision of the Southern African Customs Union (SACU) to
harmonize road user charges on regional basis. SACU intended to establish a formula to
calculate a road user charge to be applied to all vehicle types. The Government intended
to expand the formula to include cost recovery aspects for domestic traffic. The
Government is now considering establishing a Road Fund.
22.   Reporting and auditing were not timely or consistent during the implementation.
While monthly progress reports on the construction of Sefophe-Martin's Drift road and
on the Road Maintenance study were prepared by the consultant, no quarterly overall
progress reports were been prepared. The Government agreed with the Bank that the first
quarterly progress report would be submitted to the Bank before the end of January 1992.
As no reports had been submitted, the supervision mission (October 1992) proposed to
finance consulting services for the preparation of these reports. There was no further



- 8 -
communication on this issue. The audit reports have not been sent to the Bank since
1992, because of Government delay in appointing the auditors. After the Bank sent
several reminders, an auditor was appointed who reviewed project files. The audit reports
were sent to the Bank on May 10, 1996 and the remaining amount of US$ 2,453,891.71
was canceled on the request of the Government.
E. Project Sustainability
23.   The sustainability of the Selebi-Phikwe regional development for which the Tuli
Block Roads Project was to contribute, depends on diversification of economy where
manufacture, agricultural development and its marketing are the key factors. The
improved link to RSA will contribute much to the development. However, in terms of
agricultural development, nothing can be noted about the timing and scale of
implementation because the survey of water and soil conditions to determine the
possibility of the extension of horticulture is continuing. But it is clear that provision of
an improved road network in this area would enhance the movement of people and goods
and would have an positive impact on agricultural development generally.
24.   Maintenance of the road network overall has been successful given the excellent
track record and the continuing availability of sufficient funds and is likely to be
sustained. Currently, almost all paved roads are in good condition. Most periodic
maintenance and over 60 percent of the routine maintenance is contracted out. More
efficient planning and management has been achieved by the development of the
calibrated RMS. To maintain the quality of work the Government will establish a cost
accounting system to estimate budget requirements and monitor performance of the work.
The Government is considering restructuring the road authority into a more efficient
commercial entity. In this context, a study on the institutional development is underway,
and the result is expected in the first quarter of 1997. The study will address institutional
issues on administrative, legal, human resources and financial aspects. The study will
deal in detail with the further implications of the Road Management System (RMS).
While the Government is likely to secure the budget, the recent evolution of road sector
policy shows that road users should be paying more. The Government is now
considering establishing a Road Fund and a Road Board as the key institutions for
implementing the road rehabilitation planned under NDP8. The Road Fund will secure a
stable income for the road sector so that the sustainability of the financial and managerial
aspects of the sector is very likely.
F. Bank Performance
25.   The Bank's performance was satisfactory except for the last half of the
supervision. The Bank identified the project during the Selebi-Phikwe Technical
Assistance Project and since the engineering study had been done the Bank was able to
investigate the viability of the project well in advance. The Bank had been aware of the



-9-
difficulty of appraising the Bobonong-Lekkerpoet road and employed an agricultural
consultant to carefully investigate the expected agricultural benefit. Having developed
some concern regarding the uncertainty of using the amount of agricultural output as the
benefit of road construction and low savings in VOC throughout the project
implementation, the Bank advised the borrower not to invest too much at this stage. The
Bank also assisted the Government to prepare the TOR for an agricultural consultant and
to make a short list of qualified candidates for the consultant appointment in accordance
with Bank procedures.
26.   The Bank's assistance on the road maintenance study was highly satisfactory.
The Bank sent an experienced Highway Engineer to advise the Government on the road
maintenance study (in particular, on introduction of HDM3). The engineer participated in
the discussion on road user charges. As there was a need to calibrate the HDM3 to local
conditions, the Bank advised the borrower to contact the South African consultant who
was calibrating the model for the South African standard. The Bank amended the loan
agreement to enable the project to employ the consultant for calibration (RSA not being a
member country of AfDB at that time). The supervision was satisfactory until end 1992
at which time the road maintenance study was almost complete and the road works were
proceeding well. Then, after end 1992, the Bank sent no formal supervision missions
until the ICR mission.
G. Borrower Performance
27.   The borrower's performance was satisfactory except as regards reporting and
auditing. In line with its own policy on rural road development correspondent by the lack
of suitable gravel material in the corridor, the borrower planned the Bobonong-
Lekkerpoet as a paved road. After numerous discussions with the Bank, it was agreed
that two-thirds of the road would be paved and one-third gravel. The borrower used its
own fund to construct a bridge on Motloutse river, and after revised traffic projection,
which showed higher traffic volume, it paved the remaining one-third of the road. The
borrower was able to allocate extra funds from its own budget and succeeded in
identifying BADEA and AfDB as co-financiers. Project preparation and implementation
were done by the consultants on behalf of the borrower, and the supervision reports were
submitted properly. In terms of environmental mitigation the borrower was well ahead of
time in taking proper measures. The pit holes were filled and the road alignment was
relocated where valuable archeological sites were identified. The borrower was actively
involved in SADC discussions on road financing. As agreed with the Bank, the borrower
had made progress in adopting a new system of permit fees and higher fuel taxes before
negotiation. However, further action was not forthcoming, in past due to the
reassignment of key staff and Botswana's membership in SACU which was planning to
regionally harmonize the road user charges. The only weak performance indicator was in
reporting and auditing. The project has not been audited since 1992. This issue was
raised several times, but the borrower was unable to solve it or provide any reason for
delay to the Bank. Hence, although all the project components were completed in July



- 10-
1995 and the borrower indicated the intention to close the loan before the due date (June
30, 1997), the loan account was kept open for one year awaiting completion of the audit.
The borrower did not issue quarterly progress reports as was agreed at negotiations.
H. Assessment of Outcome
28.   The outcome of the project was satisfactory if the agricultural development is not
considered. But the project was affected by unexpected factors. The physical project
component should be regarded in relation to the Selebi-Phikwe regional development and
successfully provided roads to link Selebi-Phikwe with the hinterland and RSA. The
roads are well constructed to carry heavy traffic. In addition to VOC savings, the time
saving is significant. The transport industry is benefiting greatly from the Sefophe-
Martin's Drift Road and is increasing its fleet to meet the increased trade demand with
RSA. The original idea of regional integration was to integrate the Tuli Block agriculture
into the local economy. The idea of regional integration had provision of infrastructure
necessary for the agricultural development in the Tuli Block as one of the major aspect to
which the Bobonong-Lekkerpoet road was to contribute. Although the road is well used
by the villagers, traders still prefer purchasing agricultural products in RSA because the
local market remains underdeveloped. The close proximity of the area to the RSA market
is another reason for the farmers still crossing the Limpopo river to enter RSA instead of
using the new road. The rapid increase in cross-border trade was not predictable at the
time of appraisal. The extension of the Bobonong-Lekkerpoet road would bring
additional traffic benefit to meet the current demand of cross-border traffic. Although the
Bobonong-Lekkerpoet road afforded the rural population better access to town markets,
supplies and public services, it is too early to evaluate the impact of the road on
agricultural development.
29.   The project contributed to enhancing the capacity to manage road planning,
rehabilitation and maintenance in a more efficient way to meet future demand. It
developed the SADC standard for the road maintenance. Unlike other Sub-Saharan
countries, Botswana did not have chronic road maintenance problems. Therefore, the
project aimed to develop a framework to increase capacity for the future rather than to fill
gaps in the present capacity. The recommendations of the road maintenance study
provide options for future institutional development. However, because of the
unexpected discussions on the international transit fee, the restructuring of road financing
has not been implemented as expected. The Government is following up this issue within
the discussion on creating a Road Fund.
I. Future Operation
30.   Since the project's main objective was physical construction, the Bank has no
further arrangements for following-up in the road sector. The creation of the Road Fund
and the Road Board is considered the major institutional development for the NDP8. The



- I I -
Government needs to continue discussions on the future road management with all
relevant stakeholders. In terms of regional integration, the Government needs to carefully
consider the future relationship of the Tuli Block to RSA. More bridges will be needed in
case to accommodate the increase in cross-border traffic in the Tuli Block. Development
of a local market is needed to involve farmers in the local economy. A survey of the soil
and water conditions in the Tuli Block is underway to determine the possibility of
extended horticulture. Some MOA staff have been trained in horticulture, and foreign
investors have been invited to consider investment in this region.
J. Key Lessons Learned
31.   The key lessons from implementation of the project are:
(a)   insufficient supervision cannot enhance sector policy dialog and
partnership;
(b)   the project implementation becomes difficult when a key component is
effected by ministries other than the implementing agency;
(c)   it is difficult to evaluate institutional capacity where no performance
indicators were established;
(d)   Botswana is a case where regional considerations needs to be negotiated
before setting up any project and sector specific policy on the country
basis.



- 12 -
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
A. Achievement of Objectives     Substantial     Partial     Negligible       Not
Applicable
Macro Policies                                                                 X
Sector Policies                                                                X
Financial Objectives                                                           X
Institutional Development             X
Physical Objectives                   X
Poverty Reduction                                                              X
Gender Issues                                                                  X
Other Issues                                                                   x
Other Social Objectives                                                        X
Public Sector Management                           X
Private Sector Management                                                      X
Other (Regional Development)                       X
B. Project Sustainability           Likely      Unlikely     Uncertain
x
C Bank Performance                 Highly      Satisfactory    Deficient
Satisfactory
Identification                                     X
Preparation Assistance                             X
Appraisal                                          X
Supervision                                                      X
D. Borrower Performance            Highly      Satisfactory    Deficient      Not
Satisfactory                             Applicable
Preparation                                        X
Implementation                                     X
Government Compliance                                            X
Operation                                          X
E. Assessment of Outcome           Highly      Satisfactory    Deficient
Satisfactory
x



- 13 -
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDITS
Credit Title                Purpose                 Year of approval    Status
Preceding operations
1. Credit 0063-    Construction of three roads totaling 355   1964      Completed
BT             miles; improvement of the main north-   (US$ 4.34 mil.)
south road; strengthening and expansion
of road maintenance organization
2. Credit 0172-    Consulting service for construction of    1969       Completed
BT             transportation, power, township and  (US$ 2.82 mil.)
medical facilities
3. Loan 7761-BT   Construction of a dam on the Shashe  1971             Completed
Loan 7762-BT   river and related water facilities to serve  (US$ 32 mil.)  Completed
mining complex and township; 60 MW    1974
power station and power facilities to  (US$ 5.5 mil.)
serve Francistown; two railway branch
lines; township facilities
4. Credit 0303-    Reconstruction and paving of 80 km of   1972         Completed
BT             the north-south road; technical      (US$ 2 mil.)
assistance to strengthen the staffing of
the Government road branch
5. Loan 1019-BT   Assistance on Botswana Development    1974            Completed
Corporation in meeting its commitments  (US$ 4 mil.)
on protecting against losses resulting
from exchange rate fluctuations on
l _______________  im ports
6. Loan 1174-BT   Construction of the Gaborone-       1975              Completed
Molepolole road and consulting service;  (US$ 5.8 mil.)
installation of weigh bridges; technical
assistance for district road maintenance
pilot program and staff training
7. Loan 1408-BT   Construction of the Mahalapye-Serule    1977          Completed
road and consulting services; assistance   (US$ 20 mil.)
for road maintenance; provision of
training equipment and construction of
new class rooms for RD training school
8. Loan 1941-BT   Paving of an extension of the north-  1981            Completed
south road, improvement of road access  (US$ 17 mil.)
to the Tuli Block, construction of testing
laboratory and road maintenance depots
9. Loan 2695-BT   Technical assistance and other support   1986         Completed
for promotional activities in agriculture  (US$ 7.6 mil.)
and industry to lessen dependence on the
copper/nickel mine; strengthening of
administration in the urban sector;
detailed engineering of the Tuli Block
roads



- 14 -
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Steps in Project Cycle           Date Planned           Date Actual/Latest Estimate
Identification/Preparation   N/A                           February 1989
Pre-appraisal                N/A                          June 1989
Appraisal                    N/A                           November 1989
Negotiations                 N/A                           May 14 - 17, 1990
Board Presentation           August 1990                   July 31, 1990
Signing                      September 1990                September 12, 1990
Effectiveness                November 1990                 December 11, 1990
Project Completion           June 30, 1997                 July 31, 1995
Loan Closing                 October 31, 1997              cancellation on May 10, 1996
TABLE 4: LOAN/CREDIT DISBURSEMENT; CUMULATIVE ESTIMATES AND
ACTUAL
(in million US Dollars)
FY91   FY92   FY93   FY94   FY95   FY96   FY97    FY98
Appraisal            0.2     0.7      3.3      7.0     9.7      11.8    14.0    14.9
Estimate
Actual               0       4.0      8.7     12.3    12.4       0        0       0
Actual as % of       0       571      264      176     128       0        0       0
estimate                                                                               l
Date of final                                 June 26, 1995
disbursement



- 15 -
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATIONS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND
OPERATION
Key Indicators in SAR       Estimated                   Actual
1. Construction of Sefophe-    Length: 134 km, including a    Length: 134 km with
Martin's Drift Road         10 km spur to the village of    additional access to three
Kgagodi and village access  more villages and a new
roads;                      weigh bridge near the border
width: 6m carriageway with   to RSA;
Im shoulders on each side;  width: 6.7m carriageway
surface: bitumen treatment  width with 1.2m shoulders on
construction period: January   each side;
1991 to December 1992      surface: bitumen treatment;
construction period; August
1991 to July 1993
2. Construction of Bobonong-  Length: 66 km, including two   Length: 66 km with access
Lekkerpoet Road             short access roads to the   roads, additional culverts and
villages of Molalatau and   drainage;
Mathathane;                 width: 5m carriageway with
width: 5m carriageway with    Im shoulders on each side;
I m shoulders on each side;    surface: bitumen surfaced
surface: 50 km will be      over the full length;
bitumen treatment, the      construction period: June
remainder with a gravel     1993 to July 1995
surface;
construction period: January
1991 to December 1992
3. Provision of consulting  (i) construction supervision    (i) in addition to the
services                   for above two roads          supervision an Agricultural
(ii) a study for a new      Development Study was
maintenance management and  conducted, which was
organization system for roads,  financed by the Government;
combined with a network     (ii) the network study adopted
planning study              the Highway Design and
Maintenance Model
4. Traffic volume on the    212 vehicles per day for 1995   339 vehicles per day between
Sefophe-Martin's Drift Road                             Kgagodi road and Palapye in
l________________________   August  1995
5. Traffic volume on the    96 vehicles per day for 1995    127 vehicles per day between
Bobonong-Lekkerpoet road                                Bobonong and Molalatau, in
March 1996



- 16-
TABLE 6: STUDIES INCLUDED IN THE PROJECT
Study         Purpose as defined        Status           Impact of study
in
Appraisal
I  BCHOP, "Economic  A feasibility study    Completed           Set the ground work
Review of the       and project          September 1989      for the project; the
Sefophe-Martin's    preparation                              SAR depends on the
Drift Road"                                                  results of this study
September 1989                                                                  l
2  ZMCK Consulting    A detailed            Completed October   Set the ground work
Engineers,          engineering design    1989               for the project; the
"Construction of    and economic review                      SAR depends on the
Bobonong-           for the project                          results of this study
Lekkerpoet Road"    preparation
October 1989
3  BCHOP, "Sefophe    A detailed            Completed October   Set the ground work
Martin's Drift Road:  engineering design    1989             for the project; the
Detailed Engineering  and economic review                    SAR depends on the
Design & Economic  for the project                           results of this study
Review              preparation
4  SWKCE, "Road         A data base for the    Draft final report  The Bank's HDM3
Maintenance Study"  network to determine  was submitted      model was applied to
October 1992        the optimum level of  October 1992       the study, as
maintenance efforts,                    recommended in the
upgrading strategy                       SAR
and a phased
investment program
5  G.B.Mthindi,         A regional          Completed March      This report identifies
"Bobonong-          development plan to  1994               the possible
Lekkerpoet Road     identify the benefit                     development of the
Agricultural        of the road; this is                     inaccessible region
Development Plan"   one of the provisions                    which will benefit
March 1994          agreed at                                from the road
negotiations                             improvement
BCHOP: Brian Colquhoun, Hugh O'Donnell & Partners
SWKCE: Scott Wilson Kirkpatrick Consulting Engineers



- 17 -
TABLE 7: PROJECT COSTS
US$ million
Appraisal                     Actual Cost!
estimate                       Estimate
Item            Local    Foreign     Total     Local    Foreign      Total
I. Road Works
A. Sefophe-              8.0       17.9       25.9      5.18       16.22     22.4
Martin's Drift Road
B. Bobonong-             2.7        5.8        8.5      8.46        0        8.46
Lekkerpoet Road
11. Consulting
Services
A. Supervision of        0.4        1.5        1.9       1.2        1.9       3.1
l.A and B
B. Road investment       0.3        1.0        1.3      0.23       0.69      0.92
and maintenance
study                                                       .
Total                    11.4      26.2       37.6      15.07      18.81     33.88
TABLE 8: PROJECT FINANCING
US$ million
Appraisal                           Actual/
Estimate                          Estimate
Source        Local     Foreign      Total       Local     Foreign      Total
IBRD               0.0        14.9        14.9        0          12.4       12.4
BADEA              0.0         6.4         6.4        5.6         0          5.6
AfDB               0.3         1.0         1.3         0         0.69       0.69
Government        11.1         3.9        15.0       9.47        5.72       15.19
Total             11.4        26.2       37.6        15.07      18.81       33.88



- 18 -
TABLE 9: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS
Sefopbe-Martin's Drift Road                               Bobonong-Lekkerpoet Road
Year       Capital Cost    Mainten-         Traffic     Net Benefit  Capital Cost   Mainten-         Traffic     Net Benefit    Total Net
ance Cost or     Benefit                                 ance Cost or    Benefit                     Benefit for
(Saving)                                                 (Saving)                                 Two Roads
1991            9468              0             0         (9468)            30             0             0          (30)         (9498)
1992            8414              0             0         (8414)           191             0             0         (191)         (8605)
1993            4500         (2699)             0         (1801)         2213              0             0        (2213)         (4014)
1994              19              0             0           (19)         3375              3           457        (2921)         (2940)
1995                             47          6583          6536          2629              6           586        (2049)           4487
1996                         (2652)          7009          9661             22             9           598           567          10228
1997                             47          6137          6090                            9           628           619           6709
1998                            47           7062          7015                            9           660           651           7666
1999                         (2652)          7505         10157                          312           692           380          10537
2000                             47          7326          7279                            9           727           718           7997
2001                             47          8409          8362                         (701)          763          1464           9826
2002                         (2652)          8919         11571                            9           802           793          12364
2003                             47          8730          8683                            9           842           833           9516
2004                             47          9976          9929                            9           884           875          10804
2005                         (2652)          9799         12451                            9           928           919          13370
2006                             47         11156          11109                           9           974           965          12074
2007            1702             47         10986          9237                         (217)          1023         1240          10477
2008                         (2652)         12457          15109                           9           1074         1065          16174
2009                             47         13160         13113                            9           1128         1119           14232
2010                             47         13008          12961                           9           1184         1175          14136
2011                         (2652)         14650          17302                           9           1244         1235          18537
2012           (2240)            47         14531          16724                           9           1306         1297          26981
l   2013                                                                                    (370)          1371          1741           1741
l   2014                                                                                   9           1440         1431            1431
2015                                                                                       9           1512         5733           5733
| NPV at10%                              36250                                                     (79;                               37272
ERR   |  25%                                            10%                                 23%
Actual project cost is used. All costs are in thousands US$.



- 19 -
TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Agreement  Section        Covenant  Present Status  Original           Revised          Description of Covenant            Comments
Type                       Fulfillment Date  Fulfillment Date
Loan         3.03            12      not complied    June 1993         December 1993    The Borrower shall continue to
with                                              implement its plan for a
comprehensive restructuring of road
user fees
4.01             1      in compliance                                      The Borrower shall maintain records
and accounts to reflect accordance
with sound accounting practices
4.01(b)(i)       I      not complied                                       The borrower shall have the records   The audit on the
with                                              and accounts for each fiscal year  project began in 1996,
audited                            after completion of all
the components
4.01(b)(ii)      I      not complied                                       The Borrower shall furnish the audit  All the audit reports
with                                              report to the Bank not later than six    were submitted on
months after the end of each such  May 10, 1996
year
4.0 1(b)(iii)    1      partly in                                          The Borrower shall furnish to the  The records were kept
compliance                                        Bank such information, records and   appropriately
the audit thereof as the Bank shall
from time to time reasonably request
4.01 (c)         I      not applicable                                     For all expenditures for which     The Government did
withdrawals from the loan account    not use the statement
were made on the basis of statement  of expenditure for
of expenditures, the Borrower shall   withdrawals
maintain records and ensure that



- 20 -
Agreement   Section         Covenant   Present Status   Original            Revised            Description of Covenant              Comments
Type                         Fulfillment Date   Fulfillment Date
such records are included in the
annual audit
5.01 (a)         12       in compliance                                         The Borrower undertakes to
maintain its gazetted road system                            l
adequately with sound engineering
practices
5.01(b)          12       in compliance
lThe Borrower undertakes to provide
adequate funds, facilities, services
and other resources for that purpose
5.02(a)          12       in compliance
The Borrower shall take all actions
lnecessary to cause the dimensions,
axle-loads and weight limits of the
vehicles using the gazetted roads to
be kept within the limits provided by
law
5.02(b)          12       in compliance
The Borrower shall take all actions
necessary to ensure consistent and
effective enforcement of its Road
Traffic Act
5.03             10       in compliance   September 1,        March 1994                                              The work started
1991                                 The Borrower undertakes to prepare   October 1992 and the
and furnish to the Bank an           report was submitted to
agricultural development plan for    the Bank in March
the Selebi Phikwe area, and to take  1994. Further survey
steps to facilitate its implementation   on soil and water
._________________________________    conditions  is  on-going



- 21-
Covenant Type
I  Accounts/audits                                  8   Indigenous people
2  Financial performance/revenue                    9   Monitoring, review and reporting
generation from beneficiaries                    10  Project implementation not covered by categories
3  Flows and utilization of project fund                 1-9
4  Counterpart funding                              I I  Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other
5  Management aspects of the project or executing        resources
agency                                           12  Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy / regulatory /
6  Environmental covenants                              institutional action
7  Involuntary resettlement                         13  Other



- 22 -
TABLE 11: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUT
Stage of Project           Planned               Revised                Actual
Cycle                                                                       _____
Weeks    US$(000)    Weeks    US$(000)    Weeks    US$(000)
Through Appraisal       86         6.7        66.4       2.7        30.9        N.A.
Appraisal-Board         41.6       4.1        48.3        0         24.3        N.A.
Board-Effectiveness
Supervision             39.4       42.5       53.4       38.3      25           4.4
Completion                                                          3.5         7.0
Total               1  167         53.3      168.1       41        83.7        11.4
Note: Actual dollar amount available only after FY94



- 23 -
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS
Stage of   Month!  Number   Days   Specialized  Performance Rating   Types of
Project    Year      of       in    Staff Skills                    Problems3
Cycle             Persons   Field  Represented
2
Impleme  Develop
ntation    ment
Status1   Impact
Through    2/89     2         8       HE, IEC
Appraisal                            I _____
6/89    2         8       HE, IEC
11/89    3        14      IEC, HE,
AEC(C)      _ _ _ __ _ _ _
Appraisal
Through
Board
Approval         _                                  _
Supervision  9-10/90   1      14      HE           1         1
10/91    2        10      HE, AS(C)   2          1        LC
4/92     1        5       PMS          1         1
10/92    1        8       HE,PMS       2         2        LC
Completion  2/96    1         7       TP           1 
1: No significant problems; 2: Moderate problems; 3: Major problems with
appropriate actions being taken to address them
2     HE: Highway Engineer; IEC: Infrastructure Economist; PMS: Pavement
Management Specialist,
TP: Transport Planner; AEC(C): Agricultural Economist (Consultant);
AS(C): Agricultural Specialist (Consultant)
LC: Loan Covenant



- 24 -
APPENDIX A
BOTSWANA
TULI BLOCK ROADS PROJECT
WORLD BANK IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT MISSION
March 3 - 10,1996
AIDE-MEMOIRE
1.    A World Bank Mission comprising Toshiyuki Iwama (Transport Planner) visited
Botswana from March 3 to 10, 1996 to discuss the Implementation Completion Report
(ICR) for the above-mentioned project. The mission visited Tuli Block and Talana Farms
with officials of the relevant ministries. The trip was facilitated by the Roads Department
(RD) of the Ministry of Works, Transport and Communications and Ministry of
Agriculture (MOA). The mission takes this opportunity to thank the Government of
Botswana, the officials of the Ministry of Finance and Development Planning, the
Ministry of Works, Transport and Communications, Ministry of Agriculture and the
Botswana Development Corporation (BDC) for their cooperation and assistance. A list of
persons met and with whom discussions were held is attached as Annex 1.
2.    According to the Appraisal Report the loan will be closed on October 31, 1997
but all the project components were completed by July 1995. As of February 19, 1996,
the loan was 83% disbursed and a balance of US$ 2.4 million remained with no
outstanding commitments to be paid. The Government indicated its intention to close the
loan before the due date.
3.    The mission concurred with the view that the outcome of the project is
satisfactory. But it felt that unlike the Sefophe-Martin's Drift road which considerably
reduced the travel time from North-eastern part of the country to the Republic of South
Africa (RSA) the primary reason for the Bobonong-Lekkerpoet road was to provide an
all-weather road connection to Tuli Block farms. Its current daily traffic of the order of
100 vehicles is still very low for a paved road and the anticipated improved accessibility
would be achieved mainly by the construction of the bridges so that there is no obvious
reason to pave the road over the full length.
4.    The RD agreed that the traffic volume on the Bobonong-Lekkerpoet road is still
low as there has been no harvest after the completion of the works. It explained that it is
very difficult to obtain the gravel material for the road maintenance in this area and hence
the maintenance cost would be very high for a gravel road, so that the government's
policy is to pave the road whenever possible.



- 25 -
5.    The mission was pleased to learn that the study on institutional development will
be funded by the African Development Bank (AfDB) and the result is expected in the
first quarter of 1997. In anticipation of this, a Road Maintenance Study has been
completed, also financed by AfDB. The study addresses institutional issues on
administrative, legal, human resources and financial aspects. The study deals in detail
with the Road Management System (RMS), which was developed in close consultation
with a specialist from the World Bank, and recognizes that the introduction of the RMS
to the RD will have a significant impact in its organization. Currently, three subsystems
out of nine are fully operational, namely Development Planning and Road Network
Information, Mapping and Inventory/Condition. Pavement Management and Traffic
Management Systems are being developed while other subsystems, such as Cost
Accounting and Bridges, are planned for the future.
6.    An auditor has been appointed and all the project files have been sent to him for
review. The delay in carrying out the audit was due to miscommunication on the auditing
procedure. The auditor found out differences in contract amount and the actual payment,
since the payment was made based on the actual exchange rate, opposed to the fixed rate
in the contract. There is a need to agree mutually between the auditor and RD how to
interpret the contract amount as the contract contains provisions for the payment in
foreign currencies for some part of the payment. Once this issue is cleared the audit can
be completed and the audit reports be sent to the Bank no later than April 1996.
7.    The mission also took the opportunity to discuss agricultural development with
the officials of MOA and BDC. The promotion of the horticulture is the key element of
the Tuli Block, whose potential has been identified in the late 60s. Following the
Agricultural Development Study, a study on water resources and soil conditions is still
on-going so that the decision on a possible extension of the horticulture will be made
later. Currently nearly all the production from the Talana Farms, valued at 2.5 million
Pula for 1995, is exported to RSA since there are inadequate facilities in the area to date.
This means that even though the fresh fruits and vegetables are produced locally, they are
re-imported from South African market, resulting in relatively high retail prices. The cost
can be reduced if there is a domestic refrigerated storage facility for fruits and vegetables,
possibly in Selebi-Phikwe. This can promote the domestic trade and economy since the
import of agricultural products amounts to about 100 million Pula a year. Tuli Block can
be a key local horticultural production area and there is a need to attract foreign investors.
It was indicated that American and Israeli investors have shown their interest so far. To
be more attractive, MOA expressed the need to improve the road up to the South African
border.
8.    The mission exchanged views with some local traders in Selebi-Phikwe. As they
purchase the vegetables in South African market and sell them to the retailers in the town,
the direct link from Sefophe to the border reduced considerably the transport cost. They
sometimes purchase potatoes and onions from the farmers in Tuli Block but as there is
only a limited selection of the products they continue to make regular trade with RSA.



- 26 -
9.    The mission visited Talana Farms and exchanged view with the general manager.
Because of the underdeveloped domestic market both for input and output the Farm is
trading primarily in Pietersburg in RSA. There is a severe competition with the South
African farmers and even more presently, as the Limpopo river crossing is impassable
due to the heaviest stream in the last two decades and the detour of about 300 km by
using the Bobonong-Lekkerpoet road and Sefophe-Martin's Drift road causes a
considerable increase in transport costs. The size of the present Tuli Block farms is still
not sufficient to produce a large selection of vegetables and fruits and create a attractive
domestic market so that the farmers as well as traders used to commute to RSA. Although
the linkage of Selebi-Phikwe and Tuli Block is developing gradually, the importance of
the cross-border traffic cannot be neglected in terms of the agricultural development.
10.   Based on the information collected by the mission, Part I of the ICR can be
updated and prepared for the Government's comments after the Bank's internal clearance.
The mission was also provided with the Government's evaluation of the project (attached
as Annex 2 and 3), and was advised that this is subject to the Government having the
option of reviewing the final draft of the ICR.
Gaborone,
March 8, 1996



- 27 -
Annex 1
BOTSWANA
TULI BLOCK ROADS PROJECT
WORLD BANK IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT MISSION
March 3 - 10, 1996
LIST OF PERSONS MET
Ministry of Finance and Development Planning
Mr. M. Ngidi, Director of Development Programs
Ms. B. K. Molosiwa, Principal Economist
Mr. V. P. Rapotsanyane, Principal Finance Officer
Auditor General's Office
Mr. Tibe Tibe, Assistant Auditor General
Mr. S. K. Maini, Principal Auditor
Ministry of Works, Transport and Communications
Mr. T. A. Makepe, Planning Officer
M. I. Pinard, Deputy Director of Roads, Roads Department
Mr. H. Alemayehou, Chief Roads Engineer, Roads Department
Mr. A. Kgosi, Senior Roads Engineer, Roads Department
Mr. R. J. Hilton, Senior Roads Engineer, Roads Department
Mr. S. A. Setshogo, Senior Roads Engineer, Roads Department
Ministry of Agriculture
Mr. H. K. Sigwele, Director of Agricultural Planning and Statistics
Mr. B. E. Moji, Principal Agricultural Scientific Officer
Mr. K. M. Jobo-Phiri, Senior Agricultural Economist
Mr. JR. Gaolebogwe, Senior Animal Production Officer
Mr. L. Makubate, Agricultural Economist
Mr. C. Khupe, Agricultural Economist



- 28 -
Mr. M. Mazebedi, Agricultural Scientific Officer for Horticulture
Botswana Development Corporation
Mr. S. S. Gaadingwe, Manager of Agriculture Division



-29 -
APPENDIX B
Annex 2
BOTSWANA
TULI BLOCK ROADS PROJECT
SEFOPHE-MARTINS DRIFT ROADS
LOAN 3248-BT
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
1.1   STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
1.0   STATEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
The main objectives of the project are to:
(a)   provide road links necessary for the development and Integration of the Selebi-
Phikwe area and its hinterland, and facilitate its effectiveness as a regional marketing
centre;
(b)   strengthen the capacity of Roads Department to organise and carry out road
maintenance at the increased level mandated by the expansion of the road network;
(c)   improve road planning and programming capability in anticipation of the next
National development Plan (NDP7) in 1991;
In order to achieve the above objectives, the following projects were included:
(a)   Construction of the Sefophe-Martin's Drift road, 134 km, to bitumen standard,
including a 10 km spur to the major village of Kgagodi, and village access roads;
(b)   Construction of the Bobonong-Lekkerpoet road, 66 km, of which about 50 km
will be to bitumen standard and the remainder with a gravel surface, including two short
access roads to the villages of Molalatau and Mathathane; and
(c)   Consulting services for: (i) Construction supervision fro (a) and (b) above; and (ii)
a study of a new maintenance management/organisation system for roads, combined with
a network planning study.



- 30 -
2.1   EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
In terms of the regional development, the Bank's involvement in the Selebi-Phikwe
region dates back to 1969. The project is thus seen as a continuation of the Bank's
support directed towards eliminating the major constraints to the area's emerging
economic attraction to investors and necessary element in the long-run strategy to
transform a mining town that would not remain viable in the absence of mineral activity
into an industrial and agricultural centre. The two roads are providing a reliable link
between the towns located closely to the Gaborone-Francistown corridor and the
hinterland of Tuli Block. The Sefophe-Martin's Drift road reduces the distance from the
eastern part of the country RSA and thus is justified by transport cost savings.
As evidenced by the Traffic increase trend, it is clear that the forecasts made during the
appraisal mission have been realised. Of note is the large increase in the number of heavy
vehicles on transit from and to the RSA. The following is a summary of traffic figures
per day beginning with 1989:
1989        -      87
1990        -      99
1991        -      98
1992        -     104
1993        -     165
1994        -     408
1995        -     377
From the above it can be clearly seen that there was a tremendous increase in the number
of vehicles since the road was opened to traffic in 1993. Correspondingly the number of
heavy vehicles increased from a pultry 3 in 1993 to 41 in 1995.
In the long term, the road will have a good impact on the environment, providing safe
transportation of goods to the markets. The previous dust clouds from vehicles are now a
thing of the past which would benefit the health of many of the residents along the road.
The large number of access roads to villages within the project vicinity enhances the
social integration of the community by way of easy travel.
A Conservation Strategy recommended by the Environment Impact Assessment by way
of preserving large trees within the road reserve and rehabilitation of borrow pits have
been implemented satisfactorily.
Road Maintenance of the country's Public Network is continuing, with the budget having
been increased to cope with the increased length of bitumen roads, of which the Sefophe -
Martin's Drift road is a component. The annual maintenance budget now stands at P60
million.



- 31 -
The Maintenance Study came up with far-reaching recommendations which have recently
been accepted by Government. Amongst the major recommendations are the institutional
Study of the Roads Department and District/Town councils, and the Cost Accounting
System. These two studies are just about to be commenced, the results of which may
recommend the formation of an autonomous Road Authority and hence, the Road Fund.



Annex 3
BOBONONG-LEKKERPOET ROAD
Statement/Evaluation of the Objectives
The main objective of this project was the provision of a dependable, all year
round access road, linking Selebi Phikwe via the village of Bobonong with the farming
areas near Lekkerpoet in the Tuli Block.
During NDP 6 this road, together with the Sefophe - Martins Drift Road was
identified for construction within the NDP 7 plan period. The road forms one of the
components of the Selebi-Phikwe Regional Development Project. It will assist in
diversifying the economy of the town by opening up its agricultural hinterland, via
improved road access, to its centre of industry and commerce.
To accomplish the above it was originally intended to construct a bituminous
surfaced road from Bobonong to Mathathane (50km) with the remaining 16 km having a
gravel wearing course. Access roads to the villages of Molalatau and Mathathane were
also to have a gravel running surface. Consultancy services for the construction
supervision was also to be supplied.
It was eventually decided that both 66 km main road and the 3.15 km of village
access roads should receive a bituminous surface. The carriageway width being Sm with
a i m sealed shoulder on each side. The design life of the road was taken as 20 years and
a design speed of 80 km/hr was used. This speed was reduced to 60 km/hr within the
villages. The alignment which passes through undulating terrain with many drainage
channels and resulted in the need to construct a large number of drainage structures.
These included the bridge and box culvert at the Thune and Selepswe Rivers respectively.
The above changes was agreed with the co-financier the Arab Bank for Economic
Development in Africa, (BADEA) and justified on the grounds of efficient use of
available maintenance resources, both materials and manpower. The road building
materials in the area sparse and finite. The fact that they are also marginal in quality adds
to the demand and the possible rapid exhaustion of the limited supply.
The project forms an important part of the Selebi Phikwe Regional Development
Project and that project's aims to diversify the economy of Selebi Phikwe. Although it is
a little early to quantify the effect on this aim and that of stimulating agricultural activity
in the Tuli Block area generally, there are signs of increase activity.



- 33 -
It is without doubt that in the long term, the road will have a good impact on the area,
providing safe transportation of agricultural products to market, such as Talana Farm.
Bus services are already allowing people to socialise more than before and any sick
persons can now be taken quickly to either Bobonong or Selebi Phikwe for treatment.
Both cattle and goats are now carried in trucks and pickups to market instead of being
driven over a few days on foot. The previous dust clouds from passing vehicles are now
a thing of the past which benefits the health of many residents along the road as well as
improving general road safety. At the far end of the road game wardens now have easy
access to the game ranches and other areas which encourage tourism. Even before the
road was open to traffic in August 1995, traders were talking of using this route in
preference to others for obtaining goods in Pietersberg, RSA, that would be for sale in
Selebi Phikwe and for export of goods that were manufactured in Selebi Phikwe.
Tourism at the Mashatu and Tuli Lodge localities are also benefiting from the improved
safe access. Supplies are now being purchased in Selebi Phikwe instead of South Africa,
and more Botswana based tourists are using this route. At the end of September 1995
busses were already using the road as far as Mathathane and many pickups heavily laden
with goods, (in both directions) were evident. Bread deliveries are now being made every
day as far as Mathathane.
Although the traffic count carried out in August 1995 was only done over a single
day (Wednesday) and for twelve hours it can be considered a typical weekday. However,
counts over a whole week should reveal higher ADT's as is suspected that the traffic
increases at the weekends. There is also some evening and early morning traffic that has
not been included. One interesting factor about the count taken at the roads initial
opening compared to previous counts taken is the proportion of heave trucks using the
road, especially in the section of road from Mathathane to Lekkerpoet and even the
Bobonong to Molatau. Original estimates of medium to heavy trucks for the Bobonong
to Molatau section of road were 2 vehicles in 1994 whilst the actual at the roads opening
were 18 vehicles. On the Mathathane to Lekkerpoet section there were a total of 7 heavy
trucks, (including Talana Farm's truck).
At this stage apart from the above referred to informal traffic count carried out by
the Consultant prior to leaving the site no traffic counts have been done for the road. The
Consultant's count does indicate however that the traffic estimates made at the appraisal
stage will definitely be exceeded. It is the Roads Department intention to carry out a
traffic study on the road in mid - 1996 when a truer picture of the traffic using the road
will be obtained. At the Bank's request at special 7 day count will be undertaken within
the next 2/3 weeks and the results sent to the Bank.
This project was one of physically construction of a road and since this has been
accomplished and the road is now being used by traffic it is now performing its main
objective. It also complies with Government's strategy of expanding the road network
via the construction of secondary and feeder roads throughout Botswana. Early



- 34 -
indications point towards the road playing its part in achieving the other objectives of the
Selebi Phikwe/Tuli Block Roads project as a whole. It is felt that the current ERR
forecast of 14% will be improved on as time allows the full benefits of the road to filter
through the local economy.



APP2'EDIX C
TELEPHONE: 350100                                            MINISTRY OF FINANCE & DEVELOPMENT PLANNING,
TELEX:    2401 BD                                                                   PRIVATE BAG 008,
FAx:      356086                                                                         GABORONE.
REFERENCE:
REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
FDP 4/12/4 (31) 98 POII                                            29 October 1996
Mr. Toshiyuki Iwama
African Region
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Dear Sir,
TULI BLOCK ROAD PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
COMPLETION REPORT (ICR) (Loan 3248-BW)
Reference is made to your letter dated 9th September, 1996 on the above mentioned
subject and subsequent correspondence on the same. The delay in responding is highly regretted.
2.    Generally, the ICR is acceptable. We would however like to make the following minor
comments/corrections on it:
- Abbreviations and Acronyms: "SADCC" should be changed to Southern African
Development Community (SADC).
- Part I: Performance Assessment; Paragraph 17: On the last sentence, the last part
which reads "....... resulting in the difference in meaning of the two roads" needs to be
reformulated as its message is difficult to understand.
3.    We hope the above comments will enable you to finalise the report.
4.    Thank you.
Yours Faithfully,
DATE REC'D. _____tq
for  iidi           DATE ACK'D.
forPerm   n Secretary     ASSIGNCD TO3_
PROJECT NAME:
E.A. INFO. CENTER JB1-085



18/10 '96 17:02   %225 204902          ADB*B.ADZOCDS                          g- u 
BANQUE AFRICAINE DE DEVELOPPEMENT                  APIX D
AFRICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
ADDRESSE TELEGRAPHIQUE
AFDEV ABiDJAN COTE D'IVOlRE 
TELEPHONE: 20.44.44
TELEX: 23717
23498
23263
FAX: 204902                                     DATE:   18 OCT 1Y99
TELECOPIER TRANSMISSION
NUMBER OF PAGES: 1
(PLEASE TELEPHONE [225) 20 4444 IF YOU HAVE ANY TROUBLS RECEIVING THIS TRANSMISSION OR DID
NOT RECEIVE THE NUMBER OF PAGES SHOWN ABOVE).
TO         :    Mr. Toshiyuki Iwama
Transport Planner
Transport Eastern and Southern Africa, Africa region
The World Bank
FAX        :    + 1 202 473 8301, Washington, D.C., U.S.A.
SUBJECT   :    BDTSWANA: TULI BLOCK ROAD PROJECT - IMPLEMENTATION
COMPLETION REPORT.(ICR)
We acknowledge receipt of your fax dated October 15 1996. We have
reviewed the ICR for the above project and agree with its findings.
Our only comments are that you may wish to include the following
additional information in your report:-
1    In addition to its contribution to the calibration of the HDM III Model for
local use (mentioned in your report), the AfDB funded Road Maintenance
Study led to revisions being made in the Public Roads Act and the R:oad
Traffic Act to include for a Public Highway Classification System and the
formulation of a route numbering system for primary and secondary roads
in Botswana. A computerized Road Management System was also
developed under the Study.
2.   The savings from the AUDB funds have been approved for financing two
additional studies:- (i) An Institutional Study of Road Agencies in Botswana
(which is mentioned under item 5. Of your Aide Memoire dated March 3-10
1996; and, (ii) A Study for the Establishment of a Commercial Cost
Accounting System for the Roads Department.
Regards,
AbdulhRahmn 
Director
Country Departnent, South



MAP SECTION






IBDO 22255
i30st'                                   Z2'                      'or_--24--'-._,_,\                                       2e-                       f /#/           23-                                  BOTSWANA            E
__ __A N G O  L A                                                                                                                Z             AOMI BIA                                               TUll BLOCK ROADS PROJECT
-.                                                                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Transport Network
8  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~      ~     ~     ~     ~    ~    ~     t                        4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A ~~~~~~~~~~PROJECT ROADS
C                                                                                                                                                                P,.~~d 3.1-,-d R..d,C  /  3.omeSe nn o_
rMhm ; t  C   A                             NE                      -       /.'- 3rneoeOr.i 0er
r- --~~~~~~~~~~~~~~m~~~~~~t.                                                                                               - ~~~~~~~~~~PREVIOUS BANK PROJECTS
/                 --                                )                                                                    I   RhO Bood P '\ V 4oz Fi.Rrolee ( Choir 63-B)
-:.-.  "'\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IM                                             A     W                                   .....  .... IMAW_z1a6t]tW-i9.,7n
SeeARo  rjen' (C,dir X30-r
il  P-\  '   >'\    e = -' \  t2 Thr Rod Ptrjeor ILo7 110_-BT)
j   l-  O K A                                          \   \u                                                         ___- Const=Nr_Fi h,ptio>7j,j.3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A lrreroro. ooer ioo 30a
j N G A M  I L A N D                                                                                                                                                  EXISTING ROADS
under                        ' - Conorrpr,0  _' Nero         me  '\                    Slo            --         Gre_.I rortered Tur....dd
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SYttRr                                                                          0  a      OO                        - 97l/ 3orer  .drr',r, sra_nrarceorteo
<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Jk  o                                                   |    Oeoo    /    r1?Ts.5,.epeni~  .  Arreaoed          0trnI                                In.oo.berero.
z
i r   gt2i                                                        ~~~~~ ~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~C E ' R               
-z.                                                                                                                                         N.,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ oeD   h    \. Monr
-22+ / V \ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~G  H A N Z I                                                                                                             1 Z-
C   | '   K  A  kL           A          H        A          R         /Col                                                BIepye /               0      7        onm    orm
t  s                ~    ~ ~~~D   E   \  S        E          R         T                                        Shoshonq      a\                  WlntsDr1
joA                                                                                                                                                          0Men //                      Lek__oorpoor~
i   su_'  0      _Kjng                   K  W  E N E N  G                    v/                          <                 <                                             7~~~~~~~~~Shslrorg  N  */73 eeeoedRanc
Le\ : wfnlhq wtGa keng                              0  e        po
l   K G  A  L A GJ A  D  I                  A                                                           Mite Ps  reaoWoorsWorrom                                                                    r
'  WI   g    S                                         C                                        O                             t---                         A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CrerBr  redrerrrrn
a'y~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A I WO
SOUTHERN    tOte
0  -        Pioneer Cete                                                             ~~~~~~~              ~~~~~~~~~~~ANGOLA  ZAMBIAro
                                                                                                                                                          '  -' \~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I  ZIMBABWE
S  N  ~ ~ ~      ~     ~     'neo                r   Rmnethleeoere                                                                N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AMIBIA   '
Tshrebong    .9  etkn                                                                                                                                          DFOTS WANA,-'_
2-                                                                      /MCerthy, Rus                                     o2 B                                                                                               1,. 
Onoc               SOUTH  U-
M.I.,  o    20    40 No                                                      /eeDreARIC
MAY 1 990









Il IA GI NG
Repi ort No:       16 19'
Type: ICP



