 IEG
                                                                                               Report Number: ICRR14868

                  ICR Review
                  Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                       Date Posted: 10/15/2015

               Country: Vietnam
             Project ID: P083593                                                   Appraisal              Actual
         Project Name: Vietnam National Cfc          Project Costs (US$M):                      1.2                2.358
                         And Halon Phaseout
                         Project
  L/C Number:                                         Loan/Credit (US$M):                      1.26                2,358
      Sector Board:      Environment                  Cofinancing (US$M):

           Cofinanciers:                              Board Approval Date :                                 01/23/2006
                                                             Closing Date:              12/31/2010          12/31/2014
          Sector(s):       Other industry (100%)
          Theme(s):        Climate change (100%)


Prepared by:               Reviewed by:            ICR Review                 Group:
                                                   Coordinator:
John Redwood               John R. Eriksson        Christopher David          IEGPS1
                                                   Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:
Grant Agreement: To assist the Recipient in its efforts to reduce ODS [Ozone Depleting Substances] in its territory.

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
Yes
 If yes, did the Board approve the revised objectives/key associated outcome targets?
No

c. Components:
  Original components according to Grant Agreement dated January 23, 2006:

A. Regulatory Framework (Appraisal costs: US$ 328,850; Actual costs: US$ 173,529) -- improvement of the
regulatory framework for phasing out CFCs [Chloroflourocarbons] and Halons, including establishment of quotas and
licenses for the import and export of specific CFCs and Halons, establishment of bans on the use of selected CFCs in
the manufacturing sector and in the production of CFC equipment, and requirements for inspection of MACs [Mobile
air-conditioners] as part of the existing safety inspection programs.

B. Phase-out of CFCs and Halons (Appraisal costs: US$ 796,687; Actual costs: US$ 921,822) -- carrying out
programs to phase out use of CFCs and Halons in the foam, refrigeration, MAC, and fire protection sectors through
the following activities:
         1. Provision of sub-grants to CFC consuming foam enterprises for investment subprojects to convert CFC
production technology to non-CFC technology, including replacement of baseline equipment or minor changes to
existing equipment to ensure compatibility with new CFC substitutes.
         2. Provision of sub-grants to Halon enterprises to acquire appropriate equipment to recover and recycle
Halon, to acquire expertise in identifying acceptable non-Halon alternatives, and to establish an electronic database of
recovered Halon available for reuse.
        3. Provision of sub-grants to refrigeration and MAC service shops to acquire service tool kits for non-CFC
refrigerators and MACs.

C. Institutional Strengthening (Appraisal costs: US$ 134,463; Actual costs: US$ 164,097):

        1. Strengthening the capacity of relevant government agencies to provide support for the phasing out of ODS
including: (a) the licensing offices of the Ministry of Trade to implement import control measures; (b) Vietnam Register
to undertake MAC inspections; (c) the General Department of the Vocational Training Center and/or training centers,
to provide training on good practices for servicing of refrigeration and air-conditioning equipment; (d) the Drug
Administration of the Ministry of Public Health to develop a strategy to phase out the use of CFC metered-dose
inhalers; and (e) the General Department of Customs to implement import and export control regulations.
        2. Strengthening the capacity of the Project Management Unit (PMU) to implement the project.

Additional Components (as per the Amended Grant Agreement dated August 22, 2008 -- see the next section)

D. Regulatory Framework for the Phase-out of MB [Methyl Bromide] (Appraisal Costs: US$ 194,112; Actual Costs:
US$ 193,714) -- improvement of regulatory framework for the implementation of the Methyl Bromide Phase out Plan,
including establishment of quotas for licensed importers for the import of MB, permits for MB for licensed fumigation
companies, development of national standards for pest control and hygiene requirements for storage facilities, and
monitoring of actual imports and of actual use of MB.

E. Support for the Implementation of the Phase-out of MB (Appraisal costs: US$ 441,305; Actual costs: US$ 439,182):
       1. Provision of support to MARD [Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development] for implementation of the MB
Phase out Plan to: (a) develop and operate a management information system integrating all data related to the
registration, licensing, imports, use of MB and MB alternatives; (b) carry out training, workshops for MARD inspectors
and regulators or the Montreal Protocol requirements for storage facilities and monitoring requirement to preempt pest
resistance due to improper use of MB alternatives; (c) train staff trainers on, inter alia, fumigation methods,
monitoring and Integrated Pest Management (IPM) methods, and integrated approaches for managing soil born (sic)
diseases; and (d) carry out study tours for MARD staff to countries implementing similar MB phase out plans.
       2. Strengthening the capacity of the PPD-PMU [Plant Protection Department-PMU] to implement the Project.
       3. Carrying out of field demonstrations for soil fumigation for the application of IPM identified options of potential
alternatives to MB on target crops, and development of training materials based on methods, procedures and results
of demonstrations.
      4. Provision of technical assistance to fumigation service companies on alternatives to MB and proper use of
such alternatives.
      5. Provision of technical assistance to farmers on safety measures for the use of MB alternatives.
      6. Provision of technical assistance for the preparation of training materials.

F. Investments for the Phase-out of MB (Appraisal costs: US$ 223,961; Actual costs: US$ 231,830) -- provision of
sub-grants to fumigation service companies for the implementation of other alternatives to MB.

G. Project Management Unit (PMU) (Appraisal costs: US$ 238,906; Actual costs: US$ 233,558.

 d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:
 As indicated in the previous section, the project scope was amplified through the Amended Grant Agreement dated
August 22, 2008 and the addition of three components related to the phase-out of Methyl Bromide, which was not part
of the original project design. This involved an increase in project costs and Montreal Protocol grant financing from
the initial appraisal estimate of US$ 1,260,000 to an actual figure on completion of US$ 2,357,732 (The initial
appraisal estimate is from Annex 1 of the ICR, Table A.1.a.i, p.31. It is smaller than the sum of the costs at appraisal
shown above for components.). There was no borrower contribution . It also involved an extension of the project's
closing date from December 31, 2010 to December 31, 2014. This extension was necessary in order to coincide with
the schedule agreed under the Montreal Protocol for the phase-out of Methyl Bromide, just as the original closing date
was determined on the basis of the agreed MP schedule for the phase-out of CFCs and Halon.

3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

 a. Relevance of Objectives:
The relevance of project objectives is rated High. The project contributed to meeting Vietnam’s agreed commitment
to phase out zone depleting substances (ODS) under the Montreal Protocol. It was also consistent with the Bank's
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Vietnam for FY 2003-06, one of whose organizing principles was to enhance
environmental sustainability, as well as with its current Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) for FY 2012-2016 includes
among its projected outcomes, provision of improved quality and efficiency of infrastructure services through, inter alia
, promotion of energy efficiency and strengthened environmental protection, including phase-out of the use of ODS
with a focus on HCFCs (Hydrochloroflourocarbons) and Methyl Bromide. As CFCs and Halons were already phased
out under the present project, this is no longer an objective per se. However, the experience gained by Vietnam in
carrying out the present project has served to inform the strategy adopted by the country in the follow-on program to
phase out HFCFS, which is currently under implementation with Bank support. This operation has also proven to be
of relevance with respect to Government and Bank climate change mitigation activities, as substantial Greenhouse
gas (GHG) emissions reductions were also achieved as a co-benefit of the project although this was not specifically
recognized at the time of its appraisal.

 b. Relevance of Design:
The relevance of project design in rated High. Based in part on the experience with operations having similar
objectives elsewhere in the region (e.g., China, Indonesia, Malaysia, and the Philippines) as well as on lessons
derived from previous non-Bank-assisted efforts to reduce consumption of ODS in Vietnam, the original project design
contained a well-targeted combination of capacity building, technical assistance, and grant investment funding to curb
the production, import and domestic use of CFCs, used in air conditioning, refrigeration, aerosol and foam
applications, and Halons, used in fire protection. Two and a half years into project implementation, the same
approach was added to project design in relation to Methyl Bromide (MB), described in the ICR (pg. 10) as "a broad
spectrum agricultural fumigant used for agricultural soil and storage uses (non-quarantine and pre-shipment (QPS)
treatments), as well as for trade-related phytosanitary quarantine and pre-shipment purposes.” In short, project design
was appropriate as were the proposed linkages between inputs, outputs, and outcomes, as its subsequent successful
implementation demonstrated.

 4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):
   The project objective was to assist the recipient in its efforts to reduce ozone-depleting substances (ODS)
consumption in its territory. This referred initially to the consumption of CFCs and Halon, and was later (2008)
extended to include Methyl Bromide (MB) as well.

Outputs:

         Chloroflourocarbons (CFC) consumption in Vietnam was reduced from a baseline of 240 tons of ozone
depleting potential (ODP) in December 2004 (the baseline) to zero tons by January 1, 2010, thereby representing 100
percent phase-out in a timely manner.
        Halon consumption declined from 76 tons ODP in December 2004 to zero tons by January 1, 2010, thus also
representing its complete phase-out by the originally established target date.
        MB consumption in non-QPS was reduced from the baseline of 85.2 tons of ODP in December 2008 to zero
tons by January 1, 2015, again achieving total phase-out by the planned target date.
        In addition, Carbon Tetrachloride (CTC) consumption was reduced from its December 2004 baseline of 0,2
ODP per year to zero by 2006, as a result of the installation of the import licensing and permit system, which also
ensured sustainability of its phase-out.

Outcomes:

The project fully achieved its objective by helping Vietnam to eliminate ODS consumption in its territory within the
planned time horizon (i.e. by the beginning of 2010 for CFCs and Halon and by the beginning of 2015 for MB) and as
mandated under the Montreal Protocol. In fact, according to the ICR (Table 2, pg, 23), the project helped the country
to achieve the phase-out of its CFCs and Halons earlier than the target dates required by the Protocol. As concerns
Methyl Bromide, it observes (pg. 23) that "data reported under Article 7 of the Protocol indicates Vietnam's 2014
consumption of MB was below the maximum 'allowed' of 35 ODP T, and issuance of Circular 2186/BVTV-KD bans
consumption of MB for non-QPS purposes after January 1, 2015." These successful outcomes can be fully attributed
to the actions taken under the project in support of the Vietnamese Government’s efforts to meet its assumed
obligations under the Protocol.

While not a specific objective of the project, it also resulted in a reduction in Vietnam's Greenhouse gas (GHG)
emissions, thereby contributing to the country's climate change mitigation efforts, as CFCs have both ozone depleting
and global warming potential. More specifically, the CO2 equivalent impact of the phase-out of CFCs achieved in
connection with the project is estimated at 2,6 million tons (ICR, pg. 26).

Project efficacy, accordingly, is rated High.

 5. Efficiency:
  The ICR carried out an economic and financial analysis, the results of which are summarized in the main text and
presented in somewhat greater detail in a specific annex (No. 3). The Annex (pg. 41) acknowledges that "in order to
capture the overall impact of the project on the economy of Vietnam, any economic analysis undertaken would need
to include assessment of all the sectors the project addressed including foam, refrigeration and air- conditioning, fire
protection and aspects of agricultural production, as well as of other productive sectors, consumer behavior, and
government regulation." As the information required to undertake such an analysis was not available, the ICR team
resolved instead to perform a comparative cost-effectiveness (CE) assessment. In doing so, it concluded that the
values unit costs for both the CFC/Halon and MB project components were "competitive" and that the cost
effectiveness threshold of the National CFC and Halons Phase-out Plan (NCHP), which was approved at US$ 3.94/kg
ODP, was "realistic" (ICR, pp.23, 41).

More specifically, the unit cost of the CFC and Halons phase-out in Vietnam compared favorably with those
experienced in other countries in the East Asia region such as Malaysia *US$ 10.19/kg ODP), Indonesia (US$ 4.41/kg
ODP) and the Philippines (US$ 4.28/kg ODP). The average cost of the MB phase-out component in Vietnam (US$
12.89/kg ODP) was similarly found to be "realistic and efficient" as it was at the lower end of the range experienced
globally (US$ 11.10-US$ 18.30), according to the Montreal Protocol's Technical and Economic Assessment Panel
(TEAP). While project benefits per se were not estimated, clearly the project strongly contributed to stemming
Vietnam’s contribution to the release of ODS to the atmosphere

Project efficiency is, therefore, rated High.

 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                  Rate Available?                           Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

     Appraisal                         No
     ICR estimate                      No
                                          * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



 6. Outcome:
   Considering that the relevance of project objectives and design, efficacy, and efficiency are all rated High, in
accordance with IEG guidelines the overall project outcome rating is Highly Satisfactory
  a. Outcome Rating: Highly Satisfactory


 7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:
     Considering that CFC, Halon, and MB imports have been prohibited and consumption of these ozone depleting
chemicals within the country has been successfully achieved, the risk to project development outcome is rated Low.
In addition to the successful phase-out of ODS at the national level, the ICR (pg. 26) also points out that the worldwide
phase-out of CFC and Halon production has eliminated global markets for these chemicals, while within Vietnam, the
phase-out of each ODS with support of the project has included the conversion to alternative non-ODS substitutes,
which has been verified by "effective monitoring" under the project's Management Information System.

   a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Negligible to Low

 8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

 a. Quality at entry:
    Based in part on previous experience with ODS elimination operations in other countries in the region and
elsewhere, the Bank brought high quality technical support to project design, which, as noted above, was also of
high quality. As highlighted in the ICR (pg. 26), “the ability to address the needs of each sector tied to a broader
comprehensive phase-out strategy offered the Government a flexible implementation modality through which to
achieve compliance,” with its objectives under the Montreal Protocol, while “the fact that such an approach was
proving successful for other countries within the Bank’s ODS portfolio in the region, lowered risk.” In addition, “the
adoption of the multi-year, funding disbursement based on performance implementation modality encouraged
enhanced national execution, capacity-building and flexibility in managing sectoral phase out.” The Bank team
also provided advice as to the selection of equipment and policy options and helped to oversee preparation of the
project’s annual work plans. Project design was also praised in the Second QAG Quality of the Lending Portfolio
(QALP-2) Review in 2010, which was particularly impressed by the project's strategic relevance, realism, and
approach as well as with its strong Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) and independent verification arrangements,
thus rating it Highly Satisfactory in this regard.
   Quality-at-Entry Rating:                       Highly Satisfactory

 b. Quality of supervision:
    Adopting a "learning by doing approach," the Bank provided high quality support to the recipient during the
course of project implementation, including to both the Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment (MONRE)
and the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development (MARD). This support during supervision included the
provision of advice regarding Montreal Protocol policy and requirements to both ministry staff and private sector
and other counterparts in all pertinent sectors, as well as to the PMU itself. In the process, it also helped to assure
that Bank fiduciary (i.e., procurement and financial management) and environmental safeguard requirements were
adequately met, and also played a constructive intermediary role, including in the negotiation of all funding
tranches once the project became effective, between the Government and the Executive Committee (ExCOM) of
the Multilateral Fund for Implementation of the Montreal Protocol. The QALP-2 assessment of Bank supervision
was likewise highly positive, commending the team for maintaining a high level of implementation support and
providing an excellent mix of technical, operational, and fiduciary assistance, together with strong continuity in
terms of team staffing, thus again rating it Highly Satisfactory.


   Quality of Supervision Rating :                Highly Satisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating :              Highly Satisfactory


 9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

 a. Government Performance:
     The Government was a strong supporter of the Montreal Protocol and its objectives as demonstrated both by
its commitment to the present project and to the follow-on operation of HCFC phase-out. It established an
Inter-ministerial Steering Committee to guide and oversee project implementation and ensured that an appropriate
policy framework was in place, while also supporting the adoption of viable alternatives to ozone depleting
chemicals in key industrial subsectors.

   Government Performance Rating                                Highly Satisfactory

 b. Implementing Agency Performance:
    Implementing agency performance, particularly that of MONRE, was likewise satisfactory. Both MONRE (CFC
and Halon phase-out) and MARD (MB phase-out) actively involved their technical experts in project
implementation. MARD experienced some initial staffing issues and difficulties with Bank fiduciary requirements,
as it was less familiar with them (see section 11b below), but these problems were overcome in part as the result
of strong Bank supervision support. Both the MONRE and MARD PMUs, moreover, reportedly demonstrated
strong commitment to the project and to the sustainability of its outcomes (ICR, pg. 28). The QALP-2 review in
2010 found, more specifically, that inclusion of the Methyl Bromide component was potentially challenging given
the need to add new institutional arrangements by involving the Plant Protection Department (PPD) in MARD,
which led to some early operational problems, especially with respect to financial management, but these were
eventually resolved and implementation generally proceeded smoothly thereafter.

   Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                     Satisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                        Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

 a. M&E Design:
   The project's M&E system was embedded in a national management information system (MIS) to contain all data
regarding ODS imports and consumption in Vietnam. In addition to being recorded in this MIS, all results in terms of
ODS reductions were to be independently verified, an important feature of project design. More specifically, the
system was designed to permit monitoring of project implementation and progress of aggregate phase-out of all ODS
chemicals on an annual basis in the country by "integrating registration, licensing, and import and use data by sector"
(ICR, pg. 20). As with other aspects of project design (and implementation), the M&E system was also praised in the
QALP-2 assessment of this operation that has been referred to in other parts of this review.

 b. M&E Implementation:
    Sector relevant data were introduced into the M&E system by both the MONRE and MARD PMUs, which were
responsible for ensuring that the phase-out in each sector (i.e., foam, refrigeration, etc.) was "consistent with the ODS
phase-out framework in the ExCom agreements." A completion report (PCR) for each individual subproject financed
with project resources was also prepared, likewise as per standard Montreal Protocol requirements in accordance
with a template designed to collect information regarding "the fate of ODS-based equipment, the types of equipment
procured, payments from grants, ODS and substitutes consumed, actual production after conversion,
cost-effectiveness, and ODS equipment disposal certification" (ICR, pg. 20) The project also instituted an
implementation progress reporting system through which progress reports were prepared on a bi-annual basis.

 c. M&E Utilization:
   The information provided through the M&E system, including independent verification reports and funding-tranche
release work programs were reviewed by the Bank supervision team then submitted to ExCom for both the
CFC/Halons and MB project streams. This system was used by MONRE, MARD, the Customs Department, and other
agencies to monitor and control ODS, including MB, which was carefully monitored to ensure that there was no
"slippage" for non-QPS uses. The system also allowed MONRE to track HCFC imports and uses that are also
controlled under the Montreal Protocol (MP) and whose substitution is now the subject of the ongoing
Bank-administered follow-on operation.

M&E Quality Rating: High




11. Other Issues

 a. Safeguards:
An integrated Environmental Management Plan was prepared by the recipient in accordance with the requirements of
OP/BP 4.01 (Environmental Assessment) and OP 4.09 (Pest Management). The project was initially classified in
Category C, but this was changed to Category B once the Methyl Bromide component was added in 2008. Despite the
initial C classification, according to the ICR (pg. 20), "Bank environmental specialists nevertheless formed part of the
core preparatory and supervision team [and] ensured that relevant health and safety issues were addressed" during
project design and implementation. Project social and environmental aspects were also monitored during supervision
"to ensure, for example, that as per MP guidelines, only mature, proven and commercially available technologies
could be used in the transition away from the controlled ODS and, as it the practice for all MLF [Multilateral Fund]
funded projects, that relevant discarded ODS equipment were (sic) destroyed and the process certified," The ICR
also affirms that any recovered ODS were "banked" until "viable disposal options" become available. For agricultural
activities formerly involving the use of MB, integrated pest management (IPM) practices were substituted where
possible. Throughout project implementation, the Bank team's environmental safeguard specialist reportedly provided
guidance to MARD's PMU that was located in its Plant Protection Department (PPD).

 b. Fiduciary Compliance:
Project fiduciary compliance was also good both with respect to procurement and to financial management.
Procurement was straightforward as the Bank was able to effectively advise the recipient based on prior experience
with other ODS operations in the region, The CFC component relied on a voucher system for the procurement of
goods based on competitive methods and industrial beneficiaries were provided with a list of qualified suppliers that
had previously been vetted by the MONRE PMU. These vouchers set a cost ceiling and disbursement against them
was based on actual costs. The financial management performance of the MONRE PMU was likewise consistently
satisfactory due to its adequate accounting and reporting systems and timely submission of audited financial
statements. However, the FM performance of the MARD PMU was more problematic on account of insufficient
staffing and delayed submission of financial reports, as well its lesser prior familiarity with Bank requirements.
However, Bank supervision missions were able to compensate for these problems and none of the project's financial
audits were qualified.

 c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):
The project's co-benefits with respect to GHG emissions reduction through the elimination of national CFC
consumption, while not unintended, nevertheless represented an important additional positive impact.

d. Other:
The project's institutional strengthening components were also effective as the result of technical assistance provided
to the recipient in order to strengthen the management capacity of the MONRE and MARD PMUs., Helpful support
was also provided to the Customs Department and other agencies involved in project implementation. This was
achieved in part through training carried out by Bank staff on project and financial management, procurement and
disbursement, and safeguard procedures, as well as on Montreal Protocol policies, financing guidelines and eligibility,
approval processes, and reporting and verification requirements. Altogether, nearly 4,500 national stakeholders
received technical support under the project including refrigeration and air conditioning technicians and service shops,
inspectors, medical personnel and patients, representatives of the oil and gas sector, and farmers, fumigation service
companies, and storage facility owners.


12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review                   Reason for
                                                                                       Disagreement/Comments
                      Outcome: Satisfactory                 Highly Satisfactory   Due to the very high quality of project
                                                                                  design, implementation, and results, the
                                                                                  project outcome rating is Highly
                                                                                  Satisfactory.
          Risk to Development Negligible to Low             Negligible to Low
                     Outcome:

            Bank Performance: Satisfactory                  Highly Satisfactory   Both quality at entry and quality of
                                                                                  supervision were highly satisfactory, as
                                                                                  also recognized by QAG in its QALP-2
                                                                                  review in 2010. While these
                                                                                  assessments were recognized in the
                                                                                  ICR, perhaps in an excess of modesty it
                                                                                  applied a lower rating.
       Borrower Performance : Satisfactory                  Satisfactory

                Quality of ICR:                             Exemplary

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:
   Among the useful lessons highlighted by the ICR(pp. 29-30) are the following:

    1. Addressing the phase-out of ODS from a sectoral, rather than project-by-project, perspective is both an
effective and cost-effective way to proceed.
    2. Performance-based financing, whereby funds are released annually based on achievement of pre-determined
phase-out targets and schedules provides an excellent implementation structure with which to motivate key
stakeholders to convert to non-ODS technologies and alternatives.
    3. Investment in the development and effective management of a comprehensive MIS, complemented by
independent verification of financial outlays and technical outcomes, is essential.


14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes      No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:

This is an excellent ICR. It is clear and well-written, and provides a comprehensive account of project design,
implementation, and results. Annex 2 provides a detailed list of outputs by components for each major type of ODS
that was the object of actions under the project, relating them directly to the specific objectives of the National CFC
and Halons Phase-out Plan (NCHP), together with those for Methyl Bromide. The ICR also presents a number of
pertinent lessons.
 a.Quality of ICR Rating : Exemplary
