                                     Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                    Report No: ICR00001867



           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                             (TF-55863)



                                       ON AN

                     OZONE PROJECTS TRUST FUND GRANT

                      IN THE AMOUNT OF US$2.36 MILLION

                                      TO THE

                       SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM

                                       FOR A

        VIETNAM NATIONAL CFC AND HALONS PHASE-OUT PROJECT



                                    June 22, 2015




Environment and Natural Resources Global Practice
Vietnam Country Office
East Asia and Pacific Region




                                          1
                            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                    (Exchange Rate Effective December 31, 2014)

                           Currency Unit = Vietnamese dong
                               dong 1,000 = US$0.0467
                                 US$1 = dong 21,388


                                    FISCAL YEAR
                                January 1 – December 31


                       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AM          Aide memoire
CFC         Chlorofluorocarbon
CE          Cost-effectiveness
CP          Country Program
ExCom       Executive Committee of the Multilateral Fund for the Implementation of the
            Montreal Protocol
FM          Financial Management
GEO         Global environment objective
GA          Grant Agreement
GWP         Global warming potential
HCFC        Hydrochlorofluorocarbons
ICR         Implementation Completion and Results Report
IP          Implementation Progress
IPM         Integrated pest management
ISP         Institutional Strengthening Project
ISR         Implementation Status and Results Report
MAC         Mobile air-conditioning
MARD        Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development
MB          Methyl bromide
M&E         Monitoring and Evaluation
MLF         Multilateral Fund for the Implementation of the Montreal Protocol
MOD         Memorandum and Recommendation of the Director
MOIT        Ministry of Industry and Trade
MONRE       Ministry of Natural Resources and the Environment
MP          Montreal Protocol
MT          Metric ton
NCHP Plan   National CFC and Halons Phase-out Plan
Non-QPS     Non quarantine and pre-shipment (refers to type of use of methyl bromide)
NOO         National Ozone Office
ODP         Ozone-depleting potential
ODP T       Ozone-depleting potential, tons (metric)
ODS         Ozone-depleting substances


                                            2
PMP/EMP   Pest management plan/Environmental management plan
PMU       Project management unit
PPD       Plant Protection Department
PSR       Project status report
QAG       Quality Assurance Group
QPS       Quarantine and pre-shipment
RAC       Refrigeration and Air-Conditioning
RP        Restructuring paper
TA        Technical assistance
TEAP      Technical and Economic Assessment Panel
UNDP      United Nations Development Programme
UNEP      United Nations Environment Programme
UNIDO     United Nations Industrial Development Organization
US$       United States dollar
VACVINA   Vietnam Gardening Association




           Senior Global Practice Director: Paula Caballero
                         Practice Manager: Iain Shuker
                     Project Team Leader: Qing Wang
                        ICR Team Leader: Qing Wang




                                          3
                                   SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM

          VIETNAM NATIONAL CFC AND HALONS PHASE-OUT PROJECT



                                                           CONTENTS

Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Global Environment Objectives and Design ............................................... 10
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes.......................................................... 15
  3. Assessment of Outcomes ....................................................................................................... 22
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ...................................................................... 26
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance .................................................................. 26
  6. Lessons Learned .................................................................................................................... 29
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners ........................ 30
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing ....................................................................................... 31
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component .............................................................................................. 33
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis .............................................................................. 41
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes .......................... 42
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................................ 44
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ................................................................ 45
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR .................................. 46
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders .................................... 57
  Annex 9. Reporting of Consumption of Annex A and E substances under
            Article 7 of the Montreal Protocol .............................................................................. 58
  Annex 10. Agreements between the Government of Vietnam and the
             Executive Committee of the MLF ............................................................................ 59
  Annex 11. Photographs .............................................................................................................. 64
  Annex 12. List of Supporting Documents ................................................................................. 69
  MAP




                                                                     4
Project Data Sheet

A. Basic Information
                                                                          Vietnam National CFC
Country:                Vietnam                 Project Name:             and Halons Phaseout
                                                                          Project
Project ID:             P083593                 L/C/TF Number(s):         TF-55863
ICR Date:               01/14/2015              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          SOCIALIST
Lending Instrument:     IPF                     Borrower:                 REPUBLIC OF
                                                                          VIETNAM
Original Total
                        USD 1.26M               Disbursed Amount:         USD 2.36M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 2.36M
Environmental Category: C                       Global Focal Area:
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment (MONRE)
 Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development (MARD)
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process              Date            Process              Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       12/12/2003     Effectiveness                               03/20/2006
Appraisal:            07/11/2005     Restructuring(s):                           05/14/2012
Approval:             01/23/2006     Mid-term Review:           05/15/2011           12/8/2012
                                     Closing:                   12/31/2010       12/31/2014

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Global Environment Outcome              Low
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
         Bank                 Ratings             Borrower                      Ratings
Quality at Entry:           Satisfactory    Government:                        Satisfactory
                                            Implementing
Quality of Supervision:     Satisfactory                                       Satisfactory
                                            Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                Overall Borrower
                            Satisfactory                                       Satisfactory
Performance:                                Performance:




                                                5
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments (if
                              Indicators                                             Rating
     Performance                                   any)
Potential Problem Project                           Quality at Entry
                          No                                                  None
at any time (Yes/No):                               (QEA):
Problem Project at any                              Quality of
                            No                                                None
time (Yes/No):                                      Supervision (QSA):
GEO rating before
                            Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                    Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Other industry                                                         100               100

Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Climate change                                                          100                  100

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                          At ICR                              At Approval
Regional Vice President: Axel van Trotsenburg                    James Adams
Country Director:           Victoria Kwakwa                      Klaus Rohland
Practice
                            Iain G. Shuker                       Magdolna Lovei
Manager/Manager:
Project Team Leader:        Qing Wang                            Helen Chan
ICR Team Leader:            Qing Wang
ICR Primary Author:         Dominique Isabelle Kayser

F. Results Framework Analysis
Global Environment Objectives (GEO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

To assist the Recipient in its efforts to reduce ODS consumption in its territory.

Revised Global Environment Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
and Key Indicators and reasons/justifications

The GEO expressed in the Grant Agreement was not formally revised. However, as a more detailed
version of the GEO figured in the Memorandum and Recommendation of the Director (MD),
which was the equivalent of the PAD for this project, a May 2012 Restructuring Paper clarified that
the Grant Agreement GEO was the official statement of objectives, and that the inclusion, in 2008,
of methyl bromide as an ODS targeted by the project was consistent with that GEO (see Section 1.2
of the ICR for details).




                                                    6
 (a) GEO Indicator(s)

                                              Original Target                      Actual Value
                                                                    Formally
                                                Values (from                       Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value                                Revised
                                                 approval                         Completion or
                                                                 Target Values
                                                documents)                         Target Years
Indicator 1 : Compliance with the phase-out schedule stipulated in the Montreal Protocol.
                 ODS consumption                                 Vietnam also
                 (import) compliance                             fulfills its
                                                                               Phase-out of Annex
                 assistance was required to Vietnam fulfills its phase-out
                                                                               A, B and E ODS
                 avoid challenges in         phase-out           commitments
                                                                               consumption
Value            meeting the 85% and         commitments         for Annex E
                                                                               successfully
(quantitative or 100% phase out reductions Annex A and B         (methyl
                                                                               achieved in
Qualitative)     in 2007 and 2010            substances under bromide
                                                                               accordance with
                 respectively, as well as to the Montreal        consumption)
                                                                               Montreal Protocol
                 ensure sustainable          Protocol            under the
                                                                               targets
                 conversion to alternatives                      Montreal
                 in affected sectors                             Protocol
Date achieved 12/31/2004                     01/01/2010          09/24/2008    01/01/15
Comments
                 100% achieved. Phase-out of consumption (import) of Annex A, B and E
(incl. %
                 substances in accordance with the Montreal Protocol’s compliance timeline.
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target                    Actual Value
                                                                 Formally
                                             Values (from                       Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value                            Revised
                                               approval                        Completion or
                                                               Target Values
                                              documents)                       Target Years
Indicator 1 :      CFC consumption (ozone depletion potential (ODP) tons/year)
Value
(quantitative or   240 ODP T                  0 ODP T                             0 ODP T
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/31/2004                  01/01/2010                         01/01/2010
Comments           100% CFC consumption phase-out achieved. The country met both its 2007 85%
(incl. %           reduction target (75 tons) and its 2010 100% phase out target (0 tons) in a timely
achievement)       manner.
Indicator 2 :      Halons consumption (h1211, h1301 and h2402) (ODP T/year)
Value
(quantitative or   76 ODP T                   0 ODP T                             0 ODP T
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/31/2004                 01/01/2010                          01/01/2010
Comments
                   100% of allowable consumption (imports) of halons were phased-out. Actual use,
(incl. %
                   represented in the baseline value, was sustained through stockpiled halons.
achievement)
Indicator 3 :      CTC consumption (ODP T/year)
Value
(quantitative or   0.2 ODP T                  0 ODP T                             0 ODP T
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/31/2004                   01/01/2010                       01/01/2010
Comments           100% CTC phase-out consumption was achieved by 2006 as a result of institution
(incl. %           of the import/export licensing and permit system, which also assured the
achievement)       sustainability of phase-out.


                                                   7
Indicator 4 :      Methyl bromide consumption in non-QPS (ODP T/year)
Value
(quantitative or   85.2 ODP T                  0 ODP T                            0 ODP T
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/31/2008               01/01/2015                          01/01/2015
Comments           100% phase-out of methyl bromide consumption for non-quarantine and pre-
(incl. %           shipment (QPS) uses achieved, as per as the National Plant Protection legislation
achievement)       instituted.



G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                       Actual
         Date ISR
No.                                GEO                           IP                Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                   (USD millions)
   1     01/23/2007             Satisfactory               Satisfactory                       0.27
   2     03/07/2008             Satisfactory               Satisfactory                       0.58
   3     05/12/2009             Satisfactory               Satisfactory                       1.28
   4     04/30/2010             Satisfactory               Satisfactory                       1.48
   5     06/27/2011             Satisfactory           Moderately Satisfactory                1.74
   6     03/16/2012             Satisfactory               Satisfactory                       1.98
   7     12/26/2012             Satisfactory               Satisfactory                       2.25
   8     08/16/2013             Satisfactory               Satisfactory                       2.25
   9     06/20/2014             Satisfactory               Satisfactory                       2.32
  10     12/29/2014             Satisfactory               Satisfactory                       2.36


H. Restructuring (if any)

                          ISR Ratings at   Amount
                 Board    Restructuring Disbursed at
 Restructuring                                                         Reason for Restructuring &
                Approved                 Restructuring
    Date(s)                                                               Key Changes Made
               GEO Change GEO      IP       in USD
                                           millions
                                                                      Reallocation of funds between
                                                                      categories in Schedule 1 of the
   05/14/2012                          S       S             2.25     GA and amendment to the
                                                                      Supplemental Letter on
                                                                      Performance Indicators.




                                                   8
I. Disbursement Profile




                          9
1. Project Context, Global Environment Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

The Montreal Protocol
The Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer (MP) is a multilateral
environmental agreement adopted in 1987 in response to growing global recognition that concerted
international action was required to protect the earth’s ozone layer, a stratospheric level filter that
shields the earth and protects human and ecosystem health from the sun’s dangerous ultraviolet
radiation.
The Protocol has established time-bound targets to reduce the production and consumption of
various ozone-depleting substances (ODS) including: (i) chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs) used in air-
conditioning, refrigeration, aerosol and foam applications; (ii) halons used in fire protection; (iii)
carbon tetrachloride (CTC) used as a cleaning agent and as process agents, substances that are
captured, recycled, and reused in closed chemical production systems; and, (iv) methyl bromide
(MB), a broad spectrum agricultural fumigant used for agricultural soil and storage uses (non-
quarantine and pre-shipment treatments), as well as for trade-related phytosanitary quarantine and
pre-shipment purposes. The reduction and phase-out targets for the production and consumption of
these ODS are outlined in Table 1.a.

       Table 1: Montreal Protocol ODS Basline Consumption* Reductions and Phase-out Target Deadlines,
                                       CFCs, Halons, CTC and Methyl bromide
                         Chlorofluorocarbons Halons (halons 1211,           Carbontetrachloride      Methyl bromide
                         (CFC-11, CFC-12,         halons 1301 and halons (CTC)                       (MeBr) **
                         CFC-113, CFC-114         2402)
                         and CFC-115)
Base Level               Average of 1995-97       Average of 1995-97        Average of 1998-2000 Average of 1995-98
Freeze at Base level     January 1, 1999          January 1, 2002                 -                  January 1, 2002
20% reduction                        -                         -                  -                  January 1, 2005
50% reduction            January 1, 2005          January 1, 2005                 -
85% reduction            January 1, 2007                                   January 1, 2005
100% reduction *** January 1, 2010                January 1, 2010           January 1, 2010          January 1, 2015
 *        Under the Montreal Protocol, "consumption" is defined as production plus imports minus exports of controlled
          substances. In the absence of production, as is the case for Vietnam, consumption refers to imports minus
          exports, as applicable.
 **       Amounts used for quarantine and pre-shipment applications exempted
 ***      Essential use exemptions/Critical use nominations are possible through a MP decision process

The Government of Vietnam became a party to the Montreal Protocol and its London and
Copenhagen Amendments on January 26, 1994, and ratified its Montreal and Beijing Amendments
on December 3, 2004. Accession to the Protocol rendered Vietnam eligible to receive grant funding
from the Protocol’s financial mechanism, the Multilateral Fund for the Implementation of the
Montreal Protocol (MLF), to support its ODS phase-out targets and compliance efforts. In 1994,
Vietnam established a National Ozone Office (NOO), tasked with executing implementation of the
country’s MP obligations, within the Government’s Hydro Meteorological Service. In 2003,
following a government-wide institutional restructuring, the NOO was mapped to the Ministry of
Natural Resources and Environment (MONRE).
Project Background
Vietnam prepared a Montreal Protocol Country Program (CP) with the assistance of the United
Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) with the aim of securing access to financial assistance
from the MLF. This strategic framework document outlined incremental costs, policies and actions
required to achieve ODS phase-out including, regulatory measures to control ODS imports, and
fiscal and technology transfer measures to encourage the use of ODS substitutes and of non-ODS




                                                          10
technologies, assuming sufficient funds to support sustainable transition to alternatives were made
available.

By 2003, forty various ODS activities including, technical assistance, training and investment
projects, and representing roughly 50 percent of Vietnam’s baseline ODS consumption, had been
implemented by the MLF’s other implementing agencies. The aim of the National CFC and Halons
Phase-out Plan (NCHP Plan) Project designed with the support of the World Bank, was to assist the
country in addressing its remaining ODS consumption in a strategic comprehensive manner, and to
allow it to achieve sustained aggregate reductions to meet the Protocol’s phase-out targets in a
timely and compliant fashion. In line with the CP’s objectives, and building on results of the earlier
MLF-funded activities, the NCHP Plan project sought to introduce measures to support reduction
in consumption demand of ODS, and eventual phase out, through a structured multi-year,
performance-based implementation strategy for the period 2005-2010, which was extended to 2015
in 2008 with the introduction of the MB phase-out. The measures to be introduced included, a
combination of policy, regulatory and financial incentives to 1) subsidize the costs of remaining
phase-out in manufacturing, 2) promote recovery and recycling and 3) make available training and
technical assistance activities to ground the phase down and eventual elimination of the targeted
ODS in daily life. To achieve these targets, a series of investment, technical assistance, and
capacity building activities were designed.

The World Bank as Implementing Agency of the Montreal Protocol.

The NCHP Plan Project was consistent with the Bank’s FY03-FY06 Country Assistance Strategy
(CAS) for Vietnam, one of whose organizing principles sought to enhance equitable, socially
inclusive and sustainable patterns of growth, including by enhancing environmental sustainability.

At the time of the Project’s design, the Bank’s ODS team was supporting similar multi-year,
strategic operations in the region, including in China, Indonesia, Malaysia and the Philippines,
which facilitated the transfer of experience and best practices. Given the Bank’s recognized ability
to support projects bridging various sectors, and given the opportunity to link specific
environmental efforts expressed in the CP more closely with environment objectives spelled out in
the CAS, the Bank was viewed as an important strategic partner for ODS phase-out in Vietnam,
particularly given the shrinking timeline the country was facing as the 100% compliance dates
neared.

1.2 Original Global Environment Objectives (GEO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

GEO

The GEO statement expressed in the Grant Agreement read: To assist the Recipient in its efforts to
reduce ODS consumption in its territory.

Note that the GEO stated in the Memorandum and Recommendation of the Director (MOD) was
more detailed, listing specific ODSs and fulfillment of Vietnam’s MP obligations, as follows: “to
assist Vietnam in phasing out its consumption of ODSs (CFC 11, 12, 113, 114 and 115, halons
1211, 1301 and 2402, 1,1,1-trichloroethane, and CTC) in accordance with Vietnam's agreement
with the MP in a timely and cost-effective manner.”

This is consistent with the Grant Agreement (GA) version, though the lack of specificity in the GA
version also allowed inclusion of additional ODS in the project without formal revision of the GEO
(see Section 1.3). The reference to the MP agreement, while not expressly stated in the GA, is
universally understood to be the underlying objective and yardstick for setting targets and
measuring outcomes.




                                                 11
Indicators

The original Key Indicators reflect those in the ICR Data Sheet with the exception of methyl
bromide (MB), which was included later (see Sect. 1.3), and three indicators that were achieved
earlier: (a) methyl chloroform (1,1,1-TCA) phase-out, (b) ban imports of CFC-containing
equipment, and (c) elimination of manufacturing of CFC-containing products (see Sect. 1.3).

The GEO indicator in the ICR Data Sheet is not a formal indicator in either the GA or the MOD,
which only listed the indicators without categorizing their level. While all the indicators, and
particularly the phase-out targets for specific ODS, could be considered GEO level indicators
themselves, the ICR presents this unofficial aggregate ODS/MP indicator as the GEO-level
outcome, with each ODS as an intermediate indicator/outcome. For practical purposes, however,
they are all GEO level and the hierarchy in the results framework is presented to better convey the
breakdown of the overall objective by ODS and their relation within the context of the MP, but
does not alter the material outcomes of the project or their assessment.

1.3 Revised GEO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

The GEO (in the GA) was not formally revised. However, because the ISR and many other
working documents during implementation stated the detailed objectives from the MOD, the
restructuring paper (RP) for the May 2012 reallocation of proceeds (see Sect. 1.7) was also used as
an opportunity to reaffirm the GEO from the GA as being the official statement of the project’s
objectives.

The RP also clarified that the addition of MB in the August 2008 additional financing/ restructuring
did not require revision of the objectives or definitions because in the original agreement “ODS”
was defined as “any ozone depleting substance or substances,” which would include MB, along
with the corresponding phase-out target as an indicator.

Though the indicators (stated in the GA) were not formally revised to include MB when the MB
Phase-Out Plan was incorporated into the project in 2008, the phase-out amounts were clearly
stated in the approved plan, they were monitored throughout implementation, and the revision of
the results framework in the May 2012 amendment of the “Supplemental Letter on Performance
Indicators” is considered a retroactive formality rather than a true revision of indicators or targets.

The revised Supplemental Letter on Performance Indicators did not include the indicator for methyl
chloroform phase-out and two indicators for implementation of policy instruments - 1) ban imports
of CFC-containing equipment and 2) elimination of manufacturing of CFC-containing products -
that had figured in the original Supplemental Letter. The instauration of policy actions at the
project’s outset had resulted in early achievement of these indicators and subsequently, they were
not monitored. As a result, at the time of the revision of the Supplemental Letter, these were not
integrated as active indicators (see Sect. 2.2 on policy mechanisms).

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The NCHP Plan Project and its MB Phase out Plan sub-component benefited a wide variety of
Vietnamese stakeholders:
 The remaining CFC-using manufacturer in the foam sector received funds to cover the
    incremental costs of converting the production line to non-ODS technologies.
 Service shops and technicians in the refrigeration and air-conditioning (RAC) and mobile air-
    conditioning (MAC) sectors received targeted training in the handling of new alternative
    refrigerants, as well as servicing equipment and subsidies to support technological conversion.



                                                  12
   Medical personnel, hospital administrators and asthma patients benefited from a strategic and
    streamlined transition away from use of CFC-based metered-dose inhalers (MDIs), which
    allowed for the uptake of non-CFC based MDIs to proceed with confidence.
   Fumigation Service Companies (FSCs), storage facility owners and Vietnamese farmers
    received training, technical assistance and inputs to support the sustainable phase out of MB.

Government officials from MONRE and MARD, including both policy and technical staff, as well
as the members of the Inter-ministerial Steering Committee (see Sect. 2.2) benefitted from
institutional strengthening that laid the foundations for positive inter-ministerial coordination and
enhanced ozone-relevant governance practices at various levels of government.

In addition to the direct global benefits generated by the Project as a result of the elimination of
ODS consumption (improving the health of the ozone layer and reducing negative effects
associated with its depletion including, skin cancers, immune system deficiencies, eye cataracts in
human beings and animals, as well as damage to agricultural crops and marine organisms), an
important secondary direct global benefit is the reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions
achieved, associated with the high global warming (GWP) impact of a number of the ODS
chemicals phased out (see Sect. 3.5.c). Though not formally counted as an indicator of project
outcomes, the GHG reductions achieved had a direct and quantifiable correlation to the ODS
reduction achieved.

1.5 Original Components

As originally approved, and expressed in Schedule 2 of the Grant Agreement and in the MOD, the
Project was designed to address three streams of work:

Regulatory Framework: Provide policy and regulatory guidance to improve Vietnam’s regulatory
framework for phasing out CFCs and halons by: (a) establishing quotas and licenses for the import
and export of specific CFCs and halons; (b) establishing bans on the use of selected CFCs in the
manufacturing sector and in the production of CFC equipment; and, (c) imposing requirements for
inspection of mobile air-conditioners (MACs) as part of the existing vehicle safety inspection
program.

Phase-out of CFCs and Halons: Finance activities to phase-out use of CFCs and halons in the
foam, refrigeration, MAC and fire protection sectors through the provision of sub-grants to sector
stakeholders including:
1. remaining CFC-consuming foam enterprises to convert CFC-based foam production
    technology to non-CFC technology including, replacement of baseline equipment or minor
    changes to existing equipment to ensure compatibility with new CFC substitutes.
2. halons enterprises to acquire appropriate equipment to recover and recycle halons, acquire
    expertise in identifying acceptable non-halons alternatives, and establish an electronic database
    of recovered halons available for reuse.
3. RAC and MAC service shops to acquire service tool kits for non-CFC refrigerators and MACs.

Institutional Strengthening: Strengthen the capacity of relevant government agencies to support the
phase-out of ODS in a manner compliant with the objectives under the Montreal Protocol and
strengthening the capacity of the PMU to implement the project.

1.6 Revised Components

Three additional components were added to Schedule 1 of the GA under the 2008 GA amendment
to accommodate the implementation of the MB Phase-out Plan, which was approved for funding by
the Executive Committee (ExCom) of the MLF following the launch of implementation of the
NCHP Plan Project. The MB sub-component had not been included at the time of the NCHP Plan


                                                 13
Project’s approval by the ExCom pending the completion of a precursor UNIDO-implemented MB
project.

In theory, the three components could have been integrated into the NCHP Plan Project’s existing
regulatory, investment and institutional strengthening activity streams however, it was decided to
introduce separate components in order to clearly differentiate the different nature of the
agriculture sector’s MB streams of work, as well as to recognize the specific MB phase out
agreement that had been reached by the Government and the ExCom.

Regulatory Framework for the Phase-out of MB: Improve the country’s MB regulatory framework
through establishment of import quotas and a permit system for importers and fumigation
companies, development of national standards for pest control and hygiene requirements for
storage facilities and, monitoring of imports and uses.

Support for the Implementation of the Phase-out of MB: Development of an information
management system to facilitate tracking of import and use data for MB and MB alternatives,
organization of training workshops for MARD inspectors and regulators, training-of-trainers in
alternative fumigation and integrated pest management (IPM) methods, provision of technical
assistance to fumigation service companies and growers on proper use and handling of alternatives
and, organization of study tours for MARD staff to share and gain experience from countries
implementing similar MB phase out activities.

Investments for the Phase-out of MB: Provide sub-grants to fumigation service companies to
implement the adoption of MB alternatives.

1.7 Other significant changes

Additional Financing and First Grant Agreement Amendment / Closing Date Extension: The
original GA, dated January 23, 2006, was approved in the amount of US $1,260,000. Following the
approval of additional financing, at the request of the Government the GA was amended on August
22, 2008, increasing the grant amount to US$2,358,284 to accommodate the introduction of the
MB Phase-out Plan component into the NCHP Plan Project. New disbursement categories for MB
activities were created; the original categories were not changed. In tandem, the Project closing
date was extended to December 31, 2014 (to align with the Protocol’s January 1, 2015 100% MB
compliance deadline for Vietnam and other ‘Article 5’ countries).

Reallocation of Funds / Second Amendment: Reallocation of funds occurred twice during the
project’s implementation: first in February 2010, on a no-objection basis to the revised and updated
NCHP Plan’s 2010 Procurement Plan, and again in May 2012 through a formal restructuring. In the
first instance, funds were reallocated from the project’s halons component to its RAC and MAC
service shop component (see Sect. 2.2). As the reallocation was within the same category of
expenditure (Category 4) under Schedule 1 of the GA, it did not require revision of the GA and was
processed on a no-objection basis.

The reallocation of funds (and grant amendment) approved in May 2012 involved reallocation from
one category of expenditure that had generated savings, to four other categories in order to support
existing MB project component activities that required additional funds, as well as to include some
new activities that had been identified as requiring to support achievement of the GEO.




                                                14
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

While the Project’s operational approach was straightforward, built on regulatory, investment and
capacity development components, its design, of funding national, multi-year, phase-out-based
performance aligned with the compliance targets of the MP, made it more ambitious than the
previously funded MLF projects that had been implemented in Vietnam by other Implementing
Agencies on a project-by-project basis.

Assessment of project design. The aim of the NCHP Plan’s design was to provide the country a
vehicle through which to meet the MP’s 2007, 2010, and 2015 compliance and phase-out
objectives in a comprehensive manner by building upon key experiences and lessons that had been
gained by the client in undertaking ODS phase-out to that point.1 The design clearly recognized the
need to move beyond the traditional project-by-project financing that had been in use and to initiate
a comprehensive phase-out strategy that would allow Vietnam to more strategically tackle the
remaining phase-out efforts required to ensure sustainable compliance with the MP’s targets. The
Plan’s modality provided greater flexibility for design of inputs based on phase-out needs across
diverse sectors, which also offered the potential for adaptive management to direct Project funds
where most needed; offered greater ease of results monitoring in the aggregate, by sector and at the
national level, thereby facilitating Vietnam’s task of assessing compliance status against its MP
targets; and, encouraged the uptake of a comprehensive capacity building effort through
engagement with and training of various government agencies and private sector stakeholders. The
consolidation of phase-out activities under a national approach was considered innovative,
sustainable and manageably complex, given the totality of the approach, the Government's assessed
ability and its commitment to its compliance obligations.

Assessment of risks. At project concept, the Project team accurately identified the potential risks
facing the operation: 1) that Vietnam’s economic growth was creating pressure for continued CFC
use that might render the Project investments unsustainable; 2) that without the project, Vietnam
might become a dumping ground for unwanted CFCs and outdated CFC-using equipment as a
result of other countries in the region undertaking implementation of similar projects, which could
lead to a surplus build-up of CFCs and CFC-containing equipment which would require additional
investment to allow Vietnam to properly dispose of the waste in future; and, 3) that slow
disbursements attributable to weak FM, procurement and project management skills capacity, such
as had been experienced in the Bank’s portfolio, as well as the large number stakeholders that
would need to participate in the Project may results in delays in achieving its objectives.

To mitigate these risks, both the NCHP Plan Project and its MB component: 1) front-loaded policy
actions to establish systems of import controls, including restrictions and bans; 2) introduced the
performance-based tranche funding approach, underpinned by the submission of biannual work
plans to the ExCom, which ensured that work across the various sectors underwent ongoing
monitoring and evaluation year to year; and, 3) instituted technical assistance (TA) components
that supported the sustainability of efforts by emphasizing capacity building in all aspects of
implementation. In terms of guidance, the Project established an efficient supervision model
supported by well-structured management and highly effective technical expertise. The terms of the
NCHP Plan’s agreements with the ExCom, which required that annual independent verification of



1
  The development of the MB sub-component was conceived within the design of the NCHP Plan Project, but was
ultimately held back for financing pending completion of a UNIDO-implemented demonstration project in the sector that
remained ongoing.




                                                         15
the ODS import/export system be conducted, also helped mitigate risks to the Project’s
sustainability.

The Bank’s Quality Assurance Group (QAG) did not conduct a Quality at Entry Assessment
(QEA) for the project, as reflected in the ICR Data Sheet. However, QAG did carry out a Quality
Assessment of Lending Portfolio (QALP-2) in 2010, assisted by specialized reviewers (i.e. social,
environment, financial management and procurement) that rated the NCHP Plan Project’s quality
of design as highly satisfactory with respect to strategic relevance and approach, as well as to
realism of design and risks. The assessment noted that the Project had benefited from a wealth of
scientific and technical ODS knowledge, and from experience of other Bank ODS projects in the
region and elsewhere. The design of the Project’s operational phase-out-based performance funding
scheme was lauded as providing for rigorous external review, while its results-based M&E system
was applauded as exemplary.

2.2 Implementation

The NCHP Plan Project was implemented along two streams: a comprehensive national phase-out
plan targeting consumption of CFCs across different sectors, and halons used in fire protection
(Annex A, Groups I and II); and, a sub-component project under the Plan targeting consumption of
MB used for non-quarantine and pre-shipment (QPS) applications in the country’s agricultural
sector (Annex E, Group I). The implementation schedules for both NCHP Plan Project tracks were
guided by the Protocol’s compliance targets: 85 percent phase-out by January 1, 2007 for CFCs;
100 percent phase-out by 1 January, 2010 for CFCs and halons; and, 100 percent phase-out by 1
January 2015 for MB (see Table 1). Implementation of the CFC and halons components was
completed over a four-year period ending in 2010, while implementation of the MB sub-project
component was completed over a 6-year period, concluding in December 2014.

Phase-out performance based on flexible design. The sector approach modality initiated under the
NCHP Plan was an appropriately flexible and efficient implementation model. The use of a mix of
targeted policy, capacity-building and institutional strengthening tools to drive and sustain phase-
out was emphasized, which has buttressed the overall sustainability of Project outcomes. The
nationally executed, multi-year, performance-based nature of the Project was equally important -
total MLF financing is agreed at approval but released in tranches, based on a specific schedule and
achievement of annual ODS phase-out targets as verified independently 2 , as it cemented the
inclusive policy-driven approach supported by financial incentives that was considered necessary
to allow Vietnam to effectively manage its ODS market and ensure a sustainable phase-out. Upon
this platform, the NCHP Plan reporting system required that independent financial audit and ODS
consumption verification to confirm that phase-out objectives, as planned and as reported
completed, had been achieved.

The Project was fully successful in supporting the Government in carrying out the phase-out of use
of CFCs and halons in accordance with the Protocol’s schedule (see Annex 10, Article 7
Reporting). The success of the CFC phase-out lay the foundations for Vietnam to undertake
preparatory work for a new class of ODS, hydrochlorofluorocarbons (HCFCs) (Annex C, Group 1),
that defines the current phase-out work of the Protocol. The phase-out of MB for non-QPS
applications was also successful in sustainably curbing Vietnam’s consumption of this ODS for
both soil and storage applications and experience gained with respect to the use of alternatives for
non-QPS uses was cited during ICR preparation as also encouraging the country to reduce its
dependence on MB for trade-related QPS uses, where feasible. The success and sustainability of



2
  Approval is cemented by an agreement between the country and Executive Committee, relegating accountability to the
country for achieving phase-out targets, in return for funding.




                                                        16
the NCHP Plan Project’s overall achievements center on (a) the introduction of appropriate policy
mechanisms, (b) the uptake of sector-appropriate technology measures, and (c) the institutional
strengthening of responsible governmental entities, as well as relevant sector stakeholders.

Effective policy support for ODS phase-out. Support for the development of appropriate policy and
regulatory guidance has reinforced Vietnam’s ODS regulatory framework. An ODS import/export
licensing system and annual import quota process, jointly administered by MONRE and the
Ministry of Industry and Trade (MOIT), became functional in 2006. Annual import quotas to
registered importers, based on previous year’s imports, along with import licenses identifying the
importer, the type of chemical, its harmonized customs code and the authorized annual import
quota, with which importers could then request permits from the MOIT. The institution of the
import/export licensing and quota system, supported by the collaborative relationship between
MONRE, MOIT and Customs, was key to bringing ODS users in line with the phase-down
schedule required, and a crucial first step for the Government to update its regulatory framework.

Over the period 2006-2007, MONRE worked to institute first a ban on the use of CFCs in the
manufacture of CFC-using equipment (i.e. household refrigerators), followed by a ban on the
import of CFC-containing equipment, policy instruments that figured as performance indicators in
the GA. These achievements helped cement the sustainability of CFC phase-out early on, while
addressing important risks that had been identified. In tandem, and from a regulatory perspective,
the country’s existing vehicle safety inspection program was brought in line with Vietnam’s ODS
phase-out strategy as requirements for inspection of mobile air-conditioners (MACs) were
introduced with the endorsement and support of the Vietnam Register Program.

Alongside the policy work undertaken by MONRE, MARD strengthened Vietnam’s MB regulatory
framework through establishment of MB import quotas and by updating the Ministry’s
administrative procedures regarding import permits. Annual import quotas for non-QPS MB uses
were established and included in the national ODS import/export system, and companies eligible to
import MB were required to register and obtain import permits from MARD’s Plant Protection
Department (PPD). The development of the permit system and the reinforcement of import,
reporting and monitoring procedures allowed the PPD to track use more effectively and ensure that
MB imported for QPS purposes not controlled under the MP was not be diverted for controlled
non-QPS uses.

MB-specific phase-out requirements have been introduced into Vietnam’s Plan Protection Law.
The country’s National Assembly approved the updated law in November 2013. The PPD has since
revised the Law’s associated Circular on Pesticide Management to include a ban on MB use in non-
QPS applications, beginning on January 1, 2015. The draft Circular underwent extensive
consultation, including through the WTO notification process (October 2014). Shortly following
Project completion, Circular 2186/BVTV-KD received MARD Ministerial consideration and was
issued.

Targeted investment and adaptive management to sustain phase-out. Consumption of CFCs and
halons was successfully phased out (see Annex 9). Vietnam’s last remaining CFC-consuming foam
enterprise converted to HCFC-141b in December 2006 and its CFC-using baseline equipment was
certified dismantled. Nationally, 20 refrigeration and air-conditioning servicing training centers and
61 vehicle inspection stations were equipped, respectively, with training equipment and refrigerant
identifiers. More than 890 RAC and MAC service shops received refrigerant tool kits to handle
alternative refrigerants under a voucher program through which service shops were able to source
tools through MONRE-verified providers. A phase-out strategy for CFC metered dose inhalers
(MDIs) in the health sector, and a national outreach program targeting both medical practitioners
and patients promoted a safe and sustainable shift to non-CFC alternatives.

In the halons sector, the Project worked with Vietnam’s largest halons consumer to strengthen
technical capacity within the fire protection industry in evaluating efficacy and the safe use of a


                                                 17
range of alternatives, and to determine the realism of investing in the establishment of a halons
recovery and recycling center to support ongoing critical halons consumption. It ultimately
concluded that support for recovery and recycling was not required, as it had been determined that
sustainable halons phase-out could be assured through effective training in good management and
maintenance procedures, supported by the use of alternatives. Funds remaining in this sector (US
$37,000) were re-programmed (first reallocation of funds, February 2010) to RAC and MAC
service shop activities, which had experienced an increased demand for tool kits, well beyond
initial projections.

The MB sub-component also successfully supported the Government’s efforts to phase-out the use
of MB (see Annex 10). A pesticide management plans/environment management plan (PMP/EMP)
was prepared by PPD to ensure that safe, effective, and environmentally sound pest management
was promoted and supported in the introduction of non-MB alternatives in order to minimize risks
to the environment or human health.

The need for MARD to undertake additional, in-depth consultation with relevant ministries and
stakeholders underscored the different nature of the MB sector’s work within the NCHP Plan
Project. This effort helped secure broad inter-agency commitment across the agriculture sector
which in turn, allowed the Project to effectively support the sector in meeting the compliance
phase-out approved by the ExCom (see Sect. 3.2), using an approach complementary to that used to
address CFC and halons consumption phase out. Although data regarding consumption for 2014
had not yet been reported at the time of the ICR’s preparation, the steady downward trend
demonstrated during implementation of the Project would seem to indicate that Vietnam will
maintain a sustainable compliance, a view shared by the PPD.

Training workshops developed for MARD inspectors and regulators enhanced knowledge
regarding issues key to eliminating reliance on MB including, integrated approaches for managing
soil borne diseases, pest control standards and hygiene requirements for storage applications and,
consistent monitoring to preempt a fall-back on MB use due to pest resistance and/or improper use
of MB alternatives. The PPD technical study tour to Australia in 2009 helped inform both practical
technical and policy aspects of the Project’s work. Importantly, it offered the opportunity to discuss
ways to tackle the widespread resistance to phosphine, an important alternative to MB that Vietnam
was experiencing.

National experts from within the PPD or the Regional Plant Quarantine Sub-Departments were
trained to on-train farmers, fumigation service companies and storage facility owners, which
reinforced positive collaborative working relations in the sector. Soil fumigation field trials were
organized, with the support of the Vietnam Gardening Association (VACVINA), in two strategic
regions where production of cash crops had driven up demand for MB for non-QPS applications.
More than 450 farmers were trained on the adoption of viable MB alternatives using IPM
approaches. The Project’s emphasis on providing the best available and most up-to-date data and
methods in terms of application of alternatives was key to helping farmers and PPD technicians
find effective solutions for each specific crop.

Tackling Challenges Associated with MB Alternatives: Issues with Phosphine. In the storage sector,
the project faced the particular challenge that widespread resistance to phosphine presented.
Phosphine is a widely-used, cost-effective and rapid acting alternative to MB that does not leave
residue on stored products, making its viability as an alternative important to prevent reintroduction
of MB use for certain non-QPS purposes. Long used in Vietnam as a fumigant, high levels of
resistance had developed amongst local pest populations, due either to extended or improper
application. Although other fumigants exist as potential alternatives to MB in this sector, issues
related to their registration and demonstration pose challenges. This made achieving progress on
the phosphine resistance issue paramount to effectively eliminating MB use.




                                                 18
The Project strengthened the ability of the PPD’s pest resistant unit, located in the Plant Quarantine
Diagnostic Center, to address the question of phosphine resistance by furnishing the Center with
appropriate research equipment to monitor pest resistance and overseeing its expansion from a
research body into one with a full-time monitoring mandate, the Insect Resistance Control Unit
(IRCU). The Project used savings to support a follow-up study based on comprehensive research
conducted by the IRCU and informed by in-field surveys and international expertise. This, in turn,
underpinned the preparation of a National Phosphine Resistance Management Plan 2012 that was
used to guide the organization of training workshops that developed the capacity of 700+
participants from fumigation service companies and storage facilities to avoid reintroduction of
MB. Including through educated and effective application of phosphine. The phosphine resistance
problem was not eradicated as a result of the Project’s interventions, but it is now overall ably
managed.

Another issue associated with use of phosphine has surfaced more recently, raised during
preparation of this evaluation. As a result of economic growth and development, Vietnam has seen
a marked increase in the import of grains (corn, wheat) which in turn, has led to the establishment
of a number of associated food processing facilities. Phosphine used to fumigate such structures
has long been known to cause corrosion. Options exist to address this concern, namely through the
application of strict IPM/monitoring practices. The issue has been discussed with the PPD and a
strategy to transition to effective IPM practices should be developed.

Government Commitment and Cooperation. Vietnam’s efforts to meet its objectives under the
Protocol benefited from the oversight of an Inter-ministerial Steering Committee that included
representatives from MONRE, the Ministry of Industry and Trade, the Ministry of Planning and
Investment, the Ministry of Science and Technology, the Customs Department/Ministry of Finance,
the State Bank of Vietnam, the Ministry of Fisheries, the Ministry of Commerce, the Ministry of
Labor and Social Affairs through its Vocational Training Department, the Drug Administration
Department, and MARD. The capacity of relevant government agencies to support Vietnam’s ODS
phase-out were strengthened: MOIT’s licensing offices have the knowledge to implement broad
ODS import control measures; the Customs Department enforces import and export control
regulations; the Vocational Training Center possesses the skills to train technicians on good
management practices for the servicing of refrigeration and air-conditioning (R/A-C) equipment;
the Vietnam Register manages MAC inspections; the Ministry of Public Health’s Drug
Administration manages the strategy on use of non-CFC metered-dose inhalers without
compromising the health of patients; and, MARD’s PPD and Plant Quarantine Diagnostic Center
are better equipped to protect the country’s agricultural assets. The subsequent involvement of
many of these same stakeholders in the follow-on work Vietnam is engaged in on phasing-out
hydrochlorofluorocarbons (HCFCs) speaks to the sustainability of commitment.

The Project’s various inputs and outputs, by sector, as well as explanation of adaptive management
responses implemented, are presented in Annex 2.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

Design. The design of the streamlined M&E systems for the Project’s CFC/halons and MB streams
were embedded in the Project’s management components. Recognition of the need for strengthened
coordination among the agencies implicated was central. The principal M&E tool called for the
streamlined development of a national Management Information System (MIS) to house all data
concerning ODS imports and uses in Vietnam, and to facilitate effective ongoing control and
monitoring. In addition, the performance-based implementation modality of the NCHP Plan Project
required independent verification of results to release the funding tranches outlined in the
Government’s agreements with the ExCom, and pro forma submission of project completion
reports was expected to the MLF.




                                                 19
Implementation. Based on the Bank’s experience with projects of similar structure in neighboring
countries and around the world, it was understood that the NCHP Plan’s comprehensive structure
would bring additional management complexity to Vietnam’s ODS phase-out program as
compared to the previous project-by-project approach that had been favored. The MIS introduced
by the Project put in place a necessary monitoring and management tool to track and report
implementation and progress of aggregate phase out on an annual basis by integrating registration,
licensing, and import and use data by sector.

Sector-relevant information was introduced into the systems by the MONRE and MARD PMUs,
who were tasked with management of the MIS and the overall responsibility of ensuring that the
phase-out associated with each sector was consistent with the ODS phase-out framework in the
ExCom agreements.

In addition, the ExCom requires that every MLF-funded project complete and submit a PCR to the
Senior Monitoring and Evaluation Officer of the MLF. PCRs are used by the MLF to conduct
aggregate level portfolio analysis, which in turn, is reported upon to the ExCom, and also serves to
inform the deliberations of the Meeting of the Parties to the Protocol. With the advent of multi-
year, performance-based projects, a specific PCR template for such projects was designed to collect
information regarding, inter alia, the fate of ODS-based equipment, the types of equipment
procured, payments from grants, ODS and substitutes consumed, actual production after
conversion, cost effectiveness and ODS equipment disposal certification. Project Completion
Reports (PCRs) for the CFC/halons and MB sectors were prepared and submitted to the MLF, and
served to inform preparation of this ICR.

Utilization. The Project’s performance-based structure ensured that an ongoing, de facto quality at
entry process was instituted within the sector-specific agreements the Government had reached
with the ExCom. Independent verification reports and funding-tranche release work programs were
reviewed by the Bank team then submitted to the ExCom for both the CFC/halons and MB Project
streams. In addition, the Project instituted an implementation progress reporting system whereby
progress reports, in an agreed format, were prepared on a bi-annual basis. Together, these efforts
ensured an ongoing, transparent M&E process.

The MIS designed continues to be used by various agencies including MONRE, MARD and
Customs to control and monitor ODS. MB, which continues to be imported for QPS purposes, is
carefully monitored to ensure that no slippage for non-QPS uses occurs. The system also allows
MONRE to track and monitor imports and uses of HCFCs which are also controlled under the
Protocol and whose consumption Vietnam is currently in the process of phasing down.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Safeguards
An integrated PMP/EMP was prepared by the Government in accordance with requirements of the
Bank’s Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) and Pest Management (OP 4.09) safeguards. The
NCHP Plan Project was initially categorized as a Category ‘C’, given that its components offered
positive environmental impacts at both global and local levels resulting from the elimination of
ODS. Bank environmental specialists nevertheless, formed part of the core preparatory and
supervision team. They ensured that sector relevant health and safety issues were addressed during
the design and preparation. During supervision, the Project’s social and environmental aspects were
monitored to ensure for example, that as per MP guidelines, only mature, proven and commercially
available technologies could be used in the transition away from the controlled ODS and, as is the
practice for all MLF-funded projects, that as relevant, discarded ODS equipment were destroyed
and the processes certified. Any recovered ODS have been banked until such time as viable
disposal options become available.




                                                20
Activities carried out under the MB sub-component of the Project involved replacement of MB
with alternative IPM practices, including the use of other chemicals, which triggered the Bank’s
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) and Pest Management (OP 4.09) safeguards. The Project
was therefore, re-categorized, with the endorsement of the Region’s Safeguards Secretariat, from a
‘C’ to a ‘B’ category to address this safeguard issue and a revised Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet
(ISDS) was prepared and processed alongside the 2008 amendment to the GA. An updated PMP
was prepared by the PPD, reviewed by the Bank Team and widely circulated for public
consultation, following which stakeholder comments were addressed and incorporated into the final
PMP. During the MB Project’s implementation, on a regular basis and in tandem with Bank
supervision missions, the Bank team’s environmental safeguards specialist provided safeguard
guidance to the PPD’s PMU. Project activities were found to be in compliance with the provisions
of OP 4.09 and BP 4.01, Annex C.

Fiduciary
Expenditure and post procurement reviews were regularly carried out by the Bank’s procurement
and financial management (FM) specialists. Issues raised by these reviews were clarified and
efficiently resolved. Based on training provided by the Bank team’s procurement and FM
specialists, the Project’s MONRE and MARD PMUs were in a position to maintain clear and
detailed accounts, as well as progress reports. The Project is considered to have complied with the
Bank’s policies and guidelines.

Financial Management. Training on financial and project management, procurement procedures
and safeguard policies was provided by the Bank team for both PMUs. The PMUs maintained
detailed accounts throughout implementation of the Project that were submitted on a bi-annual
basis to the Bank. The FM and procurement specialists engaged by the PMUs conducted regular
reviews to ensure that any concerns or issues with regard to expenditure or procurement were
promptly clarified and resolved.

Audit reports consistently expressed the opinion that financial and accounting management were
well organized and that accounting documents were well maintained and easy to access. None of
the audits were qualified. The system overall was considered to be reliable and able to provide
managers in MONRE and MARD with the financial information required to support their decision-
making.

Overall, the FM performance of the MONRE PMU for the NCHP Plan Project was consistently
rated satisfactory and low risk given its adequate accounting and reporting systems and based on its
timely submission of financial reports and audited financial statements with unqualified audit
opinions. The FM performance of MARD PMU received consistent Moderately Satisfactory and
Low Risk ratings with some issues related to insufficient staffing, delayed submission of financial
reporting and limited MARD experience with World Bank operations noted. The Bank team’s FM
specialist carried out regular supervision missions, with additional assistance provided to the PPD
PMU, to assess the status and quality of the Project’s FM arrangements including, organizational
structure and staffing, planning and budgeting, disbursements, accounting and reporting, and
auditing in order to strengthen internal controls and FM procedures.

Procurement. The process for procurement of goods and services was straightforward, based on
the experience of other ODS projects in the region. The CFC (RAC & MAC Service Shops)
component relied on a voucher system for the procurement of goods that was based on competitive
procurement methods. Beneficiaries were provided with a list of qualified suppliers that had been
vetted and pre-selected by the MONRE PMU. Vouchers set a ceiling cost for goods and
disbursement against the vouchers was based on actual costs. Payments to suppliers based on
vouchers submitted were made directly by the Project.




                                                21
2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

No additional phases are required to tackle the ODS addressed by the NCHP Plan Project following
its implementation and completion. The enterprise level CFC-using equipment used in the foam
sector was verified to have been dismantled and rendered unusable. Remaining ODS targeted by
the Project has been phased out through replacement with other substances, supported by
regulatory measures and training interventions. Vietnam has met the phase-out targets mandated by
the Protocol and compliance has been maintained throughout the Project’s implementation.

Work initiated under the NCHP Plan Project did however, lay the groundwork for the Government
to initiate a sustainable transition in addressing the next generation of post-2010 ODS: the phase-
out of HCFCs. In 2011, MLF funding of US$9.76 million was approved, in principle, under
another phase-out performance-based model (funding tranches released based on phase-out
achieved) for Vietnam to implement the HCFC Phase-out Management Plan (HPMP) it developed
with the support of the Bank. Experiences and lessons gained during the implementation of the
NCHP Plan Project served to inform the strategy adopted by Vietnam for this next phase of ozone
protection.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The NCHP Plan Project’s design accurately targeted the establishment of an effective national
framework to meet Vietnam’s MP targets in a sustainable manner. Its objectives, and its results, are
of direct relevance to a number of current country-level and global environmental priorities. The
Bank’s current Country Partnership Strategy with Vietnam (CPS FY12-16) specifies amongst its
projected outcomes, provision of improved quality and efficiency of infrastructure services through,
inter alia, promotion of energy efficiency, and strengthened environmental protection and
management including, phase out the use of ODS with a focus on HCFCs and MB. This calls for
the Bank to remain a strong partner with Vietnam to support achievement of the country’s
accelerated phase-out of the HCFCs and to continue to explore potential ozone-climate synergies
through, for example, demand-side energy efficiency measures such as demand-side cooling.

The Project’s outcomes with respect to ozone-climate co-benefits, though unintended at the time of
design, are also of high relevance given the greenhouse gas emission reductions that have been
generated as an indirect benefit of CFC phase-out (see section 3.5.c). The relevance of the project
is thus rated High.

3.2 Achievement of Global Environmental Objectives

Achievement of the Project GEO was Substantial. The assistance provided by the NCHP Plan
Project allowed Vietnam to fulfill its ODS consumption phase out obligations in a timely and cost-
effective manner. Through the combination of regulatory measures, technical assistance and
training, and targeted financial assistance, the Project supported Vietnam’s management of a robust
and comprehensive ODS phase-out program.

The Project successfully assisted the Government in phasing out its consumption of ODS as
mandated under the Protocol and in line with the agreements entered into by the Government with
the ExCom. The phase-out implemented resulted in the conversion away from ODS use to that of
alternative substances, verified by well-structured monitoring systems for both of the Project’s
stream. In fact, with the assistance of the Project, Vietnam accelerated its phase-out of CFCs and
halons earlier than the targets required by the Protocol.




                                                22
Despite the challenges that the MB sector presents, Vietnam’s MB consumption for non-QPS
purposes declined steadily with the support of the Project, in accordance with the Protocol’s
compliance targets. Data reported under Article 7 of the Protocol indicates Vietnam’s 2014
consumption of MB was below the maximum ‘allowed’ of 35 ODP T, and issuance of Circular
2186/BVTV-KD bans consumption of MB for non-QPS purposes after January 1, 2015.

The full scope of the reductions achieved contributed positively at the global level to the repair of
the ozone and to global compliance with the Protocol. Table 2 highlights the impact of the Project’s
contribution to the sustainable phase-out of Vietnam’s consumption of CFC, halons and MB.

  Table 2: Consumption Allowed (imports) under the ExCom Agreements* vs. Actual Consumption
                          (imports) Reported under Article 7 of the MP
               Annex A, Group I (CFCs)          Annex A, Group II (halons)       Annex E, Group I (MB) (ODP
                     (ODP tons)                        (ODP tons)                           tons)
               Allowed         Actual            Allowed         Actual           Allowed           Actual
  Year
             consumption    consumption        consumption    consumption       consumption      consumption
                (ExCom       (reported under      (ExCom      (reported under     (ExCom        (reported under
               agreement)       Article 7)       agreement)      Article 7)      agreement)        Article 7)
   2005           240           234.80             18.5             0                -               93.6
   2006           200           148.66             18.5             0                -                96
   2007           75             37.83             18.5             0                -               92.4
   2008           40             20.40             18.5             0              85.2              83.4
   2009           10              8.00             18.5             0               80               73.8
   2010            -                -                -               -              80               76.8
   2011            -                -                -               -              70               69.6
   2012            -                -                -               -              70                70
   2013            -                -                -               -              50                50
   2014            -                -                -               -              35               28
                                                                                                   Ban on
                                                                                               consumption for
   2015            -                -                -               -               0
                                                                                                non-QPS uses
                                                                                                   enacted.
* ExCom Agreements for the NCHP Plan Project and the Methyl Bromide Phase-out Plan are appended in
Annex 10.

3.3 Efficiency
The Project’s efficiency is rated Substantial.

Consistent with the project approval regime exercised by the ExCom of the MLF, efficiency is
assessed based on the cost-effectiveness (CE) of phase-out achieved and is rated substantial. CE is
defined as the amount of MLF grant per unit weight of ODS phased-out in ODP kg.

The CE threshold of the NCHP Plan Project, approved at US$3.94/kg ODP, was realistic and
efficient in allowing MONRE to achieve the Project’s objective. The average cost of the CFC and
halons phase-out achieved in Vietnam compares favorably to other ‘like’ ODS projects from within
the Bank’s East Asia and the Pacific ozone portfolio including, Malaysia (US$10.19/kg ODP),
Indonesia (US$4.41/kg ODP) and the Philippines (US$4.28/kg ODP).

The CE of the MB component, approved at US$12.89/kg ODP was also realistic and efficient. In
fact, this CE threshold value figures on the lower end of the global average CE values range of
US$11.10-$18.30, as identified by the Protocol’s Technical and Economic Assessment Panel
(TEAP).




                                                     23
As a result of the Project’s flexible operating and staggered funding disbursement nature (as per the
ExCom agreement), adaptive management was used, as required, to adjust component activities to
changing circumstances and needs (Sect. 2.2 and Annex 2).

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Satisfactory

Based on high relevance of the Project's objectives, design, implementation, the substantial efficacy
and substantial efficiency, the overall outcome is rated Satisfactory. The Project has met the GEO,
in assisting the Recipient in its efforts to reduce ODS consumption in its territory. Vietnam has
complied with the Protocol's phase out targets and thereby, contributed to the global compliance
status enjoyed by the MP. Through implementation of the NCHP Plan’s comprehensive strategic
approach, Vietnam’s remaining consumption of CFCs and halons was phased-out, in some sectors
in an accelerated manner (see Annex 2), as evidenced by Vietnam’s data reporting under Article 7
of the Protocol (see Annex 10). MB use for non-QPS across diverse types of applications has been
effectively managed and steadily eliminated, despite challenges associated with the adoption of
alternatives, in large part thanks to the commitment and support of the sector’s stakeholders.
Significant phase out progress has been achieved, and given the regulatory structures in place and
the comprehensive and reliable monitoring system instituted by the Project, the risk that Vietnam
will not comply with the 2014 and 2015 MB targets is considered low.

National level management of Vietnam's ODS Program was strengthened by building on results
and lessons generated during implementation of previous ODS phase out efforts, and notably,
through effective programmatic cooperation and division of responsibilities amongst key Ministries
including, MONRE, MARD, MOIT and Customs.

Adoption of the national phase-out management plan modality, originally a World Bank innovation
which was widely adopted by the MLF and all other Implementing Agencies, facilitated the
monitoring, verification and reporting of aggregate phase out achievements, and now forms the
basis upon which the MLF is supporting the phase-down of consumption and production of HCFCs
globally.

Cost-effective use was made of the MLF grant funds in all sectors, with the application of strategic
adaptive management as required, allowing savings to be reinvested into areas of the ODS
management program that were demonstrating additional or unexpected need.

Together, the relevance, efficacy and efficiency demonstrated by the Project warrant a Satisfactory
rating. The only minor shortcomings observed centered on implementation involving, the initial
delay in launching the MB component’s activities and the initial uneven staffing issues faced by the
MARD PMU.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

The implementation and impacts of the NCHP Plan Project have contributed to objectives to
improve the quality and efficiency of infrastructure services and strengthened environmental
management and protection in the face of population growth, industrialization and urbanization, as
outlined in the current CPS (FY12-16). Actions in support of phase-out encouraged the adoption of
modern alternatives to ODS use, as well as less energy intensive processes in some applications,
both of which support reversing unsustainable environmental trends, strengthening Vietnam's
competitiveness in the regional and global economy, and increasing the sustainability of its
development. The CFC, halons and MB components all emphasized helping stakeholders identify



                                                 24
and address environmental considerations in their operations and primary supply chains. The
overall results have been both ozone and climate positive (see Sect. 3.5.c.).

'The Montreal Protocol and the Green Economy' report (UNEP, 2012), which draws on global-level
analyses, credits the MP with having created enabling conditions that stimulated a transition to a
green economy, supported by reduced environmental risks and improved human well-being and
social equity. The introduction in Vietnam of technological advances and design innovations
promoted under the MP have produced cleaner products, created better working environments, and
supported the transfer of knowledge within a broad range of sectors. From a social perspective, this
transition to non-ODS technologies, product development and services has resulted, on balance, in
jobs supported by higher levels of training for both women and men.

(b)Institutional Change/Strengthening

The Project’s institutional strengthening components were effective in building capacity through
provision of technical assistance to strengthen the management and operational capabilities of
MONRE’s NOO, MARD’s PPD, Customs, other relevant government agencies and the Project’s
sectoral and regional implementing partners. The institutional management role played by the
MONRE/NOO was successful in bringing together key ministerial representatives and their
regional bodies with technical experts, which ensured that parties knowledgeable on practical
policy and technical issues were involved from the outset in the design and implementation of the
NCHP Plan’s components. Both MONRE and MARD built effective management teams with well
institutionalized functions within their respective Ministries.

The Bank team conducted a variety of training sessions for Project staff within MONRE and
MARD on project and financial management, procurement and disbursement, safeguard
requirements, as well as on the mechanisms of the Protocol including, its policies, financing
guidelines and funding eligibility, approval processes, and verification and reporting requirements.
A study tour organized for MARD officials to Australia provided the opportunity for in-depth
knowledge exchange on policy and technical issues, including the challenge of phosphine
resistance. The NOO participated in ODS workshops for clients in the East Asia and Pacific region
organized by the Bank’s Montreal Protocol Operations team in which participants were made privy
to the most up-to-date MP policies, guidelines and reporting requirements, and the latest
technology developments. These workshops also offered the opportunity for sharing of practical
South-South experiences amongst participants.

More than 4,480 Vietnamese stakeholders received training, technical assistance or financial
support under the auspices of the NCHP Plan Project including, technicians and service shops in
the RAC and MAC service sectors, MAC inspectors with the Vietnam Register Program,
representatives from vocational training centers, medical personnel and patients, representatives
from the oil and gas sector and, farmers, fumigation services companies and storage facility
owners. The capacity of these beneficiaries increased not only with respect to the use of
alternatives and the context in which they were being introduced, but also with respect to the
adoption of applicable government environmental, health and safety regulations associated with
ODS phase out.

All told, the Project’s implementation contributed positively to Vietnam building a well-organized,
technically strong, collaborative and committed ODS phase out community of practice.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts

CFCs have both ozone depleting and global warming potential. The phase-out of ODS achieved
under the Project therefore, contributed significant additional direct co-benefits resulting from the




                                                 25
reduction of global warming potential (GWP). The CO2 equivalent (CO2e) impact of phase-out
achieved is calculated to be 2.6 million tons.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

Not applicable.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

The risk to development outcomes is rated as low, consistent with the risk to development outcome
ratings issued throughout the period of supervision.

Supply side considerations
 The phase-out of production of CFCs and halons worldwide eliminated the global markets for
   these substances.

Demand side considerations
 Comprehensive sector-relevant legislation and regulatory controls have been enacted by the
   Government to support the Protocol’s phase out timeline. Issuance of the Circular under the
   revised National Plant Protection Law will be a key tool to sustain MB phase out in the 2015,
   particularly with respect to ensuring that MB imports for QPS not controlled by the Protocol
   are not diverted for non-QPS applications supported by the Project.
 The NOO, working in concert with relevant, key Ministries, has developed a solid national
   management structure that allocates ODS management responsibility to relevant public and
   private partners at the national and regional levels.
 The phase out of each ODS addressed by the Project has entailed the conversion to alternative,
   ODS-friendly substances that have been verified by effective monitoring under the Project’s
   well-structured MIS.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Satisfactory

The NCHP Plan Project’s structure was designed to assist Vietnam reach its long-term sustainable
compliance objectives under the Protocol, and to do so in an efficient and cost-effective manner.
The ability to address the needs of each sector tied to a broader comprehensive phase out strategy
offered the Government a flexible implementation modality through which to achieve compliance.
The fact that such an approach was proving successful for other countries within the Bank’s ODS
portfolio in the region, lowered risk. The adoption of the multi-year, funding disbursement based
on performance implementation modality encouraged enhanced national execution, capacity-
building and flexibility in managing sectoral phase out.

As noted in the 2010 QALP-2 review, the quality of design was praised, particularly its strategic
relevance, realism and approach, in particular its M&E system and independent verification
requirements, which were rated highly satisfactory. The QALP-2 review noted that the Project’s
design had benefited from solid scientific and technical knowledge, as well as extensive practical
experience with other Bank MP operations globally, and that risks had been carefully appraised and
mitigated. Overall, the review expressed the opinion that the design had helped build a strong level
of Government ownership in a sector where other Bank-implemented operations had not seen
success.


                                                26
(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Satisfactory

For the duration of Project implementation, the Bank team provided MONRE, MARD and other
counterparts across all sectors with timely, consistent and the best available ODS policy and
technical advice. This was provided through the regular supervision missions that were undertaken,
initially bi-annually and later annually, as well as through site-specific technical visits, as
evidenced in the aide memoires prepared. This provided first-hand understanding of on-ground
implementation experiences and offered the opportunity to update the clients and stakeholders on
MP policies and guidelines. The ‘learning by doing’ approach to supervision also allowed the Bank
team to work effectively with the PMUs to address implementation hurdles as they were
encountered. Project supervision was further strengthened by the fact that for its duration, a core
Bank team of technical specialists was maintained. This built trust and facilitated the cementing of
the World Bank-client relationship in the field of ozone protection, as witnessed by the fact that
Vietnam’s HCFC Phase out Management Plan has been designed with the support of the Bank and
is now under implementation.

The Bank team also ensured that guidance on financial management, procurement and
environmental and social safeguard issues were effectively addressed within each sector addressed
by the NCHP Plan. Specific FM and procurement training was provided by Bank specialists for
MONRE and MARD/PPD PMU staff, in the case of the latter more than once due to FM staffing
changes, to ensure that fiduciary and procurement requirements were clearly understood and
respected. The team monitored compliance with the Bank’s fiduciary and safeguard policies,
reviewed procurement and disbursement procedures and audit reports. Mission aide memoires and
ISRs were regularly completed, providing a consistently satisfactory view of the implementation
status of the Project’s components.

An important role was played by the Bank team as interlocutor with the ExCom on behalf of the
Government and its stakeholders. In line with the operating guidelines of the Bank’s Ozone Trust
Fund, once the NCHP Plan Project was effective the Bank team negotiated approval of all
subsequent funding tranches directly with the ExCom. The team oversaw the preparation of the
NCHP Plan’s work plans, providing advice, as required, with regard to selection of equipment and
alternatives, and policy options. The review and guidance provided for the work plans associated
with each funding tranche ensured regular monitoring of performance and achievements.

The 2010 QALP-2 Review concurred with the quality supervision rating overall, noting that it
considered inputs and processes to be rated highly satisfactory. The Bank team was commended for
maintaining a high level of implementation support, complete with an excellent mix of technical,
fiduciary and management skills and remarkable team continuity. Supervision reporting was
deemed accurate, with valuable technical expertise provided with a view to the long-term
sustainability of efforts.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

Given the quality of Bank performance at entry and during supervision, the Bank’s overall
performance is rated Satisfactory. The operation’s achievement of its phase out and compliance
with MP targets objectives, its efficiency in effectively managing operations across various sectors
under a phase-out performance-based mechanism in a cost effective manner, and its relevance in
promoting achievement of Vietnam’s ozone objectives through an innovative national execution
modality, were all informed by targeted, thorough, and consistent implementation support provided
by the Bank’s team.


                                                27
5.2 Borrower
(a) Government Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

Government performance is considered to have been fully satisfactory. The Government was, and
remains, a strong advocate for action in support of the Protocol, as demonstrated by the fact that
compliance with the ODS phase-out control measures has been maintained, and that NCHP Plan
Project results served to inform the design of Vietnam’s current HCFC Phase-out Management
Plan (HPMP) under implementation with the support of the Bank. Agencies involved, namely
MONRE and MARD, as well as other members of the Inter-ministerial Steering Committee with
whom close interaction was initiated, all played a role, to varying degrees, in ensuring the
development and adoption of a comprehensive policy framework and the transition to viable
alternatives, in advancing a diverse national capacity base to address the issue into the future and,
in promoting awareness about the importance of ODS management and protection of the ozone
layer. Sustained political commitment has underpinned the Project’s success.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

The technical nature of the Project resulted in the bifurcated management structure that was
adopted to oversee the various aspects of the implementation of its two thematic streams –
industrial and agricultural. The MONRE PMU, housed within the NOO, managed the industrial
stream, while maintaining a comprehensive overview of the full strategic ODS phase out program,
while the MARD PMU managed the programming associated with the Project’s MB phase out.

The PMUs were familiarized with Bank operations and procedures, thanks to training provided by
the Bank team. Concerns regarding lack of continuity in personnel (PPD/PMU) were promptly
addressed and remedied in a timely manner. Overall, the PMUs showed strong commitment and
ownership of the Project on behalf of the Government. MONRE and MARD both involved
government experts in the Project’s work, as required, demonstrating a commitment to the
sustainability of the Project’s outcomes. Experience gained in implementing the NCHP Plan
Project are now being applied to the implementation of the current HCFC Phase out Management
Plan initiative, under implementation through MONRE, as well as through ongoing efforts by
MARD to maintain compliance with the Protocol’s MB targets.

The QALP-2 review of 2010 opined that while Vietnam had not previously had any Bank-
implemented ODS activities, the NCHP Plan Project proceeded overall smoothly, both from
strategic programming and operational perspectives. The inclusion of the MB component was seen
as potentially challenging given the addition of new institutional arrangements in the form of the
PPD, the addition of new technical problems and solutions, and the fact that it nearly doubled the
size of the Project. The review found that while early learning challenges were faced, notably with
respect to operational FM issues, the PMU was dedicated to making progress.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

The project was completed in a fully satisfactory manner, due in large part to the commitment and
leadership demonstrated by MONRE and MARD, and to the constructive collaboration that was
initiated with other ministries and their regional bodies, and stakeholders from the country’s RAC
and MAC, educational, medical, fire protection, fumigation services and agricultural production




                                                 28
and storage sectors. The Project benefited from the investment of important human capital on the
part of all these stakeholders.

6. Lessons Learned

Economies of scale. Lessons learned through implementation of the HCHP Plan Project echo those
of other projects implemented by the Bank’s Ozone Trust Fund in the region with respect to the
value of adopting a national phase out plan approach to strategically address remaining
consumption within specific sectors. These lessons have generated economies of scale in terms of
knowledge and experience exchange: they have been translated beyond ‘remaining consumption’
to inform the design and implementation of current performance-based, HCFC sectoral phase out
initiatives.

National sectoral approach. Addressing the phase-out of ODS from the perspective of sectors
versus project-by-project is a rational and cost-effective way by which to curb non-uniform and
diverse consumption of ODS. The use of a phase-out approach that supports policy/regulatory
development, technical assistance and capacity-building activities and the provision of financing
for inputs to support sustainable ODS phase-out based on annual reduction targets by sector lays
the foundations for sustainable management of complex sector and national initiatives. Such an
approach necessitates strong, integrated management, where all parties involved clearly understand
and embrace their roles and responsibilities.

Programming for performance. Performance-based programming, where funds are released
annually based on pre-determined phase-out schedules and targets provides an excellent
implementation structure with which to motivate and incentivize stakeholders to find the most cost-
effective ways to convert to non-ODS technologies and alternatives.

Learning by doing, but not in tandem. The Project took a distinctly two-track implementation
approach between the CFCs/halons components, executed by MONRE, and the MB component,
executed by MARD, and not solely due to the staggered approval of the Project’s constituent pieces.
While it is understandable that sectoral context and expertise should guide the implementation of
the various Project elements, hence the two PMU structure, missed opportunities for greater shared
learning at the country-level with regard to institutional capacity-building were noted. In particular,
it would have been worthwhile exploring working off the head start experienced by MONRE,
which included in-depth training by relevant Bank staff on FM and procurement procedures, by
transferring that knowledge and capacity directly from MONRE to MARD and thereby,
encouraging direct knowledge exchange under the Bank’s guidance.

Monitoring, monitoring, monitoring. Investment in the development and effective management of a
comprehensive MIS, complemented by verification of financial records and technical results by
World Bank experts are key to gauging the accuracy of results generated. The MIS designed
provided MONRE and MARD with the tools necessary with which to accurately report national,
aggregate data, as required under Article 7, as well as sector-specific data. Such tools have
continuity and are excellent value for money. The experience of the MIS gained under the NCHP
Plan Project continues to contribute to Vietnam’s ongoing compliance with the Protocol, and is
now applied to the implementation of its HCFC Phase out Management Plan Project. Effectively,
the system has allowed for Project M&E to be mainstreamed into country systems. In addition, the
bi-annual, standardized project progress report system that was instituted proved to be an extremely
effective tool through which to stay on top of implementation issues, and to initiate adaptive
management actions as necessary and in a timely manner.

Consumption reductions gain popularity. The use of phosphine, alongside IPM methods, has
supported the phase out of MB for non-QPS applications in Vietnam. Phosphine nevertheless,
remains a toxic chemical whose application is carefully monitored. Experiences gained with use of
reduced dosage of phosphine to limit, to the extent possible, reliance on this toxic product for non-


                                                 29
QPS purposes are now being assessed with regard to QPS treatments. In an effort to reduce the
amounts of MB required for QPS treatments, which are not controlled under the Protocol, trials are
being conducted wherein products/goods are first treated with phosphine, to determine whether
reduced dosages of MB can then be applied at the time of QPS treatments. This line of assessment
contributes positively to identifying workable solutions to reducing the imports of MB for QPS
applications, and to preserving the ozone layer.


7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

ICR review acknowledged. No comments provided.

(b) Cofinanciers

Not applicable.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders

Not applicable.




                                               30
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

In the absence of a formal PAD, the Project MOD served as the PAD for the CFC/Halon phaseout
component, and the ExCom project document did so for the methyl bromide component. The client
tracked its use of project funds under the CFC/halons component according to sector phaseout, as
outlined in the MOD, while for the MB component, disbursement of funds was tracked according
to the project components laid out in the GA. In an attempt to reconcile both funding streams
according to the GA Project components, the sectoral breakdown for the CFC/Halons component
has been reconstituted by Project component. An additional table for the CFC/Halons component
by sector is also included, for purpose of cross-reference. An additional table (A.1.c.) highlights
provides complementary cost information by disbursement category.

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD equivalent)

Table A.1.a. NCHP Plan Project costs broken down by component:
                                         Appraisal Estimate       Actual/Latest
             Components                                                              Percentage of Appraisal
                                              (USD)              Estimate (USD)
Regulatory Framework                             328,850               173,529 *               52.8%

Phase-out of CFCs and Halons                     796,687                921,822               115.7%

Institutional Strengthening                      134,463                164,097                122%

Total Baseline Cost                            1,260,000              1,259,448               99.6%
* While all project components included some regulatory work, precise tracking was not undertaken during
implementation as costs were tracked by sectoral component (see Table A.1.a.i below). This cost line builds
in the work undertaken in the MDI and halons sectors, and assumes that a minimum of 10% of funding under
each of the remaining sectors, including Institutional Strengthening, were allocated to enhancing Vietnam’s
ODS regulatory framework.

Table A.1.a.i. NCHP Plan Project costs broken down by sectoral component:
                                         Appraisal Estimate      Actual Estimate
             Components                                                               Percentage of Appraisal
                                              (USD)                  (USD)
Aerosol sector – Technical Assistance
                                                  49,500                 42,928                 87%
for the MDI sector
CFC-11 Phase-out in the foam sector               69,687                 70,000               100.4%
Mobile air conditioning (MAC) sector             280,000                237,446                84.8%
Fire protection sector                            47,000                   9,944               21.2%
Mac and Refrigeration servicing sector        679,350                   716,800               105.5%
PMU                                           134,463                   182,330               135.6%

Total Baseline Cost                           1,260,000               1,259,448               99.96%


Table A.1.b. MB Phase-out Plan costs broken down by component:
                                         Appraisal Estimate       Actual/Latest           Percentage of
            Components
                                              (USD)              Estimate (USD)            Appraisal
Regulation and Capacity building                194,112                193,714                99.8%
Technical Assistance for Post-
                                                441,305                439,182                99.5%
harvest applications
Technical Assistance for Pre-
                                                223,961                231,830                103.5%
harvest applications


                                                    31
PMU                                               238,906                 233,558                98%

Total Baseline Cost                              1,098,284               1,098,284              100%

A.1.c. Project Costs captured by disbursement category, in accordance with the project
financial tracking system design:
             Components                 Appraisal Estimate           Actual/Latest           Percentage of
                                             (USD)                  Estimate (USD)            Appraisal
National CFC and Halons Phase-out Plan Project (GA Components A-C)

Consultants’ services                             154,000                 153,987               99.99%

Training and Workshops                             68,000                  67,674               99.52%
Goods                                             225,000                 224,996              100.00%

Sub-grants                                        787,000                 786,800               99.97%

Incremental Operating Costs                      26,000                    25,991               99.97%

Methyl Bromide Phase-out Plan component (GA Components D-F)*

Consultants’ services                             253,732                 272,798              107.51%

Training and Workshops                            178,321                 165,464               92.79%

Goods                                             295,720                 296,337              100.21%
Sub-grants                                       203,515                  203,082               99.79%
Incremental Operating Costs                      166,996                  160,603               96.17%

Total Baseline Cost                           2,358,284                  2,357,732             99.98%
Physical Contingencies                              0.00
Price Contingencies                                 0.00
Total Project Costs
Project Preparation Facility (PPF)                  0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                                  0.00
Total Financing Required
* Included through Additional Financing (see Sect. 1.7)

(b) Financing

Any borrower or enterprise-level financing leveraged during implementation was not tracked.

                                                                               Actual/Latest
                                        Type of   Appraisal Estimate                             Percentage of
          Source of Funds                                                        Estimate
                                      Cofinancing      (USD)                                      Appraisal
                                                                                  (USD)
Borrower*                                  n/a                  0                    0                   0

Montreal Protocol Investment Fund         Grant              2,358,284           2,357,732          99.98%




                                                     32
      Annex 2. Outputs By Components

NCHP PLAN PROJECT                        PROJECT OUTPUTS
OBJECTIVES
                                      Chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs)
Establish quotas and licenses for the Vietnam’s ODS import/export control system, which is jointly
import and export of specific CFCs administered by MONRE and MOIT was launched at the outset of the
and halons.                           Project’s implementation and began officially functioning at the
                                      beginning of 2006. MONRE would allocate annual import quotas to
                                      existing registered importers, based on their prior year’s imports.
                                      Import licenses issued specified the name of the importer, the type of
                                      chemical, the harmonized customs code and the import quota for the
                                      year. Once the import license was secured, MOIT issued the import
                                      permits required. The ability of MOIT licensing offices to implement
                                      import control measures beneficial to the global environment was
                                      enhanced.

                                         The institution of the import/export licensing and quota system,
                                         supported by the collaborative relationship between MONRE and
                                         MOIT, was key to bringing ODS users in line with the phase-down
                                         schedule required under the Protocol, and served as a crucial first step
                                         for the Government to update its regulatory framework.

Establish bans on the use of select      With the import/export licensing system in place offering greater
CFCs in the manufacturing sector         management capacity to the Government, two additional regulatory
and in the production of CFC-using       features were introduced to effectively close the loop with respect to
equipment.                               imports of CFCs: 1) a ban on the use of CFCs in the manufacture of
                                         CFC-using equipment (i.e. household refrigerators) was established in
                                         January 2006; and, 2) a ban on the import of CFC-containing
                                         equipment was put in place in early 2007.

Convert CFC production technology The production line at the last remaining CFC-11-using enterprise,
to non-CFC technology in foam Insulation Panel, was closed down through conversion to the use of
sector                            HCFC-141b in December 2006. Financial assistance was provided to
                                  convert the enterprise’s insulation manufacturing blowing agent
                                  technology and equip it with a high pressure injection machine
                                  suitable for use with HCFC-141b. Baseline CFC equipment (injection
                                  heads) was rendered unusable, as certified by the PMU and required
                                  by the MLF.

Impose requirements for inspection       Within the context of Vietnam’s vehicle safety inspection program, the
of mobile air-conditioners (MACs)        MONRE/PMU, working in concert MOIT’s Vietnam Register
as part of the existing vehicle safety   Department, implemented a MAC refrigerant identification program
inspection program.                      component to sensitize vehicle owners regarding the type of
                                         refrigerant in their MAC system at the time of vehicle inspections,
                                         with the aim of influencing vehicle owners to take informed decisions
                                         when these systems needed to be recharged or repaired.

                                         The NCHP Plan Project strengthened the capacity of the country’s
                                         MAC training centers through dedicated training of trainers and
                                         provision of refrigerant identifiers. Procurement of training equipment
                                         for refrigeration and air-conditioning training centers and refrigerant
                                         identifiers. During implementation, it was determined that the costs of
                                         refrigerant identifiers had increased in the global market and now



                                                       33
NCHP PLAN PROJECT                     PROJECT OUTPUTS
OBJECTIVES
                                      exceeded the Project financing available for the number initially
                                      projected to be procured (80). The MPU agreed with the Bank team
                                      that the number of refrigerant identifiers would be reduced from 80 to
                                      61 units, and that to ensure the greatest investment ‘reach’ possible,
                                      these would be distributed to vehicle inspection stations around the
                                      country that provided inspections to the largest number of vehicles.

                                      Prior to delivery of the equipment, two training workshops were
                                      organized in collaboration with the equipment supplier to train
                                      inspectors/technicians from the 61 inspection station on use of the
                                      refrigerant identifiers and to raise awareness regarding the reason
                                      behind which to phase out CFC use in MAC systems. Workshops were
                                      organized in Hanoi and Ho Chi Minh City in October 2008. More than
                                      130 inspectors/technicians participated from 49 inspection stations in
                                      the country’s northern region attended the Hanoi workshop.
                                      Approximately the same number, representing 48 inspection stations
                                      in the country’s southern provinces attended the Ho Chi Minh City
                                      workshop. Sixty-three (63) percent of the 97 inspection stations that
                                      participated in the training sessions received refrigerant identifiers.
                                      Delivery of refrigerant identifiers was completed in October 2008.

                                      A follow-up verification workshop to review and assess results of the
                                      program, attended by 60 people, was held in Hanoi in December 2010.
                                      The workshop concluded that the capacity of Vietnam Register to
                                      undertake MAC inspections had been assured, and that efforts
                                      undertaken in the MAC sector were sustainable: refrigerant identifiers
                                      functioned properly and had proven useful to the beneficiary stations
                                      in conducting reliable spot checks of vehicles.

RAC and MAC Service Shops are Working in collaboration with the General Department of the
provided service tool kits for non- Vocational Training Center, 20 vocational training centers and schools
CFC refrigerators and MACs.         across the country were selected to receive training on good practices
                                    in the servicing of RAC and MAC equipment, including how to work
                                    with the alternative refrigerant HFC-134a, an alternative to use of
                                    CFC-12. Refrigeration training equipment was provided by the Project
                                    to ensure that any on-training of local refrigeration technicians would
                                    benefit from the best available knowledge and techniques. A total of
                                    1,132 technicians received training under the Project, which surpassed
                                    the 900 that had been planned for within the Project’s design. RAC
                                    and MAC service shops employing certified technicians were eligible
                                    to receive equipment tool kits for servicing and maintenance. The
                                    Project provided such tool kits to 896 service shops across the country.
                                    Here too, demand surpassed the initial projection of 850 service shops.

                                      Training modules developed with the Project’s support were
                                      incorporated into the RAC/MAC curriculum of the training centers
                                      involved in the Project, and the PMU reported that an additional 1,200
                                      students have subsequently benefited from training on good practices
                                      in the servicing of RAC and MAC equipment.

Develop a phase-out strategy for the Vietnam relied on the import of CFC-containing metered dose inhalers
transition away from use of CFC- (MDIs) to treat asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease



                                                    34
NCHP PLAN PROJECT                     PROJECT OUTPUTS
OBJECTIVES
based metered dose inhalers (MDIs).   (COPD) in its population. Although the use of CFC MDI products did
                                      not affect the country’s ability to meet its obligations under the
                                      Protocol, as part of its comprehensive NCHP, it was considered
                                      important to promote the use of non-CFC alternatives and to formulate
                                      a proper transition plan. In partnership with the Drug Administration
                                      of the Ministry of Public Health, a phase-out strategy for CFC MDIs
                                      was prepared, as well as an associated national outreach program.
                                      Workshops with health sector stakeholders including, doctors,
                                      pharmacists, hospital managers and MDI-using patients were
                                      organized to raise awareness about the need for conversion and to
                                      introduce a viable and gradual phase-out strategy to promote the shift
                                      to non-CFC alternatives.

                                      In March 2010, a one-day workshop drew 36 participants from Quang
                                      Binh and surrounding provinces located in the center of the country.
                                      At the end of that same month, 120 people attended a 2-day workshop
                                      in Vung Tau City, which drew participants from Ho Chi Minh City
                                      and surrounding provinces. Later that year, in October and November,
                                      MDI workshops targeting doctors, pharmacists, hospital managers and
                                      patients were organized, drawing 130 and 65 people respectively, from
                                      Hanoi and surrounding provinces. These activities helped medical
                                      personnel and patients prepare for the transition in an educated and
                                      safe manner.

                                                  Halons
Address halons consumption through    The Project effectively supported the phase-out of halons consumption
recovery       and       recycling,   through collaboration and technical assistance.
identification and acquisition of
acceptable non-halons alternatives,   Vietnam’s consumption of halons, principally halons 2402 used to
and establishment of an electronic    support servicing of fire extinguishing systems in its oil and petroleum
database of recovered halons for      industry, decreased significantly as availability of virgin and recycled
reuse.                                2402 in the global market dropped.

                                      The rationale regarding the value of establishing a halons recycling
                                      facility centered on the need to ensure an adequate supply of halons
                                      for the servicing of installed fire extinguishing systems in Vietnam’s
                                      oil and petroleum industry. Significant growth in the industry had
                                      compelled companies to enhance and improve the maintenance
                                      infrastructure in their production facilities. Vietsovpetro, the largest
                                      halons consumer representing approximately 80% of the country’s
                                      consumption elected, during the course of the Project’s
                                      implementation, to begin replacing the fire protection systems in their
                                      oil tankers. A report on the inventory of fire protection systems and the
                                      technical designs of carbon dioxide fire protection systems for oil
                                      vessels were completed in June 2009. Recovery and recycling
                                      equipment, along with halons recovery units and three 2,000 liter
                                      cylinders were delivered to Vietsovpetro with the support of the
                                      Project and installation was scheduled for the end of June 2009.
                                      Unfortunately, difficulties were experienced regarding the
                                      compatibility of the equipment with Vietsopvetro’s needs, along with
                                      difficulties in sourcing supplies of halons on the international market.
                                      It was ultimately decided that the recovery and recycling component



                                                    35
NCHP PLAN PROJECT                      PROJECT OUTPUTS
OBJECTIVES
                                       should therefore, be cancelled prior to installation of the equipment as
                                       the business model originally conceived, no longer made economic
                                       sense for Vietsovpetro.

                                       An agreement was reached with the industry that pure halons would
                                       not be used for fire extinguishing but rather, that Vietsovpetro would
                                       recover and recycle halons in-house for its uses. Vietsovpetro also
                                       committed to upgrading the national halons databank without its own
                                       resources.

                                       Workshops for Vietsovpetro personnel targeting the phase-out of
                                       halons in fire-fighting and fire-prevention were held in May, 2007 and
                                       December, 2010 in Vung Tau City and Hanoi, respectively.
                                       Participants received technical assistance regarding minimizing halons
                                       losses during servicing, practical guidance on how to review existing
                                       installations to ensure minimization of accidental losses, detailed
                                       information on the best available and most up-to-date technology
                                       pertaining to halons substitutes and, strengthened technical capacity in
                                       evaluating the efficacy and safety of use of the range of substitutes.

                                       With only the technical assistance components covered by the Project,
                                       the $37,000 that remained was reallocated to procure additional tool
                                       kits for the RAC and MAC Service shops component.

                                           Methyl Bromide (MB)
Improve     the    country’s     MB    Vietnam’s MB regulatory framework was strengthened through
regulatory    framework      through   establishment of import quotas for licensed importers, development of
establishment of import quotas and a   a permit system for licensed fumigation companies, and, institution of
permit system for importers and        monitoring of imports and uses. Annual import quotas for MB for non-
fumigation companies.                  QPS uses were established. Companies eligible to import MB were
                                       required to register and obtain import permits from the MARD/PPD.
                                       Approvals of quantities to be imported are dependent on the capacity
                                       of importers and fumigators to safely use MB.

                                       MARD’s PPD strengthened Vietnam’s import licensing and
                                       monitoring system by issuing Decision No. 1753/QD-BVTV on 19
                                       November 2009 to strengthen control on the import of MB. The
                                       Decision dictated that MB import permits were valid only within the
                                       calendar year within which they were issued, and any transfer of
                                       unutilized quantities was strictly prohibited. The Decision further
                                       stipulates that in order to obtain import permits for the following year,
                                       importers must submit their requests to the PPD by 15 December of
                                       the year prior. Importers were also required importers to submit MB
                                       use reports twice yearly to the PPD. Any deviation in quantities and
                                       uses authorized resulted in cancellation of permits.

                                       In June 2010, MARD/PPD further strengthened its import licensing
                                       and consumption and reporting commitments regarding MB uses by
                                       issuing Circular No. 38/2010/TT-BNNPTNT and by adjusting the
                                       format of MB import permits to allow for clear declaration of non-
                                       QPS and QPS imports.




                                                     36
NCHP PLAN PROJECT                        PROJECT OUTPUTS
OBJECTIVES
                                         A significant task undertaken by the PPD with the Project’s support
                                         involved updating the Plant Protection Law to include requirements
                                         for MB phase-out, in accordance with the phase out schedule of the
                                         Protocol. The revised Law was approved by the National Assembly in
                                         November 2013. With this achieved, the PPD then undertook revision
                                         of the Circular on Pesticide Management (Circular 03/2013/TT-
                                         BNNPTNT) to include a ban on MB use in non-QPS applications as of
                                         January 1, 2015. The draft Circular underwent extensive consultation,
                                         including through the WTO notification process (No.
                                         G/SPS/N/VNM/62 - October 2014). At Project completion, the
                                         Circular was pending MARD Ministerial consideration and approval
                                         prior to being issued. The PPD informed the ICR review that its
                                         issuance is expected within the first half of 2015, and that it is
                                         confident that the systems in place will guarantee ongoing compliance
                                         until the Law is enacted.

Organize          training-of-trainers   This Project component worked to strengthen capacity within PPD to
workshops in alternative fumigation      improve their knowledge regarding selection of effective MB
and integrated pest management           alternatives and their application, and to better monitor the use of
(IPM)     methods      for    MARD       phosphine and insect resistance resulting from its improper use. Five
inspectors and regulators.               of the nine regional Plant Quarantine Sub-Departments under the
                                         MARD/PPD were selected as training centers to provide further
                                         training for fumigation service companies and storage facility owners
                                         on alternatives to storage uses of MB. The Vietnam Gardening
                                         Association (VACVINA) was selected to design and implement the
                                         demonstration of integrated pest management approaches using
                                         alternatives to MB (see sections immediately below for additional
                                         information regarding on-training).

                                         The Training Centers are located in the north and south of Vietnam.
                                         They include: (i) Regional Plant Quarantine Sub-Department No. 1
                                         (Hai Phong); (ii) Regional Plant Quarantine Sub-Department No. 2
                                         (Ho Chi Minh City); (iii) Regional Plant Quarantine sub-Department
                                         No. 8 (Lao Cai); (iv) Regional Plant Quarantine Sub-Department No.
                                         4 (Binh Dinh); and (v) Regional Plant Quarantine Sub-Department No.
                                         5 (Hanoi). MOUs between the PPD and the five Training Centers were
                                         signed. Training equipment and consumables were procured by the
                                         Project for the Centers.

Provision of technical assistance to     Five (5) workshops, each lasting 3 days, were held for fumigation
fumigation service companies on          service companies and storage facilities. One was organized in
proper use and handling of               Haiphong (Training Center no. 1), six in Ho Chi Minh City (Training
alternatives.                            Center no. 2), four in Lao Cai (Training Center no. 3), five in Quy
                                         Nhon (Training Center no. 4) and six in Hanoi (Training Center no. 5).
                                         In total, more than 700 people were trained: 249 from fumigation
                                         service companies and 469 from storage facilities. Participants were
                                         exposed to the principal stored product insects and those most resistant
                                         to phosphine, learning to recognize them and to differentiate between
                                         them on sight. Training included proper storage of products to reduce
                                         and/or mitigate the incidence of infestation. An instruction video
                                         outlining standard fumigation techniques using principally phosphine,
                                         given its use as a replacement for MB in many applications, covered



                                                       37
NCHP PLAN PROJECT                     PROJECT OUTPUTS
OBJECTIVES
                                      issues including proper concentrations to use, the length of treatment
                                      time required to enhance the fumigant’s effectiveness, safety
                                      guidelines, and methods to reduce the resistance. Practical fumigation
                                      training in storage facilities introduced participants to the principal
                                      fumigation techniques used for storage, and how to identify signs of
                                      resistance at an early stage.

Provision of technical assistance to A list of techniques that could offer alternatives to MB use was
growers on proper use and handling developed by the PPD to be trialed through a series of demonstration
of alternatives.                     projects to replace MB use in soil fumigation. These included: (i) use
                                     of an ozone-friendly fumigant which was not in wide commercial use
                                     but showed promise as an alternative, and steam; (ii) bio-fumigation
                                     and chicken manure, plus fungicides and nematicides; (iii) solarization
                                     using plastic mulch, plus fungicides and nematicides. The choice of
                                     these proposed techniques was thoroughly discussed and vetted with
                                     growers during field visits to the two areas where MB use had
                                     increased for soil uses as a result of growth in production of cash
                                     crops, namely flowers.

                                      Working in concert with the PPD, the Vietnam Gardening Association
                                      (VACVINA) was selected to design and implement the demonstration
                                      of alternatives MB use. Sites in Dalat and Sapa were chosen with a
                                      view to demonstrate the use of biofumigation, nematicides,
                                      insecticides and fungicides at sites and on crops where MB use had
                                      been growing and where the transition to alternatives would provide
                                      an interesting incentive. Alternatives were demonstrated on the
                                      following crops: roses, lilies, chrysanthemums, tomatoes and cabbage.
                                      (see photos in Annex 11)

                                      Demonstrations were carried out at 10 sites, five in each area. Growers
                                      were invited to participate in training after the demonstration of the
                                      integrated approaches for MB replacement had been completed. Two
                                      workshops were held to disseminate results and lessons learned from
                                      the demonstrations, as well as to engage growers in the practical
                                      training. More than 360 farmers and local technicians from Dalat and
                                      Sapa and their surrounding areas participated in eight (8) 3-day-
                                      workshops. The training provided useful updates, building on the
                                      knowledge most participants had with regard to alternatives used as
                                      part of the soil fumigation integrated approaches. Proper application
                                      techniques were introduced and working together, farmers and
                                      technicians identified effective alternative solutions for their specific
                                      crops. Demonstration fields were open to farmers to visit and compare
                                      the results. Additional workshops have been held in these regions
                                      since, with a focus on applying MB alternatives on different crops.
                                      Extension workers and technicians from plant protection stations in
                                      these and surrounding areas have participated so they may assist
                                      growers in their fields.

Organize a study tour for MARD        In 2009, PPD experts undertook a technical study tour to Australia to
staff to share and gain experience    visit research institutes in Brisbane and Canberra to discuss both
from countries implementing similar   policy and technical issues related to the phase out of MB, as well as
MB phase out activities.              to delve into the issue of phosphine resistance and exchange



                                                    38
NCHP PLAN PROJECT                    PROJECT OUTPUTS
OBJECTIVES
                                     experiences. Discussions were held with the Department of
                                     Agriculture, Fisheries, and Forestry Australia on policies and
                                     regulations pertaining to MB phase out and with the Commonwealth
                                     Scientific and Industrial Research Organization (CSIRO) on the
                                     viability of non-MB alternatives, including developing an EDN
                                     demonstration project (see above) as part of the Project’s technical
                                     assistance component.

Provide sub-grants to fumigation Nine (9) sub-grants were signed with the largest of the country’s
service companies to implement the Fumigation Service Companies from amongst 28 in total.
adoption of MB alternatives.
Institutional strengthening.       Training.
                                   A variety of training sessions were conducted by the Bank team for
                                   MONRE and MARD Project staff covering, project and financial
                                   management, procurement and disbursement, safeguard requirements,
                                   as well as on the mechanisms of the Protocol including, its policies,
                                   financing guidelines and funding eligibility, approval processes, and
                                   verification and reporting requirements.

                                     A selection of sector-focused workshops were also organized to build
                                     capacity across the various Government departments to effectively
                                     support a sustainable phase out of ODS:
                                       In 2008, the MONRE PMU organized workshops in Da Nang and
                                         Ninh Thuan to introduce and disseminate information on the
                                         Government's CFC phase-out strategy, to introduce and inform
                                         industry of the availability of MLF funds to support remaining
                                         CFC and halons phase-out, and to raise awareness regarding the
                                         environmental and economic impacts of ozone layer depletion and
                                         inform the audience of the availability of technically and
                                         commercially viable alternatives. Over 100 participants attended
                                         each workshop.
                                       A workshop on Customs controls was organized in Hanoi in
                                         August 2010, in collaboration with the General Department of
                                         Customs. Attended by nearly 50 customs officials, the workshop
                                         was designed to familiarize customs officers and market
                                         inspectors with the ODS import/export licensing system and other
                                         regulations related to ODS phase-out, with emphasis on their
                                         respective role in enforcing regulations. The workshop included
                                         practical aspects including: properly recording imports and
                                         exports of ODS and ODS-containing products; identifying
                                         substances controlled by the Protocol and mixtures containing
                                         such substances; and, identifying imported products that may
                                         contain ODS in particular, refrigerators, freezers and other CFC-
                                         using refrigeration equipment.
                                       A series of five workshops were devised to raise awareness
                                         amongst MARD officials. A launch workshop held in Hanoi in
                                         2008 introduced representatives from MARD and PPD about the
                                         objectives and approaches of the Project. A follow-on launch
                                         workshop was held for 68 MARD and PPD representatives in Ho
                                         Chi Minh City in March 2009.
                                       Policy and regulatory review workshops were organized by the
                                         PPD in Ho Chi Minh City (July 2011, 79 participants), and in



                                                   39
NCHP PLAN PROJECT   PROJECT OUTPUTS
OBJECTIVES
                        Hanoi (September 2011, 65 participants).
                       A MB management workshop, geared to regional Plant
                        Quarantine Sub-Departments and provincial Plant Protection Sub-
                        Departments nationwide, was held in October 2013 in Ho Chi
                        Minh City. Forty-five (45) people received training.
                       In October 2014, two workshops were held, one in Dalat, the
                        other in Ho Chi Minh City, to disseminate results of a survey on
                        alternatives demonstrated under the Project. A range of
                        stakeholders participated including, fumigators and growers.
                       In December 2014, the PPD, supported by the PMU, organized an
                        information session in Ho Chi Minh City to provide information
                        and answer questions regarding the use of MB and alternatives
                        within the context of the revised Plant Protection and Quarantine
                        Law, which came into effect on January 1, 2015.

                    Technical Capacity Building.
                    The widespread resistance to phosphine experienced in Vietnam was a
                    significant cause for concern given that it may lead to a push for
                    reintroduction of MB use in certain applications which would
                    compromise Vietnam’s compliance with the Protocol.

                    Building on the objective of strengthening the PPD’s pest resistance
                    unit located in its Plant Quarantine Diagnostic Center, the Project
                    supported its expansion away from strict research to role to a research
                    and monitoring center, to better support the sustainability of MB phase
                    out by more actively addressing phosphine resistance. In 2009, the
                    pest resistance unit of the Plant Quarantine Diagnostic Center was re-
                    branded as the Insect Resistance Control Unit (IRCU) within the PPD,
                    and laboratory equipment required to sustain effective monitoring was
                    sponsored to the ICRU. Within a couple of years, the IRCU sampled
                    nearly 1,000 strains from 6 species of stored insects covering 30 of
                    Vietnam’s provinces, and reared a quarter of these.

                    Based on phosphine resistance research results carried out by the
                    IRCU, the PMU and IRCU decided to proceed with a study on
                    development of a phosphine resistance management plan. Funding
                    reallocated during implementation as a result of savings under other
                    components allowed for the IRCU study to be funded. An MOU to this
                    effect was signed in March 2012. The study generated valuable field
                    testing surveys and best practice videos on proper fumigation
                    techniques using phosphine were produced. Completed in October
                    2012, the National Phosphine Resistance Management Plan was
                    widely disseminated through training workshops geared to fumigation
                    service companies and storage owners. Knowledge and effective
                    methods of use regarding this important alternative to MB use has
                    increased, which contributes to the sustainability of MB phase out.




                                  40
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

In order to capture the overall impact of the Project on the economy of Vietnam, any economic
analysis undertaken would need to include assessment of all the sectors the Project addressed
including, foam, refrigeration and air-conditioning, fire protection and aspects of agricultural
production, as well as of other productive sectors, consumer behavior and government regulation.
Given the absence of direct data available on the impacts that ozone depletion and climate change
have on the health of the Vietnamese population and on other socio-economic aspects of life in the
country, it has not been possible to carry out a project-level quantitative analysis of all salient
aspects.

Based on the aforementioned considerations, no specific estimate was made of the Project’s likely
economic rate of return (ERR), net present value (NPV) or financial rate of return (FRR). Rather,
the project modality used a multi-year, performance-based funding model, enshrined in the NCHP
Plan and methyl bromide ExCom agreements with the Government, under which disbursement of
funds was made against verifiable sustained reduction of ODS phase-out targets in each sector.

This said, UNEP’s 'The Montreal Protocol and the Green Economy' report (2012), which draws on
global-level analyses, credits the MP with having created enabling conditions that stimulated a
transition to a green economy supported by reduced environmental risks and improved human
well-being and social equity. The report notes that technological advances and design innovations
promoted under the MP have reduced costs, produced cleaner and more reliable products and
created better working environments. It further asserts that the transfer of knowledge and
technology in support of ozone protection has helped many developing countries better compete in
international markets. From a social perspective, the transition to non-ODS technologies, products
and services has resulted, on balance, in a shift in jobs, supported by higher levels of training,
versus a loss of jobs. And in terms of human health, the report points to the fact that the MP is
estimated to have generated significant benefits, namely reductions in cancers and cataracts, that
have been valued at more than 11 times the direct investment costs of phasing-out ODS. All told,
Project impacts are deemed positive and that the cumulative impacts of the reduced use of ozone
layer depletion, in tandem with the increased use of chemicals with lower climate impact, are
considered a net positive for both Vietnam’s and the world’s peoples.

The cost-effective (CE) values for both Project streams were competitive. The CE threshold of the
NCHP Plan Project, approved at US $3.94/kg ODP was realistic and efficient in allowing MONRE
to achieve the Project’s objective. The average cost of the CFC and halons phase-out achieved in
Vietnam compares favorably to other ODS projects from within the Bank’s East Asia and the
Pacific ozone portfolio such as, Malaysia (US $10.19/kg ODP), Indonesia (US $4.41/kg ODP) and
the Philippines (US $4.28/kg ODP). The CE of the Methyl Bromide Phase-out component,
approved at US $12.89/kg ODP, was also realistic and efficient. This value figures on the lower
end of the average CE values range globally of US $11.10-$18.30, as identified by the Protocol’s
Technical and Economic Assessment Panel (TEAP).




                                                41
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                     Responsibility/
Names                   Title                              Unit
                                                                     Specialty
Lending
Quang Ngoc Bui          Operations Analyst                           Operations
Helen Chan              Regional Coordinator for MP Projects EASES   Coordination
                        Senior Regional Coordinator/ Task
Viraj Vithoontien                                            ENVMP   Task Management
                        Team Leader
Tran Trung Kien         Procurement Specialist               EAPCO   Procurement
                                                                     Financial
Le Viet Hung            Financial Management Specialist    EAPCO
                                                                     Management
Phuong Thi Thanh Tran   Environment Safeguard                        Safeguard
Quang Bui Ngoc          Operations Officer                EASSD      Operations
Hoi-Chan Nguyen         Lawyer                            LEGEA      Legal
                        Task Team Leader/ Country Sector             Task     Management/
Phil Brylski                                              EASES
                        Coordinator for Vietnam                      Coordination
Mary-Ellen Foley        Montreal Protocol/POPs Operations            Operations
Bilal H. Rahill         Lead Environmental Specialist                Environment
Erik Pedersen           Senior Environmental Engineer     ENVMP      Environment
Giang Thanh Houng Le    Team Assistant                    EACVF      Administrative
Supervision/ICR
                                                           EASEN-
Phillip Brylski         Country Sector Coordinator                   Coordination
                                                           HIS
Quang Ngoc Bui          Operations Officer                 EASVS     Operations
Helen Chan              Consultant                         EASCS     Consultancy
Douglas J. Graham       Senior Environmental Specialist    GENDR     Environment
Abdelaziz Lagnaoui      Senior Environmental Specialist    GENDR     Environment
                                                                     Financial
Hung Viet Le            Senior Financial Management Specialist GWADR
                                                                     Management
Giang Thanh Huong Le    Program Assistant                      GTIDR Administration
Steven P. Maber         Senior Environmental Specialist        EASER Environment
Huy Toan Ngo            E T Consultant                         EASVS Consultancy
Hoai Van Nguyen         Procurement Analyst                    GGODR Procurement
Ninh Quang Nguyen       Program Analyst                        EACVF Operations
                                                                     Financial
Quynh Xuan Thi Phan     Financial Officer                      GEFOB
                                                                     Management
                                                                     Financial
Hiep Quan Phan          Finance Officer                        CTRDM
                                                                     Management
Jiang Ru                Operations Officer                     GENDR Operations
Kien Trung Tran         Senior Procurement Specialist          GGODR Procurement
Phuong Thi Thanh Tran   Senior Environmental Specialist        EASVS Environment
                                                                     Financial
Ha Thuy Tran            Financial Management Specialist        GGODR
                                                                     Management
Viraj Vithoontien       Senior Environmental Specialist        GENDR Environment
Ly Thi Dieu Vu          Operations Analyst                     GSURR Operations
Qing Wang               Senior Environmental Specialist        GENDR Environment
Mary-Ellen Foley        Senior Environmental Specialist        GCCIA Environment
Dominique I. Kayser     Operations Officer                     GCCIA Operations




                                          42
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                          Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                  USD Thousands (including
                          No. of staff weeks
                                                        travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY04                                   15.38                  36,917.79
  FY05                                   15.37                  47,670.85
Supervision/ICR
  FY06                                   12.6                   48,199
  FY07                                   19.34                  68,893
  FY08                                   14.84                  54,727
  FY09                                   16.00                  72,463.28
  FY10                                   18.86                  70,348.57
  FY11                                    6.14                  23,069
  FY12                                   12.42                  54,415.90
  FY13                                   10.11                  57,639
  FY14                                    6.55                  29,295
  FY15                                   12.34                  62,906.3




                                    43
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results


No beneficiary survey was carried out.




                                         44
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Reports and Results

Closing workshops involving stakeholders and beneficiaries were held for both project
streams. In the case of the CFC/halons component, this served to advise national
stakeholders and potential beneficiaries regarding the preparation of phase-out work in the
HCFC sector, phase I of which is underway and nearing completion, and phase II of which
is under preparation. For stakeholders and beneficiaries of the MB Project component, the
closing workshop provided the opportunity to ensure continued engagement on issues of
mutual interest, namely ongoing compliance with phase-out of MB for non-QPS uses in
the face of ongoing MB imports for QPS purposes, as well as management of sustainable
use of phosphine as an alternative to MB.




                                            45
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

           7.A.    VIETNAM NATIONAL CFC AND HALONS PHASE-OUT PLAN

1         Project Implementation Activities.

The project started its implementation in 2005 and closed at the end of 2010. Among this period,
CFC and Halons have been totally phased out during period of 2005-2009. Since 2010, there have
been no CFC and Halons import, export in/out of Vietnam.

The project was carried out completely and successfully with three components with results that:
20 refrigeration sevicing training centers and 61 vehicle inspection stations in MAC sector had
been provided with granted equipments; a foam enterprise using CFC-11 as blowing agent had
been converted to more environmental friendly refrigerant of HCFC-141b; 896 Mac and
Refrigeration service shops had been granted with equipments to stay in business effectively and
friendly environmentally; public awareness and administrative and monitoring activities carried out
by PMU as well as various technical assistance workshops on Halons, MDI, MAC and
Refrigeration sectors had been implemented in good manner and practice by the project.

The project achieved total grant disbursement of 99.96 % equivalent to 1,259,448.08 USD out of
1,260,000 USD. The balance of 551.92 USD was returned to the World Bank's account after
project completion.

The project is in line with GoV's strategy and policy on environmental protection. The project was
considered as GoV's useful tool in environmental protection activities. Phasing out CFC and
Halons through the project brought dual benefit as these ODS have high global warming potential.

2         Achievement of Project

ODS phase-out objective. Through the project implementation, a total of 240 MT ODP was
phased out. Vietnam succeeded in phasing out committed ODS amount, and fully compliant with
its international obligations. These are significant contributions to the global ODS phase-out effort.

Besides, the ODS phase-out in Vietnam was very cost-effective with average cost-effectiveness of
3.94 USD/kg ODP.

ODP tonnes

    600                                                       No-Action Plan
    500

    400                                                       Montreal Protocol
    300
                                                              Reduction Schedule

    200                                                       Phase-out Plan
    100

     0
                                                              Actual Consumption
          2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010                  Reduction




                                                 46
Project Implementation. The project objective was fully achieved. All the technical and
investment components were achieved as and above targets. There were 1,132 technicians from
Mac and refrigeration service shop sector trained, which was much beyond the primarily estimated
number of 900 technicians.

Within the project framework, issuance of joint ministerial circular on ODS control limitted and
gradually phased out ODS so that no CFC and halons are imported, exported and consumed in
Vietnam since 1st January 2010, assisting Vietnam in compliance with its international
commitments and obligations.

Promulgation and dissemination of ODS policies, regulations and standards which were carried out
through workshops, training courses improved enterprises, involved stakeholders and parties'
awareness.

Under the project, capacity for National Ozone Unit has been strengthened through training course
for officers hold by the World Bank. Also, capacity for Customs Bureau on ODS control and
supervision has been improved. These contribute to sustainable phase-out activities of CFC and
Halons.

The project has achieved high results with the regulation and enforcement on CFC and Halons have
been imposed and still on effectiveness; CFC using equipment are disposed under the project; no
CFC need is required and commitment not to use CFC is made by granted enterprise.

3       Outputs

During the implementation of the project, the components were implemented with efficient time
frame and attained their targets with outputs as follows:

    a) Aerosol Sector – Metered Dose Inhaler (MDI). Development and implementation of a
       comprehensive strategy to switch to non-CFC MDI products is needed. The strategy is to
       focus on how to reduce the growth of CFC MDI dependence by an early introduction of
       alternative. The objective of the strategy is to promote the use of non-CFC alternatives and
       to formulate a proper transition plan. Within the project framework, series of the
       workshops of introduction, dissemination on how to use non CFC MDI for medical doctors,
       nurses and the management of hospitals had been carried out. Besides, activity of raising
       awarness of non CFC MDI use aiming at patients had been also implemented. These
       activities helped patients dependent on CFC MDI in particular have enough time for their
       conversion into non CFC MDI. The workshop was organized in Quang Binh for the central
       provinces, Vung Tau for the southern provinces and Hanoi for the northern provinces.
    b) Foam Sector. Financial assistance had been granted to an insulation company for phasing
       out CFC-11 in insulation manufacturing. The granted fund was used to convert technology
       of using CFC-11 to HCFC-141b – a blowing agent in foam production. The beneficiary
       had been equipped with high pressure injection machine suitable with alternative by the
       project. Also, retrofitting two spray foam machines funded by the project was provided for
       the company. This helped the company convert its production line into non CFC
       technology. This is the last company using CFC-11, which was converted into non CFC
       technology. The insulation panel company had been successfully converted its foam
       production line from CFC based technology into non CFC based technology under the
       technical and financial assistances of the NCHP project as defined time schedule.
    c) Mobile Air Conditioning Sector (MAC). The purpose of this sector is to identify
       refrigerant in mobile air conditioning system and inform vehicle owners of what type of
       refrigerant being filled in their MAC system. This would allow vehicle owners to make an
       informed decision next time they need to have their MAC system repaired. In order to



                                               47
        achieve this purpose, a MAC refrigerant testing handbook on how to operate refrigerant
        identifier and MAC leaflet on how to identify refrigerant in MAC system and how to join
        program of checking owner's MAC system had been developed and distributed to vehicle
        inspection stations' technicians. Also, in collaboration with Vietnam Register Program, the
        PMU had provided 61 inspection stations over the country with refrigerant identifiers and
        organized workshops for technicians from the inspection stations to be trained on how to
        handle with the granted equipment. These workshops had been hold in Hanoi and
        Hochiminh city in 2008, and a verification workshop to review and assess results obtained
        was hold in 2010. This sector has approved its efficiency in practice through active
        feedbacks from nationwide inspection stations.
    d) Fire Protection Sector. To assist Vietsovpetro on technical aspect in phasing out halons in
       fire fighting and prevention, the workshops for providing information about recycled
       halons and halons maintenance procedures were carried out in Vung Tau and Hanoi. The
       consultation and training workshops on halons were also implemented. At the workshops,
       Vietsovpetro – the beneficiary was provided with technical assistances in minimizing
       losses during servicing; reviewing existing installations to ensure that accidental losses are
       minimized; providing better understanding of the up-to-date technology pertaining to
       alternatives and substitutes for halons; and strengthening technical capacity of the fire
       protection industry in evaluating efficacy and safety use of the wide range of alternatives.
    e) Mac and Refrigeration Servicing Sector. Within the project framework, 20 selected
       vocational training centers and schools nationwide were provided with refrigeration
       training equipments so that they could carry out training of local refrigeration technicians
       on how to handle with alternative refrigerant of R134a. Also, 896 Mac and refrigeration
       service shops all over the country were provided with tool kits for servicing and
       maintaining refrigeration equipments. This figure was beyond expectation of primary 850
       service shops. Together with granting tool kits for Mac and refrigeration service shops,
       series of training courses had been provided for service shops' technicians so that they were
       trained in how to deal with R134a, an alternative refrigerant for CFC-12. The total amount
       of 1,132 technicians were trained, which were much beyond the expected number of 900
       technicians as initial plan. Besides, awareness raising on the Governments's policy on CFC
       phase-out, availability of non-CFC products and the environmental and economic impact
       of ozone layer depletion was also provided for targeted entities.
4       Stakeholder Workshops

MDI Sector. Vietnam consumes a significant amount of MDI products containing CFCs. There is
no local MDI production facility in Vietnam. The use of CFC MDI products does not affect ability
of Vietnam to meet their obligation to the Montreal Protocol; however, it is still important for
Vietnam to have a comprehensive strategy to switch to non-CFC MDI products and implement this
strategy.

To meet this purpose, a series of workshops for doctors, pharmacists, patients using MDI and
hospital managements had been hold. The subject of these workshops was to raise awareness of
these entities on not using CFC based MDI products and switching to non-CFC MDI ones as well
as introduce strategy of phasing out gradually CFC based MDI products and transition plan to
promote alternatives.

The MDI workshops had been organized in provinces and time of organization as follows:

    -   On 5th March 2010, the workshop was hold in Quang Binh province with the attendance of
        36 targeted people coming from Quang Binh and surrounding central provinces.
    -   The two day workshop on 27th – 28th March 2010 was hold in Vung Tau city with the
        attendance of 120 targeted people coming from Hochiminh city and surrounding provinces.



                                                 48
    -   On 29th October and 23rd November 2010, workshops for doctors, pharmacists, patients
        and hospital managements on MDI were organized with the attendance of 130 and 65
        people    respectively  coming   from    Hanoi    and    surrounding     provinces.

MAC Sector. The NCHP PMU under the Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment
(MONRE) in collaboration with Vietnam Register Department under Ministry of Transport had
jointly implemented component of identifying refrigerant in mobile air conditioning through
Vehicle Register Program. The PMU and Register Department had organized workshops on
training inspectors from inspection stations on how to identify refrigerant in MAC system as well
as raising inspectors' awareness on the need to phase out ODS using in MAC system.

Besides, the equipment for identification of refrigerant had been provided for targeted inspection
stations all over country with the aim at strengthening identification capacity for these inspection
stations.

Along with the above purposes, the workshops were organized for inspectors/technicians from
inspection stations in Hanoi on 11st – 12nd October 2008 and in Hochiminh city on 16th – 17th
October 2008.

There were over 130 people from 49 northern inspection stations attended the workshop hold in
Hanoi. The 37 out of 49 inspection stations was provided with inspection equipment granted by
NCHP project.

In the southern provinces, there were about 130 targeted people from 48 inspection stations
attended the workshop in Hochiminh city. The 24 out of 48 inspection stations was provided with
inspection equipment granted by NCHP project.

The verification workshop to review and assess results obtained was hold on 17th December 2010
in Hanoi with the attendance of 60 people. The workshop drew conclusion all intended purposes
were obtained. The inspection equipment provided by NCHP PMU were operated correctly and
helpful for the granted inspection stations to control and notice end users about using refrigerant in
their car.

Fire Protection Sector. The workshops for phasing out halons in fire-fighting and prevention were
hold on 3rd May 2007 and 13rd December 2010 in Vung Tau city and Hanoi respectively. At the
workshops, Vietsovpetro – the beneficiary was provided with technical assistances in minimizing
losses during servicing; reviewing existing installations to ensure that accidental losses are
minimized; providing better understanding of the up-to-date technology pertaining to alternatives
and substitutes for halons; and strengthening technical capacity of the fire protection industry in
evaluating efficacy and safety use of the wide range of alternatives.

Joining the workshops was representatives from Vietsovpetro and its affiliates and PMU.

PMU. The workshops to introduce and disseminate information related to the Government's
policy on CFC phase-out, inform the industry of the availability of funds provided by the
Multilateral Fund to support CFC and Halons phase-out in Vietnam and inform of availability of
non-CFC products and the environmental and economic impact of ozone layer depletion were
organized in Da Nang on 20th June and in Ninh Thuan on 7th August 2008 with the attendance of
over 100 participants each workshop.

Within the workshops framework, tool kits granted by the project were provided for qualified
servicing shops. Training on how to handle with alternatives and granted tool kits was also
integrated into the workshops.



                                                 49
In collaboration with General Department of Customs, a workshop on Customs control on ODS
was organized by PMU on 23rd August 2010 in Hanoi with the attendance of nearly 50 participants
from Customs offices. The objective of the workshop was to enable customs officers and market
inspectors to become more familiar with ODS import/export licensing system and other regulations
related to the phase-out of ODS and their respective role in enforcing these regulations.

During the workshop, the customs officers and market inspectors were also trained on:

-   How to identify the substances controlled by the Montreal Protocol and mixtures containing
    such substances;
-   Identifying imported products that may contain ODS, especially refrigerators, freezers and
    other refrigeration equipment using CFCs;

Recording imports and exports of ODS and ODS containing products.

5       Project Assessment and Lessons Learned

The project is in line with GoV's strategy and policy on environmental protection. The project was
considered as GoV's useful tool in environmental protection activities. Phasing out CFC and
Halons through the project brought dual benefit as these ODS have high global warming potential.

Through implementation of the project, three main lessons learned are: strong commitment and
regulation made by GoV; effective co-operation between PMU and agencies and the World Bank;
facilitation in dealing with enterprises and stake holders.

    -   The Government of Vietnam expressed strong commitment and engagement in
        environmental protection in general and CFC and Halons phase-out in particular. A various
        regulations and circular were issued to phase out CFC and stop importing CFC containing
        equipments. Strong regulations and commitment of the Government issued synchronously
        along with implementation process are one of key contributions to the success of the
        project.
    -   Effective co-operation between PMU and agencies and the World Bank as well as
        stakeholders, enterprises' active involvement have resulted in achieving the project's targets.
    -   Training courses provided by the World Bank help update information and strengthen
        supervising and monitoring capacity in practice for the PMU so that the project is carried
        out under right procedure and regulation stipulated by the Government of Vietnam and the
        World Bank.
Facilitation during project implementation is a favourable condition which helps the project
conducted on schedule and smoothly. Mac and Refrigeration servicing sector is quite complicated.
Refrigeration enterprises and service shops are numerous and distributed nationwide. During the
implemention of this sector, refrigeration enterprises and service shops have right to choose
equipment supplier. In case supplier has no available equipment, refrigeration enterprises and
service shops could change supplier. This facilitates process of implementation of Mac and
Refrigeration servicing sector, ensuring the component particularly and the project generally to be
on schedule.

6       Assessment of World Bank Performance

Supervision mission is conducted two times per year by the World Bank. This frequency is
appropriate to the PMU. During the mission, co-operation between the World Bank and PMU in
settling all arising issues is highly appreciated.




                                                 50
Under the project implementation, procurement plan had been revised some times to catch up with
arising situation. Guidance and approval for the revised procurement made by the World Bank is
timely, which ensure the project to be run smoothly and on schedule. Generally, the World Bank
respond to client is appropriately time consuming.

Training courses on procurement and financial management hold by the World Bank has
strengthened PMU staffs' capacity in monitoring and supervising day to day works. This activity
should be carried out for next projects.

At the end of the project, the World Bank's person in charge for Vietnam National CFC and Halons
phase-out plan was changed. However, this change did not affect activities of supervision and
assistance as all project's main components had been completed. The remaining works were just for
closing project.


         7.B.    VIETNAM NATIONAL METHYL BROMIDE PHASE-OUT PLAN

The Plant Protection Department (PPD), under the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development
(MARD), was empowered by the Government of Vietnam (GoV) to act as one part under the
Country Program for the phase-out of Methyl Bromide, one of ODS presented in Vietnam to fulfill
its obligations under the Montreal Protocol. The project objective is to assist Vietnam to
completely phase out its consumption of Annex E chemicals, Methyl Bromide, in accordance with
the phase-out schedule stipulated by the Montreal Protocol and Vietnam's agreement in a timely
and cost-effective manner. The Project includes a combination of policies and regulatory measures,
technical assistance to strengthen capacity of relevant government agencies for controlling import,
export and use of ODS, as well as financial support and training to fumigation service companies,
storage facilities and growers in the application of Methyl Bromide alternatives.

Project Beneficiaries

Fumigation Service Companies (FSCs), storage facilities and growers are the primary beneficiaries
of the Vietnam Methyl Bromide Phase-out Plan. The project not only provided these beneficiaries
with funding for equipment of alternative fumigation techniques but also knowledge on new
technologies and practical training. Detailed guidelines were introduced long before MB is
completely banned for non-QPS applications in 2015 helped them get used to alternatives and
adjust their business accordingly.

The PPD’s management tools were enhanced thanks to MIS and revised regulatory. Many of their
staff were trained thoroughly on MB management as well as MB replacement techniques.
Laboratory equipment sponsored to the IRCU and a study tour also improved their study facilities
and skills. All these can be applied for management of similar chemicals later on, if any.

The reporting system developed by MIS and through the National Strategy for Phosphine
Resistance Management was considerably improved which also brought a positive effect to other
divisions within PPD. The coordination among PPD and its sub-departments as well as PPD and
the Customs Bureau have been elevated. Customs officers awareness and supervision skills and
techniques in ODS import and export control activities have also been upgraded. Similar reporting
system in MARD or other ministries can be successfully applied to other controlled substances
later on, if any.

Plant protection product manufacturers and traders might have a chance to increase their sales of
MB alternatives.

Funding was reallocated during the implementation of the project due to some main reasons: (i)
decreased number of fumigation service companies participated in the project as beneficiaries


                                                51
under sub-grant agreements; (ii) unused funding from procurement activities and study tours; (iii)
extension of IRCU study for a national strategy for phosphine resistance management; (iv)
additional equipment and consumables for the training centers; and (v) increased remuneration of
PMU staff. The letter of funding reallocation request was sent from the State Bank of Vietnam to
the World Bank in March 2012 and the acceptance was granted in June 2012. By December 2013,
a survey on potential new alternatives to MB use in non-QPS applications was approved to
supplement the PP. This activity and its 2 workshops are supported by savings from the completed
activities.

Project Design and Implementation

Before this phase-out plan, Vietnam conducted a MLF demonstration project for MB alternatives
through the assistance of UNIDO. This project improved the storage facility and management as
well as the training of workers.

Vietnam received US$ 65,000 from the Executive Committee of the Multilateral Fund for the
Implementation of the Montreal Protocol in November 2005 to prepare a methyl bromide strategy
and an investment project proposal for phasing out the controlled use of methyl bromide for non-
QPS applications in Vietnam.

A detailed work plan for the phase-out project was developed by the World Bank and the PPD. It
took almost 6 months for the preparation. Activities included: Design and plan data collection and
analysis, work closely with local and international experts to identify alternatives and cost/benefits,
facilitate consultations and workshops between stakeholders, develop a draft strategy for complete
phase-out plan of non-QPS MB and seek agreement and feedback of major stakeholders and
Government agencies and, determine all eligible costs of the draft strategy for the ExCom and
prepare the project proposal.

The project started functioning in 2009 and closed at the end of 2014. Methyl Bromide for non-
QPS applications has been totally phased out by December 31, 2014 as scheduled under the
Montreal Protocol. Not any more Methyl Bromide is permitted to be imported or used for non-QPS
applications in Vietnam since January 1, 2015.

The 2 components on technical assistance started behind the schedule, but they were implemented
and finished efficiently before the schedule. Almost the project key activities were completed
before the middle of 2014 with all targets achieved.

The number of fumigation service companies as initially designed by the project to be supported
under Post-harvest Technical Assistance Component reduced dramatically from 42 to 19. Due to
more stringent regulations on fumigation activity management as well as economic difficulties,
many small fumigators disappeared or were merged into bigger ones. There were only 19
fumigation service companies functioning by the time the sub-grant activity started, and only 9 of
which were interested to participate in the project. Some decided not to sign the agreement with the
PMU when they reconsidered about the actual funding they could receive and the procurement
procedures they had to follow. Beneficiaries were obliged to pay 25% of the sponsored amount,
which is 75% of the equipment value excluding taxes and fees, for the enterprise income tax. These
are mostly small fumigators. The funding for sub-grants dropped to 2/3 of the approved budget
because of this change.

9 biggest fumigation service companies in Vietnam were sponsored with 75% of the equipment
value they registered to purchase under sub-grant agreements, equivalent to 203,515 USD to
replace methyl bromide fumigation. With 26 workshops, about 20 fumigation companies with
branches all over the country and hundreds of storage owners were trained on correct fumigation
practice and strategy for phosphine resistance management, MB alternatives as well as updated



                                                  52
regulations on the import and use of MB. Equipments and training through different types of
workshop helped improve their knowledge and practice as well as their awareness in selection of
MB alternatives. A video instructing the standard fumigation technique with Phosphine as the
most popular replacement to MB introduced the proper concentration and time of treatment so as to
improve the effectiveness and safety as well as to reduce the resistance.

Management Information System (MIS), along with more strictly regulations on MB management,
helps the PPD to monitor MB flow right from import to stock quantity. Reporting system is
enhanced with revised formats which enable the PPD to collect data and keep track with any
movement of MB. MARD officials capacity are also strengthened through many workshops and a
study tour to Australia, where MB replacement and Phosphine resistance management has been
applied successfully. 2 study phases of IRCU provided status of phosphine resistance in Vietnam
and a national strategy to manage it.

A survey on MB alternatives application had been conducted since April 2014. All farms,
questioned growers and fumigation companies are aware of the MB ban from January 1, 2015. For
the available alternatives, results of the survey again confirmed that Phosphine is still the best
alternative for storage at the moment. Phosphine now is fully replace MB in this category of
treatment with costs and effectiveness, while other alternatives are facing difficulties due to
registration of new pesticides has been suspended since last year or high requirements in
implementation.

Storage facilities awareness has been raised in protecting their storage from insect resistance as
well as reducing the fumigation costs. They learned to visualise and differentiate some main stored
insects and popular resistant ones. They are trained how to store goods properly to prevent the
insect invasion or limit their influences. Basic fumigation techniques for some widely-used storage
types were also introduced, so as to help them supervise the fumigation process and indentify the
resistance at early stage, if any.

During the survey, soil fumigation is more concerned by many question from farms. Integrated pest
control techniques to replace MB were also introduced to growers and local technicians in Sapa,
Dalat and their surroundings through 8 workshops. Big farms in Dalat, in collaboration with
pesticide companies, have been testing new alternatives and new techniques since 2013, among
which Basamid is proving to be considerably effective as compared to MB for its wide spectrum
but rather environmentally friendly. Metham Sodium is also suggested by the consultant, but the
application is more complicated and costly than Basamid. The registration of these alternatives
have been recently processing by some pesticide companies in Vietnam, but it is going to take
months for Pesticides Testing Center under PPD to test and confirm the results.

The farmers started to participate in the project after the demonstrations of integrated approaches
for MB replacement had completed. Two workshops to disseminate results and lessons learned
from the demonstrations. Another 5 workshops have been held in Da Lat and 3 in Sapa during 2
years since then to train them on applying MB alternatives on different crops. Technicians from
extentions and plant protection stations in local areas also joined in the workshops to help the
farmers on their fields. Demonstration fields were opened for the farmers to visit and compare the
results.

Some growers who do not work with pesticide companies are not permitted to import unregistered
alternatives. They are still using other IPMs and some integrated approaches proposed by the
consultant for demonstrations in Dalat and Sapa.

The testing and registration of new pesticides was paused since mid of 2013 as decided by the
MARD for restructuring the list of applicable ones and new registration process. This delayed the




                                                53
application for new MB alternatives, causing impacts to the production of farms and growers who
have been using MB frequently in the past years.

The main factors affecting the implementation include: (a) strong commitment of the Government
of Vietnam to ODS phase-out activities; (b) PPD’s assistance during project implementation; (c)
co-operation between PMU and the World Bank.

Assessment of Outcomes

The project has been implemented as designed with no considerable change and in compliance with
the World Bank’s regulations. All the objectives set by the Montreal Protocol have been achieved.
The project’s success also demonstrates the effort of the Government of Vietnam in environment
protection and contributes to reduce global warming potential.

ODP tonnes

  600
  500
                                                                 Montreal Protocol
  400                                                            Reduction Schedule
  300
  200
  100
    0
                                                                 Actual Consumption
      08

             09

                    10

                           11

                                  12

                                         13

                                                14

                                                       15




                                                                 Reduction
    20

           20

                  20

                         20

                                20

                                       20

                                              20

                                                     20




The project objectives were all achieved. The commitment of the Government of Vietnam under
the Montreal Protocol has been done. Although some activities were a bit behind the schedule
during the first two years of the project, they were all then speeded up to end even earlier than
planned with all targets met.

                                          ODS Phaseout Achievements

                                          MB consumption for non-QPS applications (ODP
                  Year                                      tonnes)
                                               Allowed                   Actual
                  2008                           N/A                       N/A
                  2009                            85                       79.8
                  2010                            80                       76.8
                  2011                            70                       69.9
                  2012                            70                       70.0
                  2013                            50                      49.98
                  2014                            35                        35
                  2015                             0                         0


249 technicians from fumigation service companies were trained through 9 workshops, 469 staff
from storage facilities through 17 and 467 farmers and local technicians were trained through 8
workshops all over the country. MARD officials were also trained in local workshops and overseas
study tour in Australia.



                                                            54
Regulations on pesticide and fumigation activity management were reviewed and amended. MB
management was put in one acticle of the newly promulgated Plant Protection Law. Quota and
reporting system applied to specific use facilitate the PPD to control the import and use of MB for
QPS applications as well.

The National Strategy for Phosphine Resistance Management built under the follow-up study of the
IRCU also works well. The resistance is under controlled and tends to reduce. Alternatives selected
and demonstrated in high value crop lands were applied in surrounding areas with considerably
good results as reported from the farmers and local technicians. Priority has also been given by
PPD to research and experiment new alternatives to MB. New alternatives for MB are still being
studied and searched for by the PPD. Phosphine resistance is also supervised in the labs of Plant
Quarantine Diagnostic Center. Similar researches of insect resistance to other MB alternatives will
be conducted here.

Many workshops and various public awareness materials distributed to MB related people and
agencies have actually raised their awareness on MB use in particular and on environment
protection in general.

Institutional Strengthening. The implementation of the project helped strengthen the capacity not
only the PMU but also of related PPD officials through training courses and functioning of MIS.
The capacity of Customs Bureau on ODS control and supervision has been improved under the
collaboration with MONRE and MARD. These contribute to sustainable phase-out of Methyl
Bromide. The position of Technical Officer was no longer required to be funded by the Project
since 2010. The PPD has been providing effective technical assistance upon the PMU’s Director
request.

Assessment of World Bank Performance

The Bank’s experts and specialists performance is professional and cooperative, resulting in good
achievements of the project and helping the Government of Vietnam to fulfil its obligations to
Montreal Protocol.

Supervision mission is conducted twice a year. Arising issues were discussed settled during the
missions. The good cooperation between the Bank and the PMU also contributes to help the project
keep up with the schedule of last 4 years.

Procurement plan was revised some times during project implementation. The Bank’s instructions
and approval for the revised procurement plan were provided timely ensuring the project to run
smoothly. The Task Team Leader position was changed twice during the first 2 years of the project.
However it caused only tiny delays for the new ones to catch up with the project.

Training courses on procurement and financial management held by the Bank strengthened the
capacity of PMU staff.

Lessons Learned

Lessons learned from the project are: active participation in to international environment protection
commitments of GoV; awareness raise among MB related agencies and persons; effective co-
operation between PMU and the World Bank and stakeholders; capacity improvement of PPD

    -   The Government of Vietnam strongly expresses its responsibility in protecting the global
        environment by actively signing in the international commitments and fulfill its obligations.
        Policies and regulations to control ODS and Methyl Bromide promulgated during the
        project implementation are among the key facilitations to the project’s success.



                                                 55
-   The project raises the awareness of fumigation service companies, storage facilities owners
    and farmers. They have been searching for MB alternatives, proposing, testing some in the
    fumigation of soil and stored goods during the project implementation. This helps ensure
    the sustainability of the project.
-   Effective co-operation between PMU and the World Bank as well as stakeholders have
    resulted in achieving the project's targets.
-   The project implementation and training courses provided by the Bank also enhances the
    capacity of the PPD in supervising and monitoring which is a good experience in their job
    processing as well as in the future projects.




                                            56
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

N/A




                                     57
Annex 9. Reporting of Consumption of Annex A and E substances under Article 7 of the Montreal Protocol




                                             Vietnam ODS Consumption in ODP Tonnes (2006-2015)

Annex Group Substance           2005             2006        2007       2008        2009       2010        2011       2012       2013       2014      Baseline
A     I     CFCs                234.8            148.7       37.8       20.4        8          0           0          0          0                    500
A     II    Halons              0                0           0          0           0          0           0          0          0                    37.1
            Carbontetrachloride
B     II    (CTC)               0.1              0           0          0           0          0           0          0          0                    1.6

E       I        Methyl Bromide       93.6       96          92.4       83.4        73.8       76.8        69.6       70         50                   136.5

N.B. This table includes reporting based on all MLF-funded activities undertaken in Vietnam during the period highlighted, as reported by the Government under
Article 7 of the MP. It demonstrates the country’s compliance with the Protocol’s 2010 control measures, and the declining trend in the use of MB. Reporting
under Article 7 is to be submitted to the Ozone Secretariat by Parties by September each year. The data for 2014 is therefore, not yet available.




                                                                               58
Annex 10. Agreements between the Government of Vietnam and the Executive
Committee of the MLF




                                   59
60
61
62
63
Annex 11. Photographs (all photos: NCHP PLAN and MB phase-out Project staff)

Vietnam National CFC and Halons Phase-out Plan (NCHP PLAN ) Project

NCHP PMU Kick-off workshop




PMU and Refrigeration and Air Conditioning Association's Workshop




Provision of training equipment for vocational training schools


                                             64
65
Training Workshop on how to operate tool kits and delivering tool kits for Mac and
refrigeration service shops




                                            66
Training workshop on how to identify refrigerant in MAC system and delivering identifiers
for vehicle inspection stations




                                            67
Vietnam National Methyl Bromide Phase-out Plan




   Sapa: Supervision mission - demonstration of MB          Sapa: Supervision mission - demonstration of MB
               alternatives on tomatoes                                   alternatives on roses




   Sapa: Supervision mission - demonstration of MB         Da Lat: Supervision mission - demonstration of MB
               alternatives on cabbage                         alternatives on chrysanthemum production




  Da Lat: demonstration of chrysanthemum production        Da Lat: demonstration of MB alternative on cabbage
                  using alternatives




                                                      68
Annex 12. List of Supporting Documents

Memorandum and Recommendation of the Director for the World Bank Office in Vietnam,
October 25, 2005.

The World Bank, Ozone Project Trust Fund Grant Agreement, January 2006.

The World Bank, Ozone Project Trust Fund Grant Agreement Amendment, August 2008.

Reallocation of Funds Restructuring Paper, May 2012.

The Country Assistance Strategy of the World Bank Group for the Socialist Republic of Vietnam
(2003-2006), September 16, 2002.

The World Bank Country Partnership Strategy with the Socialist Republic of Vietnam for the
Period 2007-2011, January 3, 2007.

The World Bank Country Partnership Strategy for the Socialist Republic of Vietnam for the Period
FY12 - FY16, November 7, 2011.

NCHP Plan and Methyl Bromide sub-component submissions to the MLF ExCom.

Recipient-ExCom Agreements governing the NCHP and the Methyl Bromide sub-component.

The World Bank, Supervision Mission Aide Memoires (2003-2014) and NCHP Mid-Term Review
(December 2011).

The World Bank, Implementation Status Reports (ISRs) (2007-2014).

Government of Vietnam’s NCHP and Methyl Bromide Project Completion Reports (PCRs), as
prepared for submission to the MLF Senior Monitoring and Evaluation Officer.

Recipient ICRs, prepared by MONRE and MARD, 2011 and 2014 (reproduced in this report in
Annex 7).

Quality Assessment of Lending Portfolio (QALP-2), 2010.

Bi-annual Progress Reports for the NCHP PLAN and Methyl Bromide sub-component (2006 –
2014).

Bi-annual FM Reports for the NCHP PLAN and Methyl Bromide sub-component (2006 – 2014).

United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP), Technology and Economic Assessment Panel
(TEAP), Assessment of the Funding Requirement for the MLF for the period 2006-2008, 2005.

UNEP, The Montreal Protocol and the Green Economy, 2012.

Implications of Possible Restrictions of Methyl Bromide (MB) Use for Quarantine and Pre-
shipment Uses: Case Study Assessments from the World Bank Group Montreal Protocol MB
Operations in Thailand and Vietnam, World Bank Group Montreal Protocol Operations, Ozone
Operations Resource Group Report, 2014.




                                               69
MAP




70
