Report No. PID6545
PID6545.TXT
Project Name                     Nepal-Basic and Primary Education Project (@)
Phase I of an APL Credit to Support the Basic
and Primary Education Program (BPEP APL)
Region                           South Asia Region
Sector                           EE-Education
Project                          NPPE40612
Borrower(s)                      His Majesty's Government of Nepal
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Education
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                April 1, 1999
Projected Appraisal Date         September 7, 1998
Projected Board Date             March 30, 1999
1. Country and Sector Background
Sector Issues: Government recognizes that education is key to poverty
alleviation and in recent years has given a high priority to provision of
education services. Much has been achieved in a very difficult environment
to make schooling more accessible, to increase quality inputs and to provide
alternative programs to address the low literacy levels. However, student
learning outcomes of both primary and secondary education are low, and the
poorest communities remain the most educationally disadvantaged. These low
outcomes relate to issues of equitable access to quality schooling, system
efficiency and use of resources.
(a) Access and Quality. Substantial progress has been made in
increasing enrollment in primary education since the early 1990s. However,
access to secondary education is unevenly distributed, and has high direct
and opportunity costs. Primary and secondary school completion rates are low
and those completing schooling have only minimal levels of skills for
community needs. Teacher absenteeism is high, reflecting the poorly
regulated teacher recruitment process, incentive structures, and weak school
supervision.
(b) Efficiency and Resource Use. The school system is characterized by
low student retention and completion rates, inefficient teacher deployment
practices and poor fund utilization. Sector management is highly centralized
and not well situated to handle the rapidly expanding school system. Many
professional functions in the sector such as curriculum renewal, teacher
training and design of non-formal education programs have been carried out
under donor-funded project units. The large number of donors supporting the
sector within a weak institutional and regulatory framework has exacerbated
the low absorptive capacity and lack of policy coherence.
Government Strategy: The Government recognizes these issues and has



articulated strategies in the Ninth (1997-2002) Five-Year Development Plan to
raise the national literacy level by expanding equitable access to basic
education and increasing the quality of primary education; and at the
secondary and higher levels, by emphasizing the upgrading of secondary and
higher education and raising the quality of output. Other key strategies are
to increase the allocation of public resources for the education sector from
13t to 15t in the interests of sustainability and system stability; to
strengthen the Ministry of Education (MOE) in order to improve policy
planning and system monitoring; and to devolve education management to
promote the active involvement of communities and local bodies in managing
education institutions. Major ongoing efforts to improve access and quality
at the basic and primary levels are being expanded with greater emphasis on
community participation at all levels.
The Basic and Primary Education Master Plan, 1997-2002, outlines
national priorities for the subsector as follows: (a) to ensure universal
coverage of primary education and raise literacy; (b) to improve quality and
efficiency of primary education; (c) to improve planning, policy making,
coordination, research and evaluation capacity within the MOE; and (d) to
decentralize educational management. It builds on strategies and experience
from two previous IDA-supported primary education projects, supports
curriculum and textbook reform, a school cluster-based teacher training
model, and targeted strategies to increase participation of girls and
disadvantaged groups. The BPEP APL supports implementation of Government's
compulsory education policies and strategies to ensure that all children can
enter and complete five years of primary education.
2. Objectives
The objective of the project is to strengthen institutional capacities
at national, district and school levels to plan and deliver more efficient
and better quality education services. In turn, this is expected to lead to
increased levels of learning resulting from improved student retention
(especially for girls and socially disadvantaged groups), more effective
teacher performance and efficient teacher deployment practices.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Bank has become a catalyst for the external funding of basic and
primary education in Nepal. The Government of Nepal recognizes IDA's
capability to provide both substantive technical advice and financial support
necessary to assist the implementation of complex but integrated educational
programs on a large scale. IDA initiated the proposal that each major donor
supporting the project consider financing a proportion of the total cost of
the core investment program. This encouraged donor support for the full
program and, given the number of donors, will avoid administrative complexity
for Government. This approach has been accepted by five major donors. IDA's
experience with multi-donor reviews will facilitate the proposed joint
supervision process. IDA continues to play a leading role in the overall
country context particularly for policy development and is favorably
positioned to assist government with additional support for the education
system.
4. Description
-2-



The Project supports the first three years of HMG's five-year core
investment program (CIP) for the sub-sector which includes: (a) strengthening
institutional capacity, (b) raising learning achievement, and (c) increasing
equitable access. These three components are being financed jointly by five
major donors (Danida, European Union, Finland, IDA and NORAD) and the
Government of Nepal. A joint Government-donor annual planning process will
comprise plans, budgets, monitoring indicators and performance benchmarks for
release of funds. Plans at national and district levels will be developed
within the policies and strategies set down in the Government's Basic and
Primary Education Policy Framework. A process by which School Improvement
Plans (SIPs) will be eligible for direct funding will be put in place and,
over the project period, these will progressively become part of the district
planning process. Eligible expenditures for national, district and school
plans are described in the BPEP APL investment plan.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Government                               2.2
IBRD                                     0
IDA                                      12.5
Other bilateral financing institutions   40.9
Total Project Cost                       55.6
6. Implementation
Institutional arrangements: The executing agency is MOE through its
Department of Education (DOE) and other line agencies. An inter-ministerial
Program Execution Board (PEB) will oversee the operation of the Program. MOE
is responsible for policy and planning, donor coordination and coordination
with other Government and non-Government agencies. As the DOE will be
functional only from July 1999, a Change Management Group (CMG) has been
established to co-ordinate DOE formation and transition of implementation
management from project implementation units to the DOE. The DOE will
prepare annual operational and expenditure plans for the basic and primary
education program including all donor-financed subprojects; monitor and
report on progress towards policy objectives; and account for expenditures in
the subsector. In this task it will be guided by an established Technical
Support Advisory Group (TSAG) which will identify expertise required for
effective project execution and possible sources.
A service unit, the Basic and Primary Education Development Unit
(BPEDU) under the DOE, will be set up to facilitate the provision of
technical support to implementing agencies (central and district level
institutions) through its construction, procurement and service contracting
capacity. Day-to-day implementation of the program at national level will be
the responsibility of the DOE administration, training and finance units.
The existing National Center for Education Development (NCED) will be
responsible for teacher training policies and plans, the Curriculum
Development Center (CDC) will be responsible for curriculum, textbook and
resource center development and training, and the Non-Formal Education Center
(NFEC) will be responsible for literacy and out-of-school education programs.
At the district level, program planning, implementation and monitoring will
be the responsibility of the district DOE offices. The Project Implementation
Plan (PIP) sets out the organizational structure of the MOE and describes in
detail the roles and responsibilities of the MOE and implementing agencies at
-3 -



national and district levels.
7. Sustainability
(a) Financial Sustainability. Direct Government expenditure on
primary and basic education in 1996/7 was NRs. 2719 million and NRs. 422 on
the Regular and Development Budgets, respectively. Incremental recurrent
expenditures in the third year of the project (2001/02) are estimated at
around US$5.7 million or NRs. 380 million. At the end of the Phase II APL,
three years later they are estimated to be around NRs. 750 million. In
addition to the cost of Government of taking over all of the responsibilities
of the ongoing First Basic and Primary Education Project (BPEP I), these are
substantial increments. The Ministry's Master Plan proposed that by the end
of the Ninth Plan period (coinciding with the end of Phase I), education will
be allocated 15 percent of total Government expenditure (up from 13.1 percent
in 1997/98) and that basic and primary education be allocated 55 percent.
Financial projections suggest, on the assumption of an overall increase in
total budgetary allocations of four percent a year, that the attainment of
these shares would allow for the incremental costs of the project to be
funded, provided that real salary increases are kept near zero. However, if
the shares do not increase the allocations would be insufficient. In this
context, it will be important to ensure that expenditures to initiate new
activities or expand existing ones also contribute towards increasing the
efficiency of the whole subsector and are made within an overall supportive
framework, which has been agreed upon.
(b) Institutional Sustainability. Government has set up the necessary
regulatory framework to re-organize the MOE and to create new positions for
DOE; to absorb past project units into the CDC, NFEC, NCED, the Distance
Education Center (DEC), and in the districts. Government is in the process
of creating an institutional and organizational framework to better suit a
decentralized education system. However, the building of institutional
capacity will be the core of this Phase I project. By the end of the project
period, the DOE is expected to be better staffed with competent
professionals, the merger of past project units (their functions and where
appropriate their personnel) should have been completed and, in at least 12
districts, primary education teams should be established with competent
professional staff and district planning, and budgeting and monitoring should
have been successfully implemented.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Experience from previous and ongoing projects financed by IDA and other
donors in Nepal and in the region was taken into consideration in designing
the project: (i) the quality of primary education can be improved by focusing
attention on acquisition of basic learning skills and by introducing an
integrated approach to promoting student learning, teacher performance and
school development; (ii) NGOs, local communities and local bodies must be
involved in delivery of educational services if the needs of diverse groups
are to be met; (iii) ensuring communities' ownership in school construction
and involvement in school management and teacher monitoring are essential for
increasing accountability; (iv) a lean field-based project management
structure with flexibility to acquire technical expertise when needed is the
most appropriate management approach; (v) interventions to increase girls'
enrollment and retention through the appointment of female teachers,
- 4 -



strengthen in-service teacher training, and the integration of project
management structures into the MOE will not be sustained unless there are
clear reinforcing policies; and (vi) donor cooperation can be effective
provided firm funding commitments and agreements on supervision are reached
before implementation starts.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)      Yes
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues:   The project would not raise any significant environmental
issues. Construction of new schools and additional classrooms is to be on
the land donated by the community. As timber has become a scarce resource in
Nepal, its use will be limited by substituting factory crafted steel
elements. Government has confirmed to IDA that no involuntary resettlement
will arise from implementing project civil works activities.
11. Contact Point:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202) 458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Team Leader
Grant G. Sinclair
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone:   (202) 458-0371
Fax:         (202) 522-3408
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending April 30, 1999.
- 5 -



