                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 30718

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                         (IDA-31850 TF-29645)

                                                  ON A

                                                 CREDIT

                               IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 9.0 MILLION

                                                 TO THE

                                         KINGDOM OF NEPAL

                                                FOR THE

                           BASIC AND PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT 2




                                            February 4, 2004




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                          (Exchange Rate Effective November 18, 2004)

                                 Currency Unit = Nepalese Rupees (NPR)
                                       100 NPR = US$ 1.39
                                         US$ 1 = 72 NPR

                                       FISCAL YEAR
                          HMG/N Fiscal Year (FY)     July 16 - July 15

                            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS



APL    Adaptable Program Loan                   MOES         Ministry of Education and Sports
ASIP   Annual Strategic Implementation Plan     MTR          Mid-Term Review
BPEP   Basic and Primary Education Project      NCED         National Center for Education Development
CBO    Community Based Organization             NER          Net Enrollment Ratio
CAS    Country Assistance Strategy              NFEC         Non-Formal Education Center
CDC    Curriculum Development Center            NGO          Non-Governmental Organization
DANIDA Danish International Development         QAG          Quality Assurance Group
       Assistance
DCA    Development Credit Agreement             PIP          Project Implementation Plan
DEO    District Education Office                PIU          Project Implementation Unit
DEP    District Education Plan                  PEP          Primary Education Project
DOE    Department of Education                  PSR          Project Status Report
ECD    Early Childhood Development              PTA          Parent Teacher Association
EFA    Education for All                        SERDP        Seti Education for Rural Development
                                                             Project
EMIS   Education Management Information         SIP          School Improvement Plan
       System
GER    Gross Enrollment Ratio                   SMC          School Management Committee
GPI    Gender Parity Index                      SWAp         Sector Wide Approach
HMG/N  His Majesty's Government of Nepal        VEC          Village Education Committee
ICR    Implementation Completion Report




                                Vice President:     Praful Patel
                               Country Director     Kenichi Ohashi
                                Sector Manager      Michelle Riboud
              Task Team Leader/Task Manager:        Rajendra Joshi

                                            NEPAL
                            Basic and Primary Education Project 2


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              9
6. Sustainability                                                                11
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 13
8. Lessons Learned                                                               17
9. Partner Comments                                                              18
10. Additional Information                                                       19
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             21
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             23
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             25
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             26
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             28
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                29
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            30
Annex 8. Government Final Evaluation Project Report                              31

Project ID: P040612                                                  Project Name: Basic and Primary Education Project
Team Leader: Rajendra Dhoj Joshi                                     TL Unit: SASHD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: February 4, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: Basic and Primary Education Project                      L/C/TF Number: IDA-31850; TF-29645
   Country/Department: NEPAL                                                              Region: South Asia Regional
                                                                                                     Office

        Sector/subsector: Primary education (48%); Sub-national government administration
                            (15%); Central government administration (15%); Tertiary
                            education (12%); Pre-primary education (10%)
                  Theme: Education for all (P); Gender (P); Participation and civic
                            engagement (P); Decentralization (S); Social analysis and
                            monitoring (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 07/10/1996                                     Effective: 10/19/1999                10/19/1999
     Appraisal: 09/04/1998                                         MTR: 03/01/2002                  03/17/2002
      Approval: 03/30/1999                                      Closing: 07/15/2002                 07/15/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          His Majesty's Government of Nepal/Ministry of Education and Sports
                      Other Partners:      Denmark, European Union, Finland, Norway

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Praful C. Patel                                Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director:               Kenichi Ohashi                                 Hans M. Rothenbuhler
Sector Manager:                 Michelle Riboud                                Ralph W. Harbison
Team Leader at ICR:             Rajendra Joshi                                 Grant Sinclair
ICR Primary Author:             Mark LaPrairie


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  U
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The goal of Phase 1 of the proposed three-phase Adaptable Program Lending (APL) approach for the Basic
and Primary Education Project in Nepal was to develop institutional capacity for qualitative and
quantitative improvement of the five-year primary education system at the national, district and school
levels. This strategy underpinned His Majesty's Government of Nepal's (HMG/N) plan to deliver more
efficient and better quality education services throughout the country. In turn, this was expected to lead to
increased levels of learning resulting from improved student retention (especially for girls and socially
disadvantaged groups), more effective teacher performance and more efficient teacher deployment
practices.

Specific project goals under Phase 1 of the APL were to: (i) strengthen the Ministry of Education (MOE)
and establish a Department of Education (DOE) to become the MOE's technical wing to delivery primary
and secondary education programs; (ii) introduce performance-based district planning and budget
processes; and (iii) pilot school improvement planning.

The objectives of the Basic and Primary Education Project-2 (BPEP2) were realistic insofar as they
accurately reflected the status of the education sector in Nepal where there were major issues related to: (i)
institutional capacity; (ii) teachers and teaching practices; and (iii) access, especially for disadvantaged
communities. HMG/N was responding to a situation characterized by low student learning outcomes at
both the primary and secondary education levels, poor communities as the most educationally
disadvantaged, a difficult physical environment in which to make education more accessible, low system
efficiency and ineffective use of resources. The key issues set forth in statements on educational priorities
and strategies articulated by HMG/N in its 'Sub-Sector Policy Statement', agreed at project negotiations,
were effectively reflected in BPEP2's objectives.

Reducing poverty and strengthening a weak human capital base through investment in the provision of
basic services were priorities of the Nepal Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), reviewed by the Board on
December 15, 1998. Of particular pertinence to BPEP2, the CAS identified two key strategies to poverty
alleviation: (i) bringing resources closer to beneficiaries, where they are most likely to be productively used;
and (ii) collective donor action to foster stronger governance needed to reduce waste and mismanagement of
resources. The project is assessed to have effectively supported both these strategies, and was consistent
with the CAS's overall objectives and approach.

The project's objectives were clear and well understood by the Borrower. The complexity of the project is
assessed to have been adequate in terms of the range of institutional improvements, the number of
institutions involved, the number of project components and the number of partners participating through
parallel financing for the first phase of the ten-year APL.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The project's objectives were not formally revised during the life of the project.

3.3 Original Components:
The total project costs for the Core Investment Program (CIP), funded by Denmark, Finland, European
Commission, HMG/N, IDA and Norway were estimated at US$55.7 million equivalent for Phase 1 of the
APL, of which the contributions from IDA, other donors and the Government were US$ 12.5, 40.9 and 2.2
respectively. The United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF), the Asian Development Bank (ADB) and the
Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) provided funding and technical support outside the basket



                                                       - 2 -

funding mechanism. Total cost of the CIP over the three phases of the APL was estimated at US$226.6
million equivalent, with IDA expected to contribute US$50.0 million equivalent.

The project comprised three main components and several sub-components:

Component 1: Strengthening Institutional Capacity (US$18.8 million equivalent, or 33.8 percent of total
base cost). This component aimed to strengthen institutional capacities at the national, district and
community/school levels. At the national level, the component was designed to: (i) institute MOE/DOE
staff development and training programs; (ii) develop information systems and skills to manage a
decentralized school system; (iii) develop manuals and formats for implementation plans and budgeting;
(iv) conduct policy research, evaluation and monitoring; (v) provide technical support for district planning;
(vi) establish criteria and provide technical assistance for the development of School Improvement Plans
(SIPs); and (vii) provide technical and logistical support to manage the project. At the district level, the
component was designed to: (i) institute district-level staff development and training programs; (ii) develop
funding mechanisms for Non-Governmental Organizations (NGO) and Community-Based Organizations
(CBOs) to carry out training and monitoring, and institute early childhood development (ECD) and
out-of-school literacy programs; and (iii) construct District Education Offices. At the community/school
level, the component was designed to: (i) provide technical support and training to head teachers, School
Management Committees (SMCs) and Village Education Committees (VECs) in SIPs; (ii) develop funding
mechanisms for SIPs; (iii) provide books and materials to schools based on SIPs; and (vi) provide
in-service teacher training.

Component 2: Raising Learning Achievement (US$14.0 million equivalent, or 25.1 percent of total base
cost). This component aimed to: (i) improve teaching-learning processes through curriculum review,
development of supplementary learning materials, action research to develop multi-grade strategies and
materials, increase textbook availability through a coupon system, develop methods and materials for the
use of local languages, and institute a system of continuous assessment; and (ii) expand teacher
professional support systems and improve teacher quality through instituting annual school-based
in-service teacher training, provide professional support to teachers in their classrooms, expand a school
cluster-based professional support system, construct multipurpose rooms at resource center schools,
piloting a pre-service teacher training certificate program, and develop a distance education teacher
upgrading program.

Component 3: Increasing Equitable Access (US$22.9 million equivalent, or 41.1 percent of total base
cost). This component aimed to increase access and retention through: (i) developing funding mechanisms
to utilize NGOs and CBOs to deliver ECD and primary education programs targeting children and
adolescents in disadvantaged circumstances; (ii) providing incentives targeted at disadvantaged families
through the provision of free textbooks, scholarships for needy girls and an innovation fund to promote
girls' participation in school; (iii) increasing the number of classrooms through the construction and
rehabilitation of classrooms; and (iv) providing community mobilization programs through training of
Village Development Committees (VDCs) and SMCs, conducting participatory planning exercises at the
district level, and providing an annual support grants to participating VDCs.




                                                       - 3 -

   Component                                           Appraisal Estimate Total Cost (US$ million)
                    Total      IDA        Bilateral                     HMG/N
                                           Donors
1. Strengthening     18.8       4.2          13.9                          0.74
Institutional
Capacity
2. Raising           14.0       3.1          10.4                          0.55
Learning
Achievement
3. Increasing        22.9       5.2          16.8                          0.90
Equitable Access
                     55.7      12.5          41.1                          2.2

The quality of the project's design is rated as satisfactory as it adequately reflected the Borrower's priorities
and capacities at the time of preparation and those anticipated over the implementation period. BPEP2
targeted the major requirements of the education system in Nepal when the project was conceived, and was
drawn from the Basic and Primary Education Master Plan (1997-2002) which outlined national priorities
for the sub-sector. It built upon strategies and experience from two previous IDA-supported primary
education projects which supported curriculum and textbook reform, a school cluster-based teacher training
model, and targeted strategies to increase participation of girls and disadvantaged groups.
3.4 Revised Components:
The project's components were not formally revised during the life of the project. However, the project's
implementation period was extended twice, each time for one year. The first extension, from July 16, 2002
to July 15, 2003, was granted to take into consideration the late effectiveness of the project and delays in
obtaining donor approval of the Year-1 work plan and budget. A second extension, from July 15, 2003 to
July 15, 2004, was granted in order to synchronize donor support with the HMG/N program, which was of
five years.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Unsatisfactory. BPEP2 responded to an HMG/N request to the Bank to assist Nepal in its efforts to
reform the education system. The project benefited from a long history of collaboration between the World
Bank and HMG/N in basic and primary education. As a result of the positive experience of the Primary
Education Project (PEP) and the Seti Education for Rural Development Project (SERDP) initiated in the
early 1980s, and subsequent emphasis on basic education through the 1990 Jomtien "Conference on
Education for All" (jointly sponsored by the World Bank, UNICEF and UNESCO), HMG/N launched
BPEP1 in 1992. BPEP1 yielded a number of important lessons which were incorporated into the design of
BPEP2, namely:
1. to ensure quality enhancement it is necessary to give adequate attention to classroom practices and
    student learning together with the supply of quality inputs;
2. centralized planning and programming cannot address local needs and conditions nor does it generate
    ownership on the part of parents and other stakeholders;
3. nationwide implementation of BPEP2 will require a strong technical institution at the central level to
    provide support to districts having responsibility for the planning, implementation and monitoring of
    basic and primary education activities; and
4. a longer-term vision and strategy is required to make marked improvements in the processes and
    outcomes of primary education and that capacity building is a prerequisite in achieving these two goals.

The aims and design of the project took into consideration both global and regional priorities in education,



                                                       - 4 -

particularly the provision of education opportunities for girls and disadvantaged groups in Nepalese
society. The specific content of the project was decided upon and designed jointly by the World Bank,
HMG/N and other donor partners participating in the basket funding mechanism. HMG/N demonstrated its
commitment and willingness to move forward with BPEP2 through a number of actions completed at the
time of its request to the World Bank for financing, chief among which was the Cabinet approval on the
establishment of the Department of Education (DOE). The project's development objective was relevant
insofar as it aimed to address the country's serious poverty of human resources, with only approximately 35
percent of the population literate (18 percent of females), and an estimated less than eight percent of the
post-school age population having completed secondary education at the time of project preparation.

Despite the overall appropriateness of the project's design and the identification and targeting of specific
issues related to the performance of the education system, problems were encountered early during
implementation. While some donor partners believed that the project was 'over-prepared' (as measured
against their own preparation criteria), if evaluated against standard IDA project preparation criteria, there
were significant gaps in project preparation. These constitute the rational for according an unsatisfactory
rating for quality at entry. Specifically, impediments to ensuring more complete implementation readiness
included:

·   key DOE staff had not been identified and the organizational structure had not been firmly established;
·   absence of personnel with sufficient experience in handling financial management and procurement
    activities of Bank-funded projects;
·   a supervision structure with multiple donors which, while innovative and with long-term benefits, was
    initially a major burden for both development partners and HMG/N;
·   difficulty with the rollout of planning tools at the district and school levels, the use of pilot tests, and
    monitoring and evaluation activities;
·   absence of a procurement plan.

The project was rated as Category C for environmental impact (i.e. no significant impact expected).
Arsenic testing of tubewells constructed through the project was carried out during the project period.
About 3 percent of tubewells were found to have arsenic content beyond permissible levels, and mitigation
measures were undertaken under the project. The project had no negative impact on indigenous
communities. Rather, it targeted indigenous and low caste communities to improve their access to
education.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Satisfactory. Overall achievement of objectives is rated satisfactory based on specific achievements and
the status of outcome indicators as reported in Annex 1. Achievement of the outcomes is more significant
when assessed in the context of:
l the stage of development in Nepal, particularly in rural areas, at the time of project preparation;
l the insurgency and civil strife which prevailed during the latter part of the project's implementation
    period;
l the prevailing system of education throughout Nepal characterized by a lack of planning, particularly
    at the district and school levels, low status of teachers, unequipped schools and poor infrastructure, and
    the use of rote teaching-learning methodologies;
l IDA's strategy on education in Nepal and throughout South Asia which, at the time of preparation,
    shifted from discrete, input-orientated projects to an increased emphasis on institutional development,
    strengthened management at all levels (central, district, local), improved governance, and an emphasis



                                                       - 5 -

      on education for girls and marginalized groups in society;
l learning achievemnt targets for the global Education for All (EFA) agenda set at 60 percent, whereas
      BPEP2 established achievement targets at 75 percent.

BPEP2 succeeded insofar as it achieved important gains with respect to:
a) increasing access to primary education, as reflected by increased gross enrollment rates (GER) and net
      enrollment rates (NER), and improving equity, including increased gender balance in enrollments, as
      evidenced by a rise in the share of girls in the total enrolment increased from 42.6 percent to 46.3
      percent;
b) raising awareness of the educational requirements of under-served social groups in Nepal through
      targeted interventions to ensure greater participation in primary schooling -- the number of
      disadvantaged children completing grade 5 grew by 24 percent, including a 25 percent increase in the
      number of disadvantaged girls completing the full primary cycle and more dalit (low caste) children
      attending school than before;
c) a second round of national assessment at grade 3 showed marginal improvement in learning
      achievement, while a similar exercise at grade 5 revealed more marked improvement -- between 1999
      and 2003, mean learning achievement in Mathematics rose from 27 to 33 percent, in Nepali from 51 to
      55 percent and in Social Studies from 42 to 61 percent; and
d) an inventory of teacher positions was completed in all districts, and limited redeployment was carried
      out using this inventory; HMG/N undertook three significant steps to discourage uneven deployment of
      teachers: (i) annulling the authority of DEOs to transfer teachers on a discretionary basis (now
      requiring consent from schools); (ii) passage and implementation of the Education Act shifting
      authority for hiring teachers from Government to schools, and (iii) funding of teachers through block
      grants to schools instead of funding government-recruited teachers.

In assessing the project's progress in the context of the development of the educational system at the time of
project launch, one may conclude that BPEP2 helped change the mindsets of education planners, policy
makers, administrators and service deliverers at all levels. This was achieved through the introduction of
educational concepts and practices which are essential for the longer-term development and improvement of
education service delivery in Nepal.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Component 1: Strengthening Institutional Capacity
Satisfactory. The main areas for institutional capacity building under BPEP2 were:
(i) development of organizations (e.g. DOE, NFEC, MOE);
(ii) development of systems (e.g. EMIS);
(iii) development of processes (e.g. DEPs, SIPs); and
(iv) development of capacities for groups and key players (e.g. SMCs, VECs, head teachers).

The most significant capacity building achievement of BPEP2 was the establishment of the new DOE,
allowing the merging of the majority of regular program activities under one administrative umbrella.
Institutional strengthening inputs under BPEP2 yielded enhanced capacity of both MOES and DOE to
manage inputs of various development partners, and coordinate/communicate with a range of stakeholders
at all levels. A second key achievement was the building of local capacity to improve school effectiveness
through the preparation of school improvement plans. At the district level, this included capacity building
for DEOs, preparation of District Education Plans (DEPs), and the strengthening of district level Education
Monitoring and Information System (EMIS) functions. At the school level, about 6,000 SIPs have been
prepared and local capacity has improved in areas such as planning, management, implementation, data
collection and reporting. At the district level, the capacity building inputs resulted in improvements in



                                                        - 6 -

planning, data collection and reporting, and strengthened program implementation and financial
management. One of the key successes of BPEP2 was that it initiated a process which has subsequently led
to a movement for the transfer of public schools to communities. This reform measure, and the
accompanying policy dialogue and close working relationship with HMG/N to achieve it, would not have
been undertaken without BPEP2 which laid much of the necessary groundwork.

A key strategy of BPEP2 was the introduction of regular in-service teacher training through enhancement
of the capacities of the National Center for Education Development (NCED) and Curriculum Development
Center (CDC). Despite an increased number of teachers attaining some qualifications under BPEP2, a large
gap remains between the number of trained and untrained teachers at the primary level. Available data
indicated that just over 50 percent of primary teachers have some form of training, with less than 20
percent considered to be fully-trained. However, this should be assessed in the context of both the enormous
need at the beginning of the project, and an understanding that this can only be addressed over a period of
time extending well beyond the scope of a single project.

BPEP2's inputs toward improving the performance of teachers in the classroom had some beneficial
impact. They reinforced ­ and in some areas introduced ­ the idea that in-service teacher training is
important for teachers' continual professional development, and succeeded in raising the individual skill
levels of a number of teachers. More crucial to the long-term success of these inputs, however, is the
paucity of the environment in which teachers are expected to use their newly-acquired skills, characterized
by a lack of adequate textbooks, teaching materials, supplies and poor infrastructure.

Component 2: Raising Learning Achievement
Unsatisfactory. BPEP2 made important investments, totaling roughly 30 percent of the total investment,
for improving the quality of education and, thus, raising learning achievement through:
·   curriculum and textbook development and distribution;
·   student assessment;
·   teacher training; and
·   resource center development.

Although a second round of national assessment showed marked achievement for grade 5 (as noted earlier),
and gains were achieved through the introduction of multi-grade teacher training and increased availability
of use of in-service teacher training programs, factors which constrained achievement under this component
were:
a) uneven patterns of the quality of physical infrastructure;
b) overcrowded classrooms;
c) frequent teacher absences;
d) inadequate supply of texts, paper and instructional materials;
e) administrative burdens of head teachers;
f) lack of accountability of teachers to parents and students; and
g) problems in supervision and oversight by school supervisors and resource persons due, in part, to a
    lack of physical access to schools and, more recently, dangers posed by the Maoist insurgency.

Many teachers entering in-service training lacked the skills to understand and integrate the new
teaching-learning materials and methodologies into their teaching, thus signaling the need to better assess
the actual needs and competencies of teachers prior to training. School visits revealed that many classrooms
lack a proper physical layout and appropriate furnishings for teachers to use child-centered, activity-based
teaching-learning methodologies, limiting the use of skills and approaches taught in training. Efforts to



                                                     - 7 -

improve the quality of instruction in Nepal face similar challenges on a global level where achievement in
terms of the delivery of inputs does not necessarily translate into gains toward raising learning achievement.


Notable successes have been BPEP2's efforts to demonstrate the importance and effectiveness of ECD
programs and centers, and an increased focus on `inclusive' education through increased use of group
work, local materials as teaching-learning aids and peer learning.

Component 3: Increasing Equitable Access and Improving Retention
Satisfactory. EMIS enrollment statistics indicate that, during BPEP2 implementation, there was a
consistent improvement in equitable access to primary education in Nepal. NER increased from 70.5
percent in 1998 to 84.4 percent in 2004. This represents an average annual increase of approximately two
percent (consistent with similar programs in other developing countries). An increasing percentage of girls
now attend primary schools, the sahre of girls in total enrolment has increased from 42.6 percent in 1998 to
46.3 percent in 2003, and the gender parity index (GPI) has increased from 0.77 in 1998 to 0.87 in 2000,
after which girls' and boys' enrollment increased at the same rate, thus keeping the GPI constant.
Promotion, repetition and dropout rates for grades one to five showed modest improvement (see Annex 1).
Under BPEP2, all 75 districts in Nepal began preparing district education plans. Districts with less than
GER of 100% and girls' NER of less than 60% were targeted for increasing access with more elaborate
targeting criteria introduced. The project aimed to rehabilitate a total of 10,800 classrooms and construct
5,400 new ones. At the end of the project, a total of 10,800 classrooms had been rehabilitated and 5,412
classrooms constructed, representing achievement of 100 percent each. It should be noted, however, that
EMIS data have not been proven to be consistent over time and, as such, the scale of gains may be more
modest than EMIS data indicate. A Joint Evaluation evaluation team which carried out a full scale review
of the project just prior to BPEP2's closure found evidence of: (i) systemic incentives which encourage over
reporting of attendance; (ii) errors in the verification of school-level data; and (iii) higher levels of
classroom over crowding (based upon site visits and classroom observations) than reflected by EMIS data.
There is also evidence that some children who register for school at the start of the academic year do not
attend on a regular basis, and household surveys suggested lower attendance than that reported in the
EMIS.

It has been difficult to assess the extent to which BPEP2's efforts to use social mobilization and
communications and incentives (e.g. scholarships) resulted in increased education access by marginalized
groups due to:
l difficulty in determining the actual enrollment ratio of Dalit (low caste) and Janjati (indigenous
    peoples) children;
l the number of disabled students participating in inclusive education programs was small compared to
    the actual needs in districts and was compounded by supply problems (e.g. unavailability of Braille
    texts beyond grade 3);
l problems of intermittent teacher attendance, heightened by Maoist insurgency; and
l lack of priority accorded the non-formal education sub-sector by both HMG/N and development
    partners.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
n/a

4.4 Financial rate of return:
n/a

4.5 Institutional development impact:



                                                       - 8 -

BPEP2 has significantly contributed to institutional development in the education sector. These include:
a) reform of institutional arrangements and increased operational efficiency of central-level institutions
    responsible for education planning and policy formulation;
b) introduction of annual and longer-term (i.e., five-year) plans at the district level;
c) introduction of school improvement plans with the full participation of school management committees;
    and
d) increased donor-donor and donor-HMG/N collaboration under the Government leadership through a
    basket funding mechanism which required consensus among development partners on priority needs
    and strategies to address them.

Capacity building was a key objective of BPEP2, and important gains were achieved in a relatively short
time. Establishment of the DOE effectively merged most regular program activities into one institution and
provided the basis upon which the quality enhancement and increased access objectives were to be
achieved. The Joint Evaluation identified significant increases in capacity in the key institutions involved in
BPEP2 implementation, including DOE, MOES and NCED. Other improvements were found to have been
made in the physical infrastructure for education planning, in the systems and processes used to implement,
manage and monitor the delivery of primary education, and in the skills and abilities of staff. Building local
capacity to improve school effectiveness was the second most important priority with regards to
institutional strengthening. In districts, the project enhanced the capacities and effectiveness of DEOs,
supported capacities to prepare DEPs, and strengthened the EMIS.

Factors which limited institutional development were: (i) insufficient attention paid to building technical
capacities in basic education; and (ii) poor governance, including a lack of incentives for key staff
responsible for quality enhancement in basic education (e.g., resource persons) to promote the use of new
skills and teaching methodologies at the school level.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
a.       Maoist Insurgency: A key factor which impeded implementation of BPEP2, and has affected the
functioning of the education sector and all other aspects of Nepalese society and economy has been the
Maoist insurgency. An uncertain security environment in many parts of the country, particularly in rural
areas of the hill and mountain zones, impeded the transport of materials for school construction and
rehabilitation, and limited the movement of education personnel, ranging from district authorities to heads
of schools, teachers and students.

b.       Public Support to Public Education: A lack of control by communities over schools with the
introduction of a centralized, more bureaucratically-founded system of public education has worked as a
disincentive for them to contribute to schools' betterment. This has in particular made it difficult togenerate
funds from communities to full resource gaps. The experience of purely community schools and those that
have been transferred and experienced huge increases in community involvement seem to be evidence that
the innate willingness to contribute has been there. In fact, the spirit of the Seventh Amendment to the
Education Act was unleashed the energies of communities that once, at an earlier time, was responsible for
the establishment of most of primary schools in Nepal (i.e.before 1972).

c.       Attitudes Toward the Status of Women: Prevailing cultural and societal norms governing gender
relations and the role and status of women can also be understood to have impeded project implementation.
While this issue does not neatly fit into the category of 'factors beyond the control of government or
implementing agency' (as there are actions that can be taken at the institutional and/or individual levels to



                                                        - 9 -

support increased gender equity and balance), the strong cultural and social pressures governing the role of
women and, in particular, women's integration into the world of work and education, can be considered to
be factors influencing the implementation of activities under BPEP2. For example, enrollment increases of
girls in public primary schools are attributed, in part, to the fact that parents prefer to enroll male children
in private schools which are perceived to offer a higher quality of instruction. Case studies carried out as
part of the Joint Evaluation revealed that attendance at some private boarding schools was heavily weighted
in favor of boys, almost to the exclusion of girls.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
a.       Component-wise Allocation of Resources: The allocation of resources according to specific,
predefined component and sub-component categories did not allow for sufficient flexibility to address needs
at the local level. While districts and schools were able to employ the tools of five-year district and annual
school improvement plans, the project's approach of allocating funds per component was a constraining
factor which worked counter to the goal of fostering decentralized decision-making and resource allocation.

b.       Frequent Transfers of Staff: HMG/N's Civil Service Act of 1999 bars the transfer of civil
servants prior to the completion of two years' service in a given position. In practice, however, many staff
are appointed in an `acting' capacity and exempt from this rule. This has been the case of many District
Education Officers (DEOs), resulting in the frequent transfer of DEOs from one district to another. The
resultant sense of uncertainty for individuals carrying out these jobs limits their motivation to embark upon
substantial work programs, particularly involving reforms which require time and careful monitoring to
achieve results.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
a.       Procurement: Initial construction delays were encountered as a result of lack of procurement
capacity at the DOE. On the insistence of the Bank, MOES hired an individual Procurement Consultant
who assisted in the preparation of detailed procurement plans for all units/departments, including
procedures for each procurement action. The absence of a core procurement group for coordinating
procurement actions across all MOES units and departments constituted an additional constraint.

b.       Hiring of Consultants: The hiring of consultants was generally slow, leading to delays in the
implementation of some activities for which technical assistance inputs were required. The processes for
preparing terms of reference, seeking interested candidates through solicitation and advertising, the vetting
of applicants and preparation of contracts were protracted and led to undue slowdowns and missed timeline
targets for planned activities.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The total project cost at appraisal was US$55.7m. External financing was provided through a basket
funding mechanism, with funds provided by IDA (US$12.5m), Denmark (US$17.6m), Finland (US$3.4m),
Norway (US$10.7m) and the European Commission (US$9.1m). HMG/N contributed 4.1 percent in
counterpart funding. The Japan International Development Cooperation Agency and UNICEF supported
the program through direct funding outside the basket, with the Asian Development Bank providing support
through a separate project to strengthen teacher training. By closure, project costs had risen to US$70.3m,
attributable to: (i) the project being extended twice; and (ii) the fact that BPEP2 was a five-year program,
rather than a three-year IDA APL. From IDA's perspective, BPEP2 was a three-year project, later extended
to five years; from the perspective of other donors and HMG/N, BPEP2 was a five-year project by design.
Thus, expenditures for five years have been taken as the final project cost, exceeding appraisal estimates.

The basket funding mechanism has been judged successful insofar as it provided flexibility in making



                                                     - 10 -

disbursements and fostering transparency with regular auditing by HMG/N. At the central level, however,
IDA procurement rules for international tendering may have encouraged overly-centralized procedures
which, combined with a complex financial reporting system, led to burdensome processes overall. At the
district and local levels, procedures for the allocation and distribution of financial resources were judged to
be well-defined and in-line with HMG/N systems. However, weak linkages between financial allocations
and the quality of interventions resulted in a disjuncture between financial performance and the
achievement of program results.

One of the key strengths of the basket funding approach was that it allowed for a consolidated approach for
reaching agreement between all donors and HMG/N on annual priority activities and allocations to fund
them. This was achieved through a budget planning process based on joint HMG/N-donor review missions
each March. These missions were a follow-up to program progress reviews held earlier in the fiscal year,
and allowed for the development of a program plan for the upcoming fiscal year and for pledges of specific
levels of support.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Likely. Overall sustainability is rated as likely. This was also the conclusion of a QAG panel which
reviewed the project in October 2002. The review concluded that sustainability is likely, primarily as a
function of the decision by Government to take the lead in terms of donor coordination and implementation,
and in particular, the decision to make the DOE responsible for managing implementation, rather than
instituting a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) structure. This represents an important change on the part
of HMG/N. The assessment noted, however, that sustainability was most likely if donors were willing to
maintain a high level of financing for the foreseeable future in the absence of adverse political events.

A sustainability rating of `likely' is applicable more to certain inputs and achievements under BPEP2 than
for others. It is most likely for those features of the education system which were introduced under BPEP2
that were not present prior to the project. These include: (i) increased capacity to plan and monitor
activities, particularly at the district and school levels; (ii) introduction of a system of regular in-service
teacher training; (iii) establishment of the DOE with a more clearly defined role for education system policy
and planning; (iii) increased interest among parents to educate their children, particularly girls; and (iv)
improved dialogue and consensus between development partners and HMG/N on sector-wide needs and
strategies.

Overall sustainability is rated as being likely as many of the essential features of an effective education
system have been introduced through BPEP2, and are expected to remain as part of the system over the
long term. Sustainability of BPEP2 will depend on whether the investment made in human resources
translates into tangible growth in the country's economy which, at best, depends only partially on the
achievements of BPEP2. Thus, the proxy for evaluating sustainability of BPEP2 is progress in establishing
an improved policy environment for the more effective functioning of the primary education sub-sector. In
this regard, as described elsewhere in this ICR, Nepal has made respectable progress.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
BPEP2 was followed by the 'Education for All (EFA) Program' in July 2004, financed by the Bank and
other development partners. Drawing on experience gained through BPEP2, the EFA Program introduces
the following arrangements as a means of improving and building upon the work of BPEP2 and constitute
sound transition arrangements:
·   Focus on schools to improve service delivery: An increased focus on schools for improved service



                                                       - 11 -

    delivery aims to address both the need to rationalize the number of project components -- a key
    outcome of BPEP2's mid-term review -- and to institute a more holistic and decentralized planning and
    implementation process focusing on schools.
·   A decentralized service delivery system centered on schools and the communities they serve is at
    the heart of improving service delivery. Decentralized service delivery is also critical for managing
    risks arising from the conflict situation insofar as it makes schools more resistant to insurgency. A
    recommendation of the BPEP2 mid-term review was that the use of school grants be expanded to
    empower schools and make them more accountable for learning outcomes.
·   Need for a comprehensive approach: The real value of moving to a Sector-Wide Approach (SWAp)
    is two-fold. First, it reduces the transaction cost to HMG/N. Second, in the current context of Nepal
    (i.e. dominance of donors and consequent stifling of true capacity development), the SWAp is a
    tangible recognition of the quality of reforms which the education sector has achieved and which, in
    turn, strengthens the confidence and commitment of those in HMG/N who are leading reform efforts.
    Additionally, the EFA Program, in using a SWAp, introduces: (a) the pooling of donor and government
    funds; (b) reliance on government rules and procedures for disbursing, monitoring and reporting
    program expenditures; and (c) a common and simplified monitoring framework for program outcomes,
    which is endorsed by all donors to the sub-sector.

Preparation of the EFA Program accounted for the BPEP2 experience in all major areas of BPEP2's
functioning. Transition arrangements beyond BPEP2 are considered to be solid insofar as they bring
HMG/N an increased level of ownership and responsibility for all aspects of education system functioning.
As the partnership between HMG/N and donors established under BPEP2 worked well, it will be further
strengthened through the more comprehensive SWAp for the EFA program.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Unsatisfactory. In preparing the project, the Bank embarked upon the challenging, but necessary agenda of
bringing together a large number of donors to reach consensus on the main problems facing the education
sector and agreeing on a strategy to address them. While joint donor project preparation was both
cumbersome and time-consuming, it was deemed wholly worthwhile in light of the importance of achieving
effective donor coordination in this key sector. This is considered one of the strongest features of the
preparation process for which the Bank may take an significant share of the credit. Additionally, the
transition from a project mode to a more programmatic approach with an understanding among donors of
the importance of adopting a more sector-wide approach, establishment of the DOE, preparation of a
well-crafted project implementation plan and the Basic Education Master Plan, and delineation of an
innovative basket funding mechanism represented important achievements which merit special note.
Preparation of the project is also deemed to have been successful overall insofar as:
l it identified the major issues to be addressed;
l it established a strong alliance of donors working in concert with HMG/N, placing districts,
    communities and schools at the center of the strategy to achieve education system improvement;
l management reviews at the time of preparation emphasized the importance of learning from previous
    IDA primary education projects in Nepal, and from country experience generally;
l it highlighted corruption issues as warranting high priority, particularly to address the challenges and
    new dynamics of a decentralization process; and
l its emphasis on carrying out reviews of institutional demands at the national, district and school levels
    and the identification of realistic and achievable benchmarks for implementation as key objectives for
    project appraisal.



                                                      - 12 -

However, an unsatisfactory rating for Bank performance at preparation stems from assessment of
implementation readiness vis-à-vis organizational structures and technical preparations. These are judged
to have been lacking, as evidenced by gaps in these key areas which made the project vulnerable during its
initial years. Problems not sufficiently addressed during preparation included:
·    key DOE staff had not been identified and the organizational structure had not been firmly established;
·    many of the successive Directors-General (DGs) were public servants on the verge of retirement and
     could not provide the long-term direction and guidance the project required;
·    absence of personnel with sufficient experience in handling f procurement activities of Bank-funded
     projects;
·    a supervision structure with multiple donors which, while innovative and with long-term benefits, was
     initially a major burden for both development partners and HMG/N; and
·    project categories were designed for an investment operation, but in reality BPEP2 operated much like
     a SWAp.

Shortcomings in project preparation were effectively countered by the high quality supervision inputs which
followed (as discussed in the following section). There was recognition that efforts to get the project 'off the
ground' risked being lost if project effectiveness did not take place when it did. To that end, the project's
shortcomings at effectiveness were understood and subsequently accounted for through the identification of
appropriate supervision actions. Risks associated with readiness and commitment were fully acknowledged
in the Project Appraisal Report.

Project identification was initiated in July 1996, with appraisal undertaken in September 1998. The project
became effective on October 19, 1999. The lag between development of the project concept document,
preparation steps, and effectiveness was 25 months. The total time for preparing the project was somewhat
beyond regional- and Bank-wide norms, due to the need to marshal the support and coordination of a large
number of development partners. The DCA was amended thrice ­ once, to revise procurement thresholds,
another, to correct minor references pertaining to procurement agreements and processes, and a third time
to reduce the share of IDA in the basket in the last year of implementation.

7.2 Supervision:
Highly Satisfactory. A QAG review conducted midway during project implementation judged the quality
of supervision as highly satisfactory, particularly in terms of the timely identification of implementation
problems, technical assistance, appropriateness of advice and proposed solutions to the Borrower,
appropriateness and speed of Bank follow-up actions, supervision of fiduciary aspects, and the skill mix of
staff used for supervision tasks. During the first years of the project, the supervision strategy focused on
improving donor coordination, simplifying implementation arrangements and strengthening the role and
capacity of the implementing agency, the DOE. This approach was judged to be highly successful in
addressing quality at entry problems, and in establishing a high degree of credibility for both donors and
HMG/N for implementing a successful project. Supervision teams were deemed to have kept a strong focus
on the achievement of development objectives throughout the supervision process. The QAG review
identified this as a `best practice' in supervision. As noted above, shortcomings in the project's preparation
were effectively countered through the strong supervision accorded the project.

The Mid-Term Review (MTR) in FY02 yielded a number of actions aimed at simplifying implementation
and improving donor coordination. This was preceded by a complex MTR preparation process which
included an independent review by external experts, a technical review, and a two-stage donor review
process to agree on recommendations and approve a revised implementation plan. This last set of tasks was



                                                      - 13 -

carried out to ensure sufficient consensus among donor partners and support for consolidation of the 17
separate components of the MOES Annual Strategic Implementation Plan into five thematic ones.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Satisfactory. During its preparation and throughout implementation of BPEP2, and despite a relatively
complex project design, a cumbersome structure for donor coordination, and implementation delays early
on in the project, the Bank's performance is judged to have been good overall. The Bank played a crucial
role in providing inputs for:
1. establishing an effective model of donor coordination and engaging the Borrower agency in a
    partnership relationship;
2. taking the decision to rotate donor leadership of supervision tasks on an annual basis; and
3. producing clear, well-crafted and complete supervision documents.

A local donor coordination group played a key role in providing on-going monitoring and technical support
to the implementation agencies. The continuity of task team members based in the Bank's Nepal Country
Office for procurement and financial management matters (although support for procurement was
transferred to the Regional Procurement Hub in Delhi during the second half of the project), semi-annual
supervision missions and regular communication between donor partners and HMG/N ensured seamless
monitoring of the project. Management comments in PSRs succinctly identified issues for priority attention
by the task teams. There were only two TTLs during the life of the project, with the exception of a brief
period (i.e. six months) between the TTL who prepared the project and the one who saw the project to
closure (who was also a supervision team member throughout). In this manner, the project had remarkable
continuity in team leadership and composition. Two supervision missions were conducted annually.

The most important contribution that the Bank team made in the process of BPEP2 -- and the platform for
broader engagement which it established and maintained -- has been to facilitate the emergence of a truly
HMGN-owned education reform vision and a core team within HMG/N to lead it. Implementation of the
Seventh Amendment to the Education Act was a key step in allowing this to happen. Early success in the
transfer of public primary schools to community management, in turn, solidified this vision, and bolstered
reform leaders' confidence in their own ideas and efforts. In this manner, the 'Community School Support
Project', which is funded by the Bank through a Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL) and is currently under
implementation, is seen as an integral part in a series of Bank interventions in the primary education sector,
and a key bridge between BPEP2 and EFA. While this may not be narrowly related to implementation of
BPEP2, it is useful to see the whole package of Bank efforts as supporting BPEP2 implementation insofar
as BPEP2 had the broad objective of improving the quality of primary education. Through BPEP2 and
associated work, the Bank team effectively focused on the most important set of changes that underpin any
sustainable reform required for improving the system of public education in Nepal. Additionally, the
broader Bank team is credited with bringing the weight of the Povery Reducation Support Credit (PRSC)
behind the key reform of initiating the transfer of public schools to community management. This brought
the focus of reform to schools and created a sustainable local dynamic for reform. Without this the reform
vision and strategy would not have been complete.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Unsatisfactory. The MOES, other ministries and entities of HMG/N involved in the preparation phase
effectively collaborated with the Bank to define the project. MOES completed a number of key tasks prior
to project effectiveness:
·   establishment of a Change Management Group to oversee the transition from BPEP1 to BPEP2;
·   formation of the Technical Support Advisory Group to guide the MOES on the introduction of key



                                                     - 14 -

    skills to support the core program;
·   development of proposed common operational procedures for donors;
·   cabinet approval for the establishment of the DOE; and
·   agreements with the Bank and other donors with respect to adopting a program approach, funding of
    the CIP by five donors, including IDA, through a basket funding approach, and the importance of
    ensuring that donor coordination be carried out by the MOES to ensure full ownership of the project on
    the part of HMG/N.

However, as noted in a Quality of Supervision Assessment carried out in 2002, despite the fact that
establishment of the DOE had been agreed, key staff had not been identified and the organizational
structure had not been established by the time of project effectiveness. This led to significant gaps in
readiness to implement, and which made the project vulnerable to failure during its initial period. This
constitutes the primary rationale for an unsatisfactory ICR rating. It should be noted, however, that the
range of important achievements made during the course of preparation on the part of HMG/N, the Bank
and other donor partners, as described earlier in this report should, in effect, warrant a rating of only
'marginally unsatisfactory' for both HMG/N and the Bank.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Satisfactory. The most important aspect of the Borrower performance has been its full ownership of the
reform process which BPEP2 supported. This has allowed for a meaningful transition from a state in which
HMG/N demonstrated little collective commitment to primary education reforms, and where donors
supported their favorite projects, to one in which HMG/N has been strongly committed to reforms, has
developed a reform vision and strategy, and donors have come together to support HMG/N's own
approach, largely through HMG/N's own implementation system. BPEP2 is credited with establishing an
environment conducive to this change.

During BPEP2, the Borrower regularly provided counterpart funds and carried out a number of actions to
support successful implementation of the project, among which were:
·   promulgation of the Seventh Amendment to the Education Act to empower schools and communities
    paving the way for transferring school management responsibility to communities represented by
    School Management Committees elected by parents;
·   grouping 17 BPEP2 components into five as an effort to avert fragmentation of the program;
·   redefining the role of the DOE as the technical wing of the MOES and facilitator of the program;
·   simplifying fund flow mechanisms; and
·   improving the monitoring and evaluation system by ensuring that objectives are achieved by focusing
    on the process, output and outcome monitoring.

HMG/N adopted some actions that negatively affected project implementation, including the frequent
transfer of key senior personnel (especially during the early phases of project implementation) and allowing
a significant amount of technical assistance to fall outside the national planning processes. On this last
point, donor partners who provided financial and/or human resource support for technical assistance must
share responsibility for allowing this to happen.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Marginally satisfactory. Implementation was difficult in the initial 18 months of the project as a result of
implementation readiness problems. Closer attention to specific features of the procurement and financial
management arrangements, especially the implementation agency's overall capacity to carry out these
functions, could have stemmed the implementation delay at the outset. Review of Project Status Reports



                                                     - 15 -

(PSRs) indicates that implementation performance improved thereafter. By the third supervision mission,
five months after effectiveness and nearly one year after Board approval, staffing of both the DOE and
other line agencies within the new organizational structure and preparation of district plans and the Annual
Strategic Implementation Plan (ASIP) had been carried out. Within eight months of effectiveness, all 75
districts in Nepal had prepared five-year plans for BPEP2, budgets for FY01 and agreed monitoring
indicators for that year.

Implementation progress was later downgraded because of insufficient procurement progress, slow
disbursement and noncompliance with a covenant relating to staff transfers -- this constituted the only time
during the project's life that implementation progress was rated 'unsatisfactory'. HMG/N and donors agreed
on a staff transfer policy to ensure continuity of staff in key positions, and the implementation rating was
again upgraded to `satisfactory'. This rating remained for the rest of the project's duration, attributable
mainly to overall strengthened capacities within DOE for planning, resource allocation and financial
management.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Satisfactory. Borrower implementation performance is rated satisfactory for the following reasons:
·   overall level of HMG/N support to education, evidenced by its commitment to the project as a key
    instrument for instituting important institutional reforms and quality improvement measures;
·   near complete achievement of project targets and objectives, despite initial implementation delays and
    frequent discontinuity in staffing;
·   establishment of the DOE;
·   concerted focus on decentralized planning and management of education activities, strengthening the
    role of district and local bodies to plan for and manage their own education activities and progress; and
·   increased openness to a heightened role for civil society organizations, demonstrated by marked
    changes in the levels of networking and partnership relationships at the national level and the fact that
    most NGOs were consulted and their positions integrated into preparations for the new EFA national
    program.

8. Lessons Learned

Risks of de-linking core functions from development inputs: If core issues, such as teacher deployment,
teacher absenteeism or poor teacher management, are not adequately dealt with, then development inputs,
such as improved planning and education system monitoring, are less effective. BPEP2 showed insufficient
attention to problematic areas of core education system functioning reduces the impact of introducing
improved teaching methodologies. While BPEP2 introduced numerous elements which comprise a
well-functioning education system (e.g. annual district plans, SIPs, improved monitoring and evaluation,
etc.), changes at the classroom level were less apparent.

Importance of ensuring sufficient financial support for non-salary recurrent costs: This was lacking
under BPEP2 and limited the impact of some quality-enhancement measures, such as the role of resource
centers and the use of improved teaching methodologies. While there was sufficient money for development
inputs, there was not enough for schools' basic needs. This partly accounts for the shift to a sector-wide
financing approach under the EFA Project which aims to provide sufficient focus on both.

Ensuring accountability to beneficiaries is key: BPEP2 was implemented in the context of widespread
public loss of confidence in the capacity of government to provide quality education services, combined
with widespread perceptions of elite capture of government and poor governance overall. It was important
that BPEP2 instill mechanisms and processes to ensure accountability of public officials to beneficiaries.



                                                      - 16 -

This did not sufficiently take place. Only late in the project did SMCs become accountable to parents rather
than to DEOs. However, BPEP2 succeeded in fostering public debate which led to the Seventh Amendment
to the Education Act, increasing the autonomy of school, village and parent-teacher education bodies and
giving them more say in school management.

Adopting a holistic view of education system development over a drive to meet targets: BPEP2
suffered from a tendency to place too much focus on the attainment of component targets without
maintaining a broader picture of the holistic development of the education system. For example, teacher
training targets where largely met in respect to the number of teachers trained, yet less attention was paid to
the impact of teacher training on improving teaching practices. Similarly, BPEP2's funding was not linked
to the achievement of systemic benchmarks, thus component managers could not be held accountable for
simply aiming to deliver implemented components, regardless of their effect on improving education system
functioning.

The importance of practical training approaches: Much of the teacher training under BPEP2 was
deemed to be too abstract. This underscores the importance of on-site training where teachers can learn
about and practice new techniques in their own classroom environments, as is being carried out under the
new IDA-funded Community School Support Project in Nepal.

Donor coordination ­ having government in the driver's seat: Keeping overall responsibility for BPEP2
donor coordination in the hands of HMG/N reduced potential levels of tension, complexity and duplication
of efforts which can result from each donor striving to achieve its own objectives, impose its own processes
and make its own `stamp' on the project and education system overall.

Better quality assurance of input data supports enhanced education system monitoring: While under
BPEP2, the system and structure for quantitative monitoring of school-level data was in place, the quality
of input data was given limited priority. This resulted in large amounts of data being collected which were
of questionable accuracy and reliability. Good quality input data are needed to give an accurate picture of
the status of the education system and guide decision-making at all levels.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Implementation Completion Report by the World Bank provides an objective analysis of the overall
implementation of the Basic and Primary Education Project 2 (BPEP2, 1999-2004) based on data and
principal performance ratings. It provides an account of progress towards the key performance indicators
and outputs of components.

The experience of BPEP2 clearly concludes that good quality in education (in schools, ECD and alternative
schooling and literacy and teacher training programs) should motivate children in the acquisition of
knowledge, skills and attitudes that have intrinsic value and also help in addressing important human and
social goals. The lesson learnt is that despite improvements in annual district education plans, school
improvement plans, teacher deployment, and improved monitoring and evaluation, the question of
improving the quality of education focusing on positive changes in classroom practices continue to remain a
challenge.

The purpose of this report is not to establish links between program inputs and outputs/outcomes. BPEP2
was implemented in a most critical situation. However, the resulting experience of program implementation
has been most satisfactory in view of the progress achieved in the areas of intended objectives such as net



                                                     - 17 -

enrolment, survival and completion rates and learning outcomes.

The implementation of BPEP2 provided grounds for the initiation of `Education for All' (EFA), which
attempts to further implement policies that secure and improve the quality of schooling, and other forms of
organized learning focusing on the determinants of education quality.

A basket funding modality was successfully initiated as an innovative mechanism during the period of the
BPEP2 and the Government took lead roles in its effective and efficient implementation. Moreover, donor
harmonization was instrumental to support the Ministry of Education and Sports, and the Department of
Education to initiate the 'Education for All' 2004-2009 under a joint financing agreement (JFA).

(b) Cofinanciers:
The information on progress is largely in accordance with the findings of the 2004 Joint Government Donor
Evaluation Report, lead by a Steering Committee in which all BPEP2 donors participated. While
impressive quantitative progress has been documented, the qualitative progress is less satisfactory. Less
satisfactory is also the limited improvement in access to excluded groups, including girls, ethnic minorities,
dalits, disabled and the poorest.

The establishment of the DOE as the technical wing of MOES has contributed to capacity building at
central level, and to some degree at district and school level, but the tendency to centralization of authority
has limited the effectiveness of capacity development.

Government leadership improved considerably, aided by the introduction of the "Foreign Aid Policy,
2002". Government has now established itself firmly in the driver's seat and leads all donor coordination in
the sub-sector. Although donor coordination and harmonisation was gradually improved, coordination of
technical assistance (TA) was not satisfactory, as also pointed out by the Joint Evaluation Report, in spite
of several attempts during the BPEP2. The Code of Conduct prepared for the EFA Programme is intended
to remedy this problem.

Most of the basket donors and the other BPEP2 donors provided direct funding, either in terms of projects
or TA. Although most of the TA has been provided through some type of umbrella agreement between
HMG/N and the contributing partner, proper coordination was lacking. Initially a major part of the TA
resources made available were channeled outside of regular government budgets and planning processes.
However, increasingly donor partners ensure that resources provided outside the basket fund are reported a
part of the Government Red Book. The lack of effective TA coordination has had occasional negative
impacts on BPEP2, including occasional duplication of efforts in areas such as development of teacher
training curriculum.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information

Financial Management
An innovative financial management system attempted to align itself with the government system. A core
principle from the outset was the need for flexibility and adaptability as demanded by the circumstances
and to adjust to implementation progress. Development of an Accounts Manual was a key task prior to
project negotiations, as a basis for effective financial management in the project. A financial management
information system was also developed at the outset to record and monitor expenditures. An internal control
system in the form of regular monitoring and review of accounts formed a part of the project design.



                                                      - 18 -

Training of accounts staff was also a key activity, with a minimum of one training session per year for all
project accountants. During implementation, DOE encountered some challenges which were later rectified
through discussions with IDA and subsequent amendments made to the Development Credit Agreement
(DCA):
·   Lack of clarity in charging several activity costs under certain charge categories as these were not
    adequately defined;
·   Non-alignment of certain expense categories to the government chart of accounts; and
·   Procurement thresholds which required contract documents to be submitted to IDA for no objection for
    small expenses.

Financial management and procurement staff in the DOE were highly motivated and dedicated. As a result
of their intensive efforts, many of the issues that were observed during implementation were rectified in
close consultation with IDA. As expenditure categories and the government chart of accounts for certain
expenses were not closely aligned, the DOE failed to submit the Project Management Reports (PMRs), as
per the financial covenant. The format for PMRs was mutually agreed without a clear understanding of
how the innovative 'basket' modality would operate. Consequently, on an exceptional basis, IDA relaxed
the need for PMRs. In the third year of the project, all alignment problems were resolved. There were no
major problems with audit reports, which were submitted on time.

Payments were made through the established control system of HMG/N. Before any transactions took
place, they were verified and cross examined by senior DOE staff. Because of a weak internal control
system, donors commissioned periodic reviews to identify weaknesses and offer advice for strengthening the
system FM. DOE developed a project-specific Accounts Manual detailing internal control measures.
Training, including periodic courses abroad, was provided regularly to project accountants in both cost
centers and at the DOE. The FM information system was developed in the DOE and used at the center
based on manual reporting by cost centers.

Audit reports were not received within the required six-month time frame, yet generally within the 90-day
grace period. In light of the project's national coverage, financial statements were not received in a timely
manner from remote districts, affecting the on-time consolidation of accounts. At project closure, there was
no backlog of audit reports and most were unqualified. Most audit reports usually included management
letters recommending improved internal control measures, improved contract monitoring systems and
timely monitoring of district expenses. These were followed-up by Bank teams through written
communication and during supervision missions.

Procurement
In the first two years of the project construction delays were encountered due to administrative reasons --
e.g. lack of designated staff, lack of delegation of authority requiring all procurement related decisions to be
referred to the DG or Minister level, and the absence of a core procurement group for coordinating
procurement actions across all MOES units and departments. Initially, MOES and DOE officials were
largely unfamiliar with International Competitive Bidding procedures. Contract monitoring, in general, was
weak.

On the advice of the Bank, DOE hired an Procurement Consultant who was instrumental in preparing the
detailed project procurement plans embracing all units/departments including procedures for each
procurement action, and assisted in the development of suitably amended bidding documents. Procurement
functions under the project received close supervision, characterized by a constant flow of dialogue,
feedback and guidance from the procurement advisor. This resulted in procurement being carried out



                                                      - 19 -

smoothly over the life of the project, despite the fact that there was limited capacity in the DOE to
undertake procurement activities which, consequently, they found to be overly complex.




                                                     - 20 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                   1
               Indicator/Matrix                           Projected in last PSR                          Actual/Latest Estimate
Percentage increase in grade 5 completion    75 percent by 2004                              Primary completion rate increased from 41
rates, particularly girls and children from                                                  percent in 1998 to 54 percent in 2000, and to
socially disadvantaged groups.                                                               59 percent in 2001. Between 1999 and 2003
                                                                                             the number of disadvantaged children
                                                                                             completion Grade 5 grew by 24 percent while
                                                                                             the number of disadvantaged girls increased
                                                                                             by 25 percent.

Percentage increase in learning              Raise average score to 75 percent in all        A second round of national assessment
achievements at grades 3 and 5.              subjects by 2004.                               showed little improvement at Grade 3 but
                                                                                             marked achievement for Grade 5. Between
                                                                                             1999 and 2003, mean learning achievement
                                                                                             for grade 5 in Mathematics rose from 27 to
                                                                                             33 percent, In Nepali from 51 to 55 percent
                                                                                             and in Social Studies from 42 to 61 percent.

Number of districts successfully             All 75 districts to prepare district education  All 75 districts preparing district education
implementing investment plans targeting      plans; districts less than 100 GER and 60%      plans. Districts with less than GER of 100%
disadvantaged groups.                        NER for girls to be particularly targeted for   and Girls' NER of less than 60% were
                                             access participation; and districts with higher targeted for access till MTR. Subsequently
                                             GER. NER to be targeted for higher              more elaborate targeting criteria was
                                             efficiency and learning.                        introduced. Overall, NER increased from
                                                                                             70.5 percent in 1998 to 84.2 percent in 2004.
                                                                                             The share of girls in total enrolment
                                                                                             increased from 42.6 percent in 1998 to 46.3
                                                                                             percent in 2003. The gender parity index
                                                                                             oimproved from 0.77 in 1998 to 0.87 in 2000.

Number of schools/VDCs successfully          About 2,500 schools to prepare SIPs by July About 6,000 SIPs prepared. Local capacity
implementing school improvement plans        2004                                            has improved in areas such as planning,
(SIP).                                                                                       management, implementation, data collection
                                                                                             and reporting.


Output Indicators:
                                                                                   1
               Indicator/Matrix                           Projected in last PSR                          Actual/Latest Estimate
National institutions prepare annual policy  All national institutions to prepare annual     All national institutions prepared annual policy
and performance based work plans and         policy and performance based work plans         and performance based work plans and
budgets.                                     and budgets.                                    budgets. Operational efficiency in planning
                                                                                             and policy formulation increased at central
                                                                                             level.


Districts preparing and implementing annual All 75 districts preparing and implementing      All 75 districts preparing and implementing
work plans based on budgets for regular      annual work plans based on budgets for          annual work plans based on budgets for
activities.                                  regular activities.                             regular activities. Districts are now able to
                                                                                             prepare annual as well as five-year plans.


Districts prepare and implement annual work 30 districts preparing and implementing          All 75 districts preparing and implementing
plan based on budgets for regular activities annual work plan based on budgets for           annual work plan based on budgets for
plus investment plans based on targeting     regular activities plus investment plans based regular activities plus investment plans based
priorities.                                  on targeting priorities.                        on targeting priorities.


Schools and VDCs prepare and effectively     800 schools and VDCs are carrying out           Over 6,000 schools carrying out SIPs.
carry out SIPs.                              SIPs.


Teacher competency to help children learn in No targets set.                                 Multi-grade teaching training being provided.
grades 1-3 and multi-grade classes.                                                          Limited use of multi-grade teaching. Studies
                                                                                             on classroom instruction indicate that
                                                                                             knowledge acquired in training is being poorly




                                                                  - 21 -

                                                                 used in classrooms.


Number of children, especially those from   Not set.             See above for percentage increases for these
socially disadvantaged groups completing                         groups.
grade 5 compared to the baseline in 1999.


Physical Facilities: 10,800 classrooms to be                     A total of 10,800 classrooms were
rehabilitated and 5,400 new classrooms to be                     rehabilitated and 5,412 new classrooms were
constructed                                                      constructed, exceeding original the targets.

1End of project




                                                       - 22 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal     Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                          Estimate       Estimate        Appraisal
                       Component                          US$ million   US$ million
Strengthening Institutional Capacity                        18.80           21.37              113
Raising Learning Achievement                                14.00           21.11              151
Increasing Equitable Access                                 22.90           27.85              122

Total Baseline Cost                                         55.70           70.33
                         Total Project Costs                55.70           70.33
                  Total Financing Required                  55.70           70.33


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category            ICB            NCB                2        N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                            0.00            6.30         3.80          0.00         10.10
                                   (0.00)          (1.20)      (0.60)          (0.00)       (1.80)
2. Goods                            4.40            2.50         1.00          0.00         7.90
                                   (1.00)          (0.80)      (0.50)          (0.00)       (2.30)
3. Services                         0.00            0.70         5.40          0.00         6.10
                                   (0.00)          (0.10)      (1.20)          (0.00)       (1.30)
4. Miscellaneous                    0.00            0.00        31.60          0.00         31.60
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (7.10)          (0.00)       (7.10)
5. Miscellaneous                    0.00            0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                    0.00            0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
   Total                            4.40            9.50        41.80          0.00         55.70
                                   (1.00)          (2.10)      (9.40)          (0.00)      (12.50)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category            ICB            NCB                2      N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                            0.00           4.40        10.23           0.00        14.63
                                   (0.00)         (0.78)       (1.39)         (0.00)       (2.17)
2. Goods                            10.24          0.86         3.30                       14.40
                                   (1.82)         (0.15)       (0.64)           ()         (2.61)
3. Services                         0.00           0.55         0.16                       0.71
                                   (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.13)           ()         (0.13)
4. Miscellaneous                    0.00           0.00        40.59           0.00        40.59
                                   (0.00)         (0.00)       (7.25)         (0.00)       (7.25)
5. Miscellaneous



                                                - 23 -

                                           0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   6. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
      Total                                10.24              5.81             54.28             0.00             70.33
                                          (1.82)             (0.93)            (9.41)            (0.00)           (12.16)

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               IDA         Govt.        CoF.         IDA          Govt.      CoF.       IDA      Govt.     CoF.
Strengthening Institutional    4.21         0.76        13.81        3.70         0.88      16.80       87.9     115.8    121.7
Capacity
Raising Learning               3.14         0.56        10.25        3.65         0.87      16.59       116.2    155.4    161.9
Achievement
Increasing Equitable           5.15         0.92        16.75        4.81         1.14      21.89       93.4     123.9    130.7
Access to Quality
Education




                                                          - 24 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Enhanced primary education is strongly correlated with poverty reduction, economic development and
productivity growth. HMG/N aims to provide quality primary school education to the children of Nepal to
put them on the road towards better employment and income-earning possibilities. Challenges to enhance
educational quality and increase access to the disadvantaged can be classified into three types: (a) Demand
side - those that prevent children from going to school or from benefiting from the educational services
provided by the school e.g. poverty, direct costs of schooling, opportunity costs; (b) Supply-side - factors
that limit their capacity to provide adequate quality education opportunities for children living in the area,
e.g. inaccessible schools (this is going to be a significant issue given the insurgency), inadequate facilities,
lack of teaching and learning resources, teacher absenteeism; and (c) Institutional - policies and
administrative arrangements that can keep the system from performing at an acceptable level, e.g., weak
organizational capacity, centralized management, and inadequate funding arrangements. HMG/N aims to
address these constraints by increasing primary school access, participation and completion; and through
improving the quality of student learning and performance outcomes.

Preliminary rates of return have been computed on the basis of alternative assumptions regarding the
internal and external efficiency of the system. Based on these assumptions, HMG/N's current education
program yields an Internal Economic Rate of return of 16 percent. Sensitivity analysis using alternative
assumptions on the external and internal efficiency of the system demonstrate that the rate of return will
vary between seven percent in the low case scenario to 24 percent in the high case ­ these figures will, of
course, be affected depending on how education services are affected due to the insurgency.

Financial: Sustainability is dependent on two key factors: (a) the availability of revenues to meet the
additional costs that will arise inevitably from the adoption of HMG/N's overall education strategy; and (b)
the willingness of HMG/N to meet those new costs at the possible expense of secondary and tertiary
education (or at the expense of allocations to other sectors). In its Medium-term Macroeconomic
Framework (MTMF), HMG/N has made it clear that it regards the successful development and
continuance of high-quality primary education as one of its highest priorities. Preliminary analysis shows
that for the current education program to be sustainable when it ends in 2008/2009, the economy needs to
grow at around 4.5 percent per annum, and around 18 percent of government expenditures will have to be
committed to education (as compared to about 15 percent currently) with 55 percent going to the primary
education sub-sector (roughly the same as at present).




                                                      - 25 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                 Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                        Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              11/28/1997                3    Education Specialist (Team
                                             Leader); Education Specialist;
                                             Operations Officer

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              09/08/1998              10     Senior Implementation
                                             Specialist/Team Leader;
                                             three Education Specialists;
                                             one Economist; one
                                             Operations Analyst; two
                                             Architects; one Finance
                                             Specialist; and one
                                             Procurement Specialist
              12/14/1998                5    Senior Implementation
                                             Specialist/Team Leader; three
                                             Education Specialists; and one
                                             Operations Analyst

 Supervision
              05/30/1999                4    Sr. Implementation                    S               S
                                             Specialist; and three
                                             Education Specialists
              11/29/1999                6    Team Leader; two Education            S               S
                                             Specialists; Procurement
                                             Specialist; Financial
                                             Management Specialist; and
                                             Architect/ consultant
              05/19/2000                5    IDA Coordinator; Education            S               S
                                             Specialist; Financial
                                             Management Specialist ;
                                             Procurement Specialist;
                                             Architect/consultant
              11/24/2000                7    Team Leader; Lead Education           U               S
                                             Specialist; two Education
                                             Specialists; Senior Financial
                                             Management Specialist; Senior
                                             Procurement Specialist; and
                                             Architect/consultant
              04/05/2001                2    Team Leader and Education             S               S
                                             Specialist
              12/14/2001                8    Team Leader; Senior Education         S               S
                                             Specialist; Education Specialist;
                                             two Financial Management
                                             Specialists; Senior Procurement
                                             Specialist; Education Planner;
                                             and Architect/consultant




                                              - 26 -

               03/22/2002              5    Team Leader; Education              S    S
                                            Specialist; Senior Procurement
                                            Specialist: Architect/consultant
                                            and Implementation
                                            Specialist/consultant
               03/28/2003              5    Two Team Leaders; Financial         S    S
                                            Management Specialist;
                                            Procurement Specialist and
                                            Architect/consultant.
               3/24/2004               5    Team Leader; Education              S    S
                                            Specialist: Financial Managment
                                            Specialist; Financial
                                            Management Assistant; and
                                            Architect/ consultant

 ICR
               9/28/2004              3     Team Leader, Senior                 S    S
                                            Education Specialist;
                                            Principal Author, Education
                                            Specialist; Program
                                            Assistant



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                   US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation             110                               321
  Appraisal/Negotiation                    62                              190
  Supervision                            204                               480
  ICR                                      18                               40
  Total                                  394                             1,031




                                            - 27 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 28 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 29 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Bank preparation and legal documents

l Pre-Appraisal Terms of Reference, May 15, 1998
l Pre-Appraisal Aide-Memoire, June 1, 1998
l Pre-Appraisal Back-to-Office Report, June 1, 1998
l Appraisal Terms of Reference, September 1, 1998
l Appraisal Aide-Memoire, October 10, 1998
l Appraisal Back-to-Office Report, October 10, 1998
l Post-Appraisal Terms of Reference, November 10, 1998
l Post-Appraisal Aide Memoire, December 20, 1998
l Post Appraisal Back-to-Office Report, December 3, 1998
l Appraisal Follow-Up Terms of Reference, December 14, 1998
l Appraisal Follow-Up Aide Memoire, January 28, 1999
l Environmental Data Sheet, August 31, 1998
l Summary of Negotiations, March 3, 1999
l Project Appraisal Document. World Bank. March 3, 1999
l Development Credit Agreement, Credit Number 3185-NEP, April 23, 1999


Bank project implementation documents

l Project Status Reports (PSRs). World Bank. 1999-2004
l Aide-Memoires of supervision missions. HMG/N, World Bank, other donor partners. 1999-2004


Other Bank documents
l Project Appraisal Document, Nepal Education for All Project. June 2, 2004


Main documents prepared by the Borrower and donor partners during implementation and at
project closure

l Joint Government-Agency Evaluation of Basic and Primary Education Programme II (for Nepal).
   Volumes 1 and 2. Ministry of Foreign Affairs (Danida). May 14, 2004.




                                                - 30 -

Additional Annex 8. Government Final Evaluation Project Report

1.         In line with the Jomtien declaration on "Education for All" (EFA, 1990) and the summit goals of
the Convention on the Rights of Children (1990), His Majesty's Government, Ministry of Education and
Sports reconfirmed its commitment to achieve universal primary education (UPE) of good quality by
introducing the Basic and Primary Education Project (BPEP I) 1992-1998 to consolidate reform activities
initiated during the Primary Education Project (PEP) 1984-1992. The primary objective of launching the
project was to give an impetus to the coordinated development and continuous improvement of primary
education in Nepal. The project aimed at:

     (i) improving the quality of primary education,
     (ii) increasing the equitable access to primary education, and
     (iii) strengthening the management of the formal and non-formal primary education delivery system.

2.         In consonance with the above-mentioned objectives, the project had several components. Improving
the quality of primary education incorporated curriculum and textbook development, provision of
supplementary reading materials, recurrent in-service teacher training and continuous assessment.
Increasing equitable access to primary education included school construction and rehabilitation,
non-formal primary education, special education, women education, early childhood development and
compulsory primary education. The purpose of institutional development was sought to be achieved
through program management, primary school design capacity development, school facilities construction
and management training.

3.         The project covered forty districts by 1998 and its overall achievements were highly satisfactory.
The achievement ratio vis-a-vis quantitative targets ranged from 60% to 100%. The project had significant
achievement in reducing the proportion of underage children, dropout and repetition rates and enhancing the
completion rate of the primary education cycle from 27% in 1991 to 41% in 1997. However, the overall
impact of the project inputs, especially in classroom practices and the whole school atmosphere as
demonstrated by the students' achievement level, which was less than 50 percent of the total possible score,
was not as expected.

4.         The BPEP I impacted upon Government policies resulting in the adoption of the Resource Center
(RC) structure, provision of 10 days recurrent teacher training to every teacher each year, placement of at
least one female teacher in each primary school, inclusion of ECD component, introduction of liberal
promotion policy, introduction of coupon system for the distribution of free textbooks and gradual
introduction of the compulsory primary education (CPE) in all districts.

5.         In spite of progress in delivering curriculum materials, providing training to teachers and allocating
financial resources to the districts, the BPEP I could not be successful in sustaining systemic efforts to
achieve qualitative changes and to ensure an acceptable level of quality for all children by improving their
learning outcomes. It proved to be a testing ground for many new ideas and interventions such as the
introduction of the compulsory primary education without proper and adequate preparation.

6.         BPEP I was implemented in a project approach and most of its activities had a very small
coverage. Its overall management of implementation and monitoring of impacts remained weak. Above all,
it lacked a full vision of primary education and failed to undertake reform measures in a unified direction.

7.         Following the experiences of the project approach and considering sustainability imperative into



                                                       - 31 -

account, the BPEP II was successfully implemented between 1999 and 2004 as a program approach. It
adopted the basket funding modality and was an integral part of the total national program. While the
World Bank, NORAD, Finland, the European Commission and DANIDA supported the basket; the
UNICEF, JICA and the ADB had separate agreements to provide earmarked support to the basic and
primary education program.

8.       Despite the fact that the BPEP II was implemented at a very critical time of our history, it
demonstrated significant progress in both program and performance indicators. Most of the program
targets had more than 90% achievement and there were marked progress in performance indicators as
demonstrated by improvement in the net enrolment, survival and completion rates. The following tables
conclude the achievement of the BPEP II in respect to program and performance indicators.

                      Table 1: Achievement of BPEP II in key program indicators, 1999/00
                                                     ­ 2003/04

 SN                      Activities                          Unit       Total Target        Progress plan  %
                                                                                                period
1
      School Physical Facility
1.1   Classrooms Rehabilitation                            Classroom        10800             10794        100

1.2
      External Environment Improvement
1.3   Toilets                                               School           5400              5231        97

1.3.1 Drinking Water                                        School           5400              5093        94

1.3.2 Fencing                                               School           5400              5226        97

1.3.3 Classroom  Construction and Furniture                Classroom         5400              5392        100

1.4   Feeder Hostel                                         Hostel             18               18         100

1.5   District Education Office Building and               Building            15               15         100

      Furniture
1.6   Resource Centre Construction and Furniture              RC              200              141         71

1.7   Department of Education Building and                 Building            1                1          100

      Furniture
2
      Access and Retention
2.1
      Alternative Schooling
2.1.1 Out-of-school program (OSP) I                         Centre           3904              3897        100

2.1.2 Out- of-school program (OSP) II                       Centre           2318              2271        98

2.1.3 School Outreach Program                               Centre           1026              1008        98

2.1.4 Flexible Schooling Program                            Centre           1013              962         95

2.2
      Girls' Education
2.2.1 Piloting of incentive for primary school girls        Person          91712             92522        101

2.2.2 Primary girls' scholarship @ 250 per annum            Person         240746             214045       89

2.2.3 Secondary girls' scholarship                          Person          12500             10928        87




                                                     - 32 -

2.2.4 Feeder Hostel Program                                 Number       18        18       100

2.2.5 Incentivefor top ten girls in Grade V                  Person      3750      3408     91

2.3
      Education for Special Focus Group
2.3.1 Piloting of incentive for focus group children         Person     74288     87648     118

2.3.2 Scholarship for dalit children @ 250 per               Person     549696    359120    65

      annum
2.4
      Special Education
2.4.1 Residential Resource Classes                           Centre      309       309      100

2.4.2 Residential facility for special needs children        Person     10944     10335     94

2.4.3 Integratededucation for physically handicapped         Person      2266      2040     90

      children
2.4.4 Integrated education for blind/low vision/hard         Person      8165      7572     93

      of hearing/and mild MR children
2.4.5 Assessment Centers with Technical                     District     35        35       100

      Committees
2.5
      Early Childhood Development
2.5.1 Conduction of ECD centers                              Centre      5700      5750     101

2.6
      Community Mobilization
2.6.1 Awareness workshop                                     Centre     12136     12137     100

2.6.2 Street drama                                           Centre      1279      1370     107

2.6.3 Folksong competition                                   Centre      2489      2487     100

2.6.4 Video demonstration                                    Centre      2138      2024     95

2.6.5 Mother  gathering                                      Centre      6187      6039     98

2.6.6 Speech  competition                                    Centre      5438      5414     100

2.6.7 Children'srally                                        Centre      4420      4355     99

2.7
      Literacy Program
2.7.1 Women Literacy I                                       Class       7835      7767     99

2.7.2 Women Literacy II                                      Class       6705      6457     96

2.7.3 Income  Generation Program                             Centre      115       101      88

2.7.4 Community    Learning Centre                           Centre      20        16       80

3
      Learning Achievement
3.1   Curriculum and Textbook Reform                         Local                 12
                                                            Language
3.2   Continuous Assessment                                 District      5         5

3.3
      Recurrent Teacher Training
3.3.1 Whole School Approach Teacher Training                 Person     51108     53626     105




                                                      - 33 -

3.3.2 Module-Based Teacher Training                          Person       181500    176471    97

3.3.3 English  Language Teacher Training                     Person       25836     21150     82

3.3.4 Math  Teacher Training                                 Person       33103     26551     80

3.4   Certificate Teacher Training

      Distance Education Centre
3.4.1 Certificate Teacher Training II Package                Teacher      18250     15479     85

3.4.2 Certificate Teacher Training III Package               Teacher      19995     20693     104

3.4.3 Interactive Radio Instruction                          Teacher      13050      6584     50

      National Centre for Educational
      Development
3.4.4 Certificate Teacher Training I Package                 Teacher       4725      3796     80

3.4.5 Certificate Teacher Training IV Package                Teacher      14175     12120     86

4
      Capacity Building
4.1
      Strengthening DOE and Centre level
      Agencies
4.2.1 District Education Plan                                District      75        75

4.2.2 School Mapping                                         District      75        75

4.2.3 Computer   Training                                    District      600       733      122

4.2
      Local Capacity Building
4.2.1 Head Teacher Management Training                       Person       46574     43643     94

4.2.2 Training on School Improvement Plan                    Person       172376    146059    85

      including EMIS
4.2.3 Funding through SIP

      Funding A                                              School       19856     13546     68

      Funding B                                              School        3702      3231     87

      Funding C                                              School        1343      1305     97

5
      SIP Based Development
5.1   Funding School Improvement Plans on per                 Child                 460918

      child allocation (Rs. 150/170/200 for tarai and
      valley, hill and mountain districts respectively)
      for quality improvement
5.2   Partnership with VDC/VECs for universal                VEC/                    446

      access within its catchments area. (607 VDCs         Municipality

      and 18 Municipalities in 12 districts and 252
      VDCs in 63 districts)
5.3   Grade 1 reform for each school in 5 districts           Class                  1431




                                                       - 34 -

                            Table 2: Achievement of BPEP II in key performance indicators,
                                                           2004

                                                                                    Achievement
          SN                       Indicators                   1998    1999     2000    2001    2002    2003 2004
         1      Gross Enrolment Rate of Early Childhood/Pre       -       -     13.0    12.8    19.8    19.9  39.4
                School
         2      Percentage of New entrants at Grade 1 with        -       -      -       7.8     9.6    13.7  10.9
                ECD
         3      Gross Intake Rate at Grade 1                      -       -      -     122.9    101.3   117.1 125.9
         4      Net Intake Rate at Grade 1                        -       -      -       -      74.0    76.1   -
         5      Gross Enrolment Rate                           123.9    127.7 119.8    124.7    118.4   126.7 130.7
         6      Net Enrolment Rate                              70.5     72.0   80.4    81.1    82.4    83.5  84.2
         7      Percentage of Gross National Product                     1.5     1.7     2.0     2.1     2.2   2.3
                channeled to Primary education sub sector
         8      Percentage of Total Education Budget            48.7     55.1   58.4    55.6    59.0    63.5  61.8
                channeled to Primary education sub sector
         9      Percentage of teachers with required              -       -      -       -        -     17.4  30.5
                qualification and training
         10     Percentage of teachers with required              -       -      -       -        -            80
                Certification
         11     Pupil Teacher Ratio                              39      38      37     39.9    35.7    35.8  39.7
         12     Repetition Rate
         12.1   Grade 1                                         38.7     36.7   41.8    38.7    36.8     34   NA
         12.2   Grade 5                                          14      12.7   10.8     9       11     13.5  NA
         13     Survival rate to Grade 5                        NA       49.7   63.1    65.8    67.6    60.0  76.2
         14     Coefficient of Efficiency                       NA       47.9   55.0    60.0    57.2    NA    NA
         15     Percentage of Learning Achievement at Grade                                                    60
                5
         15.1   Nepali                                            -       -      -       -      55.8     -     -
         15.1   Mathematics                                       -       -      -       -      33.3     -     -
         15.2   Social Studies                                    -       -      -       -      61.1     -     -
         15.3   English                                           -       -      -       -      44.8     -     -
         15.4   Environmental Science and Health Education        -       -      -       -      67.3     -     -
         16     Literacy Rate
         16.1   Age Group 15-24                                   -       -      -       -       70      70    70
         16.2   Age Group 6+ years                                -       -      -       -       54      54    54
         17     Adult Literacy Rate (15+ years)                  45      45      45              48      48    48
         18     Literacy Gender Parity Index (15+ years)          -       -      -       -       0.6     0.6   0.6


9.      When evaluated from the perspective of its policy framework in the Program Implementation Plan
(PIP), the following pictures emerge illustrating its fundamental contribution towards giving a definite
future direction to shaping the education system of the country.

        (i) The medium-term development objectives of BPEP were to strengthen institutional capacity at
             the national and community levels to plan and deliver more efficient and better quality basic
             and primary education services thereby raising learning achievement and increasing equitable
             access, especially for girls and under-served communities.

         The key performance indicators of the program were:


                                                     - 35 -

           l Preparation and implementation of annual operational and expenditure plan at national and
                district levels;
           l Number of months of staff development and training for education managers;
           l Learning achievement based on national assessment at Grades 3 and 5;
           l Gross enrolment ratios;
           l Primary school completion rates;
           l Cycle costs;
           l Teacher deployment;
           l Teachers' performance as measured by changes in classroom practices;
           l Teacher quality based on the percentage of total primary teachers with certificate of
                primary school teaching; and
           l Physically adequate schools by targeted locations.


       In addition, four indicators were recommended by the Joint Review Mission (Aide Memoire, 10-19
       May, 2000), which were the following:

           l No new publicly funded schools are established; no primary schools upgraded to lower
                secondary schools without government approval.
           l Number of classrooms rehabilitated
           l Targeting criteria apply - GER less than 100 and girls NER less than 60.
           l New classrooms on the basis of targeting criteria, community participation processes and
                school physical improvement plan (SPIP)

       In order to bring the program in line with the 'Education for All' (EFA), the above 14 indicators
       were adjusted to the 18 EFA indicators on the recommendation of the Mid-Term Review of the
       BPEP II, March 2002. Hence, this Report as illustrated in table 2 has focused on assessing the
       outcomes of the program based on the 18 EFA indicators.

10.    In addition to the achievement in relation to 18 EFA indicators, the following policies were
implemented with wider implications for future planning and program implementation with a view to
achieving the EFA policy objectives and Millennium Development goals.

Objective 1: Strengthen institutional capacity at national, district and community level to deliver
more efficient basic and primary education services

   l The Annual Strategic Implementation Plan (ASIP) was introduced and developed as a powerful
       tool for accessing and monitoring resources. All 75 districts prepared their District Education Plan
       and formed it a base to prepare the district level ASIP from 2002 onward. In addition, the process
       of school improvement planning (SIP) also began and in the final year of BPEP implementation it
       was piloted in five districts (Jhapa, Chitwan, Syangja, Bardiya and Dadeldhura) and one Resource
       center (RC) of all districts. The district and school level planning formed the basis of 80%
       allocation to the districts and schools.
   l The MOES was restructured to formulate sound policies, set standards, perform system analysis
       and give overall direction for educational development in the country. The DOE was established as
       a technical arm of the MOES. It played very effective role in the implementation of basic and
       primary education as well as secondary education programs. Besides, the NFEC was also
       strengthened to carry out critical responsibility in the area of non-formal and alternative education,
       skills development and income generating activities to contribute to poverty reduction by raising


                                                    - 36 -

         the level of literacy in the country.
    l The number of public primary school teachers remained at the level of 1998 ceiling i. e. 83000.
         The temporary female teachers, 2399 in number, were regularized. The recruitment of female
         teachers in vacant positions was given priority resulting in 30% of the total teaching force. The
         policy of one female teacher was updated by two female teachers in schools with more than four
         teacher positions. This is supposed to play critical role in ensuring universal access to girls and
         raising the overall quality of education by improving the status of female teachers.
    l The Education Act and Regulation were amended and the School Management Committee was
         represented by parents including its chairperson. Management training with a view to build their
         overall capacity and strengthening the bottom-up planning process was provided to the three
         members of each committee ­ chairperson, head teacher and woman or dalit member of the SMC.
         The involvement of I/NGOs and CBOs was encouraged.

Objective 2: Raise learning achievement, especially in grades 1 to 3

    l National level assessment of Grade 5 was conducted in 2003. This showed improved achievement
         in Social Study and Environmental Science (average marks 61 and 67 respectively) and 6 points
         gain in Mathematics (average mark 33) and 4 points gain in Nepali (average mark 51) as compared
         to the 1999 national assessment results. It also established baseline in English with average mark
         45.
    l In consonance with the principle of imparting primary education in the mother tongue, curriculum
         and textbooks were prepared in 12 local languages. Recurrent training included the elements of
         whole school approach, module based training, multi-grade teaching and bilingual teaching.
    l Liberal promotion policy was piloted in five districts ­ Ilam, Chitwan, Syangja, Surkhet and
         Kanchanpur with mixed experiences.
    l The experiences of ECD for increasing net enrolment, reducing dropout and repetition rates and
         enhancing learning outcomes were most encouraging as demonstrated by the study findings of the
         "Save the Children, Norway in the district of Siraha. However, bilingual teaching approaches for
         minority linguistic groups' children could not be developed.

Objective 3: Increase equitable access to basic and primary education especially for girls and
disadvantaged children

    l Alternative approaches such as outreach classes for Grades 1-3 for disadvantaged children in
         remote areas, flexible classes for Grades 1-5 for working children in the form of condensed courses
         and out of school programs targeting out-of-school children between 10 and 14 years age group
         were implemented successfully. Special education program for children with four types of
         disabilities, integrated education and inclusive education approaches, assessment centers,
         residential resource classes benefited over 21,000 children with disabilities.

Objective 4: Upgrade the quality of school physical environment through community management

    l School physical facilities based on schools' needs and demands analysis and targeting schools with
         lowest GER of girls and disadvantaged children marked nearly 100% progress in respect to
         rehabilitation and construction of classrooms and external environment improvement. Community
         participation was most satisfactory in school physical facilities improvement.

10.      Thus the BPEP II was accomplished successfully and it had most useful lessons learnt, especially
in the areas of policy formulation, improved ownership of the government, decentralized planning and


                                                     - 37 -

management, enhanced capacity at central and district levels and comprehensive approach to school
education for moving into sector financing in education.

11.      However, the compartmentalization of programs into 17 components (later grouped into five broad
categories after the Mid-Term-Review) and the supply driven approach without taking into consideration
the willingness and preparedness of the stakeholders at the grassroots level could not address effectively the
learning needs of all children, especially girls and ethnically, socially, economically, geographically and
physically marginalized groups.

12.      The experiences of the BPEP II clearly conclude that good quality in education (in schools, ECD
and alternative schooling and literacy and teacher training programs) should motivate the children in the
acquisition of knowledge, skills and attitudes that have intrinsic value and also help in addressing important
human and social goals. The lesson learnt is that despite improvements in annual district education plans,
school improvement plans, teacher deployment, and improved monitoring and evaluation, the question of
improving the quality of education focusing on positive changes in classroom practices continue to remain a
challenge.

13.      The purpose of this Report is not to establish links between program inputs and outputs/outcomes.
BPEP II was implemented in most critical situation. However, the resulting experience of the program
implementation has been most satisfactory in view of the progress achieved in the areas of intended
objectives such as net enrolment, survival and completion rates and learning outcomes.

14.      The implementation of BPEP provided grounds for the initiation of `Education for All' (EFA),
which attempts to further implement policies that secure and improve the quality of schooling, and other
forms of organized learning focusing on the determinants of education quality.

15.      Basket funding modality was successfully initiated as an innovative mechanism during the period
of the BPEP and the Government took lead roles in its effective and efficient implementation. Moreover,
donor harmonization was instrumental to support the Ministry of Education and Sports, and the
Department of Education to initiate the 'Education for All' 2004-2009 under joint financing agreement
(JFA).




                                                      - 38 -

- 39 -

