Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 19002 NEP
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 9.0 MILLION
TO THE
KINGDOM OF NEPAL
FOR THE
BASIC AND PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
IN SUPPORT OF
THE FIRST PHASE OF
THE BASIC AND PRIMARY EDUCATION PROGRAM
March 3, 1999
Education Sector
South Asia Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective September 15, 1998)
Currency Unit = Nepalese Rupees (NRs.)
NRs. I =US$ 0.015
US$ 1 = 67.51
FISCAL YEAR
July 16 - July 15
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APL                      Adaptable Program Lending
AWPB                     Annual Work Programs and Budgets
BPEDU                    Basic and Primary Education Development Unit
BPEP                     Basic and Primary Education Program
CAS                      Country Assistance Strategy
CBO                      Community-based Organization
CDC                      Curriculum Development Center
CIP                      Core Investment Program for BPEP
CMG                      Change Management Group
Danida                   Danish International Development Agency
DEO                      District Education Officer
DOE                      Department of Education
ECDC                     Early Childhood Development Center
EMIS                     Educational Management Information System
ESRP                     Earthquake Schools Rehabilitation Project
EU                       European Union
JICA                     Japanese International Cooperation Agency
LACI                     Loan Administration Change Initiative
MOE                      Ministry of Education
NCED                     National Center for Education Development
NFEC                     Non-Formal Education Center
NGO                      Non Governmental Organizations
NORAD                    Norwegian Agency for Development
PIP                      Project Implementation Plan
PMIS                     Project Management Information System
SMC                      School Management Committee
TSAG                     Technical Support Advisory Group
VDC                      Village Development Committee
VEC                      Village Education Committee
Vice President:    Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director:    Hans M. Rothenbuhler
Sector Manager:    Ralph W. Harbison
Team Leader/Task Team Leader:    Grant G. Sinclair



NEPAL
BASIC AND PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                    Page
1. Program purpose and program phasing                                               3
2. Project development objective                                                     3
3. Key performance indicators                                                        3
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project    4
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                        4
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                6
4. Program description and performance triggers for subsequent loans                 7
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                8
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                     9
3. Benefits and target population                                                    11
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                     11
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                        14
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies        16
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                          17
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                  17
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                       17
E. Summary Project Analyses
1. Economic                                                                         18
2. Financial                                                                         19
3. Technical                                                                        20
4. Institutional                                                                    20
5. Social                                                                           21
6. Environmental assessment                                                         22
7. Participatory approach                                                           22
F. Sustainability and Risks
jI 



1. Sustainability                                                                    23
2. Critical risks                                                                     24
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                    25
G. Main Loan condition
1. Effectiveness conditions                                                          25
2. Other                                                                             25
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                         25
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                        26
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                         27
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                   31
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                        34
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary          36
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary   41
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                      42
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                    49
Annex 8: Documents in Project File                                                      50
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                 51
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                           53
Annex 11: Development Policy Statement and Basic and Primary Education Policy Framework  55
Annex 12: Common Procedures for Donors                                                  73
MAP(S)
N/A
-jj 



NEPAL
Basic and Primary Education Project
Phase I of an APL Credit to support the Basic and Primary Education Program
Project Appraisal Document
South Asia Regional Office
Education Sector Unit
Date: March 3, 1999                                Team Leader: Grant G. Sinclair
Country Manager/Director: Hans M. Rothenbuhler     Sector Manager/Director: Ralph W. Harbison
ProjectID: 40612                                   Sector(s): EE - Education
Lending Instrument: Adaptable Program Loan (APL)    Theme(s): Education
Poverty Targeted Intervention: Yes
...   ..  ..;-" .'              - '                 e'              w  ..... t     t
IDA             Others      Total    Commitment   Closing
US$ m     %      US$ m       US$ m        Date        Date
APL 1         12.5   22.4      43.2        55.7      07/16/99   07/15/2002 His Majesty's Government of
Loan/                                                                Nepal
Credit
APL 2         15.0   29.5      35.9        50.9    07/16/2002   07/15/2005 His Majesty's Government of
Loan/                                                                 Nepal
Credit          _  _ __                                       _ _  _
APL 3         22.5    18.8    97.5        120.0    07/16/2005   07/15/2009 His Majesty's Govermment of
Loan/                                                                 Nepal
Credit                                                                 _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
APL 4
Loan/
Credit
Total         50.0            176.6       226.6
Project Financing Data
II Loan         1 Credit        O Grant         O Guarantee     L] Other (Specify)
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m) 12.5
Proposed Terrns: O To be defined   OI Multicurrency El Single currency
-    Standard Variable Cl Fixed     L] LIBOR-based
Grace period (years):             10
Years to maturity:                40
Commitment fee:                   0.5%
Service charge                    0.75%
iDTo bed                ---
Government                                                        1.7            0.5           2.2



IBRD                                                            0.0            0.0           0.0
IDA                                                             9.7            2.8          12.5
OTHER BILATERAL FINANCING INSTITUTIONS                         31.6            9.3          40.9
Total:                                                         43.0           12.6          55.6
Borrower: His Majesty's Government of Nepal
Guarantor:
Responsible agency:
Ministry of Education
Implementing agency(ies):
Ministry of Education
Address: Keshar Mahal, Kantipath, Kathmandu, Nepal
Contact Person: Mr. Sharad Kumar Bhattarai, Secretary
Tel: 411599                 Fax: 414887                Email:
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FYIUS$M):
Annual     3.3           4.2         5.0
Cumulative     3.3          7.5         12.5
Project implementation period: 36 months
Expected effectiveness date: 07/16/99  Expected closing date:  07/15/2002
OCS APL PAD Form: October 9, 1998
-2-



A: Program Purpose and Project Development Objective
1. Program purpose and program phasing:
By 2009, the Government of Nepal expects that at least two thirds of school-age children will
attain grade 8 in schools that are effectively supported by institutions at the community, district and
national level. To achieve this goal the Government will: (a) give greater control to communities to manage
schools for quality improvement and to districts to distribute resources based on school needs and targeted
underserved groups; (b) develop the quality of teaching and educational content; and (c) increase access to
an eight-year basic cycle of education. IDA proposes to support this program with a Credit of
approximately US$50 million in three phases over ten years following an Adaptable Program Lending
(APL) approach.
Phase I (US$12.5 million over three years, starting July 1999) will develop institutional capacity
for qualitative and quantitative improvement in the five-year primary education system. This includes: (a)
strengthening the Ministry of Education (MOE) and establishing a Department of Education (DOE) to
become its technical wing to deliver primary and secondary education programs; (b) introducing
performance-based district planning and budget processes; and (c) piloting school improvement planning.
Phase II (tentatively US$15.0 million over three years, starting July 2002) will consolidate
institutional capacity building at national, district and school levels to raise primary school quality. It will
assess human and physical requirements to universalize eight years of basic education, and ensure that
teacher development policies and strategies are in place to support an extended cycle of basic education
from five years to eight years.
Phase III (tentatively US$22.5 million over four years, starting July 2005) will continue to support
institutional capacity building, development of the teaching service, and will expand access to eight years of
education. Project details will be based on outcomes of Phase II and corresponding changes in the structure
of secondary education.
2. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The objective of the project is to strengthen institutional capacities at national, district and school
levels to plan and deliver more efficient and better quality education services. In turn, this is expected to
lead to increased levels of learning resulting from improved student retention (especially for girls and
socially disadvantaged groups), more effective teacher performance and efficient teacher deployment
practices.
3. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Progress towards the development objectives will be measured by: (a) preparation of appropriate
annual operational and expenditure plans at national and district levels based on school improvement plans;
(b) numbers of months of staff development and training for school managers (by gender and location); (c)
physically adequate schools in underserved areas; (d) gross enrollment ratios (by gender and location,
sampled from the poorest 15% of subdistricts); (e) primary school completion rates (by gender and
location, sampled from the poorest 15% of subdistricts); (f) cycle costs; (g) teachers performance as
measured by changes in classroom practice; (h) teacher quality based on the percentage of total primary
teachers with the Certificate of Primary School Teaching (by gender and location); and (i) learning
achievement based on a national assessment of Nepali and Mathematics in grades 3 and 5 carried out
bi-annually.
-3-



B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 18578-NEP                     Date of latest CAS discussion: 12/15/98
Reducing poverty and strengthening a weak human capital base through effective investments in
the provision of basic services are priorities in the Nepal CAS, reviewed by the Board on December 15,
1998. The CAS identifies two key strategies to poverty alleviation: (i) bringing resources closer to the
beneficiaries, where they are most likely to be productively used; and (ii) collective donor action to foster
the stronger governance needed to reduce waste and mismanagement of resources. The project strongly
supports these strategies in the following ways:
(a) Reducing poverty through effective investments in basic services. The project objective is to
strengthen capacities at school, district and at the central level to manage human, physical and financial
resources more efficiently and equitably. Within the longer-term strategy for basic and primary education,
a detailed five-year subsector investment plan has been developed by the MOE. The plan outlines policies
and strategies to improve efficiency, quality and equitable access, and Government will put in place
performance-based annual planning and budget processes based on these three criteria.
(b) Bringing resources closer to the beneficiaries. The project will introduce a School
Improvement Planning process that will be the responsibility of School Management Committees (SMCs)
and they, together with Village Development Committees (VDCs), will participate in monitoring schools'
performance. The project targets interventions to reduce educational inequity between gender, regions, and
disadvantaged groups through a district planning process. Funds to carry out activities will be allocated to
schools, districts and NGOs based on efficiency and equity criteria, implementation plans and performance.
The project will improve institutional capacity at the national level to manage a community- and
district-based basic education system by setting criteria for targeting interventions to the most
disadvantaged schools and communities, and reviewing implementation plans against the policies set out in
the Basic and Primary Education Policy Framework (Annex 11).
(c) Coordinating donor action to foster stronger governance and increase efficiency in resource
use. Government's policy framework for basic and primary education is agreed with donors supporting its
program and benchmarks for implementation of efficiency, quality and equity policies have been
established. Five major donors will jointly cofinance the core investment activities of the Government's
basic and primary education program and will jointly review with the Government the annual work plans
and budgets against performance benchmarks and needs. The MOE will be responsible for donor
coordination for which a set of common procedures has been prepared (Annex 12). Financial management
capacity building will be an important component of the project.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Sector Issues: Government recognizes that education is key to poverty alleviation and in recent
years has given a high priority to provision of education services. Much has been achieved in a very
difficult environment to make schooling more accessible, to increase quality inputs and to provide
alternative programs to address the low literacy levels. However, student learning outcomes of both
primary and secondary education are low, and the poorest communities remain the most educationally
disadvantaged. These low outcomes relate to issues of equitable access to quality schooling, system
efficiency and use of resources.
4-



(a) Access and Quality. Substantial progress has been made in increasing enrollment in primary
education since the early 1990s. In this period, the Govermnent has supported a range of programs to
include more women, out-of-school girls and children with special needs in basic education. Gross
enrollment rates in primary education are high and access to schools is impressive given the remoteness of
much of the population. Access to secondary education is unevenly distributed, and has high direct and
opportunity costs. Primary and secondary school completion rates are low and those completing schooling
have only minimal levels of skills for community needs. Teacher absenteeism is high, reflecting the poorly
regulated teacher recruitment process, incentive structures, and weak school supervision.
(b) Efficiency and Resource Use. The school system is characterized by low student retention and
completion rates, inefficient teacher deployment practices and poor fund utilization. Sector management is
highly centralized and not well situated to handle the rapidly expanding school system. Many professional
functions in the sector such as curriculum renewal, teacher training and design of non-formal education
programs have been carried out under donor-funded project units. Currently about half of education
expenditures are channeled to the basic and primary education subsector, but resource use is poor at all
levels of the system. The large number of donors supporting the sector within a weak institutional and
regulatory framework has exacerbated the low absorptive capacity and lack of policy coherence.
Government Strategy: The Government recognizes these issues and has articulated strategies in
the Ninth (1997-2002) Five-Year Development Plan to raise the national literacy level by expanding
equitable access to basic education and increasing the quality of primary education; and at the secondary
and higher levels, by emphasizing the upgrading of secondary and higher education and raising the quality
of output. Other key strategies are to increase the allocation of public resources for the education sector
from 13% to 15% in the interests of sustainability and system stability; to strengthen the MOE in order to
improve policy planning and system monitoring; and to devolve education management to promote the
active involvement of communities and local bodies in managing education institutions. Major ongoing
efforts to improve access and quality at the basic and primary levels are being expanded with greater
emphasis on community participation at all levels.
The Basic and Primary Education Master Plan, 1997-2002 outlines national priorities for the
subsector as follows: (a) to ensure universal coverage of primary education and raise literacy; (b) to
improve quality and efficiency of primary education; (c) to improve planning, policy making, coordination,
research and evaluation capacity within the MOE; and (d) to decentralize educational management. It
builds on strategies and experience from two previous IDA-supported primary education projects, supports
curriculum and textbook reform, a school cluster-based teacher training model, and targeted strategies to
increase participation of girls and disadvantaged groups. Based on the Master Plan, and in collaboration
with donors supporting the subsector, Government developed a Second Basic and Primary Education
Program, 1997-2002 (BPEP II) which covers the entire subsector, builds on past experience and introduces
a more decentralized approach to management of primary education. BPEP II supports implementation of
Government's compulsory education policies and strategies to ensure that all children can enter and
complete five years of primary education. Government's longer term vision is to raise the basic cycle from
five years to eight years as recommended in the National Education Commission Report (1998).
-5-



3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The project will focus on addressing the key institutional issues that affect the efficiency, quality
and equitable provision of basic and primary education services. It will support the Govermment's
medium-term objectives as set out in the agreed policy framework for BPEP II (see Annex 1 1). Issues to
be addressed in the project are based on past experience in the basic and primary education subsector in
Nepal and strategic decisions made during appraisal of the core investment plan for BPEP II.
*  More efficient use of resources. A decision taken early in project preparation by the donors supporting
basic and primary education was to build on their cooperation in BPEP I and to support jointly with the
government a subsector wide investment program. From that flowed the decision to focus support on
strengthening the capacity of the MOE to manage a sectoral program, to make districts more
accountable for planning and performance monitoring and to increase community participation in
school management. Five of the major donors agreed to finance jointly an agreed core investment plan
for BPEP II. It was decided that the funding mechanisms for this should enable a single monitoring
and reporting system and an associated process to provide for joint annual reviews of work plans and
budget proposals to release funds against performance benchmarks and needs. This is expected to
provide greater coherence in policy implementation and monitoring and more efficient use of resources.
In addition, policy measures on three major expenditure items were also agreed: (a) teachers will be
deployed according to the target teacher:student ratio of 1:45 nationally with special consideration for
small isolated and rural schools; (b) construction of schools/classrooms will be on needs-based criteria
and school mapping requirements; and (c) the long-term residential teacher upgrading.program will be
replaced by distance education programs linked to classroom teaching performance.
*   Strengthening Institutional Capacity. It became clear during appraisal of the BPEP II that the first
three years of implementation would require a new institutional framework and developing capacities to
meet the demands of a more technically equipped MOE and a decentralized system. A decision was
made to absorb various project units already established under previous projects; to support the
establishment of a technical department at MOE; and to support a long-term human resource
development plan for strengthening capacities to deliver quality education services. Another decision
was to introduce district planning as a funding prerequisite. Greater accountability would be
encouraged at the school level to improve teacher and student attendance and increased authority at
district level to set priorities for equity and quality. As it will take some time to bring about the desired
institutional changes, Government and IDA agreed that an Adaptable Program Lending approach
would better suit the change process being initiated and offer flexibility in adjusting to the pace of
implementation as it becomes evident.
*  Addressing access and quality. The strategic choices made are to focus on increasing primary school
completion rates and improving learning achievements as measured by periodic national assessments.
A high level of quality inputs was provided under BPEP I (curriculum and textbook reform,
cluster-based in service training and in-school professional support) to 40 of the 75 districts in Nepal.
The project will extend access and quality initiatives begun under BPEP I to the remaining districts.
Analysis and feedback from the national basic skills assessment at grade 3 will be used to identify key
areas for teacher training and professional support, materials and school development planning. C
ommunity provision of early childhood programs would cater for the special needs of young children
and ensure that under-age children are not enrolled in school. The project will use the financing
mechanisms to target school construction, teacher deployment and local language materials to
underserved areas. It will support alternative school schedules to retain children, especially girls, from
disadvantaged groups. Female teachers will be deployed to schools with low enrollment of girls and be
given preference in recruitment.
-6-



4. Program description and performance triggers for subsequent loans :
The Government's program over the next ten years is to upgrade the quality of the primary school
system and to extend the basic cycle of education from five to eight years, to build the MOE's technical
capacity, and to introduce decentralized school-based planning and management. An APL approach would
best suit the longer term strategic approach. It would confirm IDA support for the Government's overall
strategies in the sector and provide program support to: (a) expand to all districts successful quality
improvement strategies begun under previous projects; (b) introduce new education management structures
and approaches that would allow communities to participate more directly in decisions on the use of
resources to improve their schools; and (c) develop appropriate strategies to support a universal basic
education cycle of eight years within a twelve-year formal school system. The APL financing approach
would allow sufficient time and flexibility in which to develop appropriate strategies for extending the basic
cycle of schooling to eight years and to put in place a teaching service structure that would meet the quality
demands of a changing school system.
Phase I (US$12.5 million over three years, starting July 1999) will focus on putting in place the
institutional framework to bring about the desired changes in the primary education system. Institutional
capacity will be developed at: (a) the MOE/DOE for primary education policy, planning and monitoring;
(b) national institutions to provide quality support services and promote learning; (c) district level to plan,
implement and monitor school quality; and (d) community level to participate in school improvement
planning. The ongoing school-cluster system for teacher support and curriculum implementation will be
expanded to the remaining 35 districts. School quality improvement activities will focus on increasing
learning in grades 1 to 3.
Phase I to Phase II triggers will be:
- Donor coordination is effective.
- Teacher recruitment is contained within the total number of positions at 1998 levels.
- National assessment of basic skills at grades 3 and 5 has been carried out.
- The DOE is fully established and functioning.
- Basic district planning is implemented in all districts.
- Pilot for preservice primary teacher training has been carried out.
- Nonformal Education and Early Childhood Development programs have been piloted.
- A policy to include NGOs as providers of eligible community and district level activities is being
implemented.
Phase 1I (tentatively US$15 million over three years, starting July 2002) will consolidate
institutional capacity building at national, district and school levels to bring about qualitative change in
schools. Based on experience of Phase I, Phase II will expand the annual planning and budgeting processes
to all districts and, as appropriate, will expand school improvement planning for direct allocations to
schools through the district planning process. Phase II will begin to put in place the mechanisms for
increasing the basic education cycle from five years to eight years for all school-age children. Policy and
strategic issues related to development of a professional teaching service for an eight-year cycle of basic
education will be a focus of this phase.
Phase II to Phase III triggers will be:
- Appropriate human resource development programs are being implemented throughout MOE and
line agencies.
- National assessments of basic skills at grades 3 and 5 are repeated.
-7-



- A primary school teacher career development (education, training, incentives and career paths)
and strategic framework approved by government.
- District planning strategies target disadvantaged groups.
Phase III (tentatively US$22.5 million over four years, starting July 2005) will continue to support
institutional capacity building and the development of the teaching service, and will expand access to eight
years of basic education. Detailed plans for Phase III will be developed midway during the proposed Phase
II. These will be based on progress in institutional development, sector policy development and studies
undertaken during Phase II to map schools and staffing requirements to shift from a five-year to an
eight-year basic education cycle.
C. Program and Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The objective of the Project is to strengthen institutional capacity at national, district and school
levels to deliver more efficient and better quality basic and primary education services thereby raising
learning achievement and increasing equitable access, especially for girls and under-served communities.
The Project supports the first three years of the BPEP II core investment program (CIP) which is
being financed jointly by five major donors (Danida, European Union, Finland, IDA and NORAD) and by
the Government of Nepal. A joint Government-donor annual planning process will comprise plans,
budgets, monitoring indicators and performance benchmarks for release of funds. Plans at national and
district level will be developed within the policies and strategies set down in the Government's Basic and
Primary Education Policy Framework. A process by which School Improvement Plans (SIPs) will be
eligible for direct funding will be put in place and over the project period these will progressively become
part of the district planning process. Eligible expenditures for national, district and school plans are
described in the BPEP II investment plan. The project supports the following three components of the CIP.
(a) Strengthening institutional capacity:
At national level, the project will: (i) provide programs of staff development and training to
strengthen the technical support functions of the MOE including its newly established DOE; and
Curriculum Development Center (CDC), Non-Formal Education Center (NFEC), Distance Education
Center (DEC), and National Center for Education Development (NCED); (ii) develop information systems
and the professional skills to manage and supervise a decentralized school system; (iii) prepare manuals
and formats for development of policy-based implementation plans and budget proposals by national
institutions and district primary education teams; (iv) conduct policy research, evaluation and monitoring
including periodic national assessments in basic skills at grades 3 and 5; (v) initiate and provide technical
support for a district planning process starting in 12 districts and expanding up to 30 districts during the
project; and (vi) establish criteria and mechanisms for school improvement planning, providing technical
support to districts for their implementation and gradually incorporating these into the district planning
process.
At district level, the project will: (i) provide programs of training in support of the district plamning
process to staff in eligible districts; (ii) strengthen their technical and management capacities to implement
teacher inservice-training based on clusters and whole school development approaches, to monitor school
performance; (iii) increase participation of village education committees (VECs) and school management
-8-



committees (SMCs) in actions to raise schools' performance; and (iv) develop district plans and budgets
targeting quality improvement at grades 1 to 3 and increased retention of students to grade 5.
At community level, the project will: (i) provide technical support and training to headteachers,
SMCs and VECs in school improvement planning; (ii) provide essential books and materials to schools and
additional facilities based on school improvement plans; and (iii) provide inservice training for teachers in
methods appropriate to increasing learning in grades 1 to 3 and in multigrade teaching in small schools.
(b) Raising learning achievement:
The project will: (i) improve teaching and learning processes through: curriculum review in the
context of small, multigrade schools as well as single classes grades 1 to 3; a more efficient textbook
distribution system; development of methods and materials for local languages, multigrade teaching, and
continuous assessment techniques; and (ii) expand and improve teacher education through regular
school-based training; by strengthening the resource center professional support system; and by piloting a
preservice teacher training certificate program.
(c) Increasing equitable access:
The project will: (i) expand early childhood development (ECD) centers as part of school and
village planning in areas where there are large numbers of underage children in grade 1; (ii) provide
textbooks free to all children in grades 1 to 3, and to girls and children in the poorest districts at grades 4
and 5, scholarships to needy girls and inclusive schooling programs for children with special needs; and (iii)
improve the stock of classrooms based on approved district education plans and community mobilization
programs.
Table 1. Project Components and Costs
oDmponent        -            tor ;s                % of    fin.ig ;-
Strengthening Institutional Capacity  EE - Education   18.8       33.8       4.2       33.6
Raising Learning Achievement       EE - Education       14.0      25.1       3.1       24.8
Increasing Equitable Access        EE - Education      22.9       41.1       5.2       41.6
Total Project Costs                    55.7      100.0      12.5      100.0
Total Financing Required                     55.7      100.0      12.5     100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
A description of Government's ten-year vision and its strategies for basic and primary education
over the program period has been provided in a Letter of Development Policy (Annex 11). The Basic and
Primary Education Policy Framework for BPEP II sets out the policies, strategies and monitoring
indicators for the Project (Annex 11). This will provide the policy criteria for appraising annual work
plans and budget proposals.
In summary, the key institutional reforms supported by the project relate to:
-9-



*   delegating responsibilities for planning, budgeting and implementation to districts;
*   progressively incorporating whole school improvement plans in district plans to promote access
and quality targeting and community involvement;
*   preparing annual operational and expenditure plans, linking each line agencies' (CDC, NFEC,
DEC, NCED, DOE) key activities at national and district levels;
* strengthening the MOE to create a separate DOE and merging previous project units into
functional units of the DOE;
*   maintaining teacher positions at 1998 levels; and
* transferring recurrent costs of operating the system to the revenue budget on a gradual basis as
agreed after project closing.
The criteria for appraising school improvement plans, annual district work plans and budget
proposals and implementation plans of national institutions supporting the subsector will be based on
policies and indicators set out in the Basic and Primary Education Policy Framework. These include the
following policies:
(a) to improve quality and efficiency by:
*   ensuring that all teachers are properly trained and are allocated to schools on the basis of
school enrollment criteria; and that, class size does exceed 50 students;
•   providing a better balance of student textbooks, teachers guides and supplementary reading
materials to all schools and provide free textbooks in the core subjects to all students;
carrying out a national assessment of learning achievement of the national curriculum in grades
3 and 5 every other year; and
increasing instructional time (thereby enhancing learning achievement) by raising both student
and teacher attendance and teacher time on task.
(b) to increase equitable access to primary education by:
*   improving school facilities only on the basis of clear efficiency and quality criteria;
*   ensuring that teachers are efficiently deployed based on school enrollment and location criteria;
*   ensuring that schools with low female enrollment have at least one female teacher and that
priority will be given to females as replacement teachers;
*   targeting subsidies to the most economically disadvantaged students, especially girls, and
hard-to-reach groups; and
*   expanding community-based early child programs to enable full implementation of the
school-entry age policy.
-10-



3. Benefits and target population:
Nepal is one of the poorest countries in the world with a per capita income of US$210 and very
low social indicators. The expansion and improvement of primary schooling is one of the most effective
options for raising levels of economic and social development and is reflected in the priority the
Government gives to primary education. The expected increase in access to basic and primary education
under the project, combined with higher completion rates resulting from quality improvement, would result
in 3.3 million children of the 6-10 year age group attending school, a 10% increase in net enrollment over
the project period. The project addresses poverty reduction in two ways. One, it has specific mechanisms
for targeting poorer and socially disadvantaged students by providing subsidies for textbooks and school
supplies, locating schools in underserved areas, and offering optional timetabling. It also provides access to
training for female teachers and teachers in rural areas and enhances their earning capacity. Two, the
poorer communities will benefit more from broadening access to schools and increasing completion rates,
as children not attending school now or dropping out tend to be from poorer households.
In addition to overall future increases in labor productivity the project would contribute to
substantial social gains by improving girls' and women's educational opportunities. The social benefits of
primary education such as healthier and smaller families, particularly for girls, are expected to be sizable
from a program of countrywide coverage. In Nepal, infant mortality rates are drastically reduced and
children's nutritional status and well being substantially increased with each level of mothers' education
(Annex 4), and reductions in both the fertility rate and the ideal number of children for those women with a
primary schooling compared to those with no schooling are pronounced (from 5.1 to 3.8 and from 3.1 to
2.5, respectively). The participation of parents and communities in school development planning will ensure
greater client-orientation and build their confidence in identifying ways to improve their schools, in
establishing priorities in use of resources, and in seeking accountability from school managers, teachers and
students.
Staff of MOE and its line agencies will gain experience in data-based policy planning and
monitoring, donor coordination and delegatory and consultative approaches to management. They will
increase their technical expertise through programs of training and counterpart technical assistance and be
better equipped to support the content needs of primary education and provide qualitative leadership.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Institutional arrangements: The executing agency is MOE through its DOE and other line
agencies. An inter-ministerial Program Execution Board (PEB) will oversee the operation of the Program.
MOE is responsible for policy and planning, donor coordination and coordination with other Government
and non-Government agencies. As the DOE will be functional only from July 1999, a Change
Management Group (CMG) has been established to co-ordinate DOE formation and transition of
implementation management from project implementation units to the DOE. The DOE will prepare annual
operational and expenditure plans for the basic and primary education program including all
donor-fnanced subprojects; monitor and report on progress towards policy objectives; and account for
expenditures in the subsector. In this task it will be guided by an established Technical Support Advisory
Group (TSAG) which will identify expertise required for effective project execution and possible sources.
A service unit, the Basic and Primary Education Development Unit (BPEDU) under the DOE, will
be set up to facilitate the provision of technical support to implementing agencies (central and district level
institutions) through its construction, procurement and service contracting capacity. Day-to-day
implementation of the program at national level will be the responsibility of the DOE administration,
training and fnance units. The existing NCED will be responsible for teacher training policies and plans,
-11-



the CDC will be responsible for curriculum, textbook and resource center development and training, and
the NFEC will be responsible for literacy and out-of-school education programs. At the district level,
program planning, implementation and monitoring will be the responsibility of the district DOE offices.
The Project Implementation Plan (PIP) sets out the organizational structure of the MOE and describes in
detail the roles and responsibilities of the MOE and implementing agencies at national and district levels.
At negotiations, Government agreed to supply a list of key staff to be appointed by Credit effectiveness,
including the Director General for DOE, the Division Head for Primary Education Division (PED), and
Section Chiefs at PED.
Planning and programming. Funding for the CIP will be released to national institutions and
districts on the basis of agreed Annual Work Plans and Budget (AWPB) proposals which will be reviewed
by the DOE for consistency with objectives, policies and eligibility criteria for funding from the CIP. Each
year, prior to Government's Budget approval meeting, donors and MOE will review jointly the proposed
AWPB comprising the work plan and budget for:
(a) national institutions and Regional Education Offices to carry out their national functions in
supporting delivery of education services; and
(b) district education teams to implement primary and nonformal education programs consisting of
(i) a basic plan that lists all ongoing activities eligible for funding from the CIP, and (ii) an
investment plan that lists proposed new activities eligible for funding from the CIP.
In year one of project implementation, all 75 districts would submit a basic plan and 12 districts
will be selected to submit investment plans. In the second and third years, additional districts will submit
investment plans. The SIPs to be included in district investment plans will be piloted in two districts and
will be expanded gradually, in conjunction with facilities improvement, to target disadvantaged
communities across a larger number of districts. Annual funding to districts during project implementation
will be based on:
(a) priorities favoring increased participation and retention of girls and other socially deprived
groups;
(b) evidence of financial commitment and community involvement in school improvement
activities; and
(c) performance in achieving access, retention, and quality improvement objectives.
Program Monitoring and Supervision. All development partners supporting the CIP will
participate in the joint semi-annual review process in accordance with common procedures (Annex 12). -A
review will be carried out in the third year of the Project at which time an assessment will be made by IDA
regarding Phase II of the APL Credit. Project monitoring indicators are based on the Basic and Primary
Education Policy Framework. Annual implementation benchmarks include institutional, qualitative and
financial indicators. Implementation reviews will be carried out, under rotational leadership, by a joint
donor mission and Government. MOE and donor agency staff resident in Nepal would be responsible for
mission preparation. To prepare for the key annual reviews, an independent monitoring team will provide
third party supervision that includes independent physical, financial and qualitative reviews, validating
monitoring data and assessing compliance with agreed implementation plans.
Accounting, Financial Reporting and AuditingArrangements: A financial management
assessment of MOE was carried out (Summary, Annex 6). The financial control environment in Nepal has
been weakened by the transfer of responsibility from the Financial Controller General's Office (FCGO) to
the Ministry of General Administration (MOGA) as explained below, and organizational risks are present-
-12-



in the short-term in the context of MOE's institutional transition from project approach to program
approach. The recently established DOE will formally assume program and financial management
responsibility as from July 1999. In order to mitigate institutional development risks, capacity for financial
management is being built up in accordance with a time-bound action plan which includes the phased
recruitmnent, and temporary placement of key staff within the CMG (see PIP). During negotiations,
Government agreed to an action plan that provides for key staff to be appointed by Credit effectiveness,
including the Chief Financial Controller; an Accounts Officer; an Accountant; and one middle-level
technician to be responsible for computer operations and facilitate operation of the Financial Management
Information System.
Until the capacity of the DOE is adequate for Project Monitoring and Reporting (PMR) based on
financing, regular disbursement procedures will be followed for the IDA Credit. IDA will review the
progress made in establishing a strong financial management system after about a year, and will ascertain
whether the Project is eligible for PMR-based disbursements. However, a common set of PMRs will be
prepared by DOE for reporting to the donor group from the outset. During the interim period, the project
will produce the following PMR statements - Financial Statement - Report l.(a.) and Section 3 - as
confirmed during negotiations.
There is a potential country risk due to a recent transfer of the accounting cadre of staff from the
FCGO to the MOGA. FCGO, however, retains overall responsibility and accountability for public
financial management including maintaining central accounts (including donor accounts) and preparing the
national accounts for timely external audit by the Auditor General. A further risk is the timely compilation
of accounts and completion of internal audit covering possibly 75 districts within six months of the end of
each financial year. Even under optimal conditions this will a significant challenge. Trimesterly project
management reports which will be prepared will be valuable for progress monitoring and subject to close
review and supervision by IDA. This will allow prompt follow-up to bring to Government's attention any
developing problems in the project's accounting, internal controls and financial reporting.
Disbursements: The donor group will employ a unified financing approach (a 'basket') for the CIP
which will pool funding. The Ministry of Finance (MOF) will allocate annual budgets as envisaged in the
AWPB agreed between MOE and the donor group. DOE will be responsible for overall project
administration and management and submission of PMRs to Government and donors. Disbursements will
be made on the basis of a percentage of eligible expenditure according to each donor's CIP financing share.
IDA's financing will represent 22.5% of total eligible expenditures over the project period.
Special Account: A Special Account in US dollars will be established, on terms and conditions
satisfactory to IDA, at the Nepal Rastra Bank (Central Bank). For the interim period until such time as
IDA disbursement is based on PMR, the account will have an authorized limit of US$1.2 million and will
follow the existing disbursement procedure. DOE will submit replenishment applications for the Special
Account on a monthly basis, or when 25% of the authorized allocation has been used, whichever occurs
first. The replenishment applications will be supported by the necessary documentation including a bank
statement and a reconciliation statement. Until the disbursement is PMR-based withdrawals from the
account will be based on statements of expenditure.
Audit arrangements: Project financial statements, prepared in the formats agreed with IDA, will be
audited annually by the Auditor General of Nepal who is considered an independent auditor for IDA's
purposes. Audit reports will be due within six months of the end of each fiscal year. These arrangements
were agreed at negotiations. Experience with auditing under the ongoing project was generally satisfactory
with timely submission of audits and SOEs that did not raise major concerns.
-13-



Construction and Procurement. A unit of the DOE, the BPEDU, will provide technical support
to district engineering staff to supervise management of construction at the district and community levels. It
will provide contract preparation and procurement services to DOE and other MOE line agencies in
support of the Project. The BPEDU will also assist and monitor performance of the District Education
Offices (DEOs) where procurement functions have been decentralized. The BPEDU will be staffed with
qualified technical/procurement personnel in accordance with a schedule and staffing plan that includes
procurement and engineering expertise agreed with Government. The principal procurement activities to be
undertaken by the BPEDU will be the procurement of steel construction materials and frequent small-scale
contracting of individuals and local institutions that will provide operational expertise to the Project during
execution. The BPEDU will formally come into operation by July 1999 with project startup. Key staff
appointments of an executive engineer and a procurement officer are to be made by Credit effectiveness.
Consultants are being recruited under preparation funding for bid documentation preparation for NCB
small works, community participation, ICB and NCB documents for goods including steel and roofing
sheets which will be reviewed by IDA and the donor group during the first AWPB, and be available by
project startup.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Project Approach or Subsector Program: One option was to continue the project approach of
the ongoing BPEP I and to finance expansion of similar activities only in 35 districts not yet covered. This
would have meant greater funding for civil works, teachers' salaries and inservice training and
implementation by a semi-autonomous project office. This approach was rejected as experience indicates
the need for a stronger policy based operation that would include quality and access targeting. The
alternative selected was to review Government's five-year subsector program and to support an agreed set
of policies and strategies to improve quality and efficiency in the subsector.
Project/Program Management: The continuation of a project implementation unit structure, as
under the ongoing BPEP I, was considered but rejected on the basis of lessons learnt from the previous
projects. The alternative selected was to build more sustainable arrangements by merging former project
units into the institutional structure of the MOE and its line agencies and to establish a DOE within MOE
to absorb some of these functions. Transfer of many technical functions from the BPEP I Project
Implementation Unit to the new DOE will enhance institutional capacity and sustainability.
A continued centralized management approach for planning, implementation and monitoring of
activities was rejected. Experience has persuaded both the Government and donors that it is crucial to
generate and strengthen conmmunity support for, and monitoring of the delivery of education services,
including teacher attendance to ensure quality and efficiency of schools. The alternative selected is to
introduce, and gradually expand, a process of devolving responsibility to schools, villages and districts for
the management and financing of schooling. This arrangement involves: (i) "bottom-up" planning,
budgeting and monitoring by SMCs and VECs which will have responsibility for implementing
comprehensive school improvement plans; (ii) priority setting and supervision of implementation at the
district level; and (iii) technical support for decentralization from the technical divisions of the DOE which
would have overall responsibility for co-ordination and quality. Expansion of the decentralized approach
during implementation will be district-wise, through programs targeted at disadvantaged communities
across a larger number of districts.
-14-



Financing Modalities: Several donors willing to support the Government's basic and primary
education program considered a number of alternatives for financing the subsector. Separate and discrete
donor projects within the subsector program were rejected because of the institutional burden the multiple
reporting and implementing approaches would put on Government and the likely ineffectiveness of
uncoordinated sets of inputs and activities. The option selected was for IDA, Danida, EU, Finland and
NORAD to finance jointly an agreed core investment plan covering the bulk of Government's basic and
primary education subsector program. ADB, JICA and Unicef will continue to provide technical and
financial support on the basis of existing agreements with Government within the overall policy framework
for the subsector.
Traditional Sector Investment Lending or Adaptable Program Lending : During initial
preparation of the project, IDA's expectation had been to finance the five year core investment program of
Government's BPEP II using a sector investment lending approach for the five-year period. However,
given the scope of the program, the policy reforms, the institutional changes proposed and also taking into
account past experience of project implementation and disbursement patterns, it was decided that a
sequence of shorter time frame projects would allow greater flexibility in assessing the pace of
implementation of different components. It would also create a better environment in which to focus
attention and efforts on the institutional issues as the key to systemic improvement.
-15-



2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                   Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Shortage of skilled craftsmen with  Second Education (Technical      S             S
basic engineering skills; no standard   and Vocational Training)
national skills applicable to all training Project (Credit 1198-NEP),
institutions.                      1981-1988
Poor quality of primary education and  Primary Education Project     S             S
weak administrative and technical  (PEP) (Credit 1463-NEP)
capacity of the education sector.  1984-1992
Emergency reconstruction of schools   Earthquake Schools             S             S
affected in earthquake areas of Eastern Rehabilitation Project (ESRP),
and Central Nepal.                (Credit 2047-NEP), 1989-1995
Shortages of well trained engineers and Engineering Education Project  S           S
technicians.                      (Credit 2044-NEP), 1989-1999
Low access to, and high inefficiency in Basic and Primary Education  S             S
basic and primary level, and weak  Project I (Credit 2357-NEP),
national and local educational     1992-1999
management capacity.
Poor quality and efficiency of higher   Higher Education Project     S             U
education at the degree and diploma    (Credit 2560-NEP), 1994-2000
levels
Other development agencies
Asian Development Bank             Primary education project in
support of BPEP objectives
JICA                               BPEP supporting donor
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
-16-



3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Experience from previous and ongoing projects fnanced by IDA and other donors in Nepal and in
the region was taken into consideration in designing the project: (i) the quality of primary education can be
improved by focusing attention on acquisition of basic learning skills and by introducing an integrated
approach to promoting student learning, teacher performance and school development; (ii) NGOs, local
communities and local bodies must be involved in delivery of educational services if the needs of diverse
groups are to be met; (iii) ensuring communities' ownership in school construction and involvement in
school management and teacher monitoring are essential for increasing accountability; (iv) a lean
field-based project management structure with flexibility to acquire technical expertise when needed is the
most appropriate management approach; (v) interventions to increase girls' enrollment and retention    -
through the appointment of female teachers, strengthen in-service teacher training, and the integration of
project management structures into the MOE will not be sustained unless there are clear reinforcing
policies; and (vi) donor cooperation can be effective provided firm funding commitments and agreements on
supervision are reached before implementation starts.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The Government is committed to implementing plans to decentralize educational management and
financing, consistent with the recommendations of the Basic and Primary Education Master Plan and
Sub-Sector Development Program for 1997-2002. The Government has adopted legislation and
regulations to (a) implement decentralization, (b) regulate teacher recruitment and appointment, and (c)
establish a DOE as a technical wing of MOE. It has begun the process of merging previous project units
into the functional units of several line agencies and reallocated staff to these and has set up a CMG to
assist the MOE during the establishment of the DOE, the reorganization and the merger processes. It has
also set up the TSAG to advise on program implementation and technical capacity building. Government
plans to spend more than half (55%) of its total education expenditures on basic and primary education and
to increase the education share of the national budget from 13.1% to 15% over the next five years. It has
engaged in frank discussion with IDA and other major external agencies regarding policy issues and project
design and has prepared a set of common procedures for donor coordination during project implementation.
Annual plans and budget review processes and project supervision will be reviewed in the context of the
BPEP II policy framework.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank has become a catalyst for the external funding of basic and primary education in Nepal.
The Government of Nepal recognizes IDA's capability to provide both substantive technical advice and
financial support necessary to assist the implementation of complex but integrated educational programs
on a large scale. IDA initiated the proposal that each major donor supporting the project consider financing
a proportion of the total cost of the core investment program. This encouraged donor support for the full
program and, given the number of donors, will avoid administrative complexity for Government. This
approach has been accepted by five major donors. IDA's experience with multi-donor reviews will
facilitate the proposed joint supervision process. IDA continues to play a leading role in the overall
country context particularly for policy development and is favorably positioned to assist government with
additional support for the education system.
-17-



E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (supported by Annex 4):
O Cost-Benefit Analysis:   NPV=US$ million; ERR= %
O Cost Effectiveness Analysis
* Other
Economic and social returns. The expansion of schooling is one of the most effective options for
raising levels of economic and social development in Nepal. Several studies conducted since the 1970s
have demonstrated the positive impact of primary schooling on farmers' productivity in Nepal. The most
recent evidence of the positive relationship between education and income comes from the Nepal Living -
Standard Survey for 1996. Earnings functions indicate a return to an additional year of schooling of 13.1
percent. Returns were much higher for non-agricultural work than for agriculture and for females than for
males. Relative to households in which the head is illiterate, agricultural incomes are 18.4 percent higher in
those households headed by a literate person. Other data sources also indicate the economic importance of
schooling, especially for women. The Family Health Survey, 1996 shows that literate ever-married women
are almost twice as likely to earn some cash income compared to illiterate women (19.6 percent and 10.9
percent). Education is also closely related to improvements in the quality of life, particularly those
affecting women. Reductions in both the fertility rate and the ideal number of children for those women
with no schooling compared to those with primary schooling are pronounced (from 5.1 to 3.8 and from 3.1
to 2.5, respectively), as is the reduction in the mortality rate of their children (from 149 per 1000 live births
to 99 per 1000). Twenty-three percent of children whose mothers have no schooling are chronically
malnourished compared to 14 percent of children with primary schooled mothers.
Poverty alleviation. Forty-two percent of the population live below the official poverty line. With
even fewer physical assets than the average person, the only route out of poverty is via schooling and the
consequent increase in knowledge and greater ability to negotiate the outside world. Compared to most
other public expenditures, those for primary education are pro-poor. According to the Nepal Living
Standards Survey, the percentage of children currently attending public primary schools is roughly the
same for each household income quartile. Since aggregate consumption in general in Nepal is highly
skewed by income level, the proportionate shares of expenditure on primary schooling have the impact of
reducing inequality in consumption. Illustrated through Lorenz curves additional expenditures on primary
education will have a more than proportionate impact on the poor.
Cost effectiveness, system inefficiencies and project design . The delivery of primary education
in Nepal is inefficient. While the primary net enrollment rate is 69, the gross enrollment rate is 117. A
more efficient system could allow for a higher proportion of the primary age group to be accommodated in
primary schools with relatively few additional resources. In aggregate there are sufficient primary school
teachers to allow for the universal schooling of all 6 -10 year olds with no increase in the overall
pupil:teacher ratio. To achieve this, the gross enrollment ratio would need to decrease through reductions
in the numbers of under- and over-age children, and a reduction in repetition rates, with the resulting school
places filled by additional children of primary school age who proceed steadily through the system.
Currently, the repetition and dropout rates result in the system being required to deliver 11.4 years of
schooling to graduate one pupil from the five year cycle.
The project design focuses directly on these issues. Without improvements in system efficiency the
public finances of Nepal will not allow for significant increases in the coverage of primary schooling and,
in particular, in the participation of the poor. The project is designed to improve system efficiency by (a)
reducing under age children enrolling in grade I through supporting the pre-schooling program and
-18-



encouraging enforcement of the minimum age provisions, (b) reducing repetition rates within the primary
cycle through improving assessment procedures, encouraging the 'liberal' promotion policy and supporting
interventions to increase the quality and enjoyment of schooling, (c) minimizing increases in the teachers'
salary bill through helping to effect a teacher redeployment policy, encouraging a freeze on new teacher
positions and ensuring that primary teachers do not run preschool classes, and (d) attracting additional,
mainly low income, children through piloted financial incentive schemes and the provision of facilities, such
as toilets which have been shown to encourage girls' enrollment. A second focus of the project is to
increase quality and raise levels of achievement. Higher quality schooling improves levels of retention and
increases the development benefits.
Alternatives. Several strategic alternatives for project design were considered and are reported in
Section D. 1. In addition, three additional options were considered which would have had economic and
financial implications:
(a) in the context of the severe financial situation in Nepal, not responding to the Government's
request for further support for the primary education sub-system was rejected on the grounds that the result
would be a continuation or worsening of a system with huge inefficiencies and one which could not allow
for increased access by the poorest third of the primary age group without further large reductions in
quality;
(b) an explicit focus on increasing access through building many new schools and funding new
teacher positions was considered. The result would have been to increase the net enrollment ratio without
any simultaneous reduction in the gross enrollment ratio and a reduced focus on quality-improving
interventions. Financial analysis indicated that such an approach would be unsustainable and that the
strategy for increasing access should rather be on reducing under- and over-aged pupils, redeploying part of
the existing teaching force and increasing quality; and,
(c) with the project's emphasis on efficiency and quality, serious consideration was given to
removing all civil works components from the Government's proposal. This was rejected on the grounds
that survey evidence exists in Nepal to suggest that improved physical environment leads to higher levels of
retention and learning achievement. This and the existence of female teachers were the only two statistically
significant measures identified in a probability study of school enrollment which could be influenced
directly by Government.
2. Financial (see Annex 5):  NPV=US$ million; FRR = %
Fiscal Impact:
The growth of the Nepalese economy is slowing down and public finances have been deteriorating.
In FY1998, economic growth was 1.9 percent (at producers' prices) compared to an average of 4.5 percent
over the previous decade. Internal revenue was 11 percent of GDP in 1996 and has stagnated since. The
growth rate of revenues in FYI 998 is similarly low compared to that over the previous decade. In real
terms, the Development Budget has remained at the same level over the past few years and the
Government's contribution to it has fallen. Overall, budgetary constraints on increasing domestic resources
for the educational sector over the coming years will be severe.
The Regular Budget for primary education in 1996/97 was Rs. 2719 million and the Development
Budget NRs. 1492 million - a total of NRs. 4211 million. Of this, the Government directly funded the
entire Regular Budget and Rs. 422 million (28 percent) of the Development Budget. The annual average-
-19-



counterpart funding over the three year Phase I period will be US$800,000 (NRs. 54 million) and will be
at a similar level in the envisaged Phase II period. This is equal to under two percent of current
government expenditure on primary education. While the overall situation of public fnance is not
encouraging, the fiscal impact of the project during implementation will be small. The situation following
project completion is reviewed in Section F.
3. Technical:
The design of the project has taken into account the variety of physical and human contexts in
which the project components will be implemented: (a) school construction designs have been well
developed and tested through previous projects in Nepal and the decision to use lightweight steel frames is
sound in an earthquake prone zone and where timber is a scarce resource; (b) teacher deployment will take
account of large schools as well as the small schools that operate in the mountain areas and, in the case of
small schools, efforts to support multigrade teaching methods will be based on good practice in the region
and elsewhere; (c) action research and teacher support will assist teachers in certain linguistic areas to help
children learn to read through use of their home language as a method to help learning better in the national
language; (d) the development of teacher based assessment as part of routine teaching will be introduced in
a manageable way to take account of the different capacities of teachers as well as the different school
situations; (e) the management information systems being established in the project are taking into account
the availability of technological support systems at the district levels and at sub-district levels where
electricity would not be available; (f) the design of the quality and equity components are based on
feedback from the national assessment of basic skills in grade 3 and the social assessments carried out
during preparation; and (g) the location of resource centers and school clusters, as well as construction are
based on mapping exercises. Social assessments and the national assessments of basic skills at grades 3
and 5 will continue periodically during implementation to obtain feedback for targeting strategies.
4. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies: The regulatory environment to reorganize the MOE, to merge past project units
into the MOE and its line agencies (CDC, NFEC, NCED) and to establish the DOE within the MOE is in
place: Cabinet has approved the DOE establishment and creation of additional posts; staff are being
recruited for DOE and the merger of project units at CDC, NFEC, NCED and DEOs will be completed by
June 1999. Budgets will be allocated for the additional staffing at DOE. Functions of the Project
Implementation Unit under the ongoing project such as budgeting, accounting and monitoring and school
facilities management will be merged with these units being established at DOE. A merger and transition
plan for staffing and skills required in the new DOE will be reviewed by the donor group for financing
during initial AWPB discussions in May/June 1999 and will be substantially implemented by the end of the
first year of the project. Much experience has been gained through previous projects and staff with
appropriate skills will be retained under the new structures. To provide the necessary technical and
management support to MOE during the transition period, the CMG has been established and is
functioning. Its role is to advise the MOE on aspects of program planning and policy implementation and
donor coordination. As the DOE becomes functional the CMG role will diminish and end. The TSAG has
also been established and is functioning. Its role is to review technical issues related to program
implementation and to advise on the technical expertise to be hired under the core investment plan to ensure
effective program implementation.
b. Project management: During project preparation a decision was made to shift its management from a
project implementation unit to the MOE line agencies. The Joint Secretary, Planning Division, answering
to the Secretary, Education is responsible for project preparation. The MOE is assisted in this by the CMG
-20-



and TSAG mentioned above. When appointed, the Director-General, DOE, will assume responsibility for
project management supported by the Director, Primary Education Division (PED). The transition may be
gradual depending on staff skills and capacities and participation in training programs. During this period
the CMG and TSAG will retain important support roles. Competent accounting and auditing staff are
being recruited for DOE and the Loan Accounting Change Initiative (LACI) system will be implemented
gradually according to an agreed time-bound action pan over the first year designed to adequately build up
financial monitoring and procurement systems. Functions such as curriculum and materials development,
action research and recurrent training, nonformal education programs and teacher training that were
previously carried out under project funded positions have already been located in the responsible line
agency.
5. Social:
Results from the Nepal Living Standards Survey, 1995/96 contributed to the project priorities. The
most comfortably situated Nepali families are more than twice as likely to enroll their children in primary
school and ten times as likely to enroll them in secondary school compared to the poorest, reflecting not
only the cost of schooling but also opportunity costs of contributions to household work or wages earned.
Educational opportunity gives urban children an escalating advantage over rural ones as they advance or
drop out of the school system producing wide gaps in literacy between the two groups. Among the poorest
fourth of Nepali households almost one in five sends away at least one worker in search of seasonal
employment and sometimes entire households migrate. These migrants however carry few income earning
skills useful in urban areas nor are they likely to compete across the border in India where many will go in
search of work. In addition, there are significant differences in educational attainment between men and
women and across socio-economic strata. More than eighty percent of Nepali women cannot read or write,
and only one in twenty of Nepal's poorest women is literate, compared to one in three of the poorest men.
Nepars various ethnic and linguistic groups have had differentiated access to education resulting in
different educational outcomes among various groups, especially females from cultural and linguistic
minority groups and other socially deprived groups. These issues were the main focus of the social
assessment study conducted in 1998. The study identified 24 educationally disadvantaged groups which
constitute 45 percent of the total population of the country. The study carried out participatory exercises to
identify the characteristics of out-of- school children and drop-outs in 15 districts and assessed school
quality and access issues, and proposed specific interventions to reach disadvantaged groups. The project
addresses the critical issues identified by this study. A major strategy of the project is to increase equity in
basic and primary schools by targeting socially deprived groups and girls through: (i) Schoolfacilities,
e.g., improved classrooms, toilet facilities, and water supply; (ii) Female teachers to increase girls
enrollment and attendance; (iv) piloting alternative language use in grades 1 and 2 to facilitate learning in
Nepali; (iii) Outreach programs to overcome the barrier of distance to school; (iv) Flexible schooling and
OSP to address the opportunity costs of poor children, especially girls' schooling, to adjust work with
schooling; (v) Early childhood development centers to free girls of younger sibling care (also improving
school quality and efficiency); (vi) Free textbooks to girls in grade I and 5 to reduce the direct cost of
schooling; (vii) targeted incentive programs for primary school girls, and scholarship programs for
secondary school girls to encourage the possibility of more female teachers; (viii) Improve the overall
quality by providing curriculum and textbooks with gender neutral messages, reducing teacher
absenteeism, and improving teacher training; and (ix) Mobilize the community, through awareness
campaigns, regarding the benefits from education. In addition, women will be provided literacy and income
generating training. This is a package approach, and if implemented effectively, will have a sustainable
impact on improving girls' enrollment, retention and completion rates as well as women's literacy.
-21-



6. Environmental assessment:            Environment Category O A LI B Z C
The project would not raise any significant environmental issues. Construction of new schools and
additional classrooms is to be on the land donated by the community. As timber has become a scarce
resource in Nepal, its use will be limited by substituting factory crafted steel elements. Government has
confirmed to IDA that no involuntary resettlement will arise from implementing project civil works
activities.
7. Participatory Approach (key stakeholders, how involved, and what they have influenced or may
influence; if participatory approach not used, describe why not applicable):
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
SMCs and VECs will be significantly involved in micro-planning and preparation of school
improvement plans which will be prioritized at the district level and consolidated into AWPBs (Component
3). Project activities will be implemented by district, community and school level authorities. SMCs and
VECs will be significantly empowered for school management and financing (Component 3). NGOs were
consulted during the appraisal process and will continue to play a vital role in local capacity building,"
bottom-up" planning, awareness building, designing and conducting ECD program, adult and women
education, out-of-school programs for girls and other target populations (Component 1). The Research
Center for Educational Innovation and Development (CERID) at Tribhuvan University carried out the
social assessment and an independent research firm conducted the national assessments of basic skills at
grades 3 and 5. Independent monitoring and evaluation will be encouraged during implementation.
b. Other key stakeholders:
Danida, EU, Finland and NORAD are the major external funding agencies jointly financing the
BPEP II core investment program with IDA. ADB, Unicef and JICA have been closely involved with IDA
during project preparation, and will continue to finance the subsector program under MOE coordination.
-22-



F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
(a) Financial Sustainability. Direct Government expenditure on primary and basic education in
1996/7 was NRs. 2719 million on the Regular budget and NRs. 422 on the Development budget.
Incremental recurrent expenditures in the third year of the project (2001/02) are estimated at around
US$5.7 million or NRs. 380 million. At the end of the Phase II APL, three years later they are estimated to
be around NRs. 750 million. In addition to the cost of Government of taking over all of the responsibilities
of the ongoing BPEP I project, these are substantial increments. The Ministry's Master Plan proposed that
by the end of the Ninth Plan period (coinciding with the end of Phase I), Education will be allocated 15
percent of total Government expenditure (up from 13.1 percent in 1997/98) and that basic and primary
education be allocated 55 percent of this. Financial projections suggest that, on the assumption of an
overall increase in total budgetary allocations of four percent a year, the attainment of these shares would
allow for the incremental costs of the project to be funded, provided that real salary increases are kept near
zero. However, if the shares do not increase, the allocations would be insufficient. In this context, and the
current slowdown in overall economic activity to below three percent a year, it will be important to ensure
that expenditures to initiate new activities or expand existing ones also contribute towards increasing the
efficiency of the whole subsector and are made within an overall supportive framework. This framework
has been agreed upon. At the center is a commitment to reduce the high levels of under- and over-age
children in schools, the length of time it takes, on average, for a child who enrolls in grade one to graduate
from the primary cycle and to rectify the mis-allocation of teachers across and within districts, and within
schools. Progress on these measures will be carefully reviewed annually and during consideration of IDA
supporting a second phase of the program.
(b) Institutional Sustainability. A key trigger to move to the second phase of the APL will relate
to progress made in establishing a functional DOE and building its capacity, initiating school-based
improvement planning and in implementing annual work plans and budgets processes at district and
national levels. Government has set up the necessary regulatory framework to reorganize the MOE and to
create new positions for DOE; to absorb past project units into the CDC, NFEC, NCED and DEC and in
the districts. It is in the process of creating an institutional and organizational framework to better suit a
decentralized education system. But the building of institutional capacity will be the core of this phase I
project. By the end of the project period the DOE is expected to be better staffed with competent
professionals, the merger of past project units (their functions and where appropriate their personnel)
should have been completed and, in at least 12 districts, primary education teams should be established
with competent professional staff and district planning, budgeting and monitoring should have been
successfully implemented.
-23-



2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                   Risk Rating        Risk Minimzation MEaslure
From Outputs to Objective
Poor communities will be unable to        M         Support for school improvement plans
generate resources for implementation               will be provided according to need,
of school improvement plans                         fiscal effort and performance in
implementing activities and achieving
objectives. Levels of funding for
district AWPBs will reflect educational
as well as social and economic
characteristics consistent with the
overall project objective of increasing
participation, retention, completion and
achievement rates for girls and other
disadvantaged groups.
From Components to Outputs
MOE/DOE management may be                 H         DOE is being strengthened through
over-extended due to implementation of              recruitment of technically competent
the Project in 75 districts                         staff; training and development of
simultaneously.                                     management processes; and interim
measures (CMG, TSAG, BPEDU) have
been established to allow time for DOE
to develop its full institutional capacity.
There may be a disruption of donor        M         IDA, Danida, EU, Finland and NORAD
funding for project activities                      financing is designed to provide
sufficient flexibility to address gaps in
supporting critical activities identified
during bi-annual reviews of donors.
Large scale commnunity involvement in     M         Intensive training would be provided to
planning, management and construction               SMCs and VECs on planning and
of facilities will be poorly carried out            management as well as technical
support for construction of facilities.
Requirements of teacher certification     M         NGOs will be involved in design and
programs and weaknesses in Resource                 evaluation of in-service training and
Persons staffing may impede quality                 technical support provided by Resource
improvement efforts.                                Persons who will be closely supervised
by DEOs and accountable to VECs for
improving teaching and learning.
Political interference in teacher         H         Criteria for recruitment of new
appointment and deployment could                    replacement teachers and for
jeopardise the financial sustainability of           deployment of teachers to schools are
the project and its quality improvement             set out in the agreed policy framework.
goals if the agreed policies are ignored.           Annual agreements for financing will be
reached on the basis of compliance with
the agreed policies.
Overall Risk Rating                       M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
-24-



3. Possible Controversial Aspects
Implementation of some policies may become controversial at local levels: (i) targeting of funds for school
construction and special programs to underserved areas; and (ii) maintaining the ceiling on teacher
recruitment and criteria for redeploying teachers. It may be difficult for DEOs to enforce the policy criteria
as control over teacher appointments, sites for school location and awarding of contracts have been
vulnerable to political influence in the past and in some circumstances may continue to be so.
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
Key staff of the Department of Education are to be appointed.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
(a) Financial.
(i) Audits to be provided within six months of the end of the fiscal year. Section 4.01(b)(ii)
(ii) Implement an action plan for strengthening of the Financial Management System and by
July 1, 2000 prepare trimesterly Project Management Reports. Section 4.02(a)
(b) Implementation Program.
(i) Timely implementation of the DOE re-organization plan and limitation on key staff transfers.
Schedule 4, Para. 2.
(ii) Teacher training to be implemented in accordance with the agreed policy framework. Schedule
4, Para. 3.
(iii) With regard to teaching staff, MOE shall: complete redeployment in 12 districts by December
31, 2001; implement policies to increase the total number of female teachers; and maintain the
1998 level of primary teaching positions in the education system. Schedule 4, Para. 5.
(iv) By December 31, 2001 provide IDA with reports on: experience with school improvement
plans; teacher training programs; resource management and resource levels; special focus
group programs and girls incentive programs; and a revised textbook policy for review.
Schedule 4, Para. 6.
(v) Periodically carry out grade 3 and grade 5 learning achievement assessments. Schedule 4,
Para. 7.
H. Readiness for Implementation
D2 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
12 1. b) Not applicable.
C 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
01 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
1 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
Staffing appointments for project startup.
-25-



1. Compliance with Bank Policies
Z 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
E 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
G. Sinclair                 RalphV.lHarbison                  Hans M. Rothenbuhler
Team Leader                       Sector ManagerlDirector           Country Manager/Director
-26-



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
NEPAL: Basic and Primary Education Project
Phase I of an APL Credit to support the Basic and Primary Education Program
-  - -,. . .! - b: .. ~~~~~~~~~~~E-A
.  ---;-   - .  .  ~ Ke KP.etftmance                               ;--:: .---:-:
;--bs~~~~~~~~~~"                of          O     b4                 ,  v s * k l   _a
of Ol~~i.~~*Iv~     I              -monitor#4i &                            !laIo  *t:a 4uPfln
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:        Sectorl country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Strengthening the human     *  Improvement in leading oEconomic and Sector work  *Investment in human
resources base of the country  indicators of human     and reports by other donors  resources development will
for equitable growth and       resources development   on human resources        help achieve equitable
development and to alleviate   in Nepal.               development in Nepal.     growth and alleviate poverty.
poverty.
* Reduction in gender gap oNational Education Statistics
in human development
indicators.          *Household Survey Data
*  Gradual improvement in oCensus Data
income earning
opportunities for various
disadvantaged groups.
Program Purpose:           End-of-Program Indicators: Program reports:          (from Purpose to Goal)
By 2009, at least two-thirds of  * Percent increase in  *  Education Management Ensuring increased student
school age children will attain  student retention at      Information System data retention and appropriate
grade 8, in schools that are    grade 8, disaggregated                          quality levels of education are
effectively supported by       by socially             * Periodic national      indicative of effective
commnunity, district and        disadvantaged groups      assessments of basic   investments in human capital
national institutions.                                    skills at grades 3 and 5  development.
*  Percentage gains in
learning achievement at   *  Social assessments
grades 3 and 5
* Annual progress reports
*  Sustained institutional    and funding triggers
capacity at all levels of
decision making        *  Policy studies
-27-



PM NRN-40 -3 1-~ 
Project Development       Outcome / Impact           Project reports:           (from Objective to Purpose)
Objective:                 Indicators:
To strengthen institutional  *  Percentage increase in  *Annual education statistics  *Bringing planning decisions
capacities at national, district  grade 5 completion                             about education resources
and school levels to plan and  rates, particularly girls  *National assessments of  closer to the beneficiaries
deliver more efficient and     and children from      basic skills at grades 3 and 5, will lead to greater
better quality education       socially disadvantaged    baseline and end of project.  accountability for more
services.                      groups.                                           equitable distribution and
* Social assessments.      productive use of resources.
* Percentage increase in
learning achievements  eDistrict annual work plans
at grades 3 and 5      and monitoring reports.
* Number of districts   *Policy studies on teacher
successfully           deployment, teacher
implementing           performance, staff
investment plans       development and NGO
targeting disadvantaged   participation
groups.
* Number of               * PMIS data, school and
schools/VDCs              RP reports
successfully
implementing school
quality improvement
plans
Output from each          Output Indicators:         Project reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
component:
1. Improved capacity at     * National institutions    * National and district    *  Policy-based planning
national, district and village  prepare annual policy     annual work plans and      and budgeting will lead
levels to manage primary       and performance based      budgets                    to more efficient use of
schools                        work plans and budgets;                               financial and human
* Financial and physical     resources.
*  75 districts prepare and  audit reports
implement annual work
plans based on budgets    *  EMIS data
for regular activities
*  30 districts prepare and    * Monitoring reporting  *  Investment planning
implement annual work                                based on priorities and
plans based on budgets    *  PMIS data, school and   involving beneficiaries
for regular activities    RP reports                 will lead to more
plus investment plans                                equitably distributed
based on targeting                                   resources and greater
priorities                                           accountability for
outcomes.
* 800 schools and VDCs
prepare and effectively
carry out school quality
improvement plans
-28-



2. Learning achievements    *  Teacher competency to    * Classroom observations;  * Measures of quality and
raised                         help children learn in     studies and monitoring     efficiency of primary
grades 1-3 and            reports                    education are the
multigrade classes   .                               numbers of children
entering who complete
*  Increase in learning   * National assessments of    the five year program
achievement on national   basic skills in grades 3   and acquire sufficient
assessment of basic       and 5 conducted 98/99      learning to continue to
skills in grade 3 and 5   and 2002.                  secondary school.
(2002 compared to
baseline, 97-99)                                  * Increasing teacher skills
and accountability for
student learning will
raise achievement levels.
*  If children can be
retained in school to
Grade 3 they are more
likely to complete
primary schooling and
proceed to secondary.
3. Increased access and     * Numbers of children,     * EMIS data                * Education strategies
retention to grade 5           especially those from      disaggregated by           targeting the most
socially disadvantaged    district, subdistrict and  disadvantaged out-
groups completing grade   targeted groups            of-school children can
5 compared to the                                    increase their
baseline, 1999                                       participation in/ and
completion of primary
schooling.
Project Components I      Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:          (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                            Outputs)
1. Strengthening                                                                  *  The political
Institutional Capacity    US$18.8 million                                            environment remains
supportive of
*  Strengthening DOE and  * US$5.0 million           *  Annual work plans and      decentralized
central level institutions                           budgets                    management and gives
*  Strengthening district  * US$8.6 million          *  Trimester financial and    high priority to the
planning and                                         physical monitoring        primary education
implementation capacity                              reports                    policies
*  Local capacity building   * US$5.2 million        * Annual audit reports
*  Semi-anmual supervision
reports
2. Raising Learning        US$14.0 million                                      The results of the national
Achievement                                            * Quarterly monitoring   assessments of basic skills are
reports              for qualitative feedback on the
*  Teacher Training and   * US$8.1 million           * National assessment of  'health' of the system; not to
Professional Support                                 basic skills at grades 3  establish a leagues table of
*  Curriculum Renewal &    * US$5.9 million             and 5 levels in years    winners and losers.
Assessment                                            1999 and 2002.
-29-



3. Increasing Equitable   US$22.9 million                                    Local political groups accept
Access and Improving                                                         the criteria for targeting
Retention                                                                    resources to socially
disadvantaged groups (who by
* School Physical         * US$12.2 million        * PMIS, semi-annual    definition) do not necessarily
Facilities                                         reports for Joint    have a strong voice.
* Special Needs Education  * US$5.2 million           Supervision Missions
* Early Childhood                                  * Social Assessments
Development            * US$1.9 million
* Community
mobilization and       * US$3.6 million
literacy
-30-



Annex 2: Project Description
NEPAL: Basic and Primary Education Project
Phase I of an APL Credit to support the Basic and Primary Education Program
The Project will strengthen institutional capacity at national, district and school levels to deliver
education services more efficiently and equitably. It supports the first three years of a five-year core
investment program for BPEP II which is fnanced jointly by five major donors (Danida, European Union,
Finland, IDA and NORAD) and by the Government of Nepal. The BPEP II core investment program is
based on the strategies and recommendations of the Government's Ninth Five-Year Plan (1997-2002), the-
Basic and Primary Education Master Plan (1997-2002), study reports and recommendations during project
appraisal consultations between Goverrnent and major donors supporting the subsector. It also takes into
account the experience of the Basic and Primary Education Project (Cr. 2357), which was carried out in 40
of Nepal's 75 districts. Development expenditures supported by agencies other than the five joint-fmancing
donors (JICA, Unicef and possibly the ADB) and regular government expenditures are indicated separately
as complementary investments in the sub-sector.
The Project will be implemented in the context of Government's Basic and Primary Education
Policy Framework which sets out policies, strategies and monitoring indicators for the next five years.
Progress towards these will be assessed on the basis of a series of annual benchmarks and the triggers at
the end of the Project to move to an IDA Credit for the Phase II APL. The Basic and Primary Education
Framework is attached to Annex 11 (Statement of Development Policy). The policy framework provides
coherent policy guidelines for all agencies supporting the subsector program and establishes the criteria for
appraising school improvement plans, annual district work plans and budget proposals and implementation
plans of national institutions supporting the subsector.
The Project supports the three major components of the BPEP 11 core investment program:
strengthening institutional capacity; raising learning achievement; and, increasing equitable access and
retention. Eligible expenditures from the Credit would be for activities in all three components.
By Component:
Project Component I - US$18.8 million
Strengthening Institutional Capacity
(a) at national level, the Project will: (i) provide programs of staff development and training to
strengthen the technical support functions of the MOE and its newly established DOE, the CDC, NFEC,
DEC and NCED; (ii) develop information systems and the professional skills to manage and supervise a
decentralized school system through programs of staff development and training and provision of
equipment; (iii) prepare manuals and formats for development of policy-based implementation plans and
budget proposals for use by national and district level institutions; (iv) conduct policy research, evaluation
and monitoring including periodic national assessments in basic skills at grades 3 and 5; (v) initiate and
provide technical support for basic district planning, and investment planning starting in 12 districts and
expanding to a maximum of 30 districts during the project; (vi) establish criteria and mechanisms for SIPs,
providing technical support to districts for their implementation and gradually incorporating these into the
district planning process. The Project will also (vii) include technical and logistical support, and equipment
for the transition functions of the BPEDU, the TSAG and the CMG in support of MOE capacity to
implement the project.
-31-



(b) at district level, the Project will: (i) provide programs of staff development and training to
district education staff for basic district planning, and investment planning in 12 districts initially and
expanding to a maximum of 30 districts, to strengthen their technical and management capacities to: -
implement school based inservice-training based on clusters and whole school development approaches,
monitor school performance; - increase participation of village education and school management
committees in actions to raise schools' performance; - develop district plans and budgets targeting quality
improvement at grades 1 to 3 and increased retention of students to grade 5; (ii) develop funding
mechanisms for NGO and Community Based Organizations (CBOs) to deliver training and monitoring
services and carry out programs for early childhood and out-of-school literacy programs; and (iii) construct
about 15 District Education Offices.
(c) at community level, the Project will: (i) provide technical support and training to headteachers,
SMCs and VECs in school improvement planning; and (ii) develop funding mechanisms for school
improvement activities identified by participating schools on a set of clear criteria, procedures and budget
ceilings. The Project will also (iii) provide essential books and materials to schools and additional
facilities based on school improvement plans; (iv) provide recurrent inservice training for teachers in
methods appropriate to increasing learning in grades 1 to 3, for teachers in small schools with multigrade
teaching and for teachers of grades 4 and 5.
Project Component 2 - US$14.0 million
Raising Learning Achievement
(a) To improve teaching and learning processes the Project will: (i) review the curriculum content
of grades 1 to 3 based on feedback from the results of the national assessment of maths and Nepali in grade
3 and develop methods and supplementary materials for specific identified topics in maths and Nepali; (ii)
carry out action research with teachers in small, multigrade schools to develop appropriate management
strategies, methods and materials for multigrade teaching situations, especially addressing the needs of
students in grades 1 to 3; (iii) increase textbook availability through the introduction of a voucher system;
(iv) develop methods and materials for use of local languages to assist learning in Nepali in grades 1 to 3;
(v) develop a continuous assessment system and teaching techniques and materials for grades 1 to 3; and
(vi) provide textbooks and additional materials including supplementary reading materials, student
workbooks and teachers guides.
(b) To expand teacher professional support systems and improve teacher quality the Project will:
(i) provide ten days school-based recurrent training each year for all teachers, focusing on curriculum
content in grades 1 to 3; (ii) provide professional support to teachers in their classrooms through
whole-school development programs, demand driven training at resource centers and school supervision
related to improving learning in grades 1 to 3, multigrade teaching and classrooms where the community
language is not Nepali; (iii) expand the school cluster based professional support system to an additional 35
districts including the construction of about 200 multipurpose rooms at resource center schools; (iv) pilot a
preservice teacher training certificate program with a classroom based approach; and (v) develop a distance
education teacher upgrading program.
Project Component 3 - US$ 22.9 million
Increasing Equitable Access and Improving Retentio n
To increase access and retention the Project will:
-32-



(a) develop funding mechanisms to utilize NGOs and CBOs to deliver (i) early childhood
development (ECD) programs as part of school and village planning in communities where there are large
numbers of underage children in grade 1; and, (ii) a range of inclusive primary education programs
targeting children and adolescents in disadvantaged circumstances (alternative schooling, out-of-school
programs, women's literacy programs, special education).
(b) provide incentives targeted at the most disadvantagedfamilies. (i) free textbooks to all
children in grades 1 to 3, to all girls in grades 4 and 5, and to boys in the grades 4 and 5 in the 18 remote
districts; (ii) scholarships to needy girls; (iii) scholarships and hostel accommodation for secondary school
girls from areas with serious shortages of female teachers with the condition that the candidates agree to
serve as teachers in the relevant area for a certain period of time after graduation; and, (iv) an innovation -
fund of US$0.5 million for innovative activities that promote girls' participation in primary schools.
(c) improve the stock of classrooms based on approved district education plans and community
mobilization program. The project will finance the construction of about 3,000 new and replacement
classrooms and about 6,000 upgraded classrooms based on school enrollment: class size ratios. Eligibility
for classroom construction and repair will be based on a facilities survey and school map to be prepared by
district authorities and preparation of a school improvement plan that includes a description of school
maintenance to be implemented by SMCs. Communities will be involved in school
construction/rehabilitation activities and will provide about 25% of the total costs.
(d) provide community mobilization programs. (i) train VDCs and SMCs based on the Village
Readiness model developed under BPEP I; (ii) conduct participatory planning exercises at the district level;
and (iii) provide an annual suppport grant to each participating VDC.
-33-



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
NEPAL: Basic and Primary Education Project
Phase I of an APL Credit to support the Basic and Primary Education Program
Table 3A
1]1 US$Milo
Prolect Costby Component           i            Local - -  Foreian:    Total
I. STRENGTHENING INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY
Strengthening Insttutions
Strengthening DOE and Central Level Institutions                        1.5        0.2        1.8
Strengthening District Planning and Implementation                      7.4        1.2        8.6
Local Capacity Building                                                 5.0        0.3        5.3
Subtotal                                                                 14.0        1.7       15.6
Core Investment Program (CIP) ManagemenVBPEDU
Technical Support Group (TSG)                                           0.8        0.2        1.0
Program Management                                                      1.9        0.3        2.2
Subtotal                                                                  2.7        0.5        3.2
Subtotal                                                                   16.7        2.2       18.8
II. RAISING LEARNING ACHIEVEMENT
Teacher Training and Professional Support
Recurrent Cluster-Based Training                                        6.4        1.5        7.9
Certification Training (non-core financed)
Subtotal                                                                  6.4        1.5        7.9
Curriculum Renewal & Assessment
Curriculum and Textbooks Renewal                                        0.4        0.7        1.1
Continuous Assessment                                                   4.0        0.6       -4.6
Subtotal                                                                  4.4        1.3        5.7
Subtotal                                                                   10.8        2.8       13.6
Ill. INCREASING EQUITABLE ACCESS AND IMPROVING RETENTION
School Physical Facilities                                                6.2        5.0       11.2
Special Needs Education
Altemative Schooling                                                    0.9        0.4        1.2
Incentive Programs                                                      0.9        0.0        0.9
Special Education                                                       2.6        0.4        3.0
Subtotal                                                                  4.4        0.8        5.2
Early Childhood Development                                               1.4        0.4        1.8
Community Mobilization and Literacy
Community Mobilization                                                  0.8        0.0        0.9
Literacy                                                                2.8          -        2.8
Subtotal                                                                  3.6        0.0        3.6
Subtotal                                                                   15.6        6.2       21.8
Subtotal                                                                     43.1       11.2       54.3
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                         43.1        11.2      54.3
Physical Contingencies                                                      1.1        1.0        2.1
Price Contingencies                                                        -1.2        0.5       -0.8
Total PROJECT COSTS                                                           43.0       12.7       55.7
Total FINANCING                                                               43.0       12.7       55.7
Note: Figures may not add up due to rounding.
-34-



Table 3B
USS Million
Project Cost by Category                    Local      Foreign     Total
WORKS
New/Replacement Classrooms                                      2.7         2.7        5.4
Rehabilitated Classrooms                                        1.1         1.1        2.2
Administrative Buildings                                        0.2         0.2        0.5
Water Supply, Toilets and Site Development                      0.6         0.6        1.1
RC Buildings                                                    0.2         0.2        0.5
Subtotal                                                          4.8         4.8        9.6
GOODS
Educational Materials, Readers and Guides                       0.3         0.6        0.8
Equipment and Materials                                         1.3         3.1        4.5
Vehicles                                                        0.1         0.3        0.4
Furniture                                                       0.5         0.3        0.9
Subtotal                                                          2.2         4.3        6.6
Local Training
Local Training (NAT)                                          1.2         0.3        1.6
Local Training (District)                                     1.2         0.3        1.4
Local Training (Below District)                               4.9         1.2        6.1
Subtotal                                                        7.3         1.8        9.1
Local TA
Studies                                                       0.7         0.1        0.8
Local Experts                                                 0.7         0.2        0.r
Subtotal                                                        1.3         0.3        1.6
Community Service Providers                                     4.6           -        4.6
Scholarships                                                    1.1                    1.1
Grant Funds                                                     5.5                    5.'
Subtotal                                                         19.9         2.1       21.9
RECURRENT COSTS (CIP)
Operating Costs                                                 5.1           -        5.1
Salaries                                                       11.1           -       11.1
Subtotal                                                         16.2           -       16.?
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                 43.1         11.2       54.3
Physical Contingencies                                              1.1         1.0        2.1
Price Contingencies                                                -1.2         0.5        -0.8
Total PROJECT COSTS                                                   43.0        12.7       55.7
Total FINANCING REQUIRED                                              43.0        12.7       55.7
Note: Figures may not add up due to rounding.
-35-



Annex 4
NEPAL: Basic and Primary Education Project
Phase I of an APL Credit to support the Basic and Primary Education Program
1. Economic and social returns
Nepal is one of the poorest countries in the world with a per capita income of US$210 and has very low
social indicators. The expansion of schooling is one of the most effective options for raising levels of
economic and social development. Several studies conducted since the 1970s have demonstrated the
positive impact of primary schooling on farmers' productivity in Nepal (e.g., Jamison and Moock 1984).
The most recent evidence of the relationship between education and income comes from the Nepal Living
Standard Survey for 1996 covering almost 3400 households and income data on 3562 persons. Earnings
functions estimate a return to an additional year in schooling of 13.1 percent. Returns were much higher for
non-agricultural work than for agriculture and for females than for males. Rates of return were estimated to
be 11.6, 10.0 and 21.8 percent for primary, secondary and higher education respectively. At the primary
level, returns to girls were almost twice those to males. Relative to households in which the head is
illiterate, agricultural incomes are 18.4 percent higher in those households headed by a literate person.
Other data sources also indicate the economic importance of schooling, especially for women. The Family
Health Survey, 1996 shows that literate ever-married women are almost twice as likely to earn some cash
income compared to illiterate women (19.6 percent and 10.9 percent). They are also three times as likely to
work in non-agricultural sectors (22.1 percent and 7.1 percent).
Education is also closely related to improvements in the quality of life, particularly those affecting women
as indicated below.
Table 1
Quality of Life Indicators, by level of women's education
No education  Primary education  Secondary education
Total fertility rate                    5.1            3.8               2.5
Ideal number of children                3.1            2.5              2.1
Under five mortality (per 1000 births)  149            99                61
Children receiving full set vaccinations %  38         56                72
Children chronically malnourished %     23             14                7
Children severely malnourished %        52             40                28
Nepal: Family Health Survey 1996.
Reductions in both the fertility rate and the ideal number of children for those women with a primary
schoolingcompared to those with no schooling are pronounced (from 5.1 to 3.8 and from 3.1 to 2.5,
respectively), as is the reduction in the mortality rate of their children (from 149 per 1000 live births to 99
per 1000). Seventy-five percent of children whose mothers have no schooling are severely or chronically
malnourished compared to 54 percent of children with primary schooled mothers. A full set of vaccinations
among the latter group of children is also much more frequent. Ongoing research in the Kathmandu Valley
(since 1989) by a team from Harvard University suggests that while the impact of schooling on the
demographic transition and health practices may come partly from the more assertive, reflective and
-36-



independent persona resulting from the sheer experience of schooling, changes are also resulting directly
from the literacy skills and information acquired in schools.
2. Poverty alleviation
Forty two percent of the population live below the official poverty line. With even fewer physical assets
than the average person, the only route out of poverty for the poor is via schooling and the consequent
increase in knowledge and greater ability to negotiate the outside world. Compared to most other public
expenditures, those for primary education are pro-poor. According to the Nepal Living Standards Survey,
and described in Table 2, the percentage of children currently attending public primary schools is roughly
the same for each household income quartile. Of each NRs. 100 rupees spent by Government on primary
education, roughly NRs. 23 is spent on children from the lowest income quartile. Since aggregate
consumption in general in Nepal is highly skewed by income level, the proportionate shares of expenditure
on primary schooling have the impact of reducing inequality in consumption. This is less the case for higher
schooling levels. Participation in these is much more skewed in favor of higher income groups. For each
NRs. 100 spent by Government on lower secondary and upper secondary schooling, only NRs. 10 and
NRs. 4 respectively are spent on children from the poorest 25 percent of the population compared to NRs.
40 and NRs. 59 on children from the richest 25 percent. Overall the education subsidy as a share of
household income is higher for the poor than for the better off. In absolute terms it remains lower.
Additional expenditures on primary education will have a more than proportionate impact on the poor.
Table 2: Participation in Public Schools by Household Income Quartile
Quartile Income   Primary   Lower Secondary   Upper Secondary    Tertiary
Bottom 25 percent   23            10                4              1
26-50 percent   25            21                11             5
51-75 percent   28            28                25            23
Top 25 percent   24            40                59             71
According to estimates of the National Education Accounts for 1994/95, households contribute a higher
share of total education expenditure (41 percent) than do Government (38 percent) or donors (20 percent).
The households' share is highest for secondary education (72 percent), then primary (37 percent) and
lowest for higher education (18 percent). For primary schooling, over half of the private expenditures are
reported to be for books. This is likely to be an overestimate since there is a relatively efficient
reimbursement system. A further 10 percent is for private tutoring. In the NLSS, cost was given as the
reason for never having attended school by 20 percent of the respondents. Another 21 percent cited the
need to help at home, on the farm or in the family business.
Raising the net primary enrollment ratio and improving the quality of primary education will have a
positive effect on the poor, and particularly on poor girls. The two are often related. For instance, analysis
of data from the NLSS indicates that, of the variables identified the four most important policy-related
factors influencing girls enrolhment are distance to school, the presence of female teachers, and the
availability of desks and toilets. The inter-generational effect of education is very strong. A schooled father
is much more likely to send both sons and daughters to school. For a girl, having a mother who has
attended school very significantly increases the probability that she is enrolled in school.
-37-



3. Cost effectiveness, system inefficiencies andproject design
The delivery of primary education in Nepal is inefficient. While the primary net enrollment rate is 69, the
gross enrollment rate is 117. A more efficient system could allow for a far higher proportion of the
primary age group to be accommodated in primary schools with relatively few additional resources. In
aggregate there are sufficient primary school teachers to allow for the universal schooling of all 6 -10 year
olds with no increase in the overall pupil:teacher ratio. To achieve this, the gross enrollment ratio would
need to decrease through reductions in the numbers of under- and over-age children, and a reduction in
repetition rates, with the resulting school places filled by additional children of primnary school age who
proceed steadily through the system. According to the NLSS, fifteen percent of grade one pupils are under
age. Of the rest, only 44 percent are aged six or seven years. Currently, only 10 percent of the primary 1 -
intake graduate from primary V, five years later. In all, 39 percent eventually graduate. The repetition and
dropout rates result in the system being required to deliver 11.4 years of schooling to graduate one pupil
from the five year cycle.
The project design focuses directly on these issues. Without improvements in system efficiency the public
finances of Nepal will not allow for significant increases in the coverage of primary schooling and, in
particular, in the participation of the poor. The project is designed to improve system efficiency by (a)
reducing under age children enrolling in grade 1 through supporting the pre-schooling program and
encouraging enforcement of the minimum age provisions, (b) reducing repetition rates within the primary
cycle through improving assessment procedures, encouraging the 'liberal' promotion policy and supporting
interventions to increase the quality and enjoyment of schooling, (c) minimizing increases in the teachers'
salary bill through helping to effect a teacher redeployment policy, encouraging a freeze on new teacher
positions and ensuring that trained teachers do not run preschool classes, and (d) attracting additional,
mainly low income, children through piloted financial incentive schemes and the provision of facilities, such
as toilets which have been shown to encourage girls' enrollment.
A second focus of the project is to increase quality and raise levels of achievement. Recent evidence points
to the positive impact of improved competencies and skills which can be learned in schools and which goes
beyond those associated with the socialization effects. For instance, the NLSS indicates that household
incomes are larger when the head is literate though not formally schooled than when she/he is simply
categorized as having completed primary education which may or may not have resulted in permanent
literacy. Further, the detailed research on female schooling and mothers education and child development
being carried out in the Kathmandu Valley, described above, is increasingly providing evidence on the
direct positive impact of the communication skills learned in primary schools. Higher quality schooling
improves levels of retention and increases the development benefits.
4. Alternatives
Several strategic alternatives for project design were considered and are reported in Section D. 1. In
addition, three additional options were considered which would have had economic and financial
implications.
(a) In the context of the severe financial situation in Nepal, the option of not responding to the
Government's request for further support for the primary education sub-system was considered. This was
rejected on the grounds that the result would be a continuation or worsening of a system with huge
inefficiencies and one which could not allow for increased access by the poorest third of the primary age
group without further large reductions in quality.
(b) An explicit focus on increasing access through building many new schools and funding new teacher
-38-



positions was considered. The result would have been to increase the net enrollment ratio without any
simultaneous reduction in the gross enrollment ratio and a reduced focus on quality-improving
interventions. Financial analysis indicated that such an approach would be unsustainable and that the
strategy for increasing access should rather be on reducing under- and over-aged pupils, redeploying part of
the existing teaching force and increasing quality.
(c) With the project's emphasis on efficiency and quality, serious consideration was given to removing all
civil works components from the Government's proposal. This was rejected on the grounds that an
improved physical environment leads to higher levels of retention and learning achievement. Some
quantitative evidence exists in Nepal to support this position. A national study in 1996 of grade III levels of
achievement, and the determinants, indicated that variations in classroom space per student were
statistically significant in explaining differences in attainment. Crude figures indicated that the ten highest
achieving schools had 50 percent more space per student than the lowest achieving ten percent. Other
school-related factors were the frequency of school management meetings, attendance levels of students and
per student school expenditure. The number of supervisory visits was the only significant teacher-related
variable.
5. Fiscal impact
The share of education expenditure in GDP is 2.5 percent. Between the late 1980s and late 1990s,
education's share of public expenditure increased from 10 to 13 percent. Much of this increase has resulted
from greater contributions from donors who have increasingly raised the priority given to education.
Through the 1980s, education received under 10 percent of total aid flows. Since 1994/95 the share has
never been below 22 percent.
Of total education expenditure allocated for 1997/98, 67 percent was for the Regular Budget and provided
entirely by HMGN. The remainder was allocated to the Development Budget. Of this, one quarter was
funded by Government and three quarters by donors. Virtually all of the Regular Budget is for salaries of
regularized staff and most of the Government's contribution to the Development Budget is for
salaries/honorarium of unregularized staff and for textbooks. Just over 50 percent of total education
expenditure is spent on primary education which compares to around 37 percent through the 1980s.
The growth of the Nepalese economy is slowing down and public finances have been deteriorating. In
FYI 998, economic growth was 1.9 percent (at producers' prices) compared to an average of 4.5 percent
over the previous decade. Internal revenue was 11 percent of GDP in 1996 and has stagnated since. The
growth rate of revenues in FY1998 is similarly low compared to that over the previous decade. In real
terms, the Development Budget has remained at the same level over the past few years and the
Government's contribution to it has fallen. Overall, budgetary constraints on increasing domestic resources
for the educational sector over the coming years will be severe.
The Regular Budget for primary education in 1996/97 was NRs. 2719 million and the Development Budget
NRs. 1492 million - a total of NRs. 4211 million. Of this, the Government directly funded the entire
Regular Budget and NRs. 422 million (28 percent) of the Development Budget. Ninety eight percent of the
Regular Budget is for grants in aid to schools and the rest is budgeted towards MOE administration. The
1997/98 Development Budget allowed for no real increase (a nominal increase of 3.6 percent). The main
items of Government funding in the Development Budget are non-formal schooling, textbooks and project
management. The annual average level of counterpart funding over the three year period of Phase I will be
US$800,000 or NRs. 54 million and will be at a similar level in the envisaged Phase II. This is equal to
under two percent of current government expenditure on primary education.
-39-



Annex 5: Financial Summary
NEPAL: Basic and Primary Education Project
Phase I of an APL Credit to support the Basic and Primary Education Program
FINANCING PLAN FOR PHASE I - 1999-2002
(US$ Million)
Implementation Period (APL 1)  '
99100 1  00101     01102  -:- Total
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs               10.0      13.4      16.6      40.0
Recurrent Costs                 4.6       5.2       5.8      15.7
Total Project Costs              14.6     18.6      22.4       55.7
Total Financing                  14.6     18.6      22.4       55.7
Financier
IDA                             3.3      4.2        5.0      12.6
HMGN                            0.6       0.8       0.9       2.2
DANIDA                          4.6       5.9       7.1      17.6
EU                              2.4        3        3.7       9.1
FINLAND                         0.9      1.12       1.4       3.4
NORAD                           2.8      3.63       4.3      10.7
Total Proiect Financing          14.6     18.6      22.5       55.7
-40-



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
NEPAL: Basic and Primary Education Project
Phase I of an APL Credit to support the Basic and Primary Education Program
Procurement
The specific procurement arrangements, summarized in tables A and B, shall be as follows:
a) Civil Works (US$1.8 million).
1.    Construction of District Education Office buildings: Buildings, consisting of office space on the
ground floor and living quarters for the DE Officer on the upper floor, shall be constructed at about 30 program
districts. The cost of such buildings (including fabricated roofing structures and roofing sheets) is estimated to
be approximately US$90,000 (NRs. 6 million) each.
2.    Responsibility and authority for this procurement is to be decentralized to the concerned districts. The
works shall be procured through NCB procedures with only the initial three district contracts and those
contracts estimated to cost US$100,000 and above being subject to prior review.
3.    Construction/rehabilitation andfurnishing of classrooms: The cost of such activity, for each school
location, is estimated to be less than US$30,000. The concerned School Management Committee (SMC) shall
initially prepare a School Physical Improvement Plan (SPIP), reflecting the construction needs of the school in
question. This plan shall be submitted to and be reviewed by the District Education (DE) Office. With DE
Office approval of the SPIP, work would then be initiated through a community contract between the DE Office
and the SMC. This contract shall clearly detail, inter alia, the funding mechanisms and the method of
involvement/utilization of community participation. Cost reimbursement would be on the basis of the value of
inputs (labour and material only) costed at prevalent district/market rates - whichever are lower.
4.    To streamline and expedite this procurement, prior review shall be mandated at the outset only -
involving IDA's initial review, pilot testing (five contracts) and clearance of the 'contract' documents, to be
used on a repetitive basis, that shall contain clearly defined mechanisms for:
i) funding, cost reimbursement formulae and methods,
ii) involving and utilising local community participation,
iii) physical and financial monitoring/supervision by DE Office, and DOE and certification of
completion.
5.    Construction of Resource Centers: The cost of a typical resource centers, to be constructed in the
premises of a selected school within each cluster, is estimated to be up to US$20,000 (NRs. 1.4 million). The
works shall be implemented by the DE Office, mostly through local contracting using NCB procedures. The
project shall prepare applicable bid documents and procedures and obtain the Bank's clearance at the outset.
Prior review of the initial five contracts and selective post award review will be carried out.
Some small (piecework) construction valued up to US$10,000 (aggregate limit $100,000) and undertaken on
the basis of 3 quotations, would also be subject to post review.
-41-



6.    Construction through Force Account: In the event that this is required in certain locations for DE
Office and Resource Center construction, the DOE shall clear with IDA the conditions under which such
procurement methods shall apply. Prior review and agreement will be required for contract works exceeding
$20,000 - with the maximum aggregate value of such contracts being US$250,000.
b) Goods (US$2.3 million).
7.    Pre-Fabricated Steel Structures and Roofing Materials: Pre-fabricated interchangeable components
for roofing trusses which can be transported and assembled at site, and steel roofing sheets, shall be procured
on a cost effective basis following a procurement plan and packaging acceptable to IDA. Contracts, valued at
US$300,000 and above shall be awarded to prequalified firms under ICB procedures with all such contracts
being subject to prior review. Bids for contracts estimated to cost up to US$300,000 may be invited under
NCB procedures acceptable to IDA, and with contracts exceeding $100,000 being subject to prior review.
8.    To ensure that materials are continuously available to schools/communities, a network of primary and
secondary stores will be developed and a delivery schedule/mechanism clearly defined such that stores have
adequate inventories at all times. It is proposed that three large capacity primary stores be established at
Pathlaiyya (for Eastern and parts of Central zone), Butwal (for central and western zones) and Nepalgunj (for
mid-western and far-western zones). All material consignments shall be delivered to these primary stores.
Secondary (temporary) stores, shall be established at appropriate highway/roadhead locations to ensure
equitable access to and optimum ease of onward transportation and/or porterage by the concerned
SMC/communities covered by the store in question. At periodic intervals, materials from the primary depots
shall be transported to these secondary depots based on demand projections made by these stores themselves. It
may be more cost effective to use private/public transport companies, that have been selected through NCB
procedures, for this transportation. Thus, firms may be contracted by DOE, on an annual basis, to provide their
services at pre-approved rates (e.g., rate per unit of roofing materials per kin, or rate per truckload per kmn).
9.    With a gradual build-up in the institutional capacity for undertaking procurement, it is expected that
roofing sheet procurement could be decentralized to the concerned program districts that have staff with
adequate experience or training acceptable to IDA. In view of the widespread availability of roofing sheets at
major market centres in Nepal, procurement of such materials would then be directly undertaken by the
concerned DE Offices under NCB or acceptable national shopping procedures. Material specifications would
be clearly defined in the bid documents, and adequate quality control measures instituted such that the procured
materials satisfy the minimum stated (or standard project) specifications. Typical contract values would be
US$30,000 per annum in a district. Subject to IDA's review and clearance, of the documents and mechanisms
to be repetitively followed, all such procurement could be a case of selective post review, including third party
review during project supervision.
10.   Other Goods, Equipment and Vehicles in a Group: Goods, equipment and/or vehicles, estimated to
cost US$200,000 and above, shall be procured through ICB procedures. All bidding procedures and contracts
shall be subject to prior review.
11.   All other contracts for goods (other than structural steelworks and roofing sheets), equipment and/or
vehicles in a group, that are estimated to cost less than US$200,000, may be procured through NCB procedures
acceptable to IDA, with all contracts over US$100,000 requiring IDA's prior review.
12.   Goods, Vehicles and Equipment valued at US$50, 000 or less: Items under this category may be
procured through International or National Shopping - up to an aggregate limit of US$300,000. Applicable bid
documents and procedures shall be reviewed and cleared by the Bank at the outset.
-42-



13.    Spares: Spares of estimated value up to US$10,000, may be procured through direct contracting
procedures. The Bank's prior review shall be mandatory.
c) Services (US$1.3 million).
14.    Contracts for International consultancy services and contracts exceeding $200,000 will be awarded
under other donor procedures applicable for the selection of International Consultants as this category will not
be IDA financed.
15.    Other contracts for consultancy services which are estimnated to cost less than US$ 300,000 equivalent
per contract may be awarded under QCBS procedures. Contracts costing less than $200,000 may be limited to
National Consultants. All contracts valued at US$100,000 or greater will be subject to prior review.
16.     Small consultancies, institutional services and individual assignment contracts valued at US$30,000
equivalent or less, up to an aggregate of $300,000 will be selected on the basis of Consultants' Qualifications.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method1
Expenditure Category            ICB            NCB          Ohr2          N.B.F.    Total Cost
Other
1. Works                           0.0            6.3            3.8          0.0          1-0.i
(0.0)          (1.2)          (0.6)        (0.0)        (1.8)
2. Goods                           4.4            2.5             1.0          0.0          7.9
(1.0)          (0.8)          (0.5)        (°.0)        (2.3)
3. Services                        0.0            0.7            5.4          0.0           6.1
(0.0) (0.1)                   (1.2)        (0.0)        (1.3)
4. Miscellaneous                   0.0            0.0            31.6         0.0          31.6
(0.0)    i     (0.0)          (7.1)        (0.0)        (7.1)
Total                           4.4            9.5            41.8         0.0          55.7
(1.0)          (2.1)          (9.4)        (0.0)        (12.5)
1/ Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies
2/ Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff of
the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
NOTE: (a) Goods include building materials ($600,000).
(b) Under Services, Column "Other" includes $4.4 million ($1 million IDA) for Community Providers.
(c) Miscellaneous includes Scholarships, Grants, Local Training, Incremental Salaries and Incremental Operating costs.
-43-



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
1. Works:
Civil Works               over $30,000               NCB                        First three contract
Construction, rehabilitation,                                                   awards and contracts of
and water and sewerage                                                          $100,000 or more
systems
Civil Works               up to $30,000              Community participation    Initial 5 for procedure
-Classroom and school                                                           testing
upgrading                                            Local contracting at district   Initial five contracts
-Resource centers                                    level
Civil Works               $10,000 or less. Aggregate    small piece works through 3   Once at the outset
limit $100,000            quotations
Civil Works               Small works $10,000 or less   Force-Account           Agreed plan
Aggregate limit $250,000                             All
2. Goods:
Fabricated steel materials  $300,000 and above       ICB                        All
and roofing sheets
up to $300,000 in         NCB                        $100,000 and above
accordance with approved
annual plan
Equipment, Vehicle in     $200,000 and above         ICB                        All
group
Goods, Equipment Vehicle    Less than $200,000       NCB                        $100,000
in group
Goods, Equipment and      Less than $50,000 up to an    International or National
Roofing Sheets            aggregate of $850,000      Shopping
Goods, Equipment and      $10,000 or less up to an   Direct contracting         All
spares                    aggregate $150,000
3. Services:
Consultancy Services,     over $200,000              NA other donor provision   NA
international
Consultancy Services      Less than $200,000 per     -National Consultants QCBS   $100,000 or more
contract in accordance with
approved annual plan
-44-



Community Service        Up to $100,000            QBS, Qualifications on Sole
providers, NGOs, or Service                        source subject to IDA
Delivery Contractors                               agreement
Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
Category                  Amount in USS           FinancingPecentge
Civil Works                                     1,585,300  22.5 % of eligible]
Consultants Services                             355,400   . 
Community Service Providers                    1,000,700  .      .
Goods                                          2,095,800
Local Training, Grants and Scholarships        3,472,700
Incremental Salaries and Operating Costs       3,530,600
Unallocated                                      481,500
TOTAL /a                                      12,522,000
a/ Represents 22.5% of Core Investment Program as IDA share of financing.
Financial Assessment Summary
Background. The financial control environment in Nepal has been weakened by the recent
transfer of responsibility for the accounting cadre from the FCGO to the Ministry of General
Administration. Organizational risks are present in the short-term in the context of the MOE's institutional
transition from project approach to program approach. A planned Department of Education has only
recently been established that will formally assume program and Financial Management responsibility from
July 1999. In order to mitigate institutional development risks, capacity for Financial Management is being
built up in accordance with a time-bound action plan which includes the phased recruitment, and
temporary placement of key FM staff within the Change Management Group set up for the project (see
PIP)
Accounting Process. The Project books of account will be kept on a cash basis. The Department
of Education (DOE) of the MOE will take leadership in coordinating with District Education Offices
(DEOs) and other central level agencies involved in the program execution on a regular basis to obtain the
flow of accounting information. DEOs and other central level implementing agencies are required to submit
monthly statements of expenditures to the concerned District Treasury Controller's Offices (DTCOs) and
-45-



DOE within seven days of the following month. The DOE Finance Section will be fully computerized.
Accounting information received from district education offices and other central level implementing
agencies will be regularly updated in the computerized system in the Finance Section to enable to timely
generate PMRs. The Finance Section will maintain Loan, SOE and other Ledgers required by HMG.
Budget and Program Implementation . The Ministry of Finance (MOF) would allocate annual
budgets to BPEP II program implementation as envisaged in the Annual Work Plan and Budget agreed
between MOE and donor group. DOE would be responsible for overall program administration and
management, which includes programming, budgeting, contract administration, monitoring of project
progress, coordinating with donors and implementing agencies and submission of PMRs to HMG/N and
donors. DOE would need to be sufficiently equipped and have adequate number of staff (technical,
administrative and financial). The actual implementation of the district programs will be carried out
through district education offices. Central level programs are to be executed through various central level
agencies. Since the BPEP II program execution is being merged into DOEs regular program. Following
effectiveness DOE would undertake an assessment of adequacy of accountants in district offices, and
would indicate to the donor group arrangements to appoint additional accounting positions in those districts
where staff strengthening is indicated.
Risks. There is a potential country risk due to a recent transfer of the accounting cadre of staff from
the FCGO to the Ministry of General Administration. FCGO, however, retains overall responsibility and
accountability for public financial management including maintaining central accounts (including donor
accounts) and preparing the national accounts for timely external audit by the Auditor General. A further
risk addressed in the MOE action plan is the timely compilation of accounts and completion of internal
audit covering possibly 75 districts within six months of the end of each fiscal year. Even under optimal
conditions this will be a significant challenge.
Financial Monitoring and Reporting . The FMIS in the DOE can be further developed through
technical assistance as the program is implemented. The FMIS would facilitate timely and reliable project
management information, and would be integrated with the Project Management Information System
(PMIS) in order to map the financial data with physical data to monitor the performance of the Project.
Under Japan PHRD funding, IDA is currently providing assistance to the MOE to develop the FMIS'
linkage with the Project Management Reports (PMRs) as required under IDA's Loan Administration
Change Initiative (LACI).
Based on the assessment and review of the current financial management system, until the capacity
of the DOE is built up, existing disbursement procedures will be followed. The Bank will review progress
made in establishing a sound financial management system after about a year, and will ascertain whether
the Project is then eligible for PMR-based disbursements. If qualified, appropriate arrangements will be
made to convert to PMR-based disbursements.
The Project will produce from the outset the following PMR statements - Financial Statement -
Report IA and Section 3 - Procurement Management Reports. In order to match with the government
planning and reporting cycle, the PMRs would be produced on a trimester basis and submitted within 30
days of the end of each trimester. They would inform Project Management, the Government and the Donor
Group of the project's physical and financial progress, and would feature commitment monitoring which
will give advance indication of project expenditure status. Trimesterly project management reports, will be
provided to all donors, will be valuable for progress monitoring and subject to close review and
supervision. This will allow prompt follow-up to bring to HMG's attention any developing problems in the
project's accounting, internal controls, financial reporting, etc.
-46-



Proposed Staffing Arrangements . Against this backdrop the implementing capacity of the newly
created Department of Education (DOE) in the MOE has to be adequately staffed. The Action Plan (see
PIP) is expected to result in a sound financial management system for BPEP II. Under the plan, the DOE
would be provided with essential staff skills and a core of five accounting staff according to an agreed
schedule to ensure that financial management capacity would be available by project startup in July 1999.
It would provide staff to maintain a Financial Monitoring Information System (FMIS) being developed
with consultant assistance. The FMIS would facilitate timely and reliable project management information,
and would be integrated with the Project Management Information System (PMIS) in order to map the
financial data with physical data to monitor the performance of the Project.
Audit Arrangements. Program Financial Statements, prepared in the formats as agreed with the
Bank, will be audited annually by the Auditor General of Nepal who is considered an independent auditor
for the Bank's purposes. This arrangement will be agreed during negotiations. The terms of reference for
the audit will require the AG to provide a separate audit opinion in his audit report on: (i) the project
accounts, to ensure that project funds have been spent in accordance with the terms and conditions of the
project legal agreements; (ii) the PMRs/SOEs submitted for reimbursement purposes during the year,
confirming these are properly supported by formal contracts and documentation checked and verified by the
project accounting staff; (iii) the project's Special Account to ensure that this has been operated in
accordance with Bank procedures. DOE will make available to the AG the PAD, project cost tables, legal
agreements and such other information and explanations as the AG shall require from time to time to carry
out his duties. Under the DG of the DOE, the Chief Finance Controller of the DOE will be the main
financial liaison person with the AG's office to ensure the audit is carried out in a timely way and to
formally answer all questions raised by the AG. The DOE, district education offices and other central level
implementing agencies will provide the AG with the project annual financial statements (project accounts)
and all supporting documents required by the AG within 60 days of the end of the fiscal year. The annual
project accounts package together with the audit report thereon including the three audit opinions noted
above will be submitted to the Bank within 6 months of the end of the fiscal year. The unaudited accounts
will be submitted to the Bank within 3 months of the end of the fiscal year.
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
For the interim period until the disbursement is based on PMR, IDA may require withdrawals from the
Credit Account to be made on the basis of SOE for expenditure: (a) for civil works under contracts costing
less than US$100,000 each, (b) for equipment, furniture, materials and vehicles under contracts costing
under US$ 100,000 equivalent each, (c) for consultants' services under US$50,000 in case of firms, and
US$20,000 equivalent in case of individuals, and (d) for all local training, grants, scholarships, incremental
salaries, and operating costs.
Special account:
A Special Account in US Dollars may be established, on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA. For the
interim period until the disbursement is based on PMR, an arrangement would be made to have an
authorized allocation of US$1.2 million and would follow the existing disbursement procedure. DOE
would submit replenishment applications for the Special Account on a monthly basis, or when 25% of the
authorized allocation has been used, whichever occurs first. The replenishment applications would be
supported by the necessary documentation including a bank statement and a reconciliation statement.
When the project qualifies for PMR based disbursements, the amount of the authorized allocation would
vary to cover two trimesters expenditures financed by the credit. This authorized allocation of the special
-47-



account cannot exceed an amount representing 20% of the credit. The Special Account would be
replenished at least trimesterly, based on the budget presented in the PMR, to assure liquidity of funds, and
all replenishment applications would be accompanied by reconciled statements from the bank in which the
account is maintained, showing all transactions in the Special Account. Supporting documentation would
be maintained by the DOE and DEOs for at least one fiscal year after the year in which the last
disbursement from the credit took place, and would be available for Bank staff and independent auditors
review.
-48-



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
NEPAL: Basic and Primary Education Project
Phase I of an APL Credit to support the Basic and Primary Education Program
Proet chedule              ;                      PDlanEi.~ned ---^
Time taken to prepare the project (months)                          25
First Bank mission (identification)                                 07/28/96
Appraisal mission departure              09/15/98                    09/15/98
Negotiations                             12/07/98                   02/23/99
Planned Date of Effectiveness            03/15/99                   07/16/99
Prepared by:
Ministry of Education, HMG/N
Preparation assistance:
Danida, NORAD; PHRD Grant (Japan)
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Speciality
Thomas Eisemon                    Senior Education Specialist
Adriaan Verspoor                  Principal Education Advisor
Grant Sinclair                    Senior Implernentation Specialist
Brajesh Panth                     Education Specialist
Audrey Aarons                     Education Specialist
Keith Hinchliffe                  Senior Economist
Kowsar Chowdhury                  Education Specialist
Bigyan Pradhan                    Financial Management Specialist
Sara Gonzalez Flavell             Lawyer
Ranjith Wiratunga                 Disbursement Officer
Robert Saum                       Financial Management Specialist
Mark Schlagel                     Operations Assistant
Gertrude Stubblefield             Team Assistant
Irajen Appasamy                   Operations Analyst
Kiran Ranjan Baral                Procurement Specialist
Peer Reviewers: Sue Berryman (ECSHD); Linda Dove (OED); Elizabeth King (DECRG)
-49-



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
NEPAL: Basic and Primary Education Project
Phase I of an APL Credit to support the Basic and Primary Education Program
A. Project Implementation Plan
Basic and Primary Education Project (BPEP II), 1998-2002. Project Implementation Plan (Main
Report), Volumes I, II, and III. His Majesty's Government, Ministry of Education, Nepal. April
1998
Basic and Primary Education Project (BPEP II), 1999-2004. Project Implementation Plan (Main
Report). His Majesty's Government, Ministry of Education, Nepal. August 1998.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Pre-appraisal Mission Part II Aide Memoire. January 1998.
Follow-up Pre-appraisal Mission. Aide Memoire. April 1998.
Appraisal Mission Part I. Aide Memoire. September 1998.
Appraisal Mission Part II. Aide Memoire. December 1998.
Nepal Country Assistance Strategy. November 1997/November 1998.
Nepal Country Economic Memorandum. November 1997.
Project Concept Document. July 1996
Project Information Document. May 1998.
C. Other
Bajracharya, H.R., B.K. Thapa, R. Chitralar. Trends, Issues and Policies of Education in Nepal, A
Country Case Study. Research Centre for Educational Innovation and Development, Tribhuvan
University, Tripureshwor Kathmandu, 1997.
Irvine, J. ROSA Report No. 22: Monitoring progress towards education for all: reflections on data
issues in South Asia. UNICEF, 1997.
Finnish Support to the Basic and Primary Education Sub-Sector Development Programme (BPEP Phase
II) in Nepal. His Majesty's Government of Nepal, Ministry of Education. Republic of Finland,
Ministry of Foreign Affairs. February 1998.
Rapid Independent Assessment of Basic and Primary Education Project. Institute for Integrated
Development Studies (IIDS). Kathmandu, Nepal. 1998.
The Basic and Primary Education Master Plan for 1997-2002. The Master Plan Team. His Majesty's
Government, Ministry of Education, Kathmandu. May 15, 1997.
Component Plans. Basic and Primary Education sub-Sector Program, 1998-2002, Volume II. Ministry of
Education, HMG/N. August 1997.
Financial Management Information System (Draft Design). Basic and Primary Education Project (BPEP
II), 1998-2002. His Majesty's Government, Ministry of Education. Nepal. April 1998.
Secondary Education Action Plan (1997-2002). Secondary Education Development Project (SEDP), His
Majesty's Government, Ministry of Education. Asian Development Bank (ADB) and Secondary
Education Project (SEP), Department for International Development (DFID). June 1998.
*Including electronic files
-50-



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
NEPAL: Basic and Primary Education Project
Phase I of an APL Credit to support the Basic and Primary Education Program
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in USS Millions        disbursements
Project ID    FY   Borrower                    Purpose                               IBRD         IDA      Cancel.  Undisb.      Orig  Frm Revd
Number of Closed Projects: 54
NP-PE-10509   - 1998 GOVr OF NEPAL             MULTIMODAL TRANSIT                     0.00       23.50        0.00      18.65     2.18     0.00
NP-PE.10530    1998 HMGN                       IRRIG SECTOR DEVT                      0.00       79.77        000       79.41     928      0.00
NP-PE-48026    1998 KINGDOM OF NEPAL           AGRI RES & EXTENSION                   0.0        24.30        0.00     21.96      7.18     0.00
NP-PE-10516    1997 HMG                        RURALWS&SANITATION                     0.00       18.28        000       15.85     3.63     0.00
NP-PE-10454    1994 MIN OF EDU.& CULTURE       HIGHER EDUCATION                       0.00       20.00        0.00      14.07    11.09     000
NP-PE-10460    1994 GOV. OF NEPAL              POPULATION & HEALTH                    0.00       26.70        0.00      18.03    14.51     0.00
NP-PE-10475    1994 HMG                         ROAD MAINT.& REHAB.                   0.00       50.50        0.00      1540     13.67     0.00
NP-PE.10392    1992 HMGIN                      POWER EFF IMPROVEMEN                   0.00       65.00        0.00      1529     11.79     0.00
NP-PE-10395    1992 GOVTOF NEPAL               BASIC&PRIMARYEDUC                      0.00       30.60        0.00      139      -0.20     0.00
NP-PE.10396    1992 HMGN                       TELECOMS.V                             0.00       55.00        0.00      14.12    11.45     0.00
NP-PE-10370    1991 HMGINWSC                   URB WATER & SAN REHAB                  0.00       60.00       25.45     24.15    46.39     17.84
NP-PE-10348    1990 HMGN                       SHAIRAWALUMBINi II                     0.00       47.20       0.00       0.54     -4.24     0.00
NP-PE-10330    1989 HMG. NEPAL                 HILL COMMUNITY FORES                   0.00       30.50       21.52      0.32    21.01     -0.52
NP-PE-1 0333    1989 GOVERNMENT OF NEPAL       ENGINEERING EDUC.                      0.00       11.40        0.00      4.00      3.03     -0.51
Total:      0.00      542.75      46.97     243.18    150.77    16.81
Active        Closed
Projects       Projects        Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):       270.90         884.59        1155.49
of which has been repaid:        0.00          58.81          58.81
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:       495.78         760.38        1256.16
Amount sold:         0.00           0.00           0.00
of which repaid:       0.00            0.00           0.00
Total Undisbursed:      243.18            0.00        243.18
Actual disbursements to date minus intended disbursements to date as projected at appraisaL
-51-



NEPAL
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
31-Dec-1998
In Millions US Dollars
Conmitted                         Disbursed
IFC                              EFC
FY Approval        Company                         Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic    Loan  Equity   Quasi   Partic
1975/93            Soaltee Hotel                   0.00     0.00     0.45    0.00    0.00    0.00      0.45    0.00
1994               Himal Power                    28.00     3.58     0.00    0.00    14.00    3.13     0.00    0.00
1996               Bhote Koshi                    21.00     0.00     3.00    36.00    8.73    0.00     1.23    14.97
1998               Jomsom Resort                   4.00     0.00     0.00    0.00    3.00    0.00      0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:        53.00     3.58    3.45    36.00   25.73    3.13      1.68   14.97
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                          Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic
1994               KHIMTI KHOLA                     0.00     0.00    0.00     5.00
Total Pending Comrmitment:       0.00    0.00     0.00     5.00
-52-



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
NEPAL: Basic and Primary Education Project
Phase I of an APL Credit to support the Basic and Primary Education Program
-          - - ~~9129198
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                               SOuth       Low-
N*osi      Asia  lfcome         Development diamond'
19g7
Potulatiol. rnid-year (millions)                        22.6      1.2S9     2.040                  Life expectancy
GNP Der canita tAtias method. US$J                       210       390        350
GNP (Atlas method. .SS bilions)                         4.7       502        722
Averaae annuai erowth. 199147
Ponulation %l         -                                  2.7        1.9       2.1
Laborforce %l                                            2.         2:2       23       GNP          A/                   Gross
per                              primary
Most rerceft estimate tlatost Year available. 19914971                                 capita                        enrotiment
Povertv (% of DoDlation below national Dovetv line1  .    42-
Urban rooulation f% of total DoDulatiool                  11        27         28
Life expectancy at birth (vears)                          57        6t -       59
Infant mortality (oe .000 live births-                    82        71-        70
Child malnutrition ff of childrew under 51                49 -      863        61                Access to safe water
Access to safe water;f% of nopulation)                    48 -      77:        71
Illiteracy ff4 of ooufafion age 154                       73         51        47
Gross orimarv enrollment 1% of school-aae ooouCation)    110         99        9a                         Low-income group
Male                                                   129       109        100
Female                                                  89        89         81.
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG.TERM TREHNDS
1976     19t6       *996      i997       -
Economic ratios'
GOP (US$ bi! tionsi                            11.5      2.9        4.5       4.
Gross domestic investmentiGDP -                15.1     19.0       22.9      21 4-
Exoorts of qoods and services/GDP              10.8     11.7       22,3      20.2                      Trade
Gross domestic savinos/GDP                     117      10.8        9,4       9.1
Gross nahtinal savinasiGOP                     156.     12.2       11.2      11.1
Current account balancelGOP                     0.3      .,8       1117     -10.3        o      
Interest otamenftsGDP                           0.0      0.4        0.7  06l-          Domestic                     Investment
Total debt/GDP                                  3.4     26.5       53.5      48,16     Savings
Total debt serviaelexPorts                      1.0      7.5        7.7        8
Present value of debt/GDPi                                         2586    -
Present value of debuexooros                                      103.9
-                Indebtedness
197640  1987.S7      1996       1997  '1998.02
(aversae annual oirouwftl
GDP                                   3.4       5.1       53        4.0       4.1
GNP, oer caoita                       0,7       2.8      2.6        2.0       1.7             Nepa/        Low-income group
Exoorts of coods and services         3.5      18.4     .2.7       23.4       52
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976     1986       1996      1997      Growth rates ot output and investment (%)
1% of GDP)I3
Aariculture                                    69.3     51.5       41.5      41.4
Industrv                                        8.9     15.9       22.9      22.2      20
Manufacturina                                 4.2       6.2       9.6        9.3     10
Services                                       21.9     32.7       35.6      36.4       o
Private consumption                            80.8     80.3       81.4      81.8    -1S
General government consumotion                  7.4      9.1        9.2       9.1                     G             -GDP
ImDorts of goods and services                  14.2     20.1       35.8      38.5                        D
1976-86  1987-97       1996      1997      Growth rates of exports and imports (%)
(averaeo annual oro wth)
Aariculture                                     0.8      2.5        4.4       4.1    so 
Industrv                                       14.0      8.4        8.3       3.5    40
Manufacturina                                 6.9      10.5       9.0        5.7
Services                                       -5.5      6.5        5.4       3.5    20
Private consumotion                             3.4      5.1        9.9       5.5      0.
General government consumotion                  6.5      5.1        9.4       0.3             92   93   94   S5   se   97
Gross domestic investment                       6.1      6.8        4.8      -3.3    -2D 
ImDorts Of ooods and services                   7.6     12.9        7.3      12.8                    Exports      C  Imports
Gross national product                          3.4      5.2        5.3       4.6
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four kev indicators in the countrv (in bold) compared with its income-arouo averaae, If data are missina. the diamond will
be incomplete.
-53-



Nepal
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1976     1986       1996      1997     Inflation (%)
Domestic prices                                                                        Inlaln5 %
(% change)                                                                            20
Consumer prices                                  ..    16.0         8.1       7.8    20
Implicit GOP deflator                           0.5     14.4        7.8       8.5    15
Government finance                                                                    1s|
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                    o
Current revenue                                  ..      8.3       11.2      10.8             92    93    94    95    96    97
Current budget balance                           ..    -1.6         0.7       0.9                    GDP deflator       e  CPi
Overall surplus/deficit                          ..    -9.2        -7.5      -7.2
TRADE
(USS millions)                                1976     1986       1996      1997       Export and Import levels (USS mililons)
Total exports (fob)                               ..     156       360       394      2,000
Carpets                                        ..       42         35        50
Garments                                                13         12        18     1500
Manufactures                                   ..       41         97       104
Total imports (cif)                                      474      1,348     1,683     1000
Food                                           ..       60         96       123       0
Fuel and energy                                ..       54        100       127
Capital goods                    60                               277 23               0
91  92   93   94  95  99   97
Exnort Drice index (1995=100)                    ..       63        106      108
Imoort orice index (1995=100)                     .       70       103       105                3 Exports      *Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                        ..       91       103       104
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(USS millions)                                1976      1986      1996      1997      Current account balance to GOP ratio (%J
Exports of goods and services                  156       330      1,003     1,292      o
Imports of goods and services                  205       569      1,612     1,898     -2 
Resource balance                                -49     -239      -609      -805       4
Net income                                       5         0         -3        5       -2
Net current transfers                           49   45    84   95                                  " U                '.
Current account balance                          5      -194      -528       -506     -la
Financing items (net)                           25       223       509       562      -12
Changes in net reserves                         -30      -29        19       -56      14
Memo:
Reserves inctudino ioold (USS millions)           ..    146        669       678
ronver.inn rate (DEC. loca//USS)               12.0     19.5       55.2      57.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976     1986       1996     1997
(USS millions)l                                                                        Composition of total debt, 1997 (USs milIlons)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed            50       755      2,413     2,398
IBRD                                           0         0         0         0                    F:47   G:2B
IDA                                            9      295       1,049     1,047              E:303
Total debt service                                2       28        85         97
IBRD                                           0        0          0         0
IDA                                            0         4        16        17                                       B: 1.047
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                                6      108        146       195
Official creditors                            11      113        150       160           0:94
Private creditors                              0       27        -10       -13
Foreign direct investment                      0        0          0         0
Portfolio equity                               0        0          0         0                                C:30
World Bank program
Commitments                                   46        81         0       146      A - IBRD                      E - Bilaterai
Disbursements                                  4       56         62        54      B- IDA    D - Other multilaterat    F - Private
Principal repayments                           0         1         8         9     IC - IMF                       G- Short-term
Net flows                                      4        55        54        45
Interest payments                              0         3         8         8
Net transfers                                  4        51        46        38
Development Economics                                                                                                    9/29/98
-54-



Additional
Annex No.: 11
NEPAL: Basic and Primary Education Project
Development Policy Statement and
Basic and Primary Education Policy Framework
This Sub-Sector Policy Statement sets out the main features of His Majesty's Government of Nepal's
(HMG/N) Basic and Primary Education Program II. A policy framework for the Basic and Primary
Education (BPE) program is attached. The program represents a significant landmark in Nepal's
investment in human resources development and poverty alleviation to meet the challenges of the 21st
century. The Ninth Plan (1997-2002) has established a vision for twenty years. The program is designed
to be consistent with the Ninth Plan and the Sub-Sectoral Development Program (SSDP: 1998-2003), both
of which emphasized the need to adopt a longer-term perspective in the sub-sector.
By the end of the 10-year period, the government intends to extend the duration of basic education
from the present 5 years to 8 years. The government will establish legal provision to ensure universal
attendance of children building on the experience of Compulsory Primary Education (CPE) presently under
experimentation in a few selected districts. All districts will plan, manage and implement basic and
primary education programs in a decentralized planning and management framework. Authority will be
devolved to local communities for school management and planning to promote community ownership of
schools. Schools will prepare their own quality improvement activities and they will be funded based on
performance. The quality of primary teaching force will be raised by upgrading their entry qualification
from the present level (Grade 10) to at least Intermediate level (Grade 12) with a mechanism that provides
incentives to teachers commensurate with their qualifications and experience.
The long-term goal of the BPE sub-sector is to: (a) establish the capacity to enroll primary school
age children in schools or in alternate schooling programs as well as to ensure retention and completion,
especially of girls and other socially disadvantaged groups; (b) improve learning achievement; and (c) build
and strengthen institutional capacity at the national, district, and community levels to plan, monitor and
improve the performance of primary schools.
The longer-term perspective will accommodate the magnitude of the task and the need to develop
institutional and management capacity before the expected quality, efficiency and access objectives can be
fully achieved. The availability of a long-term strategy will allow both the Ministry of Education (MOE)
and the donor community to plan for continuing investments in education and to be in a better position to
ensure support for basic and primary education beyond the five-year program period. Within this
longer-term view, two phases of the investment program are envisaged, each phase of five-year duration.
Within the first phase, the first three years of the program will give priority to institutional development.
HMG/N, hereby, requests the World Bank's assistance in the form of a series of Adaptable Program Loans
(APL), with an initial commitment of US$50 million for the ten-years and a first APL of US$27.6 million,
to support implementation of this initiative. Along with IDA, other co-financiers of the sub-sector
investment program include Danida, European Union (EU), Finnida, Norad, Jica, Unicef, and Asian
Development Bank (ADB).
HMG/N and the World Bank have a long history of collaboration and involvement in BPE, which
began in 1984 with the initiation of the Primary Education Project (PEP). As a result of positive
experiences of PEP and the Seti Education for Rural Development Project (SERDP) initiated in early
-55-



1980s and subsequent emphasis of the 1990 Jomtien "Conference on Education for All," jointly sponsored
by the World Bank, Unicef and UNESCO, HMG/N launched the Basic and Primary Education Project
(BPEP I) in 1992. The 1995 Mid-Term Review (MTR) of the Project recognized that the Project made
significant contribution in improving the access to basic education and emphasized the need to focus on
capacity building and quality improvements. It also emphasized the need for a Phase II so as to consolidate
and extend the Project activities nationwide within a sub-sectoral development framework. Given the
magnitude of the task, it was envisaged that the program would be implemented with multi-donor funds.
Some important lessons have been learned from the experiences of BPEP I and other efforts in the
sub-sector. First, in order to ensure quality enhancement it is necessary to give adequate attention to
classroom practices and student learning together with supply of quality inputs. Secondly, centralized
planning and programming cannot address local needs and conditions nor does it generate the sense of
ownership on the part of the parents and other stakeholders. Thirdly, nationwide implementation of BPEP
would require a strong technical institution at the central level to provide support to the districts that, in
effect, will be taking the responsibility of planning, implementing and monitoring BPE activities. Finally, a
longer-term vision and strategy is required to make marked improvements in processes and outcomes of
primary education and that capacity building is a pre-requisite in achieving these two goals.
MOE intends to implement the ten-year program of BPE in two phases of five years' duration each,
divided into three stages, each with a specific priority. The main emphasis of the first stage (July
1999-June 2002) will be to (a) develop capacity at central, district and community level institutions to
improve school quality, (b) increase equitable access to nonformal and formal primary education, and (c)
develop appropriate strategies for pre-service teacher training, nonformal primary education, and early
childhood education. The first stage of the Program coincides with the MTR of BPEP II. Building into the
capacity and strategy established under stage one, the second stage (July 2002 - June 2005) aims at (a)
strengthening institutional capacity to deliver BPE, (b) continuing support for primary school quality
improvement, and (f) delivering pre-service teacher training, nonformal primary education, and early
childhood education programs. The third stage of the 10-year program (July 2005 - June 2009) is basically
a consolidation stage emphasizing (a) continuation of capacity building to deliver school quality and ensure
equitable access, (b) strengthening of primary school teacher education and training, (c) development of
policy options to increase the basic education cycle from 5 years to 8 years, and (d) establishment of legal
provision for compulsory primary education laws up to grade 5.
The intention of the MOE is to implement BPEP II (1999-2004) starting July 1999. To accomplish
that, the following tasks have already been accomplished: (a) approval by the Cabinet to establish the
Department of Education (DOE) and merge BPEP units into the regular structure of MOE/DOE; (b)
appointment and functioning of Change Management Group (CMG) and Technical Support Advisory
Group (TSAG); (c) commissioning of the baseline learning achievement assessment of Grade V students;
(d) establishment of funds flow mechanism to allow flow of resources directly to MOE/DOE at central and
decentralized levels; and (e) initiation of the preparation and approval of district education plans and school
improvement plans.
The second stage of APL (4 years) will be processed following completion of the MTR, scheduled
for 2002. By then, the following tasks will be completed: (a) establishment of an effective donor
coordination mechanism within the MOE; (b) completion of follow-up national assessments of basic skills
of Grade 3 and 5 children; (c) effective functioning of DOE; (d) implementation of district planning process
based on school improvement plans, as the basis for budget allocation; (e) completion of piloting of
pre-service primary teacher training; and (f) increased involvement of NGOs/CBOs as providers of
nonformal primary education, special education, and early childhood education based on objective criteria
-56-



and procedures.
The third stage of APL (3 years) will start from July 2004/5 and will be a part of BPEP III (2004
-2009). For the processing of this stage, the MOE intends to accomplish the following tasks: (a)
implementation of human resource development program throughout MOE, including relevant agencies; (b)
completion of follow-up national assessments of Grade 3 and 5 children; (c) approval of framework for a
primary school teacher career development (education, training, incentives strategic and career paths); and
(d) implementation of district planning strategies targeting disadvantaged communities.
MOE considers the quality, efficiency, and management objectives to be the most critical of the
sub-sector. Therefore, an attempt has been made to develop a coherent and credible strategy for quality
and efficiency improvements and capacity building. GER, NER and retention objectives have been defined
in a five (BPEP II) and ten-year (BPEP III) perspective to reflect the program emphasis on quality and
efficiency objectives. This strategic emphasis will contribute to the financial sustainability of BPE
programs. This is particularly important in the context of the severe constraints on public expenditures that
Nepal currently faces. The thrust of such a strategy is to narrow down the gap of altnost 47% points
between the NER and the GER by reducing the GER target to 106% and increasing the NER to about 90%
by 2004. In order to reduce this gap, several measures have been proposed, including: (a) provision of
appropriate education opportunities to underage and overage children who currently take up more than
30% of the available primary school places, (b) improvement in the timeliness and accuracy of educational
statistics, (c) implementation of programs to improve the quality of instruction, and (d) creation of
appropriate education opportunities for socially disadvantaged groups.
In order to manage a program of this magnitude and complexity successfully, the government
recognizes the need to build strong and stable management at the national, district, and local levels. The
capacity building strategy is proposed with a view to developing the capacity of institutions and personnel
to enable them to undertake planning and implementation functions, particularly in the context of
decentralized planning.
To achieve the quality, access and capacity building objectives of the program, several components
have been developed establishing linkages and coherence among themselves. The key features of the BPEP
II program are: (a) introduction of continuous assessment and liberal promotion policies; (b) support for
piloting targeted interventions designed to provide education opportunities for socially disadvantaged
groups and girls and expansion of those that are proven to be cost effective; (c) raising the percentage of
female primary school teachers by adopting effective strategies to recruit females in teacher replacement
positions; (d) improvement in teaching practices in the classroom through the provision of recurrent
training, professional on-the-job support, and timely provision of textbooks and supplementary materials
designed for multi-grade instruction; (e) strengthening capacity at the national and district levels to design
and efficiently deliver quality education; and (f) strengthening community support for, and monitoring
delivery of education services, including teacher attendance.
School physical facilities imnprovement is a key component of the program. The stock of classrooms
suitable for effective teaching-learning is still inadequate. Most primary schools in Nepal lack sanitation
and water facilities, school garden and compound walls or fences. Girls, in particular, suffer due to the
lack of toilets in the schools. The lack of these basic facilities discourages children from attending schools
and hampers daily classroom teaching-learning. BPEP I made provision for constructing toilets and
drinking water systems. The coverage, however, has remained very limited. In addition to new classroom
construction, BPEP II emphasizes creating an appropriate physical learning environment in schools,
thereby motivating children to enroll and continue their schooling. All schools having programs of
-57-



classroom construction and rehabilitation will receive support to construct toilets and drinking water
facilities, which are important for retention. The Core Investment Program (CIP) will include support for
5,400 new/replacement classrooms; 10,800 classrooms to be repaired; water and toilets for up to 8,000
schools; maintenance, and administrative buildings and Resource Center buildings.
An essential element of BPEP II is to ensure schooling opportunity of a comparable quality either
through formal primary schools or other alternative arrangements. Alternative schooling provides a
potential means of reaching the hard-to-reach groups. BPEP will support the establishment of non-formal
education classes as alternatives to formal schooling for isolated small communities and for out-of-school
children. The overall objective of alternative schooling program is to guarantee access to schooling to
otherwise out-of-school children. This component will be launched through a three-pronged strategy as: (a)
a school outreach program in which primary schools will conduct extension programs in their catchment
areas, particularly for those who cannot come to schools, (b) an alternative primary education for a specific
period of time at a fixed place, and (c) as a basic education program for adolescents. These strategies will
be piloted so as to evolve viable interventions.
As 40% of primary school going-age girls are still out of schools, it is essential that the program
address the issue of non-participation and low retention of girls. All components of the program have
equally emphasized the gender and social equity. In order to minimize the direct costs of schooling, MOE
will design and implement incentive schemes so that girls and children from disadvantaged communities can
utilize the existing schooling facilities upon piloting.
BPEP II will support inclusive education of children with non-severe (mild to moderate) disabilities
in primary schools. To achieve this aim, the program will support primary schools in identifying and
assessing such children, train special education teachers, and provide appropriate teaching-learning
materials designed to ensure effective mainstreaming of these children in primary schools. An important
main focus of BPEP II, therefore, will be on developing a replicable model for identification of children
with disabilities, training of teachers and implementation of inclusive schooling.
The development and accelerated implementation of a community-based Early Childhood
Development (ECD) program will contribute significantly to achieve the quality and efficiency objectives
of BPEP II. There is over-crowding in Grade I because of the presence of under-age children, who do not
have access to pre-school services. Evidence suggests that more than 20% under-age children enroll in
Grade 1. Most of them repeat and drop out, making primary schooling excessively costly and inefficient.
An ECD program is a critical intervention to bring about the overall quality and efficiency goals of the
primary education system. Experience suggests that the ECD centers at schools and communities can free
many girls and women from child care to attend schools or join the workforce. ECD provisions also not
only relieve girls from sibling care but also provide an educational advantage for the younger siblings. It is
important that these centers are established near existing schools to achieve these dual goals. The ECD
program will lower the tendency of enrolling under-age children in Grade I and thereby contribute to
increase internal efficiency of primary education system. In this context, BPEP II will develop models and
support the practice of community-based ECD centers. It is encouraging that international experience
suggests that ECD programs are usually in high demand by communities. ECD activities will be targeted
to poor communities where enrollment and retention of primary children, especially of girls and
disadvantaged children, are low. Local VDCs and municipalities will be encouraged to supplement ECD
program from their internal resources.
Community mobilization activities under BPEP lI are designed and targeted on the large scale to
address the inter-related issues of non-enrollment, non-attendance and low retention. This component
-58-



promotes initiatives to ensure community participation and ownership that are essential to ensure long-term
sustainability. Based on the experience of the Village Readiness Program implemented during BPEP I the
government has developed concrete plans to ensure bottom-up, community-based planning, including
parents, teachers and other local stakeholders. Community mobilization will begin with the establishment
of VECs and SMCS.
School quality will be improved through greater parental involvement and participation in
school-based activities. For this, school management committees and community members will be involved
in the preparation and implementation of school level plans.
In order to ensure that classroom instruction is supported by well-designed textbooks and
instructional materials, BPEP II plans to renew primary curriculum, textbooks and teachers guides for all
subjects of primary grades; develop optional textbooks; distribute textbooks and other materials; and set up
a publishing unit in BPEDU to enable it to develop prototype copies. Continuous assessment of student
learning achievement is a key element of a quality improvement strategy. Interventions under this
sub-component are integral to the curriculum and textbook renewal.
BPEP II will adopt the liberal promotion policy (LPP) as a strategy for granting promotion to grade
1-3 children, linking it with a system of continuous assessment and recurrent teacher training. Under this
policy, a minimum level of demonstrated learning will be determined for each grade and learning will be
assessed continuously. Instructional methods will be modified accordingly, to help students achieve at least
the minimum learning levels. For those unachieved cycle learning outcomes, the students will be provided
opportunities to achieve them in next upper grade(s).
The government policy on primary teacher training is directed towards (a) establishing an overall
teacher development strategy encompassing pre-service, in-service/recurrent and professional support
system; (b) clearing the existing backlog of untrained teachers within the shortest possible time period; (c)
stopping the entry of untrained teachers into the teaching force by strictly following the policy of a
mandatory 1 0-month teacher training and making institutional arrangements for the provision of such
training; and (d) introducing a teacher crediting system to recognize professional experience and
participation in recurrent teacher training as partial credit in meeting professional training requirements.
Strategies to support teachers' ability to implement the curriculum will be done through
school-based and cluster-based training programs, followed by regular professional support, organized by
the school or the resource person at the school level. All teachers will receive a 1 0-dav recurrent training
every year. In order to increase the effectiveness of the recurrent training, a number of measures have been
proposed. Recurrent training modules using a variety of approaches, including the whole school approach,
will be delivered. Recurrent modules will be devised and implemented in such a way that they promote
appropriate utilization of teaching-learning materials, including textbooks, supplementary readers,
teachers' guides and instructional materials.
In order to re-orient the MOE/DOE to work as a technical support ministry, the development of
human resources and strengthening of institutional capacity are emphasized in BPEP II. The first three
years of the program (until MTR) will give greater focus on developing and strengthening institutional
capacity at various levels of management. This is expected to enhance the capacity both at national and
decentralized levels for education planning, management and administration and technical expertise in
curriculum development, assessment, educational research and evaluation, and district and school level
planning. Staff development activities have already begun under the Institutional Linkage Program (ILP).
-59-



To ensure coordination of BPE activities within the education sector and across the different line
ministries, a Program Execution Board, headed by the Secretary for Education, will be established. This
body, supported by TSAG, will oversee the program implementation, including monitoring.
MOE intends to implement BPEP II through the Department of Education (DOE) and other
institutions at national, district and below-district levels. The Cabinet recently has given its approval to
establish the DOE to take overall responsibility for planning, programming, implementing and monitoring
activities related to primary education. The DOE will implement primary education programs and
activities, including integration of technical functions such as teacher training and curriculum and
textbooks development, delivered by NCED and CDC respectively. Likewise, a Nonformal Education
Centre (NFEC) has been created to take responsibility for planning and programming of different NFE
programs; development, production and distribution of NFE curriculum and materials, and implementation,
supervision and monitoring.
To facilitate the smooth merger of BPEP components into the MOE and oversee the transition
process, MOE has created a Change Management Group (CMG), under the chairmnanship of the Secretary
of Education. The transition arrangements, and planning and monitoring of execution during the merger
phase, will be indispensable pre-requisites to executing the BPEP II program to achieve the BPEP II
objectives set by MOE. Likewise, MOE has established a Technical Support Advisory Group (TSAG) to
provide technical back-stopping to DOE, central MOE institutions and districts, and to coordinate technical
assistance and training activities. It also will oversee the quality of technical works within DOE. The
present BPEP office will be converted into Basic and Primary Education Development Unit (BPEDU) to
function basically as a service providing entity.
A major focus of BPEP II is to shift planning and implementation responsibilities to the districts.
In each district there will be a Basic and Primary Education Sub-Committee working under the District
Education Committee. This sub-committee will consist of representatives of the DDC, VDCS, SMCs,
HMs, teachers, NGOS, education experts, and RPs. The primary function of this sub-committee will be to
formulate district level BPE plans and programs, co-ordinate all BPE activities in the district, mobilise
local resources, review and follow-up annual programs and create a supportive atmosphere for the
implementation of the BPE activities and programs. The Resource Centre (RC) system will be instituted
nation-wide to provide technical and professional support to cluster schools. RCs will undertake cluster
level planning, programming, and implementation of BPE-related activities. Each VDC will be encouraged
to form a Village Education Committee consisting of representatives of the VDC, SMCs, NGOs,
headmasters, teachers and RPs. The primary function of this committee will be to formulate village level
BPE plans and programs, co-ordinate all BPE activities in the village, mobilise local resources, review and
follow-up annual programs and create a supportive atmosphere for the implementation of the BPE
activities and programs. It also will co-ordinate SMCs and NGOs and monitor their activities. VECs will
be particularly responsible for implementation of early childhood development, alternative schooling,
literacy, special education and community mobilisation activities.
Under BPEP II, the MOE intends to initiate a bottom-up planning process whereby each school
would prepare a School Improvement Plan (SIP) through a micro-planning exercise. The SIP will include
an action plan for the physical and instructional improvements of the school. The SIP process is currently
under trial in select clusters of two districts. SMCs will be reorganised with a distinct majority of members
from among elected parents, including mothers. The SMC will have powers in matters of recruitment of
temporary teachers, monitoring of school operations, annual review of the performance of the school,
reward and punishment of teachers, control of school finance, management of school funds and property,
resource mobilisation and nomination of teachers for training and academic upgrading, distribution of
-60-



textbooks and scholarships. These tasks will be performed through the Headmaster.
The Basic and Primary Education Sub-sector Investment Program (BPESIP), prepared by the
government and presented in the PIP, includes all development and recurrent expenditures anticipated for
BPE for the five-year period, starting with the 1999/00 fiscal year. The overall cost of BPE subsector for
the five-year period is estimated to be Rs. 29,030 million (US$ 427 million), of which the Core Investment
Program (CIP) consists of US$ 112 million. The BPESIP is broken down in three parts (a) the CIP, (b)
other development programs within the sub-sector, and (c) regular expenditures funded through HMG.
BPEP II will follow a basket approach, whereby the five collaborating MESAs (Danida. EU, IDA and
Norad) and HMG counterpart funds will form a basket to finance the major portion of the CIP. 'There has
been considerable effort and co-operation by the donor group during the BPEP II preparation process in
trying to achieve agreement on financing a common core program (basket). This offers many advantages
to HMG in terms of convenience for co-ordination and reporting. It also offers the possibility of joint
missions with rotating leadership and avoids the potential for conflicting advice and the risk of poorly
integrated donor initiatives, since all programs would meet the agreed parameters discussed with MOE and
subject to annual review. The donors in the basket and sub-basket are shown below:
Basket supported by MESAs                         TA Sub-Basket
Danida, IDA, NORAD,                          Danida, EU, NORAD,
EU and HMG/N                              FINNIDA and UNICEF
The MOE intends to adopt a national and district level approach to funding, particularly at the
district and school levels, that will encourage greater local involvement. All districts and schools would be
eligible for national level activities, whereas eligibility for supplemental funding would be strictly linked to
the strategic plan preparation by the district. There will be three types of funding modalities for the
districts: (a) Basic Funding A, linked to the number of students/classes and in a range of Rs. 3,000- 7,000
annually per school; (b) Basic Funding B, where communities may submit a proposal, for matching
funding (50-50) for facilities maintenance, to the DEO; and (c) Targeted Funding C, which primarily would
be targeted to the 23 districts where the overall girls GERs/NERs are lower than referenced above. In
addition, a formula for NGO funding also has been designed to promote greater participation of NGOS.
MOE will rely on monitoring and evaluation as key instruments for guiding program implementation
and development. Monitoring and evaluation arrangements to be followed in BPEP II include: (a) routine
Program Management Information System (PMIS) and educational management information system
(EMIS), including reports to districts and national level authorities; (b) annual reviews of district annual
work programs and budgets (AWPBs); (c) a Mid -Term Review to monitor changes in student achievement
vis-a-vis a baseline survey of class III and V students undertaken for program preparation; (d) periodic
evaluations of the impact of specific program interventions on classroom practices and learning to be
carried out by NGOs and cooperating experts; and (e) biannual and joint supervision missions. The
leadership of supervision missions will be rotated among the donors including MOE.
The periodic assessments of learning achievement will help us to monitor qualitative changes in primary
education. The results of assessment studies will be useful tools for identifying program successes and
shortcomings and adjusting program interventions. Ongoing monitoring of program performance will
utilize participatory methods at all levels. Formative research studies will be conducted throughout the
program period to feed data into program interventions.
-61-



The MOE officials and national experts will carry out annual internal supervision visits to
implementation sites. In addition, MOE together with donors will conduct a joint Mid - Term Review
(MTR) with participation by government and donors that will give information on implementation progress
in the first three of the program. PMIS will provide information on the status of program implementation
in terms of financial and physical indicators for a quarterly review of the program status. EMIS will be
strengthened to provide reliable and relevant sectoral information on students, teachers, administrative
personnel, school facilities, attendance, promotion, and retention of students.
The IDA procedures for fund flow and reporting, based on the Loan Administration and Change
Initiative (LACI) Guidelines, appear to offer MOE a satisfactory basis for financial reporting to the donor
group and for auditing of expenditures. MOE confirms the use of IDA LACI formats as the common basis
for reporting expenditures to the donor group. During the first year of the program, necessary preparatory
activities will be accomplished in order to adopt this instrument.
Visioning workshops have been held to orient MOE personnel to the BPEP II. In preparation of the
program, MOE is currently preparing essential documents, such the BPEP II implementation manual,
training manuals for educational personnel, district planning guidelines, transition planning and human
resources development planning, and MOE restructuring and [RD plan. Policy and Human Resource
Development (PHRD) funds of the World Bank are being utilized for these exercises.
Finally, we believe that the investments made in basic and primary education will bring about the
necessary qualitative improvements in our human resource base critical for accelerated economic growth
and social equity. Our partnership with the World Bank, along with other co-financiers, is a valued
component in strengthening our prospects for the future.
Attachment: Policy Frameworkfor Basic and Primary Education Program
February 5, 1999
-62-



Attachment
Basic and Primary Education Policy Framework
Long-term Goal:
The majority of school age children will complete five years of primary school education that is of good
quality and well supported by institutions at the community, district and national levels.
Medium-term Development Objectives:
To strengthen institutional capacity at the national and community levels to plan and deliver more efficient
and better quality basic and primary education services thereby raising learning achievement and increasing
equitable access, especially for girls and under-served communities.
Key performance indicators:
* preparation and implementation of annual operational and expenditure plans at national and district
level
* number of months of staff development and training for education managers
* learning achievements based on national assessment at grades 3 and 5
* gross enrollment ratios*
* primary school completion rates*
* cycle costs
* teacher deployment
* teachers performance as measured by changes in classroom practice
* teacher quality based on the percentage of total primary teachers with Certificate of Primary School
Teaching
* physically adequate schools, by targeted locations
*(10 districts with lowest girls' GER - total, by gender, and location)
-63-



Objective 1:
Strengthen institutional capacity at national, district and community level to deliver more efficient basic
and primary education services
Policies                          Strategies                      Monitoring Indicators
MOE will be restructured and its  Preparation and implementation of  Annual work program and budgets at
policy, planning and monitoring   annual work program and budget    national and district levels based on
capacity strengthened so that     for basic and primary education  priorities and past performance
program delivery will be more     based on efficiency, quality and  % government expenditure on. education;
efficient and of better quality.  equity criteria                 % of education on basic and primary
education
Cycle costs of students graduating
Conduct national system         National assessment results grades 3, 5
performance assessment of student   98/99 and 2001
achievement at grades 3 and 5
Strengthen staffs technical     Change Management Group established
capacity complemented with      and functioning
out-sourcing for additional           HRD plan for staff development at
technical support and quality   national and district levels;
control.                        Number of months staff development and
training
A Department of Education will be    Appoint technically qualified staff,  DOE legally established
established within the MOE        male as well as female, on a          Qualified staff recruited, %
competitive basis and establish key  female, to functional units.
functional units for policy,          Percent staff transfers within two
planning and monitoring of basic    years
and primary education
Merge the functions of the BPEP       Implementation of a transition
unit with DOE based on a        plan with a focus on change management
transition plan
Establish a technical support         TSAG established with clearly
advisory group (TSAG) to assist    defined roles, responsibilities, procedures
MOE, and DOE central and        and budget
district institutions
Target staff development and          Staff months of training by agency
training programs to strengthen
technical capacity of central
institutions including DOE
-64-



Number of government primary      Categorize and deploy teachers        Numbers of teachers in schools
school teachers to remain at 1998  based on numbers of students   allocated on the basis of teacher:pupil
ceiling i.e., 83,000              enrolled                        ratios - in small multigrade schools less
than 36 students, 1 teacher - up to 70
students, 2 teachers
- up to 105 students, 3 teachers
- up to 140 students, 4 teachers
- up to 175 students, 5 teachers
- schools enrolling more than 250
students on the basis of one teacher for
every 50 students
50% of new replacement teachers                                         Percentage of teachers, female
will be female
National institutions capacity will be    Project units will be merged  Qualified staff from BPEP
strengthened: - Curriculum        where appropriate with central  appointed and retained at DOE and
Development Center (CDC),        institutions such as the CDC,    central institutions
National Center for Education     NCED and NFEC
Development (NCED), Non Formal     A Transition Plan to be
Education Center (NFEC)           developed to cover changes arising
from reorganization and merger
An HRD plan including staff
development and training for          Targeted staff development and
national institutions           training
Basic and Primary Education        Pilot Lead Resource Centers          Frequency of school visits by RPs,
Sections will be established in DEOs,  (LRC) to support the technical  school supervisors and DEO
headed by a director of Primary   wing of the DEO
Education                          Qualified RPs will be recruited
and redeployed provided with
rigorous inservice training
DEO supervision capacity and
resources will be enhanced
A Nonformal Education section       Nonformal and basic education
will be established in the DEO  education programs delivered by NGOs
headed by a NFE coordinator to
monitor and support CBO and
NGO program providers
Planning and implementation of     Composition of committees and        Functions transferred from central
basic and primary education will be    roles and responsibilities reviewed   to district level
decentralized to district and local  to incorporate wide participation
levels.
-65-



District plans will be integrated  Strengthen capacity of DEO in       Number of districts preparing
within the national education annual   EMIS/PMIS                 investment plans
plan and budget.                   Prepare district education plan
guidelines based on Basic and
Primary Education Policy
Framework
Establish support group to review
district plans
Each school will prepare a time    SIPs will be piloted in CPE and     Number of SIPs prepared and
bound plan for its physical and   other approved districts to test  implemented
academic upgrading (SIP)         modalities before going to scale
Formats to be prepared, eligible
expenditures identified, processes
described and mechanisms
established for preparation of SIPs
SIP guidelines and review
criteria prepared
SMC modalities will be piloted      Number of functioning SMC's
in approved districts
SMC composition and formation
revised and supported by
legislation
Participatory process will include  VEC established
VDC/VEC and NGO's in different       VECs, SMCs and head teachers
activities to support school and  trained in management and bottom up
community planning             planning and implementation process
Objective 2:
Raise learning achievement, especially in grades 1 to 3
Policies                           Strategies                 Monitoring Indicators
No major revision of the curriculum and    Consolidate implementation of     Implementation strategies for
textbooks will be undertaken for at least 3    the new primary school curriculum  curriculum grades I to 3 reflected
years                                 and textbooks introduced under    in district education plans
BPEP
-66-



Curriculum implementation will focus on     Use feedback from national
improving teaching and learning in grades   assessment grade 3 to review
1 to 3 and all grades in multigrade schools.  curriculum content, methods and
materials for grades 1-3.
Priority areas will be identified  School development and
in Nepali language and maths for  recurrent training reflects
action research; for teacher training    language and mathematics
and materials development to     teaching in grades I to 3
support teaching and learning in
grades I - 3.
Learner centered approaches      Support for learner centered
and methods to be encouraged      approaches reflected in district
through teacher training, provision    plans.
of materials and professional
support.
Separate provision for
Liberal promotion in grades I to 3 will be  Enforcement of age-of-entry   under 6 years of age through
linked to continuous assessment by     policy for enrolment into grade 1 (at   community managed ECD
teachers of students' progress.        least six years of age)            programs
School and community
awareness programs linked to ECD
Develop learning benchmarks
for teacher use in grades 1-3;            Teachers ability to
Train teachers in continuous  manage differences in children's
assessment techniques;            learning processes.
Provide class sets of student
workbooks developed to supplement
Nepali and maths textbooks in
grades 1-3
Optional language
supplementary reading materials and
bilingual teaching approaches will
be developed for minority linguistic
groups.
Teachers deployment based on school         Deploy teachers on the basis of       Progress in teacher
enrollments; teachers in small schools  school enrollment criteria        deployment
strengthened in multigrade teaching and
school management.                          Conduct action research in
small schools to develop alternative  Management of learning in
modalities for multigrade teaching;    small schools.
Prepare teachers' manuals and
teacher/learning materials for use in
multigrade teaching situations and
traim teachers in their use
-67-



Distribute free textbooks to all children in  Pilot alternative modalities for      Textbooks available to
grades 1-5 except boys in grades 4 and 5 in  timely distribution of textbooks.  students within 2 weeks of start of
non- 18 poorest districts                                                  the school year
The free textbook distribution        Report and
policy will be reviewed.           recommendations on free textbook
available
Provide supplementary reading materials      Schools will purchase library     Quantity of readable books in
to all schools                          books from a recommended list.     school
Coordinated programs of training and         Criteria for employment of         Preservice teacher training
professional support (pre-service,      new teachers will be SLC plus       program piloted
in-service and recurrent) will be linked to  I 0-month certificate training.    Preservice teacher training
career development and incentive systems                                    plan developed and costed
for primary school teachers.
An inservice certificate           Teachers having completed
training course will be provided for    primary teacher training certificate
teacher upgrading; permanent
without a certificate will be required
to complete at least one module (2.5
months) of the ten month course.
Preference will be given to female
teachers.
All modules of the certificate
training will be revised to reflect
learner centered approaches and
classroom practice and will be made
available through distance education
programs. Permanent teachers with
3 years of teaching experience will
be permitted to sit the teaching
certificate exams conducted by
NCED/PTTCs each year. Preference
for courses will be given to female
teachers.
All serving teachers will receive 10 days    Curriculum implementation          Average daily attendance of
recurrent training ever year followed by  will be linked to recurrent training  teachers
professional support at their school    and professional support for teachers
in classrooms.
Content of recurrent training      Number of days training per
courses will reflect teacher identified   year
priorities and whole school
development approaches.
Set of flexible classroom          Teacher performance as
teaching behaviors to be established.   measured by variety of appropriate
methods used by teachers
-68-



A school clustering and           Resource persons (RPs)
resource center system for recurrent    drawn from the teaching cadre
training and professional support in   appointed (% female)
schools will be implemented nation     Number of days school visits
wide.                              made by RPs
Teacher accreditation and incentive          Primary school teachers to         Teacher information system
systems will be based on certification,  receive credit points towards     established
participation in recurrent training and  financial rewards and career steps as
professional experience                 a result of education, training and
professional experience.
Objective 3:
Increase equitable access to basic and primary education especially for girls and disadvantaged children
Policies                            Strategies                   Monitoring Indicators
Provide alternative programs to meet the  Pilot three major strategies          Programs piloted in
needs of children from disadvantaged         School Outreach Programs for   disadvantaged areas, and evaluated
groups, especially targeting girls      children in remote areas and            NGOs participating in
disadvantaged groups, not          providing programs
adequately served by regular schools;
provide three years of schooling
within their own community
A condensed primary school
curriculum through Flexible
Schooling Programs for
out-of-school children
Targeting the current Out-of
School Program to children and
youth in thelO-14 years age group
Provide special education programs in        A Special Education Program        Teachers trained for special
primary schools for disabled children   will enroll 4,500 disabled children in  education
primary schools.                        Disabled children enrolled in
Community based awareness     primary schools
program to be conducted, for
enrolment of disabled children in
primary schools.
An integrative approach
consisting of special education
centers, special classes and
individual support; a specific teacher
training program and supply of
special education materials.
District based coordinators and
assessment service will be
established.
-69-



Committees will be mobilized to support    Communities will be mobilized to
school enrolment and retention and to  support:
establish early childhood development
centers                                    Early childhood development       Underage children not
centers having trained facilitators,    enrolled in class I of primary
materials and kits- government to  schools.
provide NR500 stipend per
facilitator
Women's education Rrograms
conducted by NGOs; including          ECD and women's education
flexible need based skill training.  centers established in SIP school
The WEP will be based on         communities
evaluation of the present WEP         Evaluation reports of present
WEP activities, and new programs
developed.
Incentive programs targeted to             Evaluations of the current        Evaluation done and
out-of-school girls from the most     scholarship program before piloting   reviewed.
disadvantaged groups.                  new models.
Using evaluation report,
different innovative incentive       Innovative approaches piloted
programs will be developed and    in targeted areas and evaluated.
piloted.                             Incentives reaching targeted
groups
Feeder hostels in secondary schools for    Existing feeder hostels will be   Hostels repaired and
girls from remote areas.               rehabilitated and maintained     functioning.
A study will be conducted to     Secondary school girls from
provide basis for possible tuition and   feeder hostels trained as primary
linkage to primary school teacher  school teachers/community
training                          facilitators.
Objective 4:
Upgrade the quality of school physical environment through community management
Policies                           Strategies                  Monitoring Indicators
The national stock of classrooms will be   Facility improvements will be     Numbers of classrooms in
maintained at 1998/99 levels.          targeted to priority districts and  disadvantaged, targeted areas
schools with lowest GER of girls and
disadvantaged children.
Criteria are GER below 100
and girls NER below 60, and within
the districts priority to clusters
meeting similar criteria;
CPE districts will also be
targeted
-70-



No new schools will be set up by the                                         Annual confrmation by
community without prior govermnent                                      districts of school numbers
approval; no primary schools upgraded to
lower secondary schools without
government approval
All physical improvement interventions     The school construction           School mapping
will be based on appraised district plans.    program will expand district-wise
Within districts, construction
programs will be phased in on area    District plans prioritized
based planning and focused on    based on GER for girls', enrolment
clusters with lowest girls NER    growth pattern, classroom coverage,
agreed teacher:pupil ratios
Number of whole schools
completed by end of program period
Physical facilities improvement  School Improvement Plans
(replacement and upgrading of    prepared by the school and
classrooms) will be based on school   community
need and demand analysis;
Incomplete classrooms and        VEC's will provide non
rehabilitation of classrooms are to be  technical verification of the
completed before any replacement  completion of construction and site
can start;                       works
There will be third party        Certificates of completion
quality assurance and auditing of
school mapping
Central support will consist of  Physical Planning SMU in
the provision of alternative designs    DOE strengthened to handle
and costs; occasional supervision,  procurement, inspection and
monitoring and evaluation;        delivery planning, where factory
manufactured components are used.
Construction services
consultants employed for contract
documentation, quality assurance
inspection and delivery checks.
Schools designs will meet Nepal Building   A whole school approach will      Safe schools constructed that
Codes standards especially those relating    be adopted to ensure schools are  meet earthquake and hurricane
to earthquake and wind forces.         structurally safe; are well lit and  force design codes.
airy; sites developed and have a
water supply and toilets;
School construction to have minimum        Timber will be used as little as  Documentation and designs
impact on the natural environment.     possible and only where local and  for all upgrading
abundantly available
-71-



Architectural designs will
reflect different regional climatic
conditions and local material
variations;
Special designs will be
prepared for multi-grade schools
Water supply and toilets will
be supplied to all schools targeted;  Number of complete schools
Communities will participate in, and be    School improvement will be       Village Readiness Assessments
responsible for, the planning and     demand generated through
management of the school improvement  community readiness activities and
program.                              the involvement of the VECs;
School level SPIP and
construction will be managed by the
community
The community share of costs    Community contribution to
will aim at an average of 15% with a   school construction and
range varying between 25% and    maintenance
10% depending on the type of
school, number of houses in
catchment area, and percentage of
disadvantaged households.
There will be a construction    MOUs signed
management MOU between the
DOE and SMC with specific
conditions on community
participation, quality of local
materials, and school maintenance
No new interventions will be funded        Will ensure adequate and         Number of schools with a
without the communities commitment to    regular maintenance of school  school maintenance plan
maintenance.                          facilities and grounds by the user
community;
Maintenance manuals             Maintenance manuals
developed and distributed to 15,000    distributed
schools
2,000 VDC technicians and
820 overseers will be trained in the  VDC technicians and
maintenance of school facilities  Overseers trained
Tool kits will be provided to
schools if requested in lieu of       Tool kits used
discretionary funds.
-72-



Additional
Annex No.: 12
NEPAL: Basic and Primary Education Project
Proposed Common Procedures for BPEP II Donors
The Ministry of Education seeks to ensure that there is a transparent common approach to
operational procedures by all five Major External Support Agencies (MESAs): Danida, The European
Union, Finland, IDA, and Norway in their support for HMG's core programme of education under the
Second Basic and Primary Education Programme.
Following discussions with donors represented in the brief December 1998 appraisal follow up
mission, EU, Finland, IDA, Norad, and Danida who participated in observer status, the following are
submitted by the Ministry for review by the donors and the MOE seeks confirmation that these constitute a
generally appropriate basis on which to invite donors to negotiate/conclude/reaffirm their agreements with
HMG with a view to proceeding expeditiously to start the BPEP II common program on July 15, 1999 as
planned.
Common Financing Modality (Basket) . Initially the funds from each donor would be routed to
separate bank accounts in the Nepal Rastra Bank and a separate ledger created. Each donor would provide
an advance to these accounts in accordance with the individual donor agreements and within the ceiling
established annually by the core donor group in consultation with MOE. Periodic replenishments would
also be made in accordance with these agreements.
Periodically during annual implementation a consolidated expenditure report will be prepared by
MOE and presented to the NRB for reconciliation in accordance with agreed funding procedures. Fund
draw-down would be in direct proportion to each donor's confirmed investment in the core program.
Sub-basket expenditure/financing procedures would be concluded directly with the individual donors
concerned.
The MOE will shortly prepare a note on the steps involved for suggested incorporation in donor
agreements.
Fund Flow Reporting Mechanisms . The MOE seeks a single reporting format acceptable to all
MESAs. Accounting procedures to be followed will be satisfactory to all donors. The Ministry has
developed a comprehensive accounting and monitoring system under the first Basic and Primary Education
Project (BPEP) and it is intended by MOE that appropriate adjustments will be made under BPEP II
particularly to reflect the extended decentralisation approach. It is intended by MOE that by start up in July
1999 a Financial Management Information System (FMIS) will be operational that will allow computerised
record keeping at the central level and progressive introduction of computerisation at the district level.
IDA fund use will be reported on a trimesterly basis (three times per year) under three main
categories: (i) Financial Statements; (ii) Project Progress Reports; (iii) Procurement Management Reports.
This will be a comprehensive format that is to be standard for all IDA projects in Nepal. IDA is currently
providing assistance to the MOE to develop the FMIS and to develop the Loan Administrative Change
Initiative (LACI) reporting formats in accordance with the FM1S. These reports link eligible expenditures
with actual physical progress and introduce a simplified system of disbursing funds by periodic advances to
-73-



the project account based on project management reports. It is suggested that as IDA funds will be an
integral component of overall basket financing, that de-facto these reports be accepted by the donor group
as appropriate evidence of acceptable financial management practices for core funding overall. Detailed
information on the LACI approach is available from the WB office in Nepal. All reports prepared under
this format would be provided to each MESA on a regular basis.
The MOE commits to establish accounting capacity in the DOE at the earliest stage possible, that
qualified and competent personnel will be appointed and an appropriate procedural manual provided to all
donors as a condition of project startup.
Auditing Mechanism. MOE proposes that the Auditor General of Nepal be accepted by the donor
group. Additionally, any donor may request at their expense, access to inspect project accounts at all levels.
Annual audits are to be completed within six months of the end of HMG's fiscal year.
Procurement Mechanism. The MOE commits to the use of appropriate competitive bidding
procedures for the core programme. For EU funding this question does not arise as budget support is being
provided. IDA procurement guidelines encourage competitive bidding practices appropriate to the size of
procurement package, are widely used in Nepal and standard bidding documents have been agreed between
HMG and IDA. It is proposed that these guidelines be adopted for BPEP II as a common approach
acceptable to the other MESAs.
Donor Monitoring and Supervision. It is expected that joint donor program review/supervision
will take place twice a year. The first visit each year (programming) will be linked to the annual planning,
funding authorization and budget preparation processes. During this mission the donor group will conduct
a review of the prior year's activities on the basis of reports prepared by the DOE and local offices of the
MESAs. The second mission (implementation) will focus more on confirming progress, resolution of
bottlenecks, field visiting and specific areas of review resulting from the programming mission. The
proposed timing is for the period mid-March to mid April for the annual (first) programming mission and it
is felt that this programming mission should establish each year with MOE the appropriate timing for the
second mission alternatively mid-September or early November and the programming mission for the
subsequent year.
The chair of the missions will rotate among the donors and HMG, a lead agency will be agreed for
each mission.
Terms of reference will be prepared by the lead agency and circulated to the donor group and
HMG for review one month before the planned review date.
MOE is responsible for co-ordinating with the donor community, other government institutions and
non-government agencies.
The MOE will prepare annual operational action plans, expenditure plans, annual and semi-annual
progress reports for BPEP II including for sub-projects.
Draft operational plans are to be distributed by MOE to the donors one month in advance of the
mission. Following the programming mission the donor group will authorize the use of core funds up to
agreed ceilings.
A report on the outcome of each mission will be prepared by the lead agency and circulated to the
-74-



donor group and HMG.
Danida is proposed as the lead agency for the first annual programming review in May 1999.
The date for the Mid-Term Review (MTR) will be March/April 2002. This will offer the
possibility of coinciding with the more in depth third annual prograrmming mission and will allow for three
cycles of field visits during the second mission each year. It will come at about the mid-point of the cycle
rather than after a bare two years. It is felt that this will yield more information on which to base judgrnent
of progress. A further advantage would be that IDA would be able to present to the donor group and MOE
its funding plans in respect of the second three/four year tranche of the APL and have this reflected in the
annual funding plan for year four.
-75-



