Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3185 NEP 
Development Credit Agreement
(Basic and Primary Education Project)
between
KINGDOM OF NEPAL
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated April 23, 1999
CREDIT NUMBER 3185 NEP
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 23, 1999, between KINGDOM OF NEPAL (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received (a) a letter dated February 5, 1999, 
from the Borrower enclosing a detailed policy statement approved by the Borrower 
designed to restructure, reform and develop the Borrower’s basic and primary education 
system (hereinafter the Basic and Primary Education Program (BPEP) or the Program) and 
(b) the annex to such letter containing the Borrower's Policy Framework for the BPEP 
(the Policy Framework) and declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the 
Program and the Policy Framework;
(B)
the Borrower has requested that the Association support the Borrower’s 
execution of the Program through a series of credits over a period of approximately 
ten years to be utilized by the Borrower in implementing the Program;
(C)
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, which Project forms the 
first phase of the Program has requested the Association to assist in the financing of 
the Project; 
(D)
the Borrower intends to obtain from the Government of the Kingdom of 
Page  2
Norway (Norway), acting through the Norwegian Agency for Development Cooperation 
(NORAD) a grant (NORAD Grant) to assist in financing part of the BPEP on the terms and 
conditions set forth in an agreement (the NORAD Grant Agreement) to be entered into 
between the Borrower and Norway;
(E)
the Borrower has obtained from the Danish International Development 
Assistance (Danida), acting through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, a grant (the 
Danida grant) to assist in financing part of the BPEP on the terms and conditions set 
forth in an agreement (the Danida Grant Agreement) entered into between the Borrower 
and Danida;
(F)
the Borrower intends to obtain from the European Community (EC), a grant 
(the EC Grant) to assist in financing part of the BPEP on the terms and conditions set 
forth in an agreement (the EC Grant Agreement), to be entered into between the 
Borrower and the EC;
(G)
the Borrower intends to obtain from the Government of Finland (Finland) a 
grant (the Finland Grant) to assist in financing part of the BPEP on the terms and 
conditions set forth in an agreement (the Finland Grant Agreement) to be entered into 
between the Borrower and Finland; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, (as amended through \0bDecember 
2, 1997) with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, 
and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly 
renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15):
“12. ‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association 
determines meets 
the requirements set forth in Section 10 of Resolution No. 183 of 
the Board of Governors of  the Association, adopted on June 26, 1996; and 
‘Participating Countries’ means, 
collectively, all such countries;” and
(b)
Subparagraph (a) of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“(a) 
on account of expenditures in the territories of any country which 
is not a 
Participating Country or for goods produced in, or services supplied 
from, such 
territories.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“Core Investment Program” means the first three years of the Borrower’s 
core investment program as set forth in the PIP;
(b)
“DOE” or “Department of Education” means the Department of Education 
within the Borrower’s Ministry of Education;
(c)
“Donors” means NORAD, Danida, the EC and Finland together and “Donor” 
means any one of them;
(d)
“Eligible Categories” mean Categories (1) through (6) set forth in the 
table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
Page  3
(e)
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods and services 
referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(f)
“Fiscal Year” or “FY” mean the Fiscal Year of the Borrower beginning on 
July 16 of a calendar year and ending on July 15 of the following calendar year; 
(g)
“MOE” or “Ministry of Education” means the Borrower’s Ministry of 
Education;
(h)
“PIP” means the Borrower’s Project Implementation Plan dated February 
1999 as the same may be amended from time to time with the consent of the Association 
and the Donors; and
(i)
“Special Account” means the Special Account which the Borrower shall open 
and maintain pursuant to Part B.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to nine million Special Drawing Rights\0b(SDR 9,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be July 15, 2002 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each March 15 and September 15 commencing September 15, 2009 and ending March 15, 
2039.  Each installment to or including the installment payable on March 15, 2019 
shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter 
Page  4
shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower’s economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, and educational practices, and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
 Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Page  5
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall establish and maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts and prepare financial statements in 
a format acceptable to the Association adequate to reflect the operations, resources 
and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of the 
Borrower responsible for, and in connection with, the carrying out of the Project or 
any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph 
(a) of this Section including those for the Special Account 
for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to 
the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, 
(A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such 
year as so audited, and 
(B) an opinion on such financial statements, records 
and accounts and a 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in 
such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall from 
time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports (PMRs) or statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the PMRs or 
statements of expenditure submitted 
during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied 
upon to 
support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Association for the strengthening of the financial management system referred to in 
paragraph (a) of said Section 4.01 in order to enable the Borrower, not later than 
July 1, 2001, or such later date as the Association shall agree, to prepare 
trimesterly Project Management Reports, acceptable to the Association, each of which:
(i)
(A)
sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, 
both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, 
and projected 
sources and applications of funds for the 
Project for the eight-month period 
following the period covered by 
said report, and 
Page  6
(B)
shows separately expenditures financed out of the proceeds 
of the 
Credit during the eight-month period following the 
period covered by said 
report.
(ii)
(A) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report; and
(B)
explains variances between the actual and previously 
forecast 
implementation targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under 
contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, 
as at the end of the 
period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Association, and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days after the end 
of each calendar trimester a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:  
(a)
An event shall have occurred which shall make it improbable that the 
Program or the Policy Framework or a significant part of either will be carried out; 
and
(b)
(i)
Subject to sub-paragraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A)
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of any 
grant or loan 
made to the Borrower for the financing of the 
Project shall have been 
suspended, canceled or terminated in 
whole or in part, pursuant to the 
terms of the agreement 
providing therefor; or
(B)
any such loan shall have become due and payable prior to the 
agreed maturity 
thereof.
(ii)
Paragraph (i) of this Section shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes to 
the satisfaction of the Association that:
(A)
such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is 
not caused 
by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its 
obligations under 
such agreement; and 
(B)
adequate funds for the Project are available to the Borrower 
from other 
sources on terms and conditions consistent with the 
obligations of the 
Borrower under this Agreement.
(c)
The NORAD Grant Agreement and the EC Grant Agreement, or either of them 
shall have failed to become effective by December 31, 1999, or such later date as the 
Association may agree; provided, however, that the provisions of this paragraph shall 
not apply if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that 
adequate funds for the Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on 
terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under this 
Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
any event specified in paragraph (b) (i) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (b) (ii) of that Section; 
Page  7
or 
(b)
any event specified in paragraph (c) of Section 5.01 shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General 
Conditions, namely that the Borrower shall have appointed key staff for the Department 
of Education.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Secretary, Ministry of Finance of the Borrower is designated 
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
His Majesty’s Government of Nepal
Kathmandu, Nepal
Cable address:
Telex:
ARTHA
2249-NEP
Kathmandu, Nepal
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C. 
 64145 (MCI)
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Kathmandu, Nepal, as of the day and year first above written.
KINGDOM OF NEPAL
By /s/ Ram Binod Bhattarai
Authorized Representative
Page  8
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Para Suriyaarachchi
Acting Country Director, 
Nepal
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
A.
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
  Amount of the
Credit Allocated
     % of
  (Expressed in 
 Expenditures
Category
 SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil works
    1,150,000
22.5%
(2)
Consultants’ services
      250,000
22.5%
(3)
Community service providers      700,000
22.5%
(4)
Goods 
    1,500,000
22.5%
(5)
Local training, grants and 
scholarships 
    2,500,000
22.5%
(6)
Incremental Salaries and 
    2,550,000  
22.5%
Operating Costs
(7)
Unallocated
      350,000
    _________
TOTAL
    9,000,000
    =========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule the term “Incremental Salaries and Operating 
Costs” means expenditures incurred for operation and maintenance of facilities used 
for Project implementation, and salaries and allowances for Project staff.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for (a) works under contracts 
costing no more than $100,000 equivalent each; (b) for equipment, materials and 
vehicles under contracts costing no more than $100,000 equivalent each; (c) services 
under contracts costing no more than $50,000 equivalent for employment of consulting 
firms and $20,000 equivalent for employment of individuals; (d) local training, grants 
and scholarships; and (e) Incremental Salaries and Operating Costs, all under such 
terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
B.
Special Account
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in the 
Nepal Rastra Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including 
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment.
Page  9
2.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been opened, withdrawals from the Credit Account of amounts to be 
deposited into the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Association shall have received (i) the first Project 
Management Report referred to in Section 4.02(b) of this Agreement and (ii) a request 
from the Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, 
withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this 
Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Association of a Project Management Report pursuant 
to Section 4.02(b) of this Agreement, accompanied by a request from the Borrower for 
withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to 
the Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if the Association determines at any time that any Project Management 
Report does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 
of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Association determines at any time that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account or (B) 
the records and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals 
were made on the basis of Project Management Reports.
5.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any 
time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in 
whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account 
pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements.  Upon such notification, the Association shall determine, in its sole 
discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account may be made and what 
procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall notify the Borrower 
of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Association determines at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or 
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, provide such additional evidence as the 
Association may request, or deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association 
shall so request, refund to the Association an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment). Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the 
Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided 
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association determines at any time that any amount outstanding in 
the Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Association refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in a Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) 
Page  10
of this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal 
or for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Development Credit 
Agreement.
Annex A to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals 
Are Not Made On the Basis of Project 
Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex:
The term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $1,200,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, however, that unless the Association shall 
otherwise agree, said Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent 
to $600,000, until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account of 
amounts allocated to the Eligible Categories, plus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
respective General Conditions in respect of amounts allocated to said Categories, 
shall equal or exceed the equivalent of SDR3,000,000.
2.
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish 
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Special Account’s Authorized Allocation, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the 
Special Account of an amount or amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed said 
Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Association requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the 
Association shall specify. Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence required pursuant to 
Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of 
which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have 
been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be 
withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under one or more of the Special 
Account’s Eligible Categories.
3.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the Special 
Account’s Eligible Categories minus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions in respect of expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit 
allocated to said Categories, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to said Categories shall follow such 
procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further 
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have 
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of 
the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
Annex B to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals 
Are Made On the Basis of Project 
Management Reports
1.
Except as the Association may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all 
Page  11
withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into the 
Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from 
the Credit Account under one or more of the Special Account’s Eligible Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Credit Account for deposit into a 
Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Credit, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of:
(a)
the amount so requested; and
(b)
the amount which the Association has determined, based on the Project 
Management Report accompanying said application, is required to be deposited in order 
to finance Eligible Expenditures during the eight-month period following the date of 
such report; provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added to the amount 
indicated by said Project Management Report to be remaining in the Special Account, 
shall not exceed the equivalent of SDR1,800,000.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in carrying out the first 
phase of its Basic and Primary Education Program which aims to strengthen 
institutional capacity at national, district and school levels to deliver more 
efficient and better quality education services.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objective:
Part A:
Strengthening of Institutional Capacity
In accordance with the Core Investment Program: 
1.
At National Level
(a)
Provision of staff development programs and training and support to 
strengthen the technical support functions of MOE, the DOE, the Curriculum Development 
Center, the Non-Formal Education Center, the Distance Education Center and the 
National Center for Education Development, including through the provision of 
equipment and consultants services.
(b)
Development of information systems and the professional skills to manage 
and supervise a decentralized school system through programs of staff development or 
training or provision of equipment.
(c)
Preparation of manuals and formats for development of policy-based 
implementation plans and budget proposals for use by national and district-level 
Program -related institutions.
(d)
The carrying out of policy research, evaluation and monitoring including 
periodic national assessments in basic skills at grades 3 and 5.
(e)
Initiation and provision of technical support for district planning and 
investment planning in about 30 districts during the Project implementation; and
(f)
Establishment of objective criteria and mechanisms for school improvement 
planning, provision of technical support to districts for implementation of such 
criteria and for gradually incorporating these into the district planning process.
2.
At District Level
(a)
Provision of staff development programs and training to district 
Page  12
education staff in about 30 districts during Project implementation, aimed at: 
(i)
strengthening technical and management capacities to implement 
school based 
inservice-training; 
(ii)
monitoring school performance and to increase participation of 
village and 
school management committees; and
(iii)
developing district plans and budgets targeting quality 
improvement at grades 
1 to 3 and increased retention of students to 
grade 5.
(b)
Construction of about 15 district education offices.
3.
At Community Level
(a)
Provision of technical support and training to head teachers, School 
Management and Village Education Committees in school improvement planning.
(b)
Provision of essential books and materials to schools and additional 
facilities based on school improvement plans.
(c)
Provision of inservice training for teachers in methods appropriate to 
increasing learning in grades 1 to 3 and in multigrade teaching in small schools.
Part B:
Raising Learning Achievement
In accordance with the Core Investment Program: 
(a)
Improvement of teaching and learning processes through curriculum review 
in the context of small, multigrade schools as well as single classes grades 1 to 3. 
(b)
Improvement of the textbook distribution system.
(c)
Development of methods and materials for multigrade teaching and 
developing a continuous assessment system, teaching techniques and materials. 
(d)
Expansion and improvement of teacher education through regular 
school-based recurrent training and expansion of the resource center professional 
support system to an additional 35 districts, piloting a preservice teacher training 
certificate program, and revising the inservice upgrading certificate course.
(e)
Construction of about 200 resource centers.
Part C:
Increasing Equitable Access to Education
In accordance with the Core Investment Program: 
(a)
Expansion of early childhood development (ECD) centers as part of school 
and village planning in certain areas (especially where there are large numbers of 
underage children in grade 1).
(b)
Provision of: free textbooks to all girls in grades 1 to 5, and all boys 
at grades 1 to 3 and, in remote districts, all boys in grades 4 and 5, scholarships to 
needy girls and inclusive schooling programs for children with special needs.  
(c)
Rehabilitation and construction of classrooms based on approved district 
education plans, and school plans developed by school management committees and 
community mobilization programs.
*          *          *          *          *
The Project is expected to be completed by January 15, 2002.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultant’s Services
Page  13
Section I.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this 
Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provision shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B, namely
(a)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods.
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
(b)
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
(a)
(i)
Pre-fabricated steel structures and roofing materials estimated to 
cost less 
than $300,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed 
$1,500,000 equivalent;
(ii)
other goods, equipment and vehicles estimated to cost less than 
$200,000 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount 
not to exceed $1,000,000 
equivalent;
(iii)
civil works required for Part A (2) (b) of the Project (district 
education 
office buildings)  and estimated to cost $30,000 or 
more; and
(iv)
civil works under Part B (e) and Part C (c) of the Project 
(construction at 
resources centers) may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 
of the Guidelines.
(b)
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of subparagraph (a) of this 
paragraph 1.
2.
Improvement of Bidding Procedures
In order to ensure economy, efficiency, transparency and broad consistency with 
the provisions of Section 1 of the Guidelines:
(a)
invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one widely circulated 
national daily newspaper, at least 30 days prior to the deadline for the submission of 
bids;
(b)
bid documents shall be made available, by mail or in person, to all who 
are willing to pay the required fee;
Page  14
(c)
evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the criteria 
disclosed in the bidding documents, in a format and specified period agreed by IDA;
(d)
bids shall be opened in public, immediately after the deadline for 
submission of bids;
(e)
foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding and no preference of 
any kind shall be given to national bidders;
(f)
qualifications criteria (in case pre-qualifications was not carried out) 
shall be stated in the bidding documents, and, if a registration process is required, 
a foreign firm declared as the lowest evaluated bidder shall be given a reasonable 
opportunity of registering, without let or hindrance;
(g)
contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated bidders;
(h)
post bidding negotiations shall not be allowed on evaluated or any other 
bidders;
(i)
bids shall not be rejected merely on the basis of a comparison with an 
official estimate without the prior concurrence of the Association;
(j)
re-bidding shall not be carried out without the Association’s prior 
concurrence;
(k)
contracts shall not be awarded on the basis of nationally negotiated 
rates;
(l)
all bidders/contractors shall provide bid/performance security as 
indicated in the bidding/contract documents;
(m)
a bidder’s Bid Security shall apply only to a specific bid, and a 
contractor’s performance security shall apply only to the specific contract under 
which it was furnished;
(n)
split award or lottery in award of contracts shall not be carried out.  
When two or more bidders quote the same lowest price, an investigation shall be made 
to determine any evidence of collusion, following which:
(i)
if collusion is determined, the parties involved shall be 
disqualified and the 
award shall then be made to next lowest 
evaluated and qualified bidder; and
(ii)
if no evidence of collusion can be confirmed, then fresh bids 
shall be 
invited, after receiving concurrence of the 
Association;
(o)
extension of bid validity shall not allowed unless justified by 
exceptional circumstances; and
(p)
there shall not be any restrictions on the means of delivery of the bids.
3.
International or National Shopping
Goods (including vehicles and equipment) estimated to cost less than $50,000 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $850,000 equivalent, 
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.
Direct Contracting
Goods which are spare parts must be purchased from the original supplier to be 
compatible with existing equipment or must be procured from a particular supplier as a 
condition of a performance guarantee and costing $150,000 equivalent or less in the 
aggregate, may, with the Association's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
Page  15
5.
Force Account
Works which meet the requirements of paragraph 3.8 of the Guidelines, and 
costing $250,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may, with the Association's 
prior agreement, be carried out by force account in accordance with the provisions of 
said paragraph of the Guidelines.
6.
Community Participation
Goods and works required for Parts A and B of the Project shall be procured in 
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
7.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $10,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $100,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, 
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) 
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation 
shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, and 
relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience 
and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to: (i) the first three contracts for civil works; (ii) each 
contract for civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more; (iii) 
the first five contracts using community participation in accordance with Part C 
paragraph 5 of this Section; (iv) the first contract using small works procurement in 
accordance with Part C paragraph 6 of this Section; (v) each contract using force 
account procurement in accordance with Part C, paragraph 4 of this Section; (vi) each 
contract for pre-fabricated steel structures and roofing materials estimated to cost 
the equivalent of $100,000 or more; (vii) each contract for goods estimated to cost 
the equivalent of $100,000 or more; and (viii) each contract using direct contracting 
in accordance with Part C, paragraph 3 of this Section; the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under direct contracting 
or shopping procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the Association a copy of the 
specifications and the draft contract.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following 
Page  16
provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services under the Project, estimated to cost less 
than $200,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Consultants’ services which are small consultancies, institutional services and 
individual assignments under the Project estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed plan 
for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or 
more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 and (other than the third 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
In implementing the Project, the Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the Program, within the Policy 
Framework, and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association and 
furnish to the Association and the Donors on March 31 in each year, commencing March 
31, 2000, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities 
performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the 
carrying out of the Project during the twelve-month period preceding the date of said 
report;
Page  17
(c)
in each of the reports referred to in paragraph (b) above, also recommend 
the measures to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof, including, for the succeeding calendar year: (i) an annual 
work plan; (ii) an investment plan, and the targets to be achieved, all for the 
implementation of the Project during the twelve-month period succeeding the date of 
said report; (iii) a budget proposal for the carrying out of the Project; and (iv) a 
procurement plan.
(d)
review with the Association and the Donors by April 30 of each year 
during the execution of the Project, or such later date as the Association together 
with the Donors shall request, the report referred to in subparagraph (b) of this 
paragraph, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the Program and the Policy Framework and the achievement 
of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said 
report and the Association’s views on the matter.
2.
The Borrower, through MOE, shall implement in a timely fashion the DOE 
Reorganization Plan in a manner satisfactory to the Association, and thereafter shall 
ensure that no key staff in national education institutions and core staff within 
District Education Offices (as the same are defined in the DOE Reorganization Plan) 
will be transferred.
3.
The Borrower, through MOE, shall implement teacher training programs in 
accordance with the Policy Framework, and shall not change or substitute such teacher 
training programs without prior consent of the Association, such change or 
substitution and consent to take place at the annual review referred to in paragraph 1 
above.
4.
The Borrower shall only establish new primary schools based on criteria for 
school establishment contained in the Policy Framework and satisfactory to the 
Association.
5.
With regard to school teaching staff, the Borrower, through MOE, shall:
(a)
complete teacher redeployment in 12 districts in accordance with the 
plan, contained in the PIP and satisfactory to the Association, by December 31, 2001;
(b)
implement policies and strategies in a manner satisfactory to the 
Association to increase the total number of female teachers; and
(c)
maintain primary teacher staff at the 1998 level for total number of 
primary teaching positions in the education system.
6.
By no later than December 31, 2001, the Borrower shall:
(a)
provide to the Association for its review and comment a report on the 
Borrower’s experience with School Improvement Plans;
(b)
provide to the Association for its review and comment, reports on the 
MOE’s experience with the experimental pre-service training program and the in-service 
certification program (focusing in particular on the impact on classroom practice);
(c)
review with the Association the Borrower’s resource management and 
resource levels in and for the education sector, as summarized in the PIP;
(d)
provide to the Association an evaluation of special focus group programs 
and girls incentive programs; and
(e)
conduct a review of its experience with its textbook provision under 
current policy and shall provide a revised textbook policy for review by the 
Association.
7.
The Borrower, through MOE, shall carry out: (a) by December 31, 1999; and (b) by 
end Fiscal Year 2001/2002 grade 3 and grade 5 basic skills learning achievement 
assessments and provide a copy of each assessment to the Association.
Page  18
