Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
(Basic and Primary Education Project)
between
THE KINGDOM OF NEPAL
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator of Grant Funds
provided by the
GOVERNMENT OF JAPAN
Dated March 8, 1991
JAPANESE GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 8, 1991, between THE KINGDOM OF NEPAL (the Recipient) and 
the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) acting as Administrator 
(the Administrator) of grant funds provided by the GOVERNMENT OF JAPAN (Japan).
WHEREAS (A) pursuant to a letter agreement dated July 30, 1990 between Japan and 
the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the Association 
(collectively, the Bank), Japan has requested the Bank, and the Bank has agreed, to 
administer grant funds to be made available by Japan for the financing of certain 
programs and projects supported by the Bank in accordance with the provisions of such 
letter agreement;
WHEREAS (B) the Recipient has requested and Japan has agreed to make available 
to the Recipient a grant (the Grant) out of said grant funds to finance the cost of 
carrying out the technical assistance described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (the 
Technical Assistance) on the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth; 
WHEREAS (C) the Recipient has requested the Bank to carry out the Technical 
Assistance;
Page  2
WHEREAS (D) the Bank has agreed to carry out the Technical Assistance on the 
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions; Term of Technical Assistance
Section 1.01. The Technical Assistance shall consist of services to be 
undertaken by consultants (the Consultants) who shall, as far as practicable, have 
expertise in the areas described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 1.02. As used in this Agreement, the terms "yen" and "¥" mean the 
currency of Japan, and the term "Consultants" includes individual consultants as well 
as any consulting firm that provides any of the experts referred to in Section 1.01.
Section 1.03. Implementation of the Technical Assistance is expected to commence 
no later than April 1, 1991, and shall continue for a period not to exceed twenty four 
calendar months.
ARTICLE II
Responsibilities of the Administrator
Section 2.01. The Administrator shall make reasonable efforts to secure the 
services of the Consultants, ensure the availability of adequately qualified local 
counterpart staff, and shall review for approval the specifications of equipment and 
vehicles and the related operating costs.
Section 2.02. The Administrator shall utilize the Grant to finance, on a grant 
basis, the following expenditures: 
(a)
in connection with the services of the Consultants and, where applicable, 
the participants under the fellowship, training and study visits:
(i)
remuneration, per diem and other allowances;
     (ii)
international and local travel expenses; 
    (iii)
out-of-pocket expenses, including communications and reports, 
incurred by the Consultants in foreign and local currency in the 
performance of their services; and
     (iv)
stipends.
(b)
in connection with local training, education and curriculum development:
(i)
local travel expenses;
     (ii)
per diems; and
    (iii)
supplies and materials;
(c)
equipment and related operating costs.
Section 2.03. The amount of the Grant to be provided by Japan for the Technical 
Assistance pursuant to Section 2.02 shall not exceed the equivalent of two hundred 
thirty-two million four hundred thousand yen (¥232,400,000).
Section 2.04. The recruitment, engagement and supervision of the Consultants 
shall be carried out by the Administrator in consultation with the Recipient and shall 
be done according to the Administrator's applicable procedures.
ARTICLE III
Responsibilities of the Recipient
Section 3.01. The Recipient shall cooperate with the Administrator and the 
Consultants to ensure that the Technical Assistance is carried out promptly and 
effectively and, for this purpose, shall issue appropriate instructions to its 
officials, agents and representatives.
Page  3
Section 3.02. The Recipient shall:
(a)
make arrangements for all personnel of the Consultants assigned to the 
Technical Assistance (other than nationals of the Recipient or permanent residents of 
the Recipient's territories) and all dependents of such personnel promptly to be 
provided with any necessary entry and exit visas, residence and work permits, exchange 
documents and travel documents required for their stay in the Recipient's territories 
during the duration of the Technical Assistance;
(b)
facilitate clearance through its customs of any equipment, materials and 
supplies required for the Technical Assistance and any personal effects of the 
personnel of the Consultants assigned to the Technical Assistance (other than 
nationals of the Recipient or permanent residents of the Recipient's territories) and 
the dependents of such personnel;
(c)
permit the Consultants to bring into, and withdraw from, the Recipient's 
territories reasonable amounts of foreign currency for purposes related to the 
Technical Assistance;
(d)
permit the personnel of the Consultants assigned to the Technical 
Assistance (other than nationals of the Recipient or permanent residents of the 
Recipient's territories) and the dependents of such personnel to bring into, and 
withdraw from, the Recipient's territories reasonable amounts of foreign currency for 
their personal use; and
(e)
exempt the Consultants and the personnel of the Consultants assigned to 
the Technical Assistance from (or the Recipient shall pay on behalf of the Consultants 
and such personnel) any taxes, duties, fees, levies and other impositions imposed 
under the laws and regulations in effect in the Recipient's territories on the 
Consultants and such personnel in respect of:
(i)
any payments whatsoever made to the Consultants and such personnel 
(other than nationals of the Recipient or permanent residents of 
the Recipient's territories) in connection with the carrying out 
of the Technical Assistance;
           (ii)
any equipment, materials and supplies brought into the Recipient's 
territories by the Consultants for the purpose of carrying out the 
Technical Assistance and which, after having been brought into 
such territories, will be subsequently withdrawn therefrom by 
them;
    (iii)
any equipment, material and supplies brought into the Recipient's 
territories by the Consultants for the purpose of carrying out the 
Technical Assistance and which will be consumed therein or become 
the property of the Recipient; and
     (iv)
any property brought into the Recipient's territories by the 
Consultants or such personnel (other than nationals of the 
Recipient or permanent residents of the Recipient's ter-ritories) 
or the dependents of such personnel for their personal use and 
which will be consumed therein or subsequently withdrawn therefrom 
by them upon their respective departure from the Recipient's 
territories, provided that the Consultants, such personnel and 
their dependents shall follow the usual customs procedures of the 
Recipient in importing property into the Recipient's territories. 
Section 3.03. The Recipient shall be responsible for dealing with any claims 
arising out of, or resulting from, the Technical Assistance that may be brought by 
third parties against the Administrator. The Recipient shall indemnify the 
Administrator against any costs, claims, damages or liabilities arising out of, or 
resulting from, any acts or omissions in connection with the Technical Assistance.
Section 3.04. For purposes of carrying out the Technical Assistance, the 
Recipient shall make available to the Consultants, free of charge, the data, services, 
facilities and equipment set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 3.05. The Recipient shall make available to the Consultants, free of 
charge, such counterpart personnel to be selected by the Recipient based upon the 
Consultants' request as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.  If any member of 
the counterpart personnel fails to perform adequately any work assigned to him by the 
Page  4
Consultants that is consistent with the position occupied by such member, the 
Consultants may request the replacement of such member, and the Recipient shall not 
unreasonably refuse to act upon such request.
Section 3.06. The Recipient shall procure equipment and vehicles for the purpose 
of carrying out the Technical Assistance in accordance with procedures consistent with 
those set forth in Section I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Administrator in May 1985.
ARTICLE IV
Reports and Other Matters
Section 4.01. The Recipient and the Administrator shall, from time to time, at 
the request of either party, exchange views on the Technical Assistance and consult on 
any reports prepared by the Consultants and the implementation of any recommendations 
made in those reports.
Section 4.02. The Administrator may use any reports prepared by the Consultants 
for any purpose that the Administrator may consider appropriate but those reports may 
not be made public except by agreement between the Recipient and the Administrator.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date, Suspension
and Termination
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall become effective upon its execution by the 
parties.
Section 5.02. The Recipient may at any time request the Administrator in writing 
to terminate the Technical Assistance.  Whether or not the Recipient has made such a 
request, the Administrator may at any time suspend or, after consultation with the 
Recipient, terminate the Technical Assistance if any circum-stances arise that, in the 
opinion of the Administrator, interfere or threaten to interfere with the successful 
implementation of the Technical Assistance, the accomplishment of its purposes, or the 
execution of the Technical Assistance in accordance with the terms and conditions of 
this Agreement.
Section 5.03. If the Technical Assistance is suspended or terminated, the 
Recipient and the Administrator shall consult with each other concerning any further 
action that may be necessary or desirable.
Section 5.04. The Administrator is not an agent of or trustee for the Recipient 
and shall not have any fiduciary relationship with the Recipient. The Recipient shall 
have no right to any portion of the Grant that is not expended by the Administrator 
pursuant to this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Representation
Section 6.01. The officials responsible for the implementation of this Agreement 
shall be:
For the Recipient:
Minister of Education and Culture
Ministry of Education and Culture
Kathmandu
The Kingdom of Nepal
For the Administrator:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
197688 (TRT),
Page  5
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA),
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
THE KINGDOM OF NEPAL
By /s/ Mohan Man Sainju
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator of the Grant
By /s/ A. Karaosmanoglu
Regional Vice President
Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Description of Technical Assistance
The objective of the Technical Assistance is to assist the Recipient in the 
preparation of a proposed Basic and Primary Education Project (the Proposed Project).
The Technical Assistance will consist of the provision of educational services, 
placements, fellowships, study visits, local and foreign training, equipment, and the 
payment of related operating costs, with a view to, among other things, (i) developing 
and disseminating primary curricula; (ii) developing primary textbooks; (iii) 
designing research and development studies and (iv) enhancing the Recipient's capacity 
to collect and analyze educa-tional data for planning purposes.
The Proposed Project's objectives would be to (i) improve the quality of the 
basic and primary education systems; (ii) increase equitable access to basic and 
primary schooling; and (iii) improve the Recipient's management of basic and primary 
education.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of Services, Facilities, Equipment and
Counterpart Personnel to be Made
Available by the Recipient
The Recipient shall:
1. Provide office space for short-term visiting consultants.
2. Facilitate access to appropriate officials in the Ministry of Education and Culture 
of the Recipient to assist the Consultants in the carrying out of their assignment.
3. Take all necessary maesures to enable all of the Recipient's officials whose names 
have been agreed upon by the Recipient and the Administrator to participate in the 
training and education program financed hereunder.
