Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 24458 ME
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
PROGRAM DOCUMENT
FOR A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 202.02 MILLION
TO
THE UNITED MEXICAN STATES
FOR A
PROGRAMMATIC ENVIRONMENT STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
July 8, 2002
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development
Colombia, Mexico and Venezuela Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Peso
9.4675 pesos = US$1
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BANOBRAS                    Banco NVacional de Obras y Servicios Ptiblicos
CAS                         Country Assistance Strategy
CFE                         Comisi6n Federal de Electricidad
CDM                         Clean Development Mechanism
CNA                         Comisi6n Nacional de Agua
CONAFOR                     Comisi6n Nacional Forestal
DAL                         Decentralization Adjustment Loan
EIA                         Environmental Impact Assessment
ENRP                        Environment and Natural Resources Program
ENR-SECAL                   Philippines Environment and Natural Resources Sector
Adiustment Loan
EnvSAL                      Mexico Programmatic Environment Structural
Adjustment Loan
EPSAL                       Bulgaria Environment and Privatisation Support
Adjustment Loan
GDP                         Gross Domestic Product
GOM                         Government of Mexico
IDB                         Inter American Development Bank
GTZ                         Deutsche Gesellschaft fuer Technische Zusammenarbeit
INE                         Instituto Nacional de Ecologia
ITWG                        Intersectorial Technical Working Group
LGEEPA                      Ley General del Equilibrio Ecol6gico y la Protecci6n al
Ambiente
NAFTA                       North American Free Trade Agreement
NGO                         Non-Governmental Organization
NO,                         Nitrogen Oxides
OECD                        Organization of Economic Cooperation and
Development
OED                         Operations Evaluations Department
PEMEX                       Petroleos Mexicanos
PDIA                        Programa de Desarrollo Institucional ,mbiental
PPm                         parts per million
PROFEPA                     Federal Attorney General for Environmental Regulation
PSBR                        Public Sector Borrowing Requirement
PSDFG                       Program for promoting Sustainable Development in the
Federal Government
SAL                         Structural Adjustment Loan
SEA                         Strategic Environmental Assessment
SECTUR                      Secretaria de Turismo
SEMARNAT                    Secretaria de Miedio Ambiente y Recursos Vaturales
SENER                       Secretaria de Energia
SHCP                        Secretaria de Hacienda v Cridito Puiblico
Vice President:        David de Ferranti
Country Director:      Olivier Lafourcade
ESSD Director:        John Redwood
Sector Manager:       Teresa Serra
Task Team Leader:      Kulsum Ahmed



MEXICO
PROGRAMMATIC ENVIRONMENT STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
TABLE OF CONTENTS
1.       INTRODUCTION ........................................                              7
II.      ENVIRONMENT IN MEXICO ........................................                     7
A. Main Environmental Issues ........................................              7
B. Developments in the 1990s ........................................              9
C. Mexico's Environmental Reform            Agenda 2001-2006 ...............       10
III.     PROPOSED ENVIRONMENT STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT
PROGRAM                      .                 .21
A. Objectives of the Program .21
B1. Content of the Program .21
C. Analytical Underpinnings .22
D. Contents of the Loan .23
E. Poverty and Environental Impact .25
F. Loan Amounts, Conditions, and Arrangements .26
IV.      THE MACROECONOMIC FRAMEWORK FOR THE PROPOSED
OPERATION                      .....................................               28
A. Recent Economic Developments ......................................             28
B. Medium-Term        Structural Reforn       and Growth ........................ 30
V.       BANK STRATEGY                       .................................. 30
A. The CAS and The Proposed EnvSAL Program .......................                 30
B. Linkage with the Bank's Environment Strategy and the Millennium
Development Goals (MDGs) ......................................                30
C. Complementarities With Other Operations ............................ 31
D. Review and Lessons Learned from            Related Work .................... 32
VI.      RISK AND RISK MITIGATION                       .......................... 34
A. Macroeconomic Risks ......................................                       34
B. Coordination Risks ......................................                        34
C. Institutional Risks ......................................                       35
This operation was prepared by a World Bank team composed of Messrs./Mmes. Teresa Serra, Kulsum Ahmed,
Ricardo Hemandez, Emesto Sanchez-Triana, Nadim Khouri, Maria Alejandra Bouquet, Ina-Marlene E. Ruthenberg,
Sergio Margulis, Julio Cordoba, Angela Armstrong, Pedro Zapata, Augusta Molnar, Luiz Gabriel Azevedo, Santiago
Sandoval, Ramon Anria, Erica Felix-Castaneda, Bertha Christina Tunon (LCSES); John A. Dixon (WBIEN); Douglas
C. Olson (EASRD); Magda Lovei (ENV); Abel Mejia, Oscar E. Alvarado (LCSFW); Jozef Draaisma (LCSPE);
Charles M. Feinstein (LCSFE); Adolfo Brizzi, Marcelo Giugale (LCC IA); Neeta G. Sirur (LCOQE); Victor Ordonez
(LCOAA); Charles E. Di Leva (LEGEN); Ferenc E. Molnar (LEGLA); Bari Rabin (consultant); Hemando Garzon
(consultant); Tania Carrasco (consultant) and Stein Hansen (consultant). The task team leader is Kulsum Ahmed
(LCSEN). Earlier stages of project preparation were led by Nadim Khouri (LCSES) and Ina-Marlene Ruthenberg
(LCSES). Peer reviewers were David Wheeler (DECRG) and Kirk Hamilton (ENV). The team worked under the
general guidance of Messrs./Mmes. Teresa Serra (Environment Sector Manager); Adolfo Brizzi (previous ESSD
Sector Leader); Matthew McMahon (acting ESSD Sector Leader); and Olivier Lafourcade (Country Director).






MEXICO
PROGRAMMATIC ENVIRONMENT STRUCTURAL ADJUSMENT LOAN
LOAN AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
Borrower:                The United Mexican States
Implementing Agencies:   Secretaria de Medio Ambiente y Recursos Naturales
(SEMARNAT), Secretaria de Hacienda and Credito
Publico (SHCP), Secretaria de Energia (SENER),
Secretaria de Turismo (SECTUR), and Comision Nacional
de Agua (CNA).
Amount and Terms:        US$202.02 million fixed spread, U.S. dollar-denominated
loan, with 10.5 years of grace and bullet repayment on
August 1, 2013. Commitment charge: 0.85 percent for first
four years, and 0.75 percent thereafter on undisbursed loan
balances. Front-end fee: 1 percent of the loan amount,
capitalized.
Description:             The proposed loan will support the first stage of the
Government's medium-term, outcome-based program to
promote sustainable development. The overarching
objective of the program is to balance socioeconomic
development   with  environmental  protection  and
improvement.    The   program  will focus  on:  (i)
mainstreaming of environmental concerns in key sectoral
development agendas, as prioritized by the GOM; and (ii)
improving the effectiveness and efficiency of local
environmental management processes in Mexico.
This first operation supports the achievements of the GOM
with regard to objective (i), including (a) the establishment
of high-level and technical coordination mechanisms with
other sectors, through which medium-term targets have
been set to promote mainstreaming of environment in
sectoral policy; and (b) the design and use of fiscal
instruments to promote the payment of municipal water
fees and investment in municipal hydraulic works and for
revenue generation from the use of national marine
protected areas and corresponding reinvestment in the
environmental management of these areas. With respect to
objective (ii), the loan supports: (a) the creation of an
enabling environment to decentralize federal environmental
management functions to the State level via changes to key
5



laws; (b) the preparation of a viable, stepwise
decentralization strategy, that specifies the minimum
criteria (with respect to personnel and goods) that States
have to meet to take on decentralization functions, and
establishes a mechanism (through the use of third party
certification) of ensuring that the quality of decentralized
processes is maintained; (c) the preparation and publication
of decentralization plans on the part of at least 20 states; (d)
the assignment of budget and targeted use of the PDIA
(federal grant program) to finance capacity building in
States with plans to assume new environmental
management functions; and (e) the development and
implementation of a strategy to improve public access to
information on EIA and permit applications based on the
recent passage of a key national law on the transparency of
information.
Risks and Benefits:     The operation faces a number of potential macroeconomic,
coordination and institutional risks: (i) the economy
remains vulnerable to both domestic and extemal shocks;
(ii) lack of coordination among the key stakeholders could
affect program implementation; (iii) future reforms could
be stalled in the Congress; (iv) decentralization of
environmental functions to the states could be impeded by
financial resource constraints; and (v) incentives provided
via fiscal instruments could prove insufficient to yield
desired outcomes. While real, these risks have been taken
into account in the design of the EnvSAL operation, which
puts emphasis on coordination, consensus building, and a
stepwise approach to resolving the issues, through pilot
studies. With respect to the macro economy, Mexico
should benefit from recovery in the US, even though the
timing remains uncertain. The benefits of EnvSAL will be
considerable, putting the development of key sectors on a
sustainable footing, and reducing the impact of the
activities of these economic sectors on the environment and
natural resource base.
Schedule of Disbursements: The proposed loan (US$202,020,000) will be disbursed in
two equal tranches, the first upon loan effectiveness and the
second tentatively expected in about December 2002.
Closing Date:           October 31, 2003
Project ID Number:      MX-PE-P074539
6



IBRD PROGRAM DOCUMENT FOR
A PROPOSED ADJUSTMENT LOAN TO THE UNITED MEXICAN STATES
FOR A
PROGRAMMATIC ENVIRONMENT STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
I. INTRODUCTION
1.    Mexico is facing a substantial annual loss of welfare and growth opportunities due
to environmental degradation and depletion. Recent estimates put this loss in welfare at
about 10% of GDP', which is significant both in absolute macroeconomic terms and in
comparison with other OECD countries. As a result, there has been growing recognition
among policymakers that there are substantial economic and institutional distortions
resulting from market-- and policy -- failures related to the management, extraction and
use of the country's productive environmental resources and sinks for emissions and
waste materials. Such distortions serve as severe obstacles to long-term sustainable
development and limit the scope for short-term growth-oriented adjustments. Better
integration of environmental issues in economy-wide policies is essential to ensure that
future development is sustainable, and accordingly is being given high priority by the
Mexican Government. The proposed loan in this memorandum is the first in an expected
series of quick-disbursing loans aimed at supporting the Government of Mexico's
(GOM's) sustainable development program. This first loan supports initial actions,
including the development of medium-term targets for mainstreaming environment in key
economic sectors, the design and application of fiscal instruments to promote better
environmental management, changes in laws to enable decentralization of environmental
management functions to the State levels, the preparation and implementation of a
decentralization strategy which aims to maintain the quality of decentralized processes
through innovative use of certification, and efforts to improve public access to
information particularly for EIA and licensing applications, that are vital first steps in the
GOM's medium term program.
II. ENVIRONMENT IN MEXICO
A.     Main Environmental Issues
2.    Mexico today faces tremendous pressure on its natural environment, reflecting
decades of rapid industrialization and fast expansion of the agriculture, livestock, and
transport sectors (predicated on the availability of abundant and cheap sources of energy),
with relatively little regard paid until recently to environmental consequences. As a
result, available information on Mexico's environmental status suggests that severe
I INEGI, 2000. Sistema de Cuentas Economicas y Ecologicas de Mexico (1993-1999). Insituto
Nacional de Estadistica Geografla e Informatica. Mexico City, Mexico.
7



degradation has taken place in a number of sectors - to the point where failure to reverse
some of the most damaging environmental trends could not only act as a brake on
continued growth but in some cases contribute directly to reduced social welfare and
increased   poverty.    For example, over 50 percent of Mexico's 258              aquifers are
overdrawn, especially in the fast-growing north, raising a very real specter of recurrent
conflicts between agriculture, industry and municipalities in the medium-term; public
health hazards are widespread as over 90% of wastewater remains untreated, only about
one-third of solid and hazardous waste is disposed of under sanitary conditions, and
concentrations of atmospheric contaminants in some urban areas frequently exceed
acceptable standards; deforestation rates are among the highest in Latin America -- about
600,000 hectares disappear annually with negative consequences for soil erosion and the
conservation of ecosystems-- in turn, increasing vulnerability to (already frequent)
natural disasters; and, the marine and insular ecosystem and coastal zones are threatened
by accelerating tourism and urban growth (see Table 1 for more details).
Table 1. Selected Environmental Indicators for Mexico compared with the Latin
America and Caribbean Region and Upper Middle Income Countries.
Mexico         LAC        Upper middle
income group
Agriculture
Agricultural land (% of land area)                        56.2           7.9           8.4
Irrigated land (% of crop land)                           23.8           13.7          11.8
Forests
Forest area (% of total land area)                        28.9          47.1           35.2
Annual deforestation (% change, 1990-2000)                 1.1           0.5           0.5
Biodiversity
Nationally protected areas (% of land area)                3-5           7.4           6.0
Energy
Commercial energy use per capita (kg oil equiv)           1,552         1,183         2,025
Electric power consumption per capita (kWh)              1,513.30      1,452.10       2,481.9
Share of electricity generated by coal (%)                 9.8           4.7           32.2
Energy depletion (% GDP)                                   4             2.7           3.8
Emissions and Pollution
CO2 emissions per capita (mt)                              4             2.8           5.5
Passenger cars (per I 000 people)                          102           68            119
Water and Sanitation
Freshwater resources per capita (m3)                      4:742        27,919         16,744
Access to sanitation rural (% rural pop)                   32            49             54
Waste Management
% of uncollected solid waste                               23            --
% of treated water waste                                   25            --
% of treated hazardous waste                               10
Source: The Little Green Data Book 2001, SEMARNAT 2001
8



B.    Developments in the 1990s
3.    Following a long period of relative neglect, environmental issues began to assume
a higher profile in Mexico during the 1990s. This trend was driven in part by Mexico's
increasing international integration (via membership in NAFTA and in the OECD, both
in 1994) and active participation in international treaties and conventions on
environment. For example, Mexico became a signatory to the Kyoto Protocol, whose
binding targets acted as a catalyst to push forward the sustainable development agenda,
including higher standards and better compliance mechanisms. Moreover, through the
process of trade negotiations, Mexico has become more aware of the potential role of
sound environmental practices in influencing competitiveness, expanding export markets
and attracting tourism and foreign investment. On the domestic front as well, political
and institutional changes, including democratization and decentralization, both helped to
establish a more solid environmental constituency and increased local level
accountability for environmental practices.  In this context, political commitment to
tackling environment issues increased at a number of levels of government and civil
society, leading to a first set of serious reform efforts, during the Zedillo Administration
as described below.
4.    One area of notable accomplishment during the 1 990s was the passage of a series
of legislative changes aimed at modernizing the regulatory framework for enviromnental
improvements. Inter alia, these included passage: (i) in 1992, of a new National Water
Law which mandated registration of water users (including dischargers) as a basis for
promoting water markets, establishment of mechanisms for river basin management, and
improvement of monitoring, modeling and assessment, including better operation of
hydraulic infrastructure; (ii) in 1996, of the Ley General de Equilibrio Ecologico y
Proteccion al Ambiente (LGEEPA) which represented an overhaul of the legal
environmental framework, through promotion of increased decentralization of
environmental management, participation of civil society in decision-making, use of
economic instruments in implementing environmental policy, and voluntary mechanisms
for environmental compliance; and (iii) in 1997, of a major reform to the forestry law
which sought to strengthen linkages between forestry and environment, promoting
orderly participation of NGOs and conununities in commercial plantations and in
sustainable use of forestry products, and strengthening of forestry services, including
enforcement and sanctions.
5.    In parallel, Mexico made a number of important institutional changes to begin
putting in place a strengthened capacity for environmental management and governance.
A key step in this regard, was the establishment in 1992 of the National Institute of
Ecology (INE) to play a lead role in establishing environmental regulations, including
those related to environmental impact assessment, as well as the issuance of
environmental permits. In the same year, enforcement of environmental regulations was
strengthened by the creation of an office of the Federal Attorney General for
Environmental Regulation (PROFEPA). In 1994, recognizing the need for a more
coordinated approach to environment, a decision was taken to regroup environmental
responsibilities under a single Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources
9



(SEMARNAT)2, bringing together the programs and policies of previously semi-
independent entities including INE, PROFEPA, the National Water Commission
(CNA),and the Mexican Institute of Water Technology in addition to the policies and
programs for natural resources, soil conservation and restoration, environmental
management and environmental policy planning. This Ministry, in line with a nation-
wide shift towards greater decentralization in 1999, adopted a core strategy for
decentralized environmental management , focusing on defining new approaches
consistent with strengthening sub-national capacity in environment, and devising new
financial mechanisms for state and municipal level environmental investments..
SEMARNAT was supported in its efforts to strengthen environmental management
institutions at the state level, through a pilot matching grants scheme (Programa de
Desarrollo Institucional Ambiental, PDIA) of $3.5 million under the Bank-supported
Decentralization Adjustment Loan (DAL) in 1999, through which transfers were made to
27 states for technical assistance and capacity building based on environmental
performance agreements.  Following a favorable evaluation of the impact of this
program, the Government has extended its life beyond the DAL formal requirement.
6.    Mexico's increased attention to environment during the 1990s led to marked
progress in some areas - most notably biodiversity (through establishment of the
regulatory framework, institutions and funding for a National System of Protected Areas
- SINAP), and air pollution (via a successful program for improving air quality in the
Mexico City metropolitan area).  However, given the magnitude of Mexico's
environmental challenges and the relatively short time that has passed since the country
began to formulate a comprehensive response, there remains a considerable unfinished
agenda - as shown by the still-enormous environmental challenges outlined at the outset
of this section of the report -- which forms a core component of the development strategy
being put forward by the present administration in its National Development Plan (Plan
Nacional de Desarrollo) for 2001-2006. Section C below provides a more detailed look
at the Government's medium-term approach to addressing some of the key environmental
issues facing Mexico today as it forms the basis for the design of the adjustment
operation proposed in Section III of this memorandum.
C.     Mexico's Environmental Reform Agenda 2001-2006
7.    The Government of Mexico (GOM) is well aware of the challenges that it faces
on the environmental front as well as the implications of inaction in environment on the
economy as a whole. The recently formulated Environment and Natural Resources
Program (ENRP) 2001 -2006 notes that the country's new environmental policy is
sustainable development. The underlying pillars of Mexico's new ENRP are:
(i)     Integration. The new environment policy focuses on ecological,
rather than political, boundaries, and recognizes the need to manage
2 SEMARNAT (then called SEMARNAP) included responsibility for fisheries when it was initially
founded. Subsequently, the National Institute of Fisheries was transferred to the Ministry of Agriculture.
10



water, land, air, forests, and biodiversity in an integrated manner
within the context of watersheds.
(ii)    Commitment at the level of the Federal Government. The
ENRP takes a notable approach by emphasizing that sustainable
development is a shared task between different ministries and
institutions of the Federal Government, that represent distinct
sectors of the economy. In doing so, it recognizes that the majority
of actions that directly affect the environment are not necessarily
those under the mandate of SEMARNAT. The medium-term goals
under this pillar are the specific commitments that promote
sustainability made by 13 federal government entities (that
formulate and implement national economic and social policies)
through specific actions under their mandate. Entities that are
participating in the Program include the Tourism Ministry, Energy
Ministry, PEMEX, CFE, and the Ministry of Agriculture.
(iii)   Decentralization  and   sharing  of  responsibilities  for
environmental management.    The new   strategy shifts the
emphasis from prevention and control to halting and, as feasible,
reversing, the degradation of ecosystems. This more proactive
policy  implies two  key  changes: (i)  restructuring  and
decentralization of the federal environment sector, calling for
shared and coordinated environmental action across federal, state
and municipal levels, and (ii) inducing good behavior on the part of
environmental users through clear, efficient and innovative
regulation and the formulation of incentives to promote efficient
environmental performance.
(iv)    Valuation of natural resources.  The new policy promotes
recognition by users of the economic and social value of natural
resources and environmental assets/services. The intention is to
promote rational use of resources through more accurately valuing
their worth and importance for society.
(v)     Improved enforcement. The new policy emphasizes compliance
and enforcement and puts emphasis on the fact that the law is
applicable without exceptions.
(vi)    Social participation and total transparency. The new strategy
emphasizes the citizen's right to information that would allow
him/her to know the state of the environment in which he lives and
how his welfare is affected. This would include the systematic use
of indicators, through the establishment of indices and goals, to
allow for clear evaluation and transparent accounting.
11



8.    SEMARNAT and its deconcentrated agencies are carrying out the following
seventeen strategic programs, in line with the above pillars. These programs are
described in greater detail in the Government's Letter of Development Policy (Annex 1).
(i)   Sectoral and Institutional Programs: National Water Program, National
Forestry Program, Strategic Program for Environmental Enforcement and
Natural Protected Areas Program;
(ii)  National Crusades (awareness raising and environmental education
campaigns) in the areas of water, forests, and a clean environment;
(iii)  Strategic Programs: with the objective of stopping and reversing
pollution of life-sustaining systems (water, air and soils), stopping and
reversing loss of natural capital; conserving ecosystems and biodiversity,
and promoting sustainable development in the federal government;
(iv)  Regional and Multisectoral Programs: Northern Border Program, Plan
Puebla-Panama, Nautical Ladder Project in the Sea of Cortes,
Mesoamerican Biological Corridor; and
(v)   Special Programs: Indigenous Towns, Gender Equity, and Youth.
9.    In line with its emphasis on sustainable development, the incoming administration
took an important step by including the Secretary of Environment and Natural Resources
in all three Cabinet-level Commissions that attend to national priorities. Thus changing
the topic of environment from a sectoral issue linked only to social policy to one that is a
transversal theme included in the agendas of all three commissions: Growth with
Quality, Human and Social Development; and Order and Respect. The ENRP is also
reflected in the National Development Plan 2001-2006 in support of a key objective,
namely to achieve social and human development in harmony with nature.
10.   The current administration has also taken some key institutional decisions that are
consistent with its new sustainable development policy, changing the structure of the
Ministry, by (i) transferring the responsibilities for fisheries to the Ministry of
Agriculture; (ii) creating a new forestry commission, thus separating the regulatory and
productive aspects; and (iii) changing the National Ecology Institute (Instituto Nacional
de Ecologia, INE) into a strategic research institute, moving the responsibilities for
wastes, environmental impact assessments (ElAs), and permits to a new Sub secretariat
for environmental management, and moving the regulation formulation responsibility to a
third Sub secretariat in SEMARNAT. The latter is also charged with being the primary
contact with the productive sectors. These changes reflect the GOM's commitment to
more efficient and effective environmental management, with a separation between
productive activities (which are no longer under SEMARNAT's mandate) and the
normative, promotion and management activities. SEMARNAT's objectives are now
focused specifically on biodiversity conservation, protection of environment and natural
resources, and promotion of sustainable development.
11.   The GOM is seeking support from the Bank for a subset of its overall program, as
indicated in the schematic diagram below (Figure 1). This subset is comprised of two
12



major areas: (i) the mainstreaming of environment in at least four key sectors, namely
water, energy, tourism and forestry; and (ii) the improvement of environmental
management processes, particularly with an emphasis on decentralization of federal
environmental functions to States. These areas have been identified as priorities based on
several criteria, including the urgency of the issue based on its linkage with growth and
investment; the level of degradation; the likely impact on poverty alleviation; and,
opportunity for progress, based on cross-sectoral consensus. In selecting priorities, the
Government has also been keenly conscious of the need to use limited financial resources
to achieve as great an impact as possible (for more details, see Section III.B. Content of
Program).
Figure 1. The GOM's ENRP 2001-2006 and Areas of EnvSAL Involvement
ENRP 2001-2006                                                                     EnvSal
6 Pillars:
*   Integration of water. land. tir, foresis. and biodisersit) policies  .ater, Foresi
*   Sustainable development as a shared task at the level of the          Tourism, Energy
Federal Government                                                   ..
*   Decentralization and sharing of responsibilities for emn ironmental   Environmental
management                                                            Management
*   Valuation of natural resources                                        Water, Forests
*   improvedienforcement
.   Social participation and total transparency                            Environmental
Management
17 Programs
*   Sectoral and Institulional Programs: National Water Program,       *  Water. Forests
National Forestmy Program. Straiegic Program for Environmental
Enforcement and Natural Protected Areas Program
*   National Crusades (awareness raising and environmental
education campaigns) in the areas of water, forests, and a clean
environment
*   Strategic Programs: .with the objecti%e of stopping and reversing  *    fainstreaming
polluiion,orlife-sustaining systems (water, air and soils), stopping   Environment in
and rev.ersing loss of natural capital: conserving ecosystems and      T6urism and
biodiversirv. and promoting sustainable devclopmren in the federal    Energy
government
*   Regional and Multisectoral Programs:   Northern Border
Program, Plan Puebla-Panwam, Nautical Ladder Project in the Sea
of Cortes, Mesoamerican Biological Corridor
. Special Programs. Indigenous Towns, Cender Equity, and Yofuti
12.     The GOM's Program, focusing on areas identified as priorities, and for which the
Government is seeking support from the World Bank are further detailed below:
13.     Water, given its close links to industrial and agricultural growth as well as social
development, is perhaps Mexico's most urgent environmental problem today. Pressure
on Mexico's water resources has grown tremendously over the past decades, reflecting
rapid population growth from 25 million people in 1950, to over 100 million today.
Moreover, the availability of water is inversely related to the demand for it. While
population growth has occurred nationwide, it has been markedly greater in the semi-arid
and arid, industrialized north, northwest, and central regions, which are now experiencing
major water shortages with severe consequences for further development.                  Indeed,
13



northwestern, northern and central Mexico account for 84% of GDP, 77 percent of the
population, and 92% of the irrigated areas, but the same region has only 28% of the
runoff. Currently, as noted earlier, 100 of Mexico's 258 aquifers are overdrawn,
accounting for over 50 percent of the country's groundwater supply. Contamination of
both surface and ground water is also a major issue, as over 90% of wastewater remains
untreated.
14.   The Comision Nacional de Agua (CNA), a deconcentrated agency under
SEMARNAT is the entity that is primarily responsible for all issues related to
management of water resources. CNA has been focusing its efforts on (a) legally
registering and regularizing all water users (including dischargers); (b) developing
mechanisms for approving new water rights and water right transfers; (c) establishing
River Basin Councils (RBCs) and Aquifer Committees (ACs); (d) preparing master plans
for river basins and aquifers; (e) improving groundwater and surface water (quantity and
quality) monitoring, modeling and assessment; (f) improving meteorological services;
and (g) improving the operation of hydraulic infrastructure. The legislation establishes
three basic instruments for water management: concessions to take water, permits to
discharge effluents into national waters and the Public Register of Water Rights.
15.   Water issues cut across a number of sectors. From the perspective of quantity, 80
percent of water consumption is by the agriculture sector, and the remaining 20 percent
by industry, energy and municipalities. On the other hand, water quality is affected by
water discharges from municipalities, industry and the tourism sector. In particular, for
the case of water scarcity, priority issues that need to be addressed include (i) over-
exploitation of surface and ground water, (ii) use of scarce water resources for low value
crops, (iii) undesired impact of efficiency improvements, (iv) lack of a strategy consensus
between key stakeholders, (v) inadequate water rights administration (mainly due to over
allocation of water rights), and (vi) high subsidies and inappropriate pricing (for example
water fees are applied only to industry because utilities generally do not pay and farmers
are exempt; further the agricultural electricity subsidy (Tarifa 09) provides a strong
disincentive to save water in irrigation, which is by far the largest water user).
16.   Key milestones as the GOM moves forward with its program on water to achieve
its established indicators for 2006 include: (i) the development of a consensus on
solutions to the water problem; (ii) increased incentives for water conservation and
increased resources for investments and management through increase and rationalization
of water fee collection. An important start has already been made by the signing of a
Presidential decree to encourage municipalities to pay water fees and to increase
investment in hydraulic works. Future actions include the completion of an analysis of
the fiscal framework of the water sector to better align fees with the economic value of
the resource; greater involvement of water basin councils in financial and related basin
management decisions; and the design and implementation of a system for measurement
of water use by all parties with water rights; (iii) improve water use and quality via an
improved water rights registry, publication of water availability data, implementation of
pilot schemes to enforce water usage and effluent discharges in accordance with rights
and permits and to adjust water rights to accurately reflect water availability, and review
14



of water availability and existing use information in water scarce areas and corresponding
adjustment, as necessary, of regional water programs; (iv) promote preservation of water
resources on a pilot basis in a critical over-exploited aquifer, through a process of
negotiation with water users taking into account and making the best use of existing
government programs to meet sustainability objectives; and (v) apply an integrated
approach to wastewater treatmnent that takes into account economic, social and
environmental implications.
17.   Energy is one of Mexico's most important economic activities and accounts for
3% of GDP and 8% of all exports. Taxes on hydrocarbons amount to 37% of tax receipts
and almost 60% of public investment is used for energy projects. Mexico has substantial
reserves of oil and gas, and hydrocarbon-based generation, in 2000, accounted for 47.7%
of electricity plants and for 60.7% of total installed capacity. This concentration is
explained, in large part, by Mexico's abundance of hydrocarbon reserves and relative
scarcity of water resources. The country's actual dependence on hydrocarbon based
generation is even greater than these numbers suggest, however. Hydroelectric power,
although accounting for 26.2% of total installed capacity, accounted for only around 14%
of actual generation in 2000, due to the insufficiency of water supplies for year-round
production. Institutionally, the sector is dominated by two state-owned companies:
Petroleos Mexicanos (PEMEX), one of the world's largest oil companies, and Comision
Federal de Electricidad (CFE), which is among the largest utilities in North America.
18.   As might be expected, energy is also a sector which has a major impact on the
environment, in terms of local, regional and global pollution. Vehicle tailpipe emissions
lead to high ozone and particulate concentrations in urban areas; and sulfur emissions
from fuel oil-fired generation plants and industries and nitrogen oxides (ozone pre-
cursor) from gas-fired units contribute to deterioration of air sheds. Finally, carbon
dioxide emissions, from the dependence on hydrocarbons, contribute to global climate
change. An OECD Review of Environmental Performance in Mexico in 1998, noted that
a preliminary start had been made to better integrate environmental and energy policies,
but clearly much remained to be done. The current administration has taken the measure
of this challenge. The energy sector's mission statement notes that one of its main goals
is to increase its contribution to the country's economic and social development, through
world class energy companies, operating within an appropriate legal and regulatory
framework and sufficient supply capacity, quality standards and competitive prices, with
full respect for the environment. The sector aims at strongly encouraging the efficient
use of energy, widely promoting energy diversity, and the use of alternative and
renewable sources, and firmly supporting research and technological development. The
Ministry of Energy (SENER) and the companies of the energy sector are working closely
with SEMARNAT to develop medium term goals to better integrate energy and
environmental policies and programs. These goals are detailed further below.
19.   Major issues and proximate causes on the energy-environment front include (i)
low levels of operational and end-use efficiency as a result of under pricing of electricity;
(ii) high sulfur content of Mexican crude oil and refined products (gasoline, diesel, fuel
oil) as the program for conversion to appropriate technology for low-sulfur refinery
15



conversion is still in progress; (iii) limited exploitation of substantial (>5,000 MW)
renewable energy resource potential, mainly as a result of transmission and pricing
barriers for grid-power interchange and transaction cost barriers for auto generation and
wheeling to third parties; (iv) need for greater compliance of energy production facilities
with respect to water discharges, hazardous material and soil recovery standards and lack
of extensive NOx control technology at power plants; and (v) flaring and venting of
associated gas remains globally significant, although a control program is in progress.
20.   The GOM's planned programs and goals, if achieved, would result in significant
progress towards alleviating these issues. By the end of the administration in 2006, the
energy sector is committed to (i) developing a new energy-environment strategy, which
reflects consensus among key stakeholders; (ii) improving fuels quality with respect to
sulfur content, specifically with the aim of reducing sulfur content in Magna gasoline to
300 ppm by weight and in Premium gasoline to 50 ppm by weight; (iii) increasing
renewable energy capacity from single digit figures to 1,700 MW; (iv) achieving a
savings in the final energy consumption index; (v) developing programs that contribute to
the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions; (vi) developing certification processes for
Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) projects; and (vii) ensuring energy facilities are
operated in a sustainable manner, with specific targets for reducing pollution intensities
in PEMEX and CFE.
21.   Tourism is big business in Mexico - it is the third largest contributor to Mexico's
GDP (after manufacturing and oil), a major employer, and a potentially sustainable
source of present and future economic benefits. Mexico is a major tourist destination.
Given the large Mexican and Mexican-American population in the US, tourism statistics
have to be interpreted with caution - of some 20 million plus visitors to Mexico each year
about half cross the land border (largely from the US in the north) and most of the other
half enter via international airports. An increasing number (some 3 million per year)
come to Mexico for short visits on cruise ships.
22.   Tourism is also a very private sector-led industry. The government often helps set
the "rules of the game" but tourism development in Mexico is basically a private sector
industry with most of the economic costs, and the benefits, accruing in the first instance
to the private sector- both local and international. However, as elsewhere, tourism in
Mexico is also a unique business because it relies heavily on the national patrimony of a
country-its physical environment and its cultural environment - to provide the attraction
for visitors. As such, a part of the economic rents associated with tourism (those extra
benefits that people receive - and the private tourism sector earns - beyond what they
pay for) should by right go to the country as the "owner" of the environment. Indeed,
one of the major efforts of the GOM's program in this area is the identification and
capturing of parts of the economic rents associated with the sector to help maintain and
protect the very resources that attract people.
23.   In either case - the private perspective or the national perspective - the GOM is
deterrnined that tourism should be seen as an important industry that can produce
important economic benefits, and an industry that also requires management and
16



investment to be sustainable. The challenge facing the GOM is how to address the
environmental problems associated with both the existing tourism industry, and minimize
environmental damage from future growth - each of which pose different problems.
24.   To address environmental concerns related to tourist infrastructure and services,
the GOM expects to focus on better management of solid wastes, liquid waste, noise and
congestion, and, in some cases, air pollution. In addition, it expects to increase its focus
on the conservation and management of parks and protected areas, some of which are
major destinations for visitors. In the past there has never been enough money available
for the management of these protected areas, resulting in serious issues of resource
degradation. To help correct this, GOM has recently made legislative changes (see
articles 198, 198-A, and 238-B in the Ley Federal de Derechos) to introduce user fees
for protected areas, whale watching and maritime activities. Revenues so-generated are
returned to the protected areas for their management or for further research on marine
biodiversity. This is an important step towards building a sustainable protected area
system.
25.   The most important need for building an environmentally, socially, and
economically sustainable tourism sector, however, is to address future development. This
is both more cost-effective, and also recognizes that past investments (and investment
mistakes) may be very hard or impossible to completely mitigate. Hence the focus of the
GOM's policy reform and policy making in the tourism sector is centered on the issues of
the future through the use of upstream tools, in particular, ensuring sustainability through
the effective use of strategic environmental assessment, better integrating environmental
and territorial land use planning, increasing incentives for better resource use and
conservation through moving to full cost pricing of utilities, and the broader application
of user fees to generate resources.
26.   In order to tackle the above-mentioned issues, the GOM  has identified the
following key steps in its medium term program: (i) carry out a strategic sectoral study to
develop a consensus on tourism - environment policy among key institutional and private
sector stakeholders, and to incorporate sustainable development more broadly in sectoral
policies; (ii) promote sustainable tourism through internalization of environmental
considerations in SECTUR's institutional structure, incorporating environmental
variables in the tourism information system, developing pilot Agenda 21 action plans,
and establishing a sustainable tourism award; (iii) encourage better environmental
performance in tourism facilities through the development of a certification scheme for
tourist facilities, the use of indicators and benchmarks for measurement of good
environmental performance, and a public disclosure scheme to promote competition
between tourist facilities based on good environmental performance; (iv) ensure that new
tourism developments are designed in a sustainable manner, through assessments of
carrying capacity of coastal regions and the use of strategic environmental assessments,
so that they can continue to attract tourists for a longer time frame, due to the
preservation and maintenance of the natural resource; (v) assure the use of win-win
approaches that simultaneously promote conservation, protection and development, and
increase financial resources for environmental management through the development of
17



strategy to generate additional revenues and investment financing via the use of a broader
range of fiscal instruments; (vi) promote better resource use and conservation through
moving towards full cost pricing of water, wastewater, solid waste, and electricity; and
(vii) increase incentives for tourists to return to Mexico for repeat visits by improving
environmental conditions, especially wastewater and solid waste disposal, at existing
tourist sites through the implementation of waste management plans for priority areas and
piloting cooperative approach with private businesses and other community stakeholders
for joint action on wastewater and solid waste in an existing, large tourism site.
27.   Forests. Mexico's forests account for approximately 1% of GDP, over 100,000
permanent jobs, and are home to over 10 million citizens most of whom are
disproportionately poor relative to national averages. In addition to the well recognized
benefits of jobs and the many commodities produced by Mexico's forests, there is
growing recognition of the critical role of these forests in sustaining local livelihoods,
enabling a growing and strong tourism market, and protecting the nation's critical water
supplies. Of Mexico's 197 million hectares, 72% is under some form of forest or natural
vegetation. Temperate forests comprise 29 million hectares, and intact tropical forests
another 20 million hectares, with 34 million hectares capable of permanently sustained
timber production. However, a significant percentage of this is degraded. Deforestation
continues in the order of 600,000 hectares of standing forest lost per year. Mexico is also
unique in that 70 percent or more of its forest area is within the boundaries of social units,
7,000 to 9,000 ejidos or indigenous communities have significant forested areas of which
65 percent may have commercial potential but only one quarter have any formal
management plans. The current regulatory framework is based on command and control,
rather than incentives and is also difficult to enforce.
28.   The GOM has recently developed a long-term vision for the Forestry Sector,
through the Strategic Forest Plan 2025, which focuses on the development of the sector,
taking into account the livelihoods of the people living in forest areas. Challenges
include curbing the high rate of illegal logging due to an inappropriate regulatory
framework and lack of enforcement; ensuring that livelihoods of natural resources
owners, particularly those in poorer communities, are improved through appropriate
valuation of natural resources; and that necessary financing is available for the sector.
The GOM has made some major institutional changes in 2001 by separating regulatory
and enforcement functions to ensure better management of forest resources and creating a
specialized agency, the Comision Nacional Forestal (CONAFOR), for the promotion of
the above, as well as research and development, training and design and implementation
of pilots for integrated management, diversification, market development and payment
for environmental services in selected watersheds.
29.   The GOM's goals for this sector in the medium term include (i) the development
of an adequate legal framework, which is consistent with the long term vision and
streamlined access rules for a comprehensive approach to forest products and services
promotion through assessment of current programs and pilots; (ii) the existence of
recognized certification entities operating to support niche markets and environmental
service payments and the complementation of income through environmental services
18



payments and carbon credits through the development of an institutional and regulatory
framework to implement certification schemes for new markets and services and pilots to
test out these schemes; and (iii) improved access to financial services and products
appropriately designed for the forestry sector through an assessment of alternative
instruments.
30.   As mentioned   earlier, improving  the  effectiveness  of environmental
management processes is one of the GOM's key pillars of the ENRP 2001-2006. The
new administration continues with its program of decentralizing environmental
management functions to the States, with recent major changes to the legal framework to
enable this decentralization. However, the strategy to implement this decentralization has
changed considerably, reflecting the feedback from the states themselves on their own
desire and capabilities to assume these functions. The emphasis is now on a slower,
stepwise decentralization of functions, with an emphasis on assuring uniformity of
institutional capacity, processes and standards across states. This year, functions which
the States can opt to assume in their decentralization plan include undertaking issuance of
permits and licenses and the overall environmental management of resources and subjects
presently under federal jurisdiction (selected toxic wastes, selected environmental impact
assessment administration, conservation of soils, flora, fauna and forest resources, and
coastal management). Some key functions related, for example, to enforcement of
environmental regulations do not have immediate plans for devolution and are being
studied by SEMARNAT for future devolution, based on demand by States.
31.   Functions are to be decentralized through an agreement between the federal and
state govermment, with a caveat that the state needs to certify the new process through a
third party, private sector certifier, within a particular time frame in order to continue
with that function. The certification, based on ISO 9001-2000, is in turn based on the
certification process undertaken by SEMARNAT for the same function, to assure
uniformity of process.  Since the decentralization itself is now  demand-driven,
SEMARNAT has also restructured the criteria for the PDIA matching grants scheme,
directing resources only to those states who wish to assume new functions, following
submission of a decentralization plan, rather than a more general approach of institutional
capacity building in all states.
32.   In particular, given the importance of the environmental impact assessment and
licensing processes at the state level, SEMARNAT is moving forward on several fronts to
ensure consistency between federal and state procedures. These include: (i) preparation
of consistent environmental impact assessment regulations for newly transferred federal
functions with existing state regulations; (ii) issuing new guias de impacto ambiental in
order to minimize the processing time frame of licenses, identify and assess cumulative
impacts, and increase open disclosure of infornation and public participation; (iii) final
transfer of EIA function from the federal government to at least 25% of states (that have
requested EIA function in SEMARNAT-approved decentralization plans) by 2006; (iv)
assessment, revision and implementation of changes to the Licencia Ambiental Unica
(including consideration of Centro Integral de Servicios at the federal level); and (v)
development of guidelines for regional environmental assessment, as well as an analysis
19



of the experience with Strategic Environmental Assessment (SEA) based on the SEAs
carried out by other sectors.
33.   In terms of ensuring adequate financing for (i) building state level capacity for
environmental management; and (ii) investments to improve environmental management,
the GOM is currently assisting states to finance capacity building to assume new
environmental management functions through the ongoing PDIA (federal grant program).
As mentioned earlier, the criteria for use of the PDIA have been modified to ensure better
targeting of funds to only those states that have SEMARNAT-approved decentralization
plans. In terms of future actions, the GOM plans to examine options for additional
financing of environmental programs at subnational level, in addition to further
expanding the PDIA through increasing available resources, or expanding the reach of
the PDIA to a greater number of states, or increasing the number of topics to be
supported.
34.   Improved social participation and transparency is also noted as a pillar in the
GOM's ENRP 2001-2006. The legal basis for this is the passage of a recent national law
requiring transparency of information. Some of the GOM's future plans in this area
include (i) the implementation and maintenance of websites at federal level and selected
states that allow public access to information on EIA and licensing processes
applications.; (ii) promotion of increased public participation in the Impacto Ambiental
process by developing regulations/guidelines; (iii) further development and
implementation of the legal framework for public disclosure on licensing processes and
on permitting regarding wildlife, forestry and soil, and federal coastal zoning; and (iv)
publication of an Annual Report on the Environment.
35.   Finally, Mexico is one of the first countries in the world, and the first in Latin
America, to establish an environmental unit in the Ministry of Finance with the particular
mandate of designing and proposing fiscal instruments to support environmental policy.
Hence the GOM is actively involved in developing fiscal instruments to promote
behavioral change with respect to the environment. As described earlier, the earmarking
of user fees for protectcd areas, whale watching and maritime activities which are
returned to the protected areas for their management or for further research on marine
biodiversity is an important step towards building a sustainable protected area system.
Similarly, there was a recent change in the Federal Law of Rights to allow up to 100% of
municipal water fees collected to be returned to municipalities on a pari-passus basis
based on funds expended by municipalities on hydraulic works. Based on the existence
of this new institutional arrangement in the Ministry of Finance, the GOM plans to make
future progress in this area through the preparation of an intersectoral program for the
development of fiscal instruments that promote good environment behavior, and, where
appropriate, include earmarking of revenue to promote sustainability.
20



III. PROPOSED PROGRAMMATIC ENVIRONMENT STRUCTURAL
ADJUSTMENT LOAN
A. Objectives of the Program
36.   The overarching objective of the proposed Environmental Structural Adjustment
Program (comprising of three potential operations, EnvSAL I, EnvSAL II and EnvSAL
III) is to support the Government's efforts to balance socioeconomic development with
environmental protection and improvement. Specifically, the program to be supported by
the adjustment program has the following objectives:
(i)   Ensuring the mainstreaming of environmental concerns in key sectoral
development agendas, as prioritized by the GOM, through (a) establishing
appropriate goals for the medium-term, (b) implementing key building
blocks to move towards these goals, (c) ensuring coordination and
strengthened consensus among key stakeholders, and (d) systematically
measuring progress and impact; and
(ii)  Improving the effectiveness and efficiency of local environmental
management processes in Mexico through (a) decentralizing
administrative responsibilities to state governments in an efficient and
effective manner, (b) strengthening key processes, in particular licensing
and EIA, and ensuring consistency between state and federal standards
and procedures, (c) ensuring adequate financing for building state level
capacity for environmental management and investments to improve
environmental management, (d) encouraging adequate public participation
and transparent processes, and (e) developing appropriate fiscal
instruments in support of environmental policies.
B.   Content of the Program
37.   The operation will be based on a subset of the GOM's overall medium-term,
outcome based, sequenced program, described in Section II.C above (and schematically
illustrated in Figure 1) and presented in the Government's Letter of Development Policy.
A core subset of key milestones have been selected as commitments for respective
tranche disbursements.  The operation aims to facilitate the development and
implementation of policies, plans, and instruments, in a selective (based on certain
criteria defined below) and flexible manner (adapting in response to the GOM's own
mid-term review of its program and emerging issues).
38.   Jointly-defined criteria, with the GOM, for selection of sectors to be supported
under the loan, include (i) the urgency of the issue based on its linkage with growth and
investment, either in terms of potential impact or as a growth constraint, as is clearly the
case for water; (ii) urgency of the issue based on the level of degradation; (iii) linkage
with poverty alleviation, particularly in cases where the natural resource is essential to
sustainable livelihoods, such as in the forestry sector; (iv) opportunity based on cross-
sectoral consensus; and finally (v) financial constraints and the need to use limited
21



financial resources to achieve as great an impact as possible. The key sectors identified
for support include water, energy, forestry, and tourism.
39.    Further, in each priority sector, a logical, stepwise progression in terms of key
building blocks to achieve defined goals includes the definition of policies and regulatory
framework, formulation of plans and strategies, ensuring appropriate institutional set-up,
putting in place administrative requirements, and finally development and use of
appropriate fiscal instruments.
40.    The commitments under the program, together with the GOM's expected
outcomes and indicators for the medium-term, are listed in Annex 2. Figure 2 below
presents an overview of the program to be supported.
Figure 2. Overview of Mexico EnvSAL Program
Gov st criions             Rest of Program            Long-term Vision
- -   0. .,(20q2)2-J-        (2003 - 2006)             Sector policies that
Develop sector-en% ironm nI  incorporate environmen
.%SusWnable  lb met as        policies that reflect conse us  and social considerations
new'ervironmen               among key stakeholders
- -04  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~   ~  -Sector growth is
7Estabhsh  -!r.ot mvntal;;g, Achieve en. ironmental  environmentally sustainabl
a,trgeswtbpoitysct
,e w o 4 \   Large set m priority sctors\  Promotion of good
,,-,Encoura,ge'g ,,re,at ~estineIncrease use of fiscal    environmental behavior
_- .> ....  v -iinstruments to promote good  through fiscal instruments
,.:lnctnrmost CO. eroywrougj1  environmental beha%ior     Increase cost recovery for
user:'ees'm water`anditourismLk...
?^   "- . F~' s> Wi k  Continued trinsfer of federal  environmental management
Decentale-rab'e        .     environmental management    States can implement
euiciromenusl mo. n-gemnt4wi  functions to Staies       transferred environmental
management functions ata
enVITOnMCneitet edralan 53Wuniformnly high standard
ir 'f . een i-al.  eSl:       Consistent federal and stale/ magentfciosta
management fuinction-s to   - EIA and licensing regulation  T       d consistent
Meccnraklizid -i
e*     *        >            Continued frnancinf         environmental regulations a
Financingdfcapacicyi~"~ icnoState level
- fti          fj n'        capacity building in Slates
Increased capacity in Stat
Improve publkesTto,          Improve public access to    Public participation and
,'pro,cssing aiiifo'riifi',ation dno1   ' processing inf^ormation < /   transparency increased
:EIA,-,. .,'>'.  t           on EIA and permits          EIA and permitting pro sses
C. Analytical Underpinnings
41.    The work on the program rests on a solid foundation, stemming from a body of
analytical work carried out by the GOM, the Bank and other development partners, and
the OECD over the past four years. Recent work includes the policy notes prepared by
the Bank for the current administration (Mexico: A Comprehensive Development Agenda
for the New Era); Mexico's first Environmental Performance Review conducted by the
OECD; an ESMAP-financed Energy-Environment Review; sector work and studies
carried out by the Bank on decentralization, aquifer stabilization and inter-institutional
coordination for regional sustainable development; sector work carried out by the IDB to
assist with the preparation of the GOM's new long-term forestry policies; and Mexico's
22



first Bank-financed Country Financial and Accountability Assessment (CFAA), currently
underway.
D. Contents of the Loan
42.   The disbursement of the loan supports initial actions taken by the GOM in its
medium-term sustainable development program. The loan of $202.02 million will be
disbursed in two equal tranches, the first upon loan effectiveness in August 2002, and the
second tentatively expected to be disbursed in about December 2002. The conditions
against which the funds will be transferred are detailed in Table 2 below.
43.   This first tranche supports the achievements of the GOM with regard to (i) the
inclusion of mainstreaming environment in key economic sectors in the ENRP and the
establishment of high-level and technical coordination mechanisms with other sectors,
through which medium-term targets have been set to promote mainstreaming of
environment in sectoral policy; (ii) the design and use of fiscal instruments to promote
the payment of municipal water fees and investment in municipal hydraulic works and
for revenue generation from the use of national marine protected areas and corresponding
reinvestment in the environmental management of these areas; (iii) the creation of an
enabling environment to decentralize federal environmental management functions to the
state level via changes to key laws; (iv) the preparation of a viable, stepwise
decentralization strategy, that specifies the minimum criteria (with respect to personnel
and goods) that states have to meet to take on decentralization functions, and establishes
a mechanism (through the use of third party certification) for ensuring that the quality of
decentralized processes is maintained; (v) the preparation of decentralization plans on the
part of at least 20 states; (vi) the assignment of budget and targeted use of the PDIA
(federal grant program) to finance capacity building in only those States with plans to
assume new environmental management functions; and (vii) the development of a
strategy to improve public access to information on EIA and permits based on the recent
passage of a key national law on the transparency of information.
44.   The second tranche highlights the critical nature of intersectoral coordination in
such a program, by building further on the nascent coordination mechanism established,
and requiring the formation of intersectoral technical working groups to guide the
implementation of the GOM's objective to mainstream environment in each of the four
key areas, namely water, energy, tourism and forestry. The second tranche also tracks
implementation of the actions implemented during the first tranche, including the
payment of municipal water fees, the extent of fees returned by SHCP to the sector
(CNA) for return to municipalities, the increase in park revenues from user fees collected
from natural protected areas, and finally the public disclosure of this information. With
respect to the decentralization process, the second tranche actions include the ISO 9001-
2000 certification of SEMARNAT's Undersecretariat of Environmental Management; the
public disclosure of the states' decentralization plans, approved by SEMARNAT; the
transfer of PDIA resources to over 10 states; and finally the public disclosure of
processing information on a pilot basis related to EIA and permits, reviewed by the
federal government, through a website.
23



Table 2. EnvSAL I: Summary of Conditions
Objective: Balancing socioeconomic development with environmental protection and improvement
Policy Area     Actions completed for Board Presentation (tied to   Actions to be completed for Second Tranche (tentatively
First Tranche disbursement)                         expected in December 2002)
Sub-Objective A: Ensure mainstreaming of environmental concerns in sectoral development agendas
Target Setting  National Environment and Natural Resources Program  Intersectoral Technical Working Groups (ITWGs)
and Inter-      (ENRP) published, with President's endorsement,     established for each of the key sectors (water, energy,
institutional   emphasizing the importance of mainstreaming         tourism and forestry).
Coordination    environment in key economic sectors. ENRP fully
consistent with the NDP                             Adequate functioning of ITWGs as evidenced by outputs,
namely (i) the development of working terms of reference
Monitorable, medium-term targets developed and      (TORs) for the functioning of the ITWG, which shall
published in the ENRP by SEMARNAT and the           include, at a minimum, (a) the scope of the work program,
concemed institutions for at least 4 key sectors (water,  (b) coordination arrangements, and (c) monitoring
energy, tourism, and forestry) and targets confirmed with  arrangements to evaluate progress of first operation and
other sectors in high-level meeting, convened by Office of  intemalize lessons for future intersectoral efforts; and (ii) the
Planning/President                                  development of working TORs for activities expected to be
carried out for EnvSAL II in each key sector.
Actions in Key Sectors
Water           Publication of National Water Program 2001-2006
Presidential Decrees (published in Diarno Oficial,  Payment of water fees by municipalities (greater than 2,500
December 21, 2000; pp. 12-17) issued to permit      inhabitants and the Distrito Federal) that account for 55% of
exoneration of past debts by federal govemment for  municipal water use (by volume) in Mexico, compared with
municipalities which agree to pay water fees in future and  a baseline of 24%
agree to forgo federal funding for water supply and
sanitation in the event of non-payment of fees.
At least 95% of water fees paid by municipalities (that have
Ley Federal de Derechos en Materta de Agua (Article  signed convenmos with CNA) to SHCP are retumed to CNA,
23 1 A) passed with proviso that up to 100% of municipal  and available for transfer to municipalities that comply with
water fees collected may be retumed to municipalities  the conditions set out under the incentive scheme (Articulo
respectively, in accordance with an incentive scheme  23 IA)
under which municipalities need to have an equal amount
of funds invested in hydraulic programs              Information on amount of funds retumed, on a national
aggregate basis, to municipalities available publicly
Tourism         Adoption by Congress of articles 198, 198a, 238-B of the  Twenty-fold increase in marine park revenues in 2002,
Ley Federal de Derechos which allow for user fees for  compared with 2001 (baseline of 68,000 pesos), as a result
maritime activities, protected areas, and whale watching  of implementation of changes to article 198 of the Ley
respectively, with provision for earmarking of revenue  Federal de Derechos.
generated for reinvestment in the particular tourism
resource generating the revenue                     Amount of funds collected from user fees for protected areas
_ _are available publicly
Sub-Objective B: Improving the effectiveness of environmental management processes
Decentral-      Ley General del Equilibrio Ecol6gico y la Proteccion al
ization of     Ambiente, Ley General de Bienes Nacionales; Ley
environmental   Forestal; and Ley General de Vida Silvestre changed to
management     enable decentralization of federal environmental
functions to    management functions to sub-national levels
sub-national
levels in a     Development of criteria (with respect to personnel and
stepwise        goods) that are necessary to assume environmental
manner          management functions presently under federal        ISO 9001-2000 certification of EIA and permits to be
jurisdiction, to be decentralized this year, relating to  decentralized carried out by SEMARNAT's Sub-secretariat
selected toxic wastes, selected environmental impact  for Environmental Management.
assessment administration, conservation of soils, flora,
fauna and forest resources, and coastal management.
Publication of all State decentralization plans that are
Decentralization plans prepared by at least 20 States.  approved by SEMARNAT.
Financing       34 million pesos budget assigned for PDIA (federal grant  At least 10 states receive funding from PDIA
program) to assist States to finance capacity building to
assume new environmental management functions, and
cnteria for PDIA use modified to ensure that only those
States that plan to assume new functions can apply
Public         Strategy developed to improve public access to       Public disclosure of processing information on a pilot basis
participation   information on EIA and permits (for example, through  of the following environmental management functions
and             use of website) based on the recent passage of Ley de  carried out by SEMARNAT: EIA and permits (for
transparency    Transparencia.                                      example, through website)
24



E. Poverty and Environmental Impact
45.   The EnvSAL will have an indirect effect on poverty.   The Bank's new
Environment Strategy shows that environmental degradation disproportionately affects
the poor. Water and air pollution result in ill health, especially of poor people; and soil
degradation and unsustainable agricultural and forestry practices adversely affect
livelihoods, as well as increase the vulnerability of the poor to natural disasters.
However, while the poor will benefit in the form of improved environmental and health
conditions that improves their potential for more productive workdays and a better life,
the proposed programmatic structural adjustment loan aims to reduce environmental
degradation through addressing economy-wide distortions, some of which are present
subsidies that are perceived to favor the poor. Such subsidies include support to fuel,
water and power as well as some agricultural inputs.
46.   The GOM, by law, has to carry out social analysis for each policy and instrument.
As new instruments and policies are developed, the social impacts will be analyzed. The
Bank, through supervision, can play a role in providing assistance to the GOM in this
area. The program itself also places emphasis on a strategic assessment of each of the
sectors and related social impacts, as well as on stakeholder involvement and public
participation, as in the case, for example, of the issue of induced secondary development
in new tourism sites. Further, some of the pilots proposed under the program would
focus on social targeting (such as piloting payment for environmental services in the
forestry sector).
47.   The provisions of OD8.60 apply to the proposed operation, since it is classified as
a SAL. However, since the raison d'etre of the operation itself is to help the Mexican
Government mainstream environment in a number of key sectors, the operation's design
is very proactive with respect to internalizing environmental and social safeguards
concerns within the operation at the macro level. This occurs at two distinct levels. At
the sectoral level, a strategic study is called for in the context of the second operation
which examines enviromnental and social impacts in the broad context of sector
expansion plans or regional development plans (through Strategic Environmental
Assessment). With respect to decentralization of environmental management functions
to state authorities, the project places particular emphasis on assuring adequate capacity
and actions with respect to EIA, licensing, and public participation.
48.   Further, since the program focuses on incorporating sustainable development in
public policies, there will be an ongoing process of evaluating the actual environmental
and social impact of the proposed reforms. These impacts are essentially expected to be
positive, as they seek to change behavior toward more environmentally sustainable use of
resources. Nonetheless, to the extent that limitation of access to resources or other social
impacts may occur, the strategic studies and policy design are called upon to address such
potential impacts and to involve stakeholders in the preparation and review process. The
decentralization reforms in particular will bring responsibility for environmental
management to the local level. This is positive in that responsibility will be shifted to the
25



state and municipal levels, which typically in most countries are responsible for
environmental degradation.  However, it is essential that with this responsibility,
technical assistance and resources are also available to the states and municipalities in
order for them to fulfill these new responsibilities. In particular, an improvement in local
capacity with respect to environmental impact assessment is critical, and is flagged as
such as a crucial area to be supported by future operations.
F.    Loan Amounts, Conditions, and Arrangements
49.   The proposed US$202.02 million EnvSAL I in the form of a fixed spread, US
dollar loan will be made to the United Mexican States. The full amount of the loan is
expected to be disbursed in two equal tranches, the first upon loan effectiveness and the
second is tentatively expected to be disbursed in about December 2002, upon fulfillment
of second tranche conditions. The proposed loan would cover the first operation of a
program of adjustment operations. The subsequent operations will be based on the pace
of the GOM to implement its medium-term program. It is estimated that these operations
will be about 18 to 24 months apart. Future amounts will be subject to the depth of the
reforms.
50.   The proposed loan does not increase resources available for public sector
spending. Under Mexico's fiscal regime, an adjustment loan from the Bank substitutes
financing from alternative, more expensive debt sources and substitutes foreign for
domestic lending. It does not increase aggregate fiscal resources available to environment
and other sectoral agencies since the fiscal envelope is defined by the binding primary
fiscal surplus targets.
51.   Triggers for the second operation would be (i) publication of water availability
data, and an improved water rights registry as foundational steps in the implementation of
a functioning water rights market, consistent with the current regulatory framework; (ii)
establishment and implementation of a set of indicators and benchmarks for measurement
of good environmental performance of tourist facilities; (iii) establishment and start
operation of a Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) Office, involving at least SENER
and SEMARNAT, according to rules set up at the Marrakech and Bonn Conferences of
the Parties of the UNFCCC; (iv) Ministry of Energy-approved design and preparation for
implementation of a National Fund for Renewable Energy Promotion, the
implementation of which is expected to be supported through a planned GEF operation;
and (v) six States have begun decentralization (as evidenced by signature of convenio
with federal government, initiation of capacity building, or joint operation with federal
government) of at least one or more environmental management function, based on
SEMARNAT-approved decentralization plans.
26



52.   Disbursements under the proposed EnvSAL I will be made to an account
("Deposit Account") of United Mexican States established at the Banco de Mexico for
this purpose. The loan will have a repayment of principal after eleven years, and an
interest rate for fixed-spread US dollar loans with an expected disbursement period of
one year. The operation will close October 31, 2003.
53.   Disbursement and Procurement.   Loan disbursement will be made under
simplified disbursement procedures. Proceeds will be disbursed against satisfactory
implementation of the adjustment program, including compliance with stipulated
effectiveness conditions.  In accordance with the Operational Directive on the
Simplification of Disbursement Rules under Structural Adjustment and Sectoral
Adjustment Loans (February 8, 1996), disbursements will not be linked to specific
purchases and, hence, there will be no procurement requirements. Upon notification by
the Bank of loan effectiveness, the proceeds of the loan will be made available to be
deposited by the Bank into the Deposit Account. If, after deposit in this account, the
proceeds of the loan are used for ineligible purposes as defined in the Loan Agreement,
the Bank will require the Borrower to either: (a) return that amount to the account for use
for eligible purposes; or (b) refund the amount directly to the Bank (in which case the
Bank will cancel an equivalent undisbursed amount of the loan).
54.   Once the loan becomes effective the Borrower will open and maintain a
corresponding deposit account in dollars at Banco de Mexico. The Borrower has already
fulfilled the conditions for first tranche release as a condition of Board presentation of the
operation. When the loan becomes effective (and assuming no policy or macroeconomic
reversals), the Borrower will submit a simplified withdrawal application against which
the Bank will disburse the corresponding loan proceeds into the deposit account for the
Borrower's use.
55.   Auditing. Upon the Bank's request, the Borrower will have the Deposit Account
audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank and in accordance with specific
audit terms of reference for this project, agreed with the Bank. Copies of any audit will
be submitted to the Bank no later than six months after the date of the Bank's request for
such an audit.
56.   Loan Management and Monitoring. Loan administration will be the
responsibility of a financial agent, BANOBRAS S.N.C., designated by the Borrower.
The financial agent will be responsible for preparing the withdrawal application,
maintaining the Deposit Account and arranging for its timely audit (if requested by the
Bank), and monitoring overall loan implementation. The financial agent will also be
responsible for coordinating the preparation of the Borrower's contributions to the
Implementation Completion Report and for writing those sections relating to loan
administration.
27



IV. THE MACROECONOMIC FRAMEWORK FOR THE
PROPOSED OPERATION
A.    Recent Economic Developments
57.   After an extended period of strong expansion, economic activity in Mexico
experienced a sharp slowdown during 2001 as the downturn in the global economy, and
in particular in the U.S. economy, spread across emerging markets. Growth of Mexican
manufactured exports, nine tenths of which go to the United States, plummeted from an
average annual growth rate of 20 percent to minus 3 percent last year.  Such a
pronounced drop in external demand and the related slump in manufacturing investment
led to a contraction of real GDP growth during 2001, down to -0.3 percent, in contrast to
the 5.6 percent average annual growth rate observed over the preceding five-year period.
58.   Even during the contraction, the economy proved resilient in many ways-thanks
in large part to sound macroeconomic management. Whereas during the rapid economic
expansion of 2000 there was a relatively expansionary fiscal stance and a tight monetary
policy, the new authorities during 2001 targeted a lower budget deficit (0.65 percent of
GDP), and implemented budget rules automatically cutting expenditures when revenues
turn out lower than budgeted. Monetary policy was eased, although cautiously, in the
face of strong capital inflows, weakening of domestic demand, and lower inflation
expectations. Cautious monetary management, the appreciation of the currency (due to
the strength of capital inflows), and the slowdown in growth, all combined to keep
inflation in check-the 2001 year-end inflation rate fell to 4.4 percent, well below the
initial target of 6.5 percent.
59.   The external accounts remained manageable. The balance of payments' current
account deficit stayed practically unchanged from the previous year (at 2.8 percent of
GDP), as lower manufacturing export revenues and lower oil prices were largely offset
by a similar reduction in imported intermediate inputs and capital goods. Mexico has
continued to enjoy favorable access to external financing and steady investment flows.
This simultaneously allowed for the bulk of the current account's deficit to be financed
through foreign direct investment, an accumulation of international reserves, a
strengthening of the peso, a reduction in private investors' perception of country risk as
measured by sovereign bond spreads, and a significant reduction of domestic interest
rates. As of March 2002, Mexico's sovereign bonds have investment-grade rating by all
three major international rating agencies, making it possible for a broad range of foreign
institutional investors to buy Mexican bonds. The economy thus seems well positioned
for a strong recovery upon the rebound of economic activity in the United States,
expected in the second half of 2002.
60.   Fiscal discipline is a key priority for the administration. As part of that discipline,
the government proceeded with the publication of a broadened fiscal deficit measure,
28



known as the Public Sector Borrowing Requirements (PSBR),3 which is projected at 4
percent of GDP for 2002 (in contrast to the budget deficit target in its traditional
definition at 0.65 percent of GDP). The shift of the attention to the PBSR was part of the
motivation behind new tax legislation enacted in December 2001 that is expected to
increase tax revenue by 1.2 percent of GDP in 2002. This additional income has been
allocated to offset low oil prices, and to finance priority social expenditures. In its
recently published medium-term financing framework (PRONAFIDE), the government
stated its intention of further fiscal consolidation in the near future. Mexico has no active
IMF program and no outstanding obligations to the IMF.
61.     Over the next few years, the Mexican economy is expected to recover from          its
current, shallow recession toward the economy's medium term potential annual rate of
growth of about 4-5 percent. Even though the recovery of demand for Mexican
manufactured exports will initially be the driver of the economic expansion, the strong
rebound expected as of the second half of 2002 is projected to be broad-based, i.e., a
simultaneous and balanced growth of consumption, investment and export demand. This
growth pattern is expected to lead to an increase in the country's balance of payments'
current account deficit from the current 2.8 percent of GDP to about 4 percent of GDP by
2004 and stabilizing at that level thereafter.      Foreign direct investment flows will
continue to finance the bulk of the country's external deficit. Further fiscal consolidation
is projected to take place not only to make progress in attaining fiscal sustainability but
also as a key instrument in aggregate demand management and price stability (Table 3).
Table 3. Mexico-Main Macroeconomic Indicators
Actual       Estimated              Projected
Indicator                                1999    2000      2001       2002    2003    2004    2005
Gross Domestic Product (% growth)           3.8     6 9       -0 3       1 5     4 1     4 5     5 0
Consumption                              4 2     8 7        17        1 4     3 7     3 9     4 9
Investment                               4 1     8 8       -9 2       4 0     6 6     6 6     5 0
Exports                                 12 4    16 0       -5 0       2 7     6 0     6 1     6 2
Imports                                 13.8    21.4       -6 0       4 0     6 5     5 9     5 9
Balance of Payments
Current Account (US$ billion)          -14 4   -17 7      -17 5     -22 7   -26 5   -290    -31 1
Current Account (as % of GDP)           -3 0    -3 1       -2 8      -3 5    -3 9    -4 0    -4 0
Foreign Direct Investment (US$ billion)  11 9   14 2      210        136     14.4    15.8    166
Fiscal Balance (as % of GDP)
Traditional definition                  -I 2    -1.2      -0 7       -0 6    -0 3    -0 3     0 0
Broadened PSBR                          -6.3    -3.7      -3.8       -4 0    -3 1    -2 6    -2 1
Inflation (% year-end)                     12 3     9 0        4 4       4 5     3 5     3 0     3 0
3. The PSBR includes some quasi-fiscal operations that are not or are only partially included under the
traditional fiscal deficit measure, such as the total interest cost of liabilities related to bank and debtor
support programs, the deferred cost of investment projects (PIDIREGAS) in the energy sector, the net
financial intermediation by development banks, and the inflation component of indexed bonds. The
PSBR excludes nonrecurrent revenues from privatization and unrealized capital gains.
29



B.    Medium-Term Structural Reform and Growth
62.   Additional progress on the country's structural reform agenda is needed in order
to attain the projected level of growth and raise the country's medium term economic
growth potential further, without the creation of undue fiscal, external finance or
environmental imbalances. Mexico's environmental degradation has now become one of
the binding constraints to Mexico's external competitiveness, and to its ability to access
new markets, attract foreign investments, and further develop its tourism industry. The
Government has therefore launched a multiphased program in the environmental area,
which will contribute to its overall structural reform agenda. The proposed loan assists
the government in making progress on the implementation of that reform agenda and
provides the public sector with resources to meet part of its external finance
requirements, thereby also indirectly facilitating the adequate access of the private sector
to domestic and foreign credit to finance its investments needed for growth in a new
policy frarnework that provides more protection for the environrnent.
V. BANK STRATEGY
A.     The CAS and The Proposed EnvSAL Program
63.   The proposed EnvSAL Program will be a key tool in delivering World Bank
support for balancing growth and poverty reduction with protecting the environment in
the current CAS (as discussed by the Board of Executive Directors on May 16, 2002,
Document Number R2002-0073 (IFC/R2002-0055)). Environmental management in
Mexico entails some difficult institutional challenges: (i) decentralization of
environmental management is underway but faces uneven institutional capacities across
states and municipalities; (ii) mainstrearning environment in sectoral policies and
programs is only at a fledgling stage, and needs to be further advanced; and (iii)
instruments need to be put into place to recover the cost of environmental usage. The
EnvSAL Program, by supporting the GOM's five year program, focuses on two types of
cross-cutting reforms: (i) institutional (especially decentralization of responsibilities to
state levels) and (ii) policy (in the priority sectors of water, energy, tourism and forestry).
The scope of this first EnvSAL operation is exactly as envisaged in the CAS. Given the
complexity of the reforms, and the need for flexibility in implementation, the timing of
the subsequent operations will be based on the pace at which the government can move
forward to implement the program.
B.    Linkage with the Bank's Environment Strategy and the Millennium
Development Goals (MDGs)
64.   The broad objectives of the government's program to be supported by the loan are
consistent with the Bank's commitment to support the achievement of the Millennium
Development Goals (MDGs), particularly goal number seven, by helping integrate
30



environment into decision making and planning; and addressing environmental
degradation in such key areas as water, forests, energy and tourism development.
65.   The focus of the EnvSAL program on addressing key cross-sectoral priorities,
emphasizing strategic environmental assessments to influence planning decisions and
policies, and supporting environmental institutional development and reform is fully
consistent with the Bank's new Environment Strategy. The proposed lending instrument
is appropriate in the context of Mexico that is undergoing broad structural reforms
including those in the environment area. The choice of lending instrument also highlights
the Bank's value added in supporting policy dialogue, coordination, and consensus
building among key sectors; and in transferring international experience and best practice
in environmental management.
C.    Complementarities With Other Operations
66.   The World Bank has been active for some time in decentralization issues in
Mexico at both the macro and the sectoral levels. The strategy of the government and the
Bank has been to reform the regulatory and incentive environments that federal policy set
for the sub-nationals (the DAL-supported reforms made major advances in this direction),
as it proceeds with adjustment and investment operations in individual sectors and states.
This EnvSAL Program consolidates the innovative $3.5 million pilot in the DAL, which
resulted in over 20 states receiving funds for capacity building following the signing of
voluntary agreements with the federal authority.
67.   At the sectoral levels, this operation will complement the dialogue currently
underway in priority sectors identified by GOM, including water, forestry, and energy.
The EnvSAL has been prepared in close collaboration with the respective sectoral teams.
68.   In the water sector, Mexico supported by the Bank-financed Water Resources
Management Project has made significant strides in putting in place the necessary
building blocks in order to improve water resources management, including: (a)
improvements to surface water and groundwater monitoring networks in terms of both
quantity and quality; (b) improvements in data management systems including GIS; (c)
improvements in meteorological services; (d) development of hydrologic, hydro geologic
and water quality models and assessments; (e) development of meteorological and
hydrological forecasting models; (f) implementation of a national dams registry and dam
safety program; (g) identification, registry and issuing of water rights to water users; (h)
implementation of a discharge permitting and control system; (i) improvements in water
rights administration; (j) preparation of planning studies for all major river basin and
selected aquifers; (k) establishment and strengthening of river basin councils and aquifer
committees. Mexico supported by Bank financed Irrigation and Drainage Sector Loan
and the On-Farm Irrigation Improvement Project has also achieved significant success in
transferring irrigation systems to water user organizations, which has resulted in
operation and maintenance improvements as well as increased collection of water tariffs
from water users. The EnvSAL aims to build on these achievements to tackle additional
improvements so that Mexico can achieve sustainable use and management of the nations
water resources, and eliminate or significantly reduce constraints on economic and social
31



development. In water and sanitation, we are preparing a new project which builds on
the underpinning (the policy reforms) of EnvSAL. The focus of this new Water and
Sanitation Modernization Project, currently under preparation, is water and sanitation
service provision and regulation.
69.   In the forestry sector, the Bank-financed Community Forestry project has
encouraged the indigenous people in the state of Oaxaca to establish community forest
enterprises, establish protected areas, organize businesses and market wood and other
forest products. The area under management has increased from 5 to 6.5 thousand square
kilometers. Oaxaca has benefited from 1,300 new jobs and extra timber revenues of some
US$10 million a year. The second Community Forestry project, currently under
preparation, aims to expand the approach of the on-going project by incorporating new
states and better integrating the model with the current promotion programs for native
forest (Prodefor), commercial plantations (Prodeplan) and reforestation (Pronare). The
proposed EnvSAL Program would focus on complementary policy measures and fiscal
instruments to further enhance economic sustainability and betterment of livelihoods, that
focus on barrier removal, facilitate access of certified diversified products to markets,
facilitate access to financing and recognize biological values and environmental services
through payment for these services.
70.   In the energy sector, a GEF grant (through the World Bank) to support renewable
energy development in Mexico is currently under discussion. This grant would be
complementary to the proposed EnvSAL Program, aiming to help the GOM achieve one
of its key targets under the Program for Sustainable Development in the Federal
Government (PSDFG). Other operations under preparation include a GEF solar thermnal
project.
71.   With respect to collaboration with other external assistance agencies, the Bank
will continue its on-going exchanges with IDB with respect to pertinent areas of IDB
involvement such as the water, forestry, and tourism sectors. Also, collaboration with
GTZ will continue with respect to past and on-going support to decentralization of
environmental functions in Mexico and on waste management.
D.    Review and Lessons Learned from Related Work
72.   This is the first adjustment operation on environment for the Mexican
Government and the LAC Region. It has some specific features that make it different
from the two other environment adjustment loans approved by the Bank. Both the
Bulgaria Environment and Privatization Support Adjustment Loan (EPSAL)4 and the
Philippines Environment and Natural Resources Sector Adjustment Program (ENR-
SECAL) were directed towards the inclusion of environmental concerns in development
agendas but they were limited in scope. In particular, EPSAL was designed to address the
environmental issues arising from privatization processes in Bulgaria; while ENR-
SECAL was a hybrid operation (consisting of a sector adjustment component and an
4 Related to this project see the Bulgaria Environmental Remediation Pilot Project (ERPP).
32



investment component) and focused mainly on rural natural resource management. The
EnvSAL Program, on the contrary, is a broad adjustment operation encompassing several
key sectors, including water, energy, tourism, and forestry.
73.   A lesson of general relevance from the Bulgaria EPSAL and ERPP experience is
that when considering alternative lending instruments, the Bank's main value added is
linked to (i) the introduction of an appropriate policy and regulatory framework; (ii) the
transfer of international best practices in assessing environmental risks and identifying
cost-effective ways of addressing them; and (iii) the definition of proper mechanisms for
the implementation of environmental policies and activities. The Bank's involvement in
detailed implementation, however, has proved to be neither necessary nor practical.
74.   The project also incorporates lessons learned from several environment
investment operations in the environment sector, including the Poland Environment
Management Project and the Chile Environmental Institutions Development Project. A
first major lesson from these projects is the importance of aligning institutional incentives
with the implementation of environmental components. The EnvSAL seeks to generate a
shared vision with respect to sectoral-environmental policy, involving all stakeholders
such as the relevant sector, environment regulator, environment enforcer, and financier,
but promotes implementation at an institutional level commensurate with existing
mandate. A second lesson refers to the importance of public participation and
transparency in cross-sectoral and politically charged projects. In the case of EnvSAL,
participation and transparency are promoted at different levels, including in the EIA
process, through public access to information through websites and publications, such as
the Annual Report for the Environment, and through public disclosure schemes.
75.   With respect to the Mexican context, the project incorporates lessons learned from
previous environment and sector-specific work such as lessons learned from the
completed environmental institutions project, the environmental decentralization pilot
component of the completed Decentralization Adjustment Loan as well as lessons from
joint Bank-GOM sectoral operations. Lessons from previous structural adjustment loans
in Mexico have also been taken into account in the design of the program. In addition, a
recent OED report5 on the evaluation of Bank assistance to Mexico recommends that
environmental policy-level interventions be one of two areas (with poverty) which the
Bank should consider as a priority for increased collaboration with Mexico. Finally, the
OECD carried out an Environment Performance Review of Mexico in 1998, which also
highlighted the necessity to carry out more in depth mainstreaming of environmental
issues in other sectors.
76.   Finally, the operation also draws upon the near complete, Mexico Country
Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA), which covers public financial
accountability arrangements at the federal level: budget management, accounting and
reporting, Treasury, Management Information System (SIAFF), internal controls and
5 OED, World Bank, 2001. Mexico: Country Assistance Evaluation.
33



external audit. Based on the diagnostic work performed to date, the CFAA Task Team is
of the opinion that, at the federal government level, Mexico has adequate public financial
management capacity and reliable information systems, and that there is a considerable
degree of external transparency. Although Mexico continues to improve its public
financial management framework, procedures and systems, the mere volume of
transactions calls for expediting and incorporating a more efficient and effective
approach to the administrative aspects of public finances management - including
accounting and financial reporting - and for making internal and external audit functions
more systematic and risk-based. The CFAA report will offer detailed analyses,
conclusions and recommendations on these areas.
77.   From a fiduciary perspective, Mexico has in place, at the federal level, the
financial management arrangements and systems which are necessary to track the receipt
of funds from adjustment lending operations, and is able to satisfy the front-end
accountability mechanisms required for this type of operations. For this project, it was
agreed during negotiations, that the proposed specific audit terms of reference for the
project would be discussed within the framework of the audit Memorandum de
Entendimiento Tecnico currently in effect between the Bank and the GOM. It was also
agreed that the Deposit Account, upon the Bank's request, will be audited by auditors
acceptable to the Bank, in line with specific terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank.
VI. RISKS AND RISK MITIGATION
A. Macroeconomic Risks
78.   Mexico's substantial public borrowing requirement, undue reliance on oil
revenues, the Fox administration's inability to secure congressional support for
comprehensive tax and structural reforms, the loss of competitiveness over recent years,
the relatively anemic underlying growth and Mexico's need to retain access to
international markets to refinance large amortizations coming due combine to leave the
economy vulnerable to both domestic and external shocks. However, Mexico should still
benefit from recovery in the US, but these domestic weaknesses make the extent and
timing of recovery less certain.
B. Coordination Risks
79.   This will be the Bank's first adjustment loan in Mexico to support initial actions
under the GOM's outcome-based medium-term sustainable development program. There
is strong government ownership of the reforms under the first operation. Most of the
actions under the first operation have already been completed. However, in order to
implement a program of this type, multisectoral level coordination over the period of the
program (i.e. beyond the life of the first loan) is key for success. The design of the first
operation as a two-tranche loan, raises the importance of a functioning coordination
mechanism, and hence seeks to reduce this risk for the program as a whole.
34



80.   The relative weight/experience of SEMARNAT compared to other key sectoral
agencies may result in weakened coordination and negotiation during the sectoral reform
discussions. The operation seeks to promote the formation of multisectoral technical
working groups to ensure a broader discussion of the issues and to promote buy-in with
respect to proposals on strategy and instruments from the sectors. To this end, leadership
of the working group would lie in the key sector concerned.
81.   Given the multisectoral nature of the reforms, particularly for the key sectors
(Annex 1, A.2.), and the different vested interests of key stakeholders, there is a high
political risk that future reforms may not actually be passed by this Congress. The design
of the programmatic operation seeks to reduce this risk by emphasizing coordination and
consensus building, and a stepwise approach to resolving the issues, through pilot studies.
C. Institutional Risks
82.   Demand-based decentralization runs the risk of not happening at all if there are
insufficient incentives for states to assume environmental functions, such as lack of
financial resources. The Program seeks to further assess the costs of decentralization and
environmental financing mechanisms.
83.   There is little tradition of collecting fees and taxes at subnational levels of
government, with reliance primarily on transfers from the federal government. To
minimize this risk, as fiscal instruments are designed, the GOM is actively considering
how to increase the incentives for collection (for example, through earmarking or other
consequences). For example, under the recent Presidential Decree municipalities are
required to pay water fees to the federal government. However, these fees are returned
on a matching pari-passu basis to the municipalities by the federal government.
84.   In conclusion, the EnvSAL I would be a low risk operation, since the majority of
actions have already been met (including all the first tranche actions). However, at this
stage, as a programmatic SAL package, the operation remains high risk- high return. As
mentioned earlier, the nature of the reforms and the consensus building and coordination
as the GOM's program in key sectors advances implies the need for a continual strong
and sustained dialogue with the Government, as subsequent SALs are developed and the
current set of reforms is implemented.
35



ANNEX 1: Letter of Development Policy (Spanish)
14DOS
C. SECRETARIO
SKCEMIlA DE MEDIO AMBIEN1E
Y RECURSOS NATURALES
OFICIO No.00 9 5 3
Mexico, D.F. a 2 6 MM 2002
SR. JAMES WOLFENSOHN
PRESIDENTE
BANCO MUNDIAL
PRESENTE
En relaci6n a la propuesta de la contrataci6n de un credito con el Banco Mundial
para Ilevar a cabo un Programa de Ajuste Estructural de Politicas Publicas en
apoyo al Programa Nacional del Medio Ambiente y Recursos Naturales del
Gobierno de Mexico, me permito hacer de su conocimiento las politicas
ambientales que se desarrollan en el pais
I.-La nueva politica ambiental de M6xico: Desarrollo Sustentable: Desarrollo
econ6mico con calidad humana y ambiental
La nueva politica ambiental de M6xico y, en particular, la nueva gesti6n ambiental,
se asienta sobre dos cambios claves en la estructura del Gobierno a nivel federal:
a) la nueva administraci6n del Gobierno Federal con la inserci6n de la
Secretaria de Medio Ambiente y Recursos Naturales (SEMARNAT) en las
comisiones coordinadoras del Poder Ejecutivo Federal, donde se atienden
las prioridades nacionales. El medio ambiente dej6 de ser un asunto
sectorial, restringido a la politica social, y paso a ser un tema transversal en
las agendas de trabajo de las Comisiones de Crecimiento con Calidad, de
Desarrollo Social y Humano y la de Orden y Respeto.
b) la reestructuraci6n de la SEMARNAT( (2001-2006), que responde al
compromiso con la sociedad para lograr una gesti6n ambiental en M6xico
mas eficaz y eficiente. Conforme a la nueva estructura, la Secretaria ya no
es responsable directa del desarrollo de actividades productivas. De hecho,
las principales tareas de la Secretaria son ahora de caracter normativo, de
fomento y de gesti6n. Sus principales objetivos estan orientados a la
conservaci6n de la biodiversidad, la protecci6n del ambiente y los recursos
naturales y la promoci6n del desarrollo sustentable.
36



SECRETARIA DE MEDIO AMBENTE
Y RECURSOS NATURALES
La nueva politica ambiental de Mexico reconoce que enfrentar los grandes retos
ambientales del pals requiere de una estrecha articulaci6n de la SEMARNAT con
aquellos sectores de gobierno involucrados directamente en el aprovechamiento y
transformacion de los espacios y recursos naturales ya que la gran parte de los
problemas ambientales que enfrenta el pals estan asociados a acciones que
estan fuera de la jurisdicci6n directa de la SEMARNAT.
La politica ambiental reconoce tambien que la consolidaci6n del federalismo en el
pais es un proceso irreversible y que complementa el programa de reformas
econ6micas que ha emprendido el pals. La ampliaci6n y consolidaci6n del proceso
de descentralizaci6n requiere de la aplicaci6n de medidas en el corto y largo plazo
en todos los sectores y campos de actuaci6n, inclusive el de la gesti6n ambiental.
En este contexto, Mexico solicita el apoyo tecnico y financiero del Banco Mundial
con el fin de (i) apoyar en el proceso que lleva a cabo la SEMARNAT en la
incorporacion de la dimensi6n ambiental en los programas de desarrollo y en los
instrumentos de gesti6n de sectores claves de actividad econ6mica, y (ii) apoyar el
proceso de descentralizaci6n, que contempla fortalecer la autonomia,
responsabilidad, capacidad y transparencia de los gobiernos estatales en la
gesti6n ambiental. Se propone un Programa de Ajuste Estructural de mediano
plazo, por etapas y basado en los resultados contemplados por el propio
Programa Nacional de Medio Ambiente y Recurso Naturales 2001-2006
(PNMARN). Los aspectos claves que sirven de base a la formulaci6n del
Programa de Ajuste Estructural se resumen a continuaci6n.
Il.-Principios y objetivos de la nueva politica ambiental
La nueva politica de medio ambiente en Mexico esta centrada en el concepto de
Desarrollo Sustentable. Parte del principio de que los recursos naturales del pals
son la base de la economia, ya que proveen las materias primas para la
producci6n de bienes y servicios. La conservaci6n y uso sustentable de estos
recursos es un asunto de seguridad y soberania nacional.
El PNMARN fue construido con y de cara a la sociedad. A traves de consultas
publicas se identificaron los objetivos estrategicos, las lineas de acci6n, proyectos
y metas a traves de los cuales el Gobierno de la Republica y la sociedad en su
conjunto emprenderan el camino del cambio para detener y revertir las tendencias
del deterioro ambiental. Fueron especialmente fructiferas las reuniones y las
aportaciones de los Consejos Consultivos Nacional y Regionales de Desarrollo
Sustentable, ya que constituyeron foros de discusi6n y propuesta para la
integraci6n del PNMARN.
37



SECARZIA DE MEDIO AMBMENTE
Y RECURSOS NATURALES
El PNMARN presenta un diagn6stico sobre la situaci6n del medio ambiente que
encontramos al inicio de la actual administraci6n y describe por que llegamos a
esa situaci6n (Anexo 1). Para enfrentar los actuales desafios y liegar al Mexico
que queremos (Anexo 2), el PRMARN propone un cambio en la politica ambiental,
basandose en los principlos de:
* Aplicaci6n de la Ley Ambiental sin excepciones
* Desarrollo en armonia con la naturaleza;
* Crecimiento con calidad humana y ambiental;
* Apego a la legalidad y rendici6n de cuentas; y
* Alianzas con los actores sociales.
* Valoraci6n econ6mica y social de los Recursos Naturales
Para responder a la crisis ambiental que enfrenta el pais, la nueva politica tiene
los siguientes objetivos:
* Detener   los procesos y acciones que estan contribuyendo a
degradar el medio ambiente y agotar la riqueza natural del pais.
* Revertir las tasas de degradaci6n ambiental y agotamiento de
recursos para que, en el mas breve plazo posible, estas sean
minimas y eventualmente nulas.
* Comenzar cuanto antes a restaurar aquellos ecosistemas que han
sido severamente daniados e inhabilitados desde el punto de vista
ambiental.
* Adoptar un tratamiento del tema medio ambiente mas amplio que
aquel que considera los aspectos puramente ecol6gicos por uno que
tome en cuenta la sustentabilidad. Esto quiere decir que las acciones
y programas que se lleven a cabo en cuanto al uso de los recursos
naturales y del medio ambiente, tendran siempre que optimizar tres
variables, la ecol6gica, la econ6mica y la social.
Ill.  Pilares del PNMARN
El PNMARN propone cambios en el modelo de gesti6n ambiental con base en
seis pilares:
38



SEcRETARIA DE MEDIO AMBIENIE
Y RECURSOS NATURALES
(i) Integralidad: MWs alla de un enfoque puramente ecol6gico, se considera
que los recursos naturales deben de ser manejados en forma conjunta y
coordinada. Para lograr el manejo integral de los recursos naturales en el
territorio, se adoptara un enfoque de cuencas donde se tomaran en cuenta
las interrelaciones que existen entre el agua, el aire, el suelo, los recursos
forestales y los componentes de la diversidad biol6gica.
(ii) Compromisos de los sectores del Gobierno Federal: El desarrollo
sustentable representa una tarea compartida por diversas dependencias del
Gobierno Federal que son responsables de los distintos sectores de la
economia. Esto significa que el conjunto de estas dependencias sera
responsable de promover el desarrollo sustentable en sus actividades y
programas, a traves de acciones especificas y metas cuyo desempeiio
pueda medirse peri6dicamente. La variable ambiental estara presente en
las decisiones econ6micas de importancia de este Gobierno.
(iii) Nueva gesti6n: El nuevo enfoque estrategico de la gesti6n ambiental
consiste en sustituir el enfasis en la protecci6n y conservaci6n ambiental
por el de detener, revertir y restaurar la degradaci6n de los ecosistemas.
Requiere dos cambios claves:
* La reestructuraci6n del sector ambiental federal: el nuevo
federalismo ambiental consiste en buscar, a traves de una relaci6n y
dialogo respetuoso entre las autoridades federales, las estatales y
municipales, una acci6n conjunta y coordinada para que la gesti6n
ambiental sea eficaz y eficiente; e
* Inducir el buen comoortamiento de los usuarios del medio ambiente:
La actualizaci6n y desarrollo de la normatividad ambiental dara
certidumbre a la sociedad de como se puede utilizar el medio
ambiente. La formulaci6n de incentivos ambientales buscara
promover un desempeho ambiental eficiente, fomentando la
inversi6n ambiental y permitiendo alcanzar metas ambientales con
un menor costo para la sociedad-
(iv) Valoraci6n de los recursos naturales: Se promovera que los usuarios
de los recursos naturales y los servicios ambientales reconozcan su valor
econ6mico y social. Esto hara que, reconociendo su valor de escasez e
importancia para la sociedad, sean usados en forma racional.
39



SECREI1ARIA DE MEDIO AMBIENTE
Y RECUTRSOS NATURALES
(v) Apego a la legalidad y combate a la impunidad ambiental: La ley se
aplicara sin excepciones y se hara un combate irrestricto frente al crimen
ambiental y la impunidad.
(vi) Participaci6n social y rendici6n de cuentas: El ciudadano comun
tendra acceso a la informaci6n que le permita conocer el estado del medio
ambiente en el que vive y c6mo este afecta su bienestar. La sociedad
(ONGs, sector privado, academia) intervendra en la formulaci6n y ejecuci6n
de politicas y programas. La gesti6n federal del sector ambiental podra ser
evaluada por la ciudadania mediante el uso de indicadores de desempeno
ambiental. La SEMARNAT ha establecido indices y metas que permitan una
evaluaci6n clara de su desempeno y facilite la rendici6n de cuentas durante
su gesti6n.
IV.   Lineas de acci6n del PNMARN
Con base en estos principios y pilares de la nueva politica ambiental, el PNMARN
formula las lineas de acci6n, proyectos y metas que vamos a impulsar para lograr
el cambio de politica ambiental propuesto.
Por primera vez, el PNMARN incluye los programas operativos ambientales de los
6rganos desconcentrados de la SEMARNAT, a saber: la Comisi6n Nacional del
Agua (CNA), la Comisi6n Nacional Forestal (CNF) y la Comisi6n Nacional de
Areas Naturales Protegidas (CONANP). Los objetivos, lineas de acci6n
estrategicas y metas de estos programas son congruentes, complementarios y
estan relacionados entre si y con los seis pilares basicos de la nueva politica
ambiental. La SEMARNAT y sus 6rganos desconcentrados llevaran a cabo en el
periodo 2001-2006 los siguientes programas, de los cuales se precisan los
objetivos, responsabilidades y montos en el Anexo 3:
(i) Programas de Caracter Sectorial e Institucional: Programa Nacional
Hidraulico, Programa Nacional Forestal, Programa Estrat6gico para la
Procuraci6n de la Justicia Ambiental, y Programa Nacional de Areas
Naturales Protegidas;
(ii) Cruzadas Nacionales (campanias de concientizaci6n y educaci6n
ambiental) en los temas de agua, bosques y ambiente limpio;
(iii) Programas Estrat6gicos: con los objetivos de detener y revertir la
contaminaci6n de los sistemas que sostienen la vida (agua, aire y suelos);
detener y revertir la perdida del capital natural; conservar los ecosistemas y
40



SEUTARIA DE MEDIO AMBIENTE
Y RPCURSOS NATURALES
la biodiversidad; y promover el desarrollo sustentable en el Gobiemo
Federal;
(iv) Programas Regionales y Multisectoriales: Programa Frontera Norte,
Plan Puebla Panama, Proyecto Escalera Nautica del Mar de Cort6s,
Corredor Biol6gico Mesoamericano;
(v) Programas Especiales: Pueblos Indigenas, Equidad de Genero,
Juventud
Ademas de estos programas, el PNMARN contempla medidas especificas para
impulsar:
* nuevas formas de participaci6n que alienten al ciudadano de manera
individual y en grupos organizados, a intervenir en la formulaci6n y
ejecuci6n de la politica ambiental y mantener una actitud vigilante sobre los
recursos y el medio ambiente;
* Ia promoci6n y estimulaci6n de la investigaci6n cientifica y tecnol6gica,
aplicada a la resoluci6n directa de los problemas ambientales prioritarios
que aquejan a nuestro pais; y
* Ia educaci6n y el desarrollo de habitos colectivos de cuidado y respeto de
nuestro entorno, en donde el gobierno predica con el ejemplo, y con esta
pauta se influya en el comportamiento cotidiano de empresas, industrias.
comunidades y personas.
V.    Frentes y metas
Para alcanzar un desarrollo sustentable, el PNMARN avanzara en dos grandes
frentes para las cuales se definieron metas claras para el periodo 2001-2006:
(i) Prevenir, mitigar y compensar el efecto de los sectores
productivos sobre el amblente: para lo que se proponen metas
para la integralidad, metas para promover la sustentabilidad
mediante el compromiso del gobiemo federal y metas para valorar
los recursos naturales y servicios ambientales.
41



SECR!ZrARIA DE MEDIO AMBtENTE
Y RECURSOS NATURALES
(ii) Mejorar la efectividad de los procesos de gesti6n ambiental,
lo que requiere metas para lograr el apego a la legalidad y combate a
la impunidad ambiental, y metas para promover la participaci6n social
y la rendici6n de cuentas.
El conjunto de metas del PNMARN se detalla en el Anexo 4.
VI.  Desarrollo Sustentable: una tarea compartida del Gobierno Federal
Bajo la nueva politica ambiental de Mexico, el compromiso con el desarrollo
sustentable representa una tarea compartida por la SEMARNAT y diversas
secretarias e instituciones federales responsables de los distintos sectores de la
economia. Esto significa que en conjunto estas dependencias seran responsables
de promover el desarrollo sustentable en sus actividades y programas a traves de
acciones especificas y metas cuyo desemperho pueda medirse peri6dicamente,
Por primera vez en la historia de Mexico, las Secretarias de Estado y
dependencias del Gobierno Federal asumen compromisos especificos
relacionados con la promoci6n del desarrollo sustentable. Estos compromisos se
han incorporado en los Programas Sectoriales de cada una de las instituciones
que han sumado sus esfuerzos con la SEMARNAT, para hacer efectivo el papel
de la sustentabilidad como principio rector del Plan Nacional de Desarrollo 2001-
2006. Para el ahio 2002, las 13 dependencias del Gobierno Federal han asumido
responsabilidad por 87 metas a las cuales se esta haciendo seguimiento regular.
VIl. Justificaci6n de un cr6dito para apoyar un Programa de Ajuste Estructural
en el campo ambiental
El Gobierno ha dado los pasos criticos iniciales en la definici6n de la nueva politica
ambiental, creando el marco de referencia bajo el cual desarrollara sus programa
de mediano y largo plazo en el campo ambiental. Dentro de este marco ha
avanzado ya en el diseiho o revisi6n de sus instrumentos. No obstante, existen
algunas areas en las cuales deberan redoblarse los esfuerzos. La SEMARNAT, en
coordinaci6n con otros sectores del Gobiemo, propone un Programa de Ajuste
Estructural para ser financiado por el Banco Mundial, que se desarrollara en tres
etapas.
En el marco general del PNMARN, el Programa de Ajuste Estructural prioriza los
siguientes objetivos:
42



SECRETARIA DE MEDIO AMBIENTE
Y RECLRSOS NATURALES
(i) Asegurar la inserci6n de consideraciones v criterios ambientales en las
agendas de desarrollo de sectores prioritarios (aqua, bosques. energia y
turismo)
* Promover consenso en torno a un programa integrado y a los
instrumentos para orientar y monitorear la incorporaci6n de
consideraciones y criterios ambientales en las agendas sectoriales
. Desarrollar acciones prioritarias en los sectores de mayor impacto
estrategico
(ii) Meiorar la eficacia de los procesos de gesti6n ambiental
* Fortalecer el marco regulatorio y plan  de acci6n para la
descentralizaci6n de la gesti6n ambiental
* Fortalecer los procesos de evaluaci6n ambiental y certificaci6n
* Asegurar financiaci6n adecuada para la gesti6n ambiental
* Asegurar participaci6n y transparencia en los procesos de gesti6n
Estos objetivos y las acciones prioritarias que componen el Programa reflejan la
necesidad de ser selectivos, reconociendo la amplitud de los retos que enfrenta el
pais en el tema ambiental, lo cual nos ha llevado a adoptar los siguientes criterios
de priorizaci6n, complementando las prioridades ya definidas en el PNMARN:
* urgencia del tema por su vinculaci6n a la inversi6n y el crecimiento
econ6mico (teniendo en cuenta los impactos ambientales generados
por la actividad econ6mica asi como la restricci6n potencial que
podran representar el mal manejo y la escasez de recursos naturales
para el crecimiento del pals)
* urgencia del tema de acuerdo al nivel de degradaci6n alcanzado
* vinculaci6n con objetivos de combate a la pobreza y equidad social
* existencia de consenso sobre la pertinencia y oportunidad de los
temas
* sucesi6n l6gica de las varias acciones que componen los sub-
programas.
43



SECRETARLA DE MEDIO AMBIENT
Y RECURSOS NATURALES
VilI. Elementos constituyentes y estructura de Programa de Ajuste Estructural
Para la construcci6n del Programa, se ha evaluado cada uno de los sectores y areas
prioritarios, teniendo en cuenta los siguientes componentes basicos de la
construcci6n de una politica publica:
* Marco regulatorio y de politica
* Planes y estrategias
* Instrumentos fiscales
* Arreglos institucionales
* Participaci6n social
* Sistemas de monitoreo y evaluaci6n
El Programa de Ajuste incluye acciones contenidas en los planes actuales del
Gobiemo Federal, orientadas a establecer, ampliar o complementar estos mismos
en el proceso hacia la inserci6n del tema ambiental en las agendas sectoriales y
para lograr un mayor impacto en terminos de eficiencia y eficacia de la gesti6n
ambiental en un modelo descentralizado. Este Programa parte del reconocimiento
de los significativos avances ya hechos por el Gobierno Federal en materia de
descentralizacion y otros logros, que se resumen en el documento del Proyecto.
IX.   Necesidades de Coordinaci6n inter-sectorial
Para la preparaci6n de las etapas siguientes del Programa de Ajuste Estructural,
el Gobierno asegurara:
* Participaci6n y compromiso a nivel de coordinaci6n de gabinetes
* Formalizaci6n de un mecanismo intersecretarial de coordinaci6n
* Relaciones de trabajo efectivas (a nivel tecnico)
- dentro de SEMARNAT
- con otras secretarias y grupos interesados pertinentes
- con la Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico
44



SECRErARIA DE MEDIO AM31ENM
Y RECURSOS NATURALES
Seguimiento y, en la medida de lo posible, medici6n del avance y del
impacto de las politicas implementadas en la(s) etapa(s) anterior(es)
mediante el desarrollo de indicadores/indices de desarrollo sustentable y
reporte anual de avance.
Con el prop6sito de Ilevar a cabo este importante programa, la Secretaria del
Medio Ambiente y Recursos Naturales solicita el apoyo tecnico-financiero del
Banco Mundial.
Sin otro particular, reitero a usted la seguridad de mi atenta y distinguida
consideraci6n.
ATENTAMENTE
SUFRAGIO EFECTiVO. NO REELECCION.
EL SECRETARIO
VICTOR LICHTINGER
C.c.p Francisco Szekely.- Subsecretario de Planeaci6n y Politica Ambiental.-
Presente
W Lic. Sergio Ampudia.- Coordinador General Juridico.- Presente
45



ANEXO I
PNMARN
Diagnostico: LD6nde estamos?
Mexico es la 12a economia mas grande del mundo, el cuarto pals mega diverso,
tiene 3000 affos de historia y un mosaico cultural y etnico sumamente rico.
Entre los paises en desarrollo, Mexico es el segundo destino principal de la
inversi6n extranjera directa y el tercero en crecimiento acumulado. Es el septimo
receptor mundial de turismo, que representa la segunda fuente de ingresos del
pals,
En cuanto a producci6n mundial, nuestro pais es lider en plata, celestita, miel,
frutas, citricos, mezclilla y cemento,
Ocupa el segundo lugar mundial en produccion de fluorita, cuarto en arsenico,
bismuto, cadmio y grafito; quinto en molibdeno y zinc; sexto en antimonio, barita y
plomo; septimo en manganeso y sal; octavo en yeso; noveno en cobre y
feldespato; duodecimo en azufre.
Es el septimo en la producci6n mundial de hidrocarburos y gas natural; el cuarto
en cafe en grano y el decimosexto en captura pesquera.' La industria exportadora
mexicana es la octava mas importante del mundo.
La riqueza biol6gica de Mexico y sus varados ecosistemas, patrimonio de las
generaciones presentes y futuras, son de un valor global de tal magnitud que
supera con mucho las estimaciones econ6micas de todo el petr6leo que pudiera
existir en el pais. Esto es comprensible, en tanto cada una de las especies
representa un eslab6n de la compleja cadena de los procesos ecol6gicos que
genera los servicios ambientales; ademas de que, en potencia, representa un
recurso sujeto a algun tipo de uso o aprovechamiento directo o indirecto.
La perdida del capital natural tiene costos inaceptables e imposibles de sufragar.
Si bien se ha avanzado en el fortalecimiento de la economia nacional, se han
agravado los problemas de inequidad, pobreza, marginaci6n y degradaci6n
ambiental, manifestados con distintos grados de intensidad en las diversas
regiones del pais, Las insuficiencias institucionales y las capacidades locales de
gesti6n y administraci6n son evidentes.
En suma, esta riqueza no ha sido distribuida de manera equitativa entre los
mexicanos, ya que segun estimaciones del Programa de las Naciones Unidas
sobre el desarrollo humano en el mundo, Mexico ocupa el lugar 51 de una lista
integrada por 174 paises.
46



ANEXO 2
PNMARN
Visi6n objetivo: El Mexico que queremos
El Mexico que queremos es un pals donde:
El modelo de desarrollo econ6mico se base en el principio de la sustentabilidad y
en particular genere alternativas de vida para los mexicanos que viven en niveles
de pobreza extrema.
Trabajemos arduamente en resolver nuestro rezago ambiental y a la vez miremos
hacia adelante ya que, al experimentar en 2001 una tasa de crecimiento
poblacional de 1.55% estaremos aumentando 1.5 millones de mexicanos al aflo
durante los proximos 20 anos, los cuales generaran, una presi6n adicional sobre
los recursos naturales y de medio ambiente.
* Se combata la impunidad sin excepciones.
* Se cuente con s6lidos mecanismos de consulta y participaci6n social en los
procesos de planeaci6n y evaluaci6n de los recursos naturales y el medio
ambiente
Aprovechemos que Mexico es un pals de j6venes, lo que representa la mejor
esperanza y el principal recurso para enfrentar los desaflos del pals.
* Los mexicanos y en particular los j6venes, tengan educaci6n y capacitaci6n
ambiental y participen ampliamente en la protecci6n de nuestro patrimonio natural.
Los programas apliquen el enfoque de equidad de genero en el disefo y
ejecucion de las actividades de protecci6n del medio ambiente y uso sustentable
de los recursos naturales, promoviendo para ello la participaci6n plena y
comprometida de las mujeres.
* Tengamos una cultura ecol6gica que considere el cuidado del entomo y del
medio ambiente en la toma de decisiones en todos los niveles y sectores.
* Logremos que nuestras ciudades, playas y campos esten limpios, porque los
residuos son manejados ambientalmente.
* Propiciemos que las ciudades sean mas humanas, menos congestionadas y
contaminadas.
* Fomentemos la investigaci6n cientifica y la innovaci6n tecnol6gica para apoyar
tanto el desarrollo sustentable del pals como la adopci6n de procesos productivos
y tecnologias limpias, asi como la toma de decisiones.
47



* Los pueblos indigenas participen en la identificaci6n de alternativas productivas
que les permitan mejorar su nivel de vida, respetar sus conocimientos y practicas
tradicionales y proteger y conservar el medio ambiente.
* La normatividad y la gesti6n ambiental se caractericen por su eficiencia, eficacia,
transparencia y servicio con calidad.
* Promover la participaci6n de diversos sectores sociales en la protecci6n del
medio   ambiente  mediante  el  fomento   de  la  inversi6n  ambiental.
* Asumamos un liderazgo relevante en la agenda ambiental internacional y
asumamos nuestra responsabilidad frente a los probiemas ambientales globales
48



ANEXO 3
PNMARN
Programas prioritarios de la SEMARNAT y sus dependencias
Tabla de los 17 programas con sus objetivos, entidades responsables y
presupuestos
ESTRATEGIAS                              METAS                     RESPON-
SABLE
ROGRAMA       Fomentar la participad6n de la cobertura y umentar el porcentaje de habitantes con  CNA      9,503 0
NACIONAL       a calidad de los servicios de agua  ervicios de agua potable, alcantarillado,
IORAULICO     potable, alcantadillado y saneamiento, asi  olumen de agua tratada, superfiae de fiego;
001-2006      -mo eficientizar el uso del agua en la  si como verificar que las concesiones de uso
producci6n agricola y promoviendo el  e aguas nadonales y descargas de aguas
esarrollo tecnico, administrativo y  esiduales sean efectivas y que cumplan con la
financiero del sector.              ormatvidad correspondiente y mejorar la
ecaudacion por concepto de derechos.
provechamientos y contribuci6n de mejoras e
mpuestos
PROGRAMA       Incluir en las leyes una distribudon clara y Se desanollaran programas y proyectos e  CONAFOR  1526.50
NACIONAL       explicita de competendas en los tres  nstrumentos econ6micos para fomentar,
FORESTAL       brdenes de gobierno y entre las    nducr e impulsar la inversion y participaci6n de
2001-2006      dependenclas de cada uno de ellos.  os sectores social y privado en la
Fortalecer el consejo ticnico consultivo  -onservacion, protecci6n. restaurad6n,
naconal forestal y los consejos ticnicos  aprovechamiento sustentable y uso multiple de
nsultivos estatales forestales, ademAs  los recursos forestales , ia proteccon de las
de establecer responsabilidades cdaras pofcuencas hidrol6gicas. el desarrollo
cambio de uso de suelo indebido, asl si  Iocloecon6mico de los ejidos y comunidades;
como a los propietarios o poseedores de  a capitalizacion de la actividad forestal y el
recursos forestales por la falta de atencion esarrollo de proyectos de servidos
en el combate de control de plagas y  mbientales.
enfermedades.
PROGRAMA DE aograr la particdpad6n decidida. informada Recuperacdn de zonas cribcas en materia de  PROFEPA     1 123.40
PROCURACION y responsable de los miembros de la   ecursos naturales con problemas de
DE JUSTICIA    ocedad y de sus organizaaones, en la  ngobemabilidad, mediante la operaci6n de
AMBIENTAL      igilancia e inducco6n del cumplimiento de )rogramas de inspecci6n y vigilancda en ANP
001-2006      a iey ambiental y fortabecer ia presencia  rioritarias. Reatizar operaUvos especiales en
Je ia procuraduria y ampliar su cobertura  onas crlUcas con programas altemativos de
erritorial. con cderto crterio federalista.  ustentabilidad e Incrementar ei wimplimiento
e ia legislaci6n amblental. Realizar
nspecciones en zona federal maritimo terrestre;
movimientos transtronterizos de residuos
liehgrosos.
49



PROGRAMA       Elaborar modelos de desarrollo regional  Aumentar la superficie del territorfo nacional  CONANP   226 80
INACIONAL DE como instrumentos normativos y protegido bajo el regimen de ANP. mejorando
AREAS          regulatorios, asl coma Dirigir hada las  su conservacidn y administrad6bn de las
NATURALES      rommuncidades, programas de capacitacldn espedes de flora y fauna, asl corno atraer la  I
PROTEGIDAS     y transferencia de tecnologla. y Promover nversin para el desarrollo de las Areas y
2001-2006      a aplicacd6n del ordenamiento terrKorial a ograr la particpaci6n de la socedad en general
ivel microrreglonal y comunitario. su conservacin.
50



n iylr_-        ESTRATEGIAS                               METAS                       SABLESP
CRUZADA        Promover en cada zona criica la adhesio  nualrrente se selecdonaran y sumaran 3 de  SSFNA   No cuenta
ACIONAL POR     la cnuzada de los poseedores de los  as 50 zonas criticas ambientales como Zonas         con
LOS  QOSQUES    ecursos forestales, a las organizaciones  riticas Cruzada por los Bosques y el Agua        presupuesto
EL AGUA       Je productores, civiles y a los ciudadanos, ZCByA). y que concurran coordinadamente a      asignado
omentar los servicios ambientales y de  ivel subcuenca los programas del sector y las
os sectores que ublizan el agua y el  afines de SEDESOL y SAGARPA, asi como los
osque con fines productbvos        afines de otras dependencias. Realizacion de
agropecuardo, forestal, industrial).  ros nadonal juvenil sobre ternas ambientales,
coordinad6n con el CECADESU.
^RUZADA        Realizar proyectos municipales o    Desarrollar proyectos munidpales o regionales SSGPA    I No cuenta
NACIONAL POR lregionales, mediante el fortalecimlento de para la recoleco6n. separacion. confinamiento     con
JN MtXICO      capacidades insUitucionales, logrando el  y recilaje de los residuos, asi como fortalecer   presupuesto
IMPIO         acceso a mecanismos de financiamiento. ja capacidad institucional (asesoria tecnica.        asignado
si como promocionar y realizar     acceso a tecnologias) e identifcar y acceder a
rogramas de educacion y cultura  las huentes de finandamiento.
aben tal en coord in acion con la in i da vai
rivada.
51



ESTRATEGIAS                               METAS                      RESPON-       C
PROGRAMA        ortalecer la capaodad de gesb6n    iealizar servicios certifcados (ISO 9001-  SSGPA      i No cuenb
PARA DETENER nsbtucional, para la invesfigaci6n y el  000), asi como el fomento de la infraesbuctural     con
Y REVERTIR LA   esarrollo tecnol6gico asl como la  ambtental en Agua. Residuos Industriales y            Ipresupuesto
CONTAMINACIO     paddad de gesbi6n local y de       misiones a la atm6sfera. realizar PROAIRES yi         asignado
N DEL AIRE,    |articipacin de los ciudadanos,     l Inventario Nacional de Residuos Peligrosos
AGUA. SUELO    Consolidar un sistema de informacidn  enerados.
ambiental y de indicadores de
Isustentabilidad y desempe?to                                                              i
,  ,  .    . .  -.   .'.     ' ~  ~  -         * ' ,if s t*S,*j.,  .Ss..9  *.S ;og .s  . ______.______._
PROGRAMA       Pesarrollar un esquema efectvo y    !Detener y revertir procesos de deterioro del  INE          2,122.00
PARA DETENERifuncional de planeacidn ambiental del uso suelo por medio de la accd6n. de los
Y REVERTIR LA iel terriRono por medio del uso del  jecosistemas costeros y marinos identificando
PERDIDA DEL    Drdenamiento ecol6gico del tenitoro e  as causas. generando recursos a partir de su
CAPITAL        Idenbificar y promover mecanismos de  aprovec'amiento sustentable y reinvirtiendolos
NATURAL        )ago y estimulo hacia las comunidades  en su conservaci6n, asi como la perdida de ia
iue manbenen sustentablemente los  biodiversidad ampliando el conocimiento del
,ecursos naturales, y generan servicios  valor que esta representa.
ambientales.
PROGRAMA       lEstablecer mecanismos productvos y  'Realizar programas y proyectas para la  ONE           No cuenta
ESTRATEGICO     ,reventivos mediante el monitoreo y el  'conservaci6n y fomento de las areas naturales jCONANP  con
PARA            nanejo de la informacion; asi como  protegidas, proteccion y conservaci6n de las          presupuesto
CONSERVAR      asegurar ia partidpaci6n y accd6n   especies de flora y fauna silvestres . manejo          asignado
LOS            corresponsable de todos los sectores  de cuencas hidrol6gicas. desarrollo de
ECOSISTEMAS sociales.                             instrumentos econ6micos y captura de carbonoI
YSU                                                 cciones para la recuperacion y restura 6n de
B Ronas criticas forestales, asi como proyectos
Ice capacitacd6n y de educacdon ambiental.
PROGRAMA       Establecer los mecanismos de        Trabajar en forma coordinada con 14      SSPPA
PARA           cordinacion y cooperaci6n entre     dependencias y organismos de la
PROMOVER EL SEMARNAT y las diversas dependencias AdministraciOn Publica Federal. para alcanzar
DESARROLLO     y organismos que participaran en la  objetivos y metas, desarrollar proyectos e
SUSTENTABLE integracidn de los Paquetes de Desarrollo tndicadores que permitan medir el cumplimiental
EN EL          Sustentable, cuyo objeb'vo es definir y  ide las 61 metas comprometidas , incluidas en
GOBIERNO       establecer compromisos puntuales, metas,el capitulo 5 del PNMARN 2001-2006.,
FEDERAL        proyectos e indicadores de evaluact6n.  ilenominado Sustentabilidad en el Nuevo
Gobiemo.
52



5J;PIe1; :XjT4-       ESTRATEGIAS                               METAS                      RESPON
SABLE
PROGRAMA DE jPromover programas de protecci6n,    !Conformar el Consejo Consultvo para el  UCAI               13.263 00
LA FRONTERA    conservaci6n, aprovechamiento y     Desarrollo Sustentable para la Frontera Norte.
NORTE           ecuperao6n de espedes en la regi6n do Establecer mecanismos de vinculacidn y
a Frontera Norte, asi como actividades  coordinaci6n entre el CCDS para la Frontera
producbvas en la region. Contar con un  Norte y los CCDS regi6n Noreste y Noroeste y
programa permanente de sinergia     :oordinaci6n con la Comisi6n de Cooperaci6n
?nsttucional con otros sectores de la  Ecol6gica Fronteriza. Contar con un sistema de
sociedad y del gobiemo y los EE.UU. y  ndicadores que manifiesten el nivel de
negocar compromLsos y mecanismos    espuesta a las demandas sociales en la
inaaonales que permitan la transferencia fmrmulacion de las politicas pOblicas sobre la
'de recursos de los Estados Unidos hacia  zroblematica fronteriza. Dise?lar y llevar a cabo
Mexico.                            I Programas Binacionales de Educadcon
I                                  lAmbiental. Capacitacion para el Desarrollo
Sustentable y Comunicacidn Educativa' en los
|estado de la region.
PROGRAMA         olaborar con las Autoridades       esarrollar e instrumentar mecanismos de  SSPPA        No cuenta
ESTRATEGICO     nnbientafes Estatales y Trabajar en  cordinaci6n entre gobiemo y sociedad en              con
PARA EL SUR- coordinaci6n con la Ofidna del       bpoyo al desarrollo sodoeconOmico y manejo              presupuesto
SURESTE       :Comisionado del PPP y Fomentar el   sustentable de los recursos naturales, asi como        asignado
desarrollo de ia regi6n con estricto apego idlagnosticar potencialidades y llmitaciones del
3 la normadvidad ambiental.        emedio natural.
PROGRAMA       Promover una colaboracidn entre todos  Se espera que para finales del af9o 2002 este  INE      14.550.00
DEL MAR DE     os organismos partidpantes en el   decretado el Ordenamiento Eaol6gico Regional SSPPA
CORTES         desarrollo de los proyectos regionales y  (escala 1:250,000), Los Ordenamientos
durante todas sus etapas (estudios.  Ecol6gicas Costeros de 4 microrregiones
'planeaci6n, concertaciones. evaluacdon.  prioritarias para la conservadb6n (escala;
etc.), instalando grupos de trabajo y  1:50,000) de la regi6n del Mar de Cortes y el
organizando reuniones y talleres de  iPacifico Noroeste de Mexico. Publicacidn de
trabajo, asi como llevar a cabo acciones  as NOM sobre Marinas Turisticas, Campos de
que eviten problemas tales como la  Golf y Humedales Elaboracdbn del Programas
marginacion de los lugarefos, el    e Manejo de las Areas Naturales Protegidas
crecimiento desordenado en tomo a los  (ANP) Archipielago de Bahia de los Angeles e
desarrollos turisticos.            isla de Espintu Santo. Operar el Programa
'acional de Manejo Integrado de Zona Costera
I y se tenga el proyecto de 'Ley de Costas'; que
|esten decretadas como ANP el Archipielago de
I                          t~~~~~~~~~~San Lorenzo y la Isla San Pedro Martir. Iniciar
,el Proyecto Productivo para Mujeres Riberetlas
Pescadoras.
_        _       _       _       _    _         -'  _      _       _       _       _       _      _; .; i..,,,j   ; - . :   r- *
CORREDOR       Prornover la conservaciOn y uso                                              CONABIO              864.00
BIOLOGICO       sustentable de la biodiversidad a travs de                                                i
MESOAMERICA a integracd6n de criterios de conservadbn
NO             en programas gubemamentales y en
Dricticas locales de planeacdn y
desarrollo en 5 corredores biolOgicos
(camp. Chis. CLR. y Yuc.)
53



RSPON- CO
I;l;{.Iei;ks'j         ESTRATEGIAS                              METAS                     RE
ROGRAMA      jortalecer los mecanismos e instrumentos Proteger los recursos estrategicos de las  CONANP  No cuenta
SPECIAL      pubemamentales que aseguren el uso y fcomunidades y organizaciones indigenas:  UCPAST   ,con
PARA LOS       fistrute de los recursos naturales por parteagua, Uenfa, bosques, especies animales y   presupuesto
PUEBLOS        je los pueblos indigenas en sus regiones Yegetales, litorales y siuos sagrados. Fomento  !signado
INDIGENAS       territorios y promover el uso de  a la participacid n de las comunidades y
~ecnobqias apropiadas incluidas las  frganizacones indigenas en el desarrollo de
ecnologias tradiconales para el    as politicas en matena de medio ambiente y
aprovechamiento y conservaci6n de los  'ecursos naturales a partir del conocimiento de
ecursos naturales en zonas indigenas.  a normatividad ambiental.
tsegurando el uso sostenible del entomo.
PROGRAMA        Institudonalizacdn y Transversalidad de Contar con estadisticas e indicadores  :UCPAST           2.5
EQUIDAD DE     a Perspectiva de Genero, asi como  nstitucdonales que den a conocer la
ENERO,        astablecer Ia Coordinacian         )artcipaci6n de hombres y mujeres en los
MEDIO          ntennstitudonal y Cooperacidn      planes, programas y proyectos instrumentados
AMBIENTE Y     ntemadonal y definir los procesos de  por SEMARNAT, asi como incrementar el
USTENTABILIC Gesti6n Ambiental y Desanrollo      porcentaje o representatividad de las mujeres
D 2002-2006   Sustentable con Equidad de Genero.  3n los consejos consultivos para el desarrollo
Isustentable. y Fortalecer capacidades de
riderazgo de las mujeres en seis proyectos
i?loto del Corredor Biol6gico Mesoamericano.
PROGRAMA       Fortalecer las economias regionales, en  mpulsar programas que rompan la transmision CECADESU  i  3 53
MBIENTAL       special las mas rezagadas, la cual es  Ieneracional de la pobreza, creen nuevas
PARA LA         esponsabilidad de toda la sociedad. asl  Dportunidades para nirlos y j6venes
UVENTUD        omo Promover procesos de educaci6n.  ctualmente marginados y eleven Ia calidad de
002-2006       apacitad6n, comunicaci6n y         vida de los pobladores. propidar condicones
bortaledmiento de la participad6n  que permitan a los diversos sectores de la
Icudadana relativos a la protecd6n del  |poblacion. Contar con informaci6n y
medio ambiente y el aprovechamiento  lconocimientos para comprender los efectos de
sustentable de los recursos naturales.  a accitn transformadora del hombre en el
erndio ambiente, Con habilidades y aptitudes
para establecer nuevas formas de relacion con
a] entorno natural.
54



ANEXO 4
PNMARN
Metas 2001-2006
1. Metas para la integralidad
* Establecer 13 cuencas hidrol6gicas bajo el esquema de Manejo Integral de
Cuencas (MIC), para prop6sitos de planeaci6n y gesti6n ambiental.
* Asegurar que las microcuencas de atenci6n ambiental prioritaria coincidan con
comunidades de las 250 microrregiones mAs pobres del pals.
* Disefnar y aplicar un plan maestro para la recuperaci6n de la Cuenca del Lerma-
Chapala, desde la perspectiva del Manejo Integral de Cuencas.
2. Metas para promover la sustentabilidad mediante el comrromiso del
gobierno federal
* Catorce dependencias y entidades del gobiemo federal responsables de formular
e implementar las politicas econ6micas y sociales del pais, asumen compromisos
especificos para promover la sustentabilidad con acciones concretas en su Ambito
de acci6n.
CONSISTENCIA CON EL PNMARN
-Aire
* El promedio de los mAximos diarios de ozono no debera ser mayor de 130
puntos en la Zona Metropolitana del Valle de Mexico (ZMVM).
* El maximo anual de ozono no debera pasar los 220 puntos IMECA en la ZMVM.
* Se reduce en un 10% el porcentaje de dias que se rebasa la norma de ozono en
la ZMVM.
* Se mantienen dentro de la norma los niveles ambientales de mon6xido de
carbono y bi6xido de azufre en la ciudades de Mexico, Guadalajara, Monterrey,
Tijuana, Mexicali, Juarez y Puebla.
-Agua
* Lograr que el 78% de la poblaci6n cuente con servicio de alcantarillado.
* Tratar el 65% de las aguas residuales generadas en centros urbanos e
industriales y lograr que el 100% de estas aguas tratadas cumplan con la
normatividad.
55



Asumir la cultura de la infiltraci6n y la retenci6n de las aguas de Iluvia.
Recuperar y reutilizar crecientemente aguas residuales de uso agricola.
* Lograr el manejo integral y sustentable del agua en cuencas y acuiferos.
* Hacer efectivo el cobro del agua destinada a diversos usos.
* Reducir las perdidas de agua en el sector agricola con diversas tecnologias y
sistemas de uso.
* Promover el desarrollo t6cnico, administrativo y financiero del sector hidraulico.
-Suelos
Establecer responsabilidades claras por cambios de uso de suelo indebidos y a los
propietarios o poseedores de recursos forestales por la falta de atenci6n en el
combate y control de plagas y enfermedades.
* Incrementar la capacidad instalada para el manejo de residuos de 5.2 a 6.4
millones de toneladas anuales.
* Ampliar el padr6n de registro de generadores de residuos y materiales peligrosos
del actual 8% en el ano 2000 al 100% en el 2006.
* Concluir y mantener actualizado el lnventario Nacional de Residuos y Materiales
Peligrosos.
* Capacitar al 100% de las autoridades locales para el manejo de los residuos en
cuencas que inte- gran el Programa de Ciudades Sustentables.
Detener y revertir la perdida del capital natural (agua, bosques y selvas).
-Recursos forestales
* Incrementar la superficie forestal en un mill6n de hectareas considerando areas
de restauraci6n y de plantaciones forestales comerciales.
* Incorporar al aprovechamiento forestal sustentable a cuatro millones de
hectareas-
Disminuir la superficie afectada por incendios forestal.
* Crear y promover el mercado de servicios ambientales en 600 mil hectareas.
56



-Vida silvestre .
* Reintroducir y/o recuperar 10 especies prioritarias (claves, raras, amenazadas o
en peligro de extinci6n).
-Instrumentos de gesti6n ambiental
* Concluir tecnicamente 15 ordenamientos ecol6gicos regionales.
* Decretar, en todas las entidades federativas, el respectivo Ordenamiento
Ecologico Estatal.
* Incrementar el promedio de las funciones descentralizadas y operadas por cada
estado de 13 a 30.
* Reducir el nOmero de dias necesaros para obtener el dictamen y la autorizaci6n
de impacto ambiental, modalidad regional o compleja, de 140 a 60 dias.
3. Metas para valorar los recursos naturales y servicios ambientales
-Areas naturales protegidas (ANP).
* Incrementar d& ocho a 90 las ANP con nivel administrativo suficiente para su
operaci6n (infraestructura, recursos financieros y humanos, entre otros).
* Mantener y mejorar las poblaciones de especies prioritarias en el 90% de las
ANP.
* Captar 100 millones de pesos anuales por concepto de pago de derechos en las
ANP.
* Realizar actividades de restauraci6n en el 60% de la superficie de las ANP,
mediante acciones de reforestaci6n, control de erosi6n, etcetera.
4. Metas para lograr el apego a la legalidad y combate a la impunidad
ambiental
* El porcentaje de inspecciones forestales que detectan cumplimiento de la
normatividad se incrementara de 10% en el 2001 a 35% en el 2006.
* El porcentaje de superficie decretada como protegida dentro del Sistema
Nacional de Areas Naturales Protegidas en la que se realizan acciones de
inspecci6n y vigilancia se incrementara de 20% en el 2001 a 100% en el 2006.
57



* El porcentaje de verificaciones a las actividades de los prestadores de servicios
turisticos en areas naturales protegidas marinas y litorales que detectan total
cumplimiento de la normatividad para la protecci6n de ecosistemas y especies
marinas protegidas se incrementara de 40% en el 2001 a 57% en el 2006.
* El porcentaje de inspecciones que no detectan irregularidades al verificar el
cumplimiento de condicionantes en el aprovechamiento y protecci6n de especies y
areas marinas protegidas se incrementara de 55% en el 2001 a 70% en e12006.
* El porcentaje de visitas de inspecci6n que detectan proyectos que cumplen con
las condicionantes establecidas en la autorizaci6n en materia de impacto
ambiental se incrementara de 65% en el 2001 a 95% en el 2006.
* El porcentaje de establecimientos industriales y de servicios evaluados con
calificaci6n igual o superior a 90 se incrementara de 50% en el 2001 a 90% en el
2006.
5. Metas para promover la participaci6n social y la rendici6n de cuentas
* Incrementar la atenci6n a la denuncia popular en materia ambiental del 66%
actual a 100%.
* Lograr la atenci6n del 90% de las solicitudes y propuestas de acci6n de la
ciudadania.
* Poner a disposici6n de la ciudadania informaci6n sobre el estado de los recursos
naturales y los procesos de gesti6n a travbs de la Internet, mediante 23 paginas
base de Unidades Administrativas centrales y 32 paginas base de las
Delegaciones Estatales de la SEMARNAT.
* Elaborar anualmente un reporte sobre los gastos y logros derivados de la
inspecci6n y vigilancia ambiental y de los recursos naturales.
* Incrementar la proporci6n de denuncias concluidas, de un 35% actual a 60%.
58



ANNEX 1: Letter of Development Policy (English)
MINISTRY OF ENVIRONMENT AND NATURAL RESOURCES
Mexico City, Federal District
Letter No. 00953
May 26, 2002
Mr. James D. Wolfensohn
President
World Bank
With respect to the proposal of a loan to be contracted with the World Bank to carry out a
Program of Structural Adjustment of Public Policies in support of the Government of
Mexico's National Environment and Natural Resources Program, I hereby present to you
an account of the environmental policies that are carried out in Mexico.
I.    The New Environmental Policy in Mexico: Sustainable Development:
Economic Development with Human and Environmental Quality
Mexico's new environmental policy and, in particular, its new environmental
management strategy, are based on two main changes in the structure of the Federal
Government:
a) The new administration of the Federal Government with the inclusion of the
Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources (SEMARNAT) in all three
Cabinet-level Commissions that manage national priorities. Thus, changing
the topic of environment from a sectoral issue, linked to social policy, to a
crosscutting theme included in the agendas of all three Commissions: Quality
Growth, Human and Social Development, and Order and Respect;
b) The new administration of the federal government changed the internal
structure of SEMARNAT (2001-2006). These changes reflect the
government's commitment to more efficient and effective environmental
management with a separation between productive activities, which are no
longer under SEMARNAT's mandate, and normative, promotion and
management activities. SEMARNAT's objectives are now focused
specifically on biodiversity conservation, protection of the environment and
natural resources, and promotion of sustainable development.
Mexico's new environmental policy is aware of the challenges that it faces on the
environmental front which require coordination between SEMARNAT and different
sectors of the GOM that are directly involved in the use of natural spaces and resources.
It recognizes that the majority of actions that directly affect the environment are not
necessarily those under the mandate of SEMARNAT.
59



The new environmental policy assumes that federalism is an irreversible process
complementing the program of economic reforms under way in Mexico. The shift toward
greater decentralization requires the implementation of short and long terrn approaches in
all sectors including those involved in environmental management.
In this context, Mexico is seeking technical and financial support from the World Bank to
(i) support SEMARNAT's efforts to incorporate the environmental dimension in
development programs and management instruments in key sectors of economic activity,
and (ii) support the decentralization process which will strengthen state governments,
build state level autonomy and capacity for environmental management and promote
transparency. A medium-terrn structural adjustment program is proposed, in several
stages, based on the GOM's outcome based program described in the Programa Nacional
de Medio Ambiente y Recursos Naturales 2001-2006 (PNMARN). The key aspects,
which serve as a basis for the formulation of the Structural Adjustment Program are
described below.
II.   Principles and Objectives of the New Environmental Policy
The new environmental policy in Mexico is based on the concept of sustainable
development. It follows the principle that the country's economy depends on natural
resources from which the raw materials used for the production of goods and services are
derived. The conservation and sustainable use of these resources is an issue of national
security and sovereignty.
The PNMARN was constructed with and for the Mexican society. The strategic
objectives, action, projects and goals by which Government and society as a whole will
undertake the road to change the trend of environmental degradation were identified
through public consultations. The discussions and proposals within the National and
Regional Consultative Committees for Sustainable Development (Consejos Consultivos
Nacionales and Regionales de Desarrollo Sustentable) were pivotal for the design of
PNMARN.
The PNMARN describes a diagnosis of the environmental situation found at the
beginning of the current administration and describes the reasons for arriving at such a
situation (Annex la). The PNMARN proposes a change to the environmental policy in
order to approach the current challenges and realize the Mexico we envision (Annex lb).
This environmental policy is based on the following principles:
- Enforcement of Environmental Law without exemptions;
- Development in harmony with nature;
- Growth with human and environmental qualities;
- Abidance to legality and accountability;
- Alliance with social actors;
- Economic and social valuations of natural resources.
60



To respond to the environmental crisis the country currently confronts, the new policy
has the following objectives:
*  Deter the processes and actions contributing to the country's environmental
degradation and to the depletion of natural resources.
* Revert, in the shortest possible time, the rate of environmental degradation and
the depletion of resources to the minimum rate and eventual nullification.
*  Begin, as soon as possible, the restoration of those ecosystems severely damaged
and incapacitated from the environmental point of view.
* Adopt a more comprehensive understanding of environmental issues. Rather than
one which considers the purely ecological aspects of the environment, embrace
one which includes sustainability. This means that the actions and programs
executed in relation to the use of natural resources and that of the environment,
must optimize ecological, economical and social variables.
III.   Pillars of the PNMARN
The underlying six pillars of Mexico's PNMARN are:
(i)   Integration: The new environmental policy recognizes the need to
manage natural resources in an integrated and coordinated manner,
thinking beyond a purely ecological focus. In order to achieve an
integrated management within the Mexican territory, a "watersheds
approach" (enfoque de cuenca) will be implemented. Water, air, forests
and biodiversity will be managed within the context of watersheds; the
interrelationship among various natural resources is at the center of this
approach.
(ii)  Commitment at the Level of the Federal Government: Sustainable
development is a shared task among different institutions within the
federal government that represent different sectors of the economy. This
means that all the institutions whose actions directly affect the
environment will be responsible for promoting sustainable development in
Mexico through its programs, specific actions and commitments. Their
performance will be evaluated periodically. The environmental angle will
be taken into consideration within any important economic decisions of
this government.
(iii) New Environmental Management: The new strategic direction for
environmental management relies upon changing emphasis from
environmental protection to halting, reverting and restoring degraded
ecosystems. For such a purpose two key changes are necessary:
* The design of a new structure for federal environmental institutions:
The new environmental federalism consists of seeking - through a
relationship of respectful dialogue between federal, state and
61



municipal authorities - coordinated and harmonized actions to ensure
the efficiency and effectiveness of environmental management; and
* The change in behavior of users of environmental resources: The
development and implementation of environmental regulation will
provide the society with guidelines on how to make use of
environmental resources. The design of the right incentives will induce
a more efficient environmental performance by stimulating
environmental investment and achieving environmental targets in a
more cost-effective way.
(iv)  Valuation of Natural Resources: The new policy encourages users of
natural resources and enviromnental services to recognize their economic
and social value, with the intention of promoting rational use of resources
through recognition of their scarcity value and importance for society.
(v)   Emphasis on compliance and improved enforcement: The law will be
enforced without exceptions including the applicable punishments under
criminal law.
(vi)  Social Participation and Accountability: Citizens will have access to
information that would allow them to be acquainted with the state of the
environment in which they live and how such state affects their welfare.
Society (NGOs, private sector, academia) will participate in the design and
implementation of environmental policies and programs. Citizens will be
able to evaluate environmental management performance by the federal
govermment through the use of environmental indicators. SEMARNAT
has established indices and goals for clear evaluation and transparent
accounting.
IV.   Actions within PNMARN
In line with the above principles and pillars of environmental management, the
PNMARN formulates specific actions, projects and goals that will enable us to achieve
the proposed change in environmental policy.
For the first time, the PNMARN includes the operational environmental programs of
SEMARNAT's deconcentrated agencies: the Comision Nacional de Agua (CNA), the
Comision Nacional Forestal (CONAFOR), and the Comision Nacional de Areas
Protegidas (CONANP). All objectives, strategic actions and goals in these programs are
consistent, complementary and are coordinated among themselves and with the six basic
pillars of the new environmental policy. SEMARNAT and its deconcentrated agencies
will carry out the following programs through 2001-2006 (details regarding these
strategic programs are included in Annex Ic):
62



(vi)  Sectoral and Institutional Programs: National Water Program, National
Forestry Program, Strategic Program for Environmental Justice and
Enforcement and Natural Protected Areas Program;
(vii)  National Crusades (awareness raising and environmental education
campaigns) in the areas of water, forests, and a clean environment;
(viii) Strategic Programs: with the objective of stopping and reversing
pollution of life-sustaining systems (water, air and soils), stopping and
reversing loss of natural capital; conserving ecosystems and biodiversity,
and promoting sustainable development in the federal government;
(ix)  Regional and Multisectoral Programs: Northern Border Program, Plan
Puebla-Panama, Nautical Ladder Project in the Sea of Cortes,
Mesoamerican Biological Corridor;
(x)   Special Programs: Indigenous Peoples, Gender Equity, and Youth.
In addition, the PNMARN contemplates specific measures to promote:
9. New forms of public participation that will induce individual citizens and
organized groups to participate and contribute in the design and implementation of
environmental policy and maintain a vigilant attitude towards resources and the
environment;
10. The promotion and stimulation of scientific and technological research
applied to the direct resolution of priority environmental problems in our country; and
11. Environmental education and development of respect and good citizens'
behavior with respect to the environment, where the government leads by example, in
order to promote behavioral change in enterprises, industry, communities and individuals.
V.    Goals
In order to achieve sustainable development, the PNMARN advances on two main fronts,
for each of which clear goals have been defined for 2001-2006:
(i)   Prevent, mitigate and compensate for the effects of productive sectors
on the environment: for which goals are proposed for integration,
commitment at the level of the federal government, valuation of
environmental resources and environmental services.
(ii)  Improve the effectiveness of environmental management processes,
which requires goals to emphasize compliance and enforcement without
exceptions, promotion of public participation and transparent accounting.
Further details on PNMARN's goals are included in Annex ld.
VI.   Sustainable Development: a shared task among different institutions of the
Federal Government
In line with the new environmental policy, sustainable development is a shared task
among SEMARNAT and different ministries and institutions of the Federal Government
63



that represent distinct sectors of the economy. This means that all these institutions will
be responsible for promoting sustainable development through specific actions and goals.
Their performance in this respect will be evaluated periodically.
For the first time in history, Ministries and other institutions of the Federal Government
have made commitments to promote sustainable development. These commitments were
also integrated in the sectoral programs of each of these institutions, and constitute the
core component of the development strategy being put forward by the present
administration in its National Development Plan 2001-2006 (Plan Nacional de
Desarrollo 2001-2006). In 2002, 13 agencies of the Federal Government have committed
to achieve 87 goals, which are being evaluated on a regular basis.
VII. Justification for a Loan in Support of an Environmental Adjustment
Program
The government has taken critical steps towards the definition of a new environmental
policy, creating a framework on which to develop medium and long range programs in
the environmental sector. Within this framework, there has been some progress in terms
of instrument design or revision. There are still, however, areas requiring greater
attention. SEMARNAT, in coordination with other sectors of the Government, proposes a
Structural Adjustment Program to be financed by the World Bank, that will be developed
in three stages:
Within the general framework of the PNMARN, the Structural Adjustment Program
defines the following objectives as priorities:
(i) To ensure the insertion of environmental considerations in the development
agendas of priority sectors (water, forests, energy and tourism)
* Promote consensus towards an integrated program, and the instruments to
guide and to monitor the incorporation of environmental considerations in
the sectoral agendas.
* Identify priority actions in the sectors of greater strategic impact.
(ii) To improve the effectiveness of environmental management processes
*  Strengthen the regulatory framework and plan of action for the
decentralization of environmental management
*  Strengthen the environmental evaluation and certification processes
*  Ensure adequate financing for environmental management
*  Ensure participation and transparency in management processes
These objectives and priority actions that compose the Program reflect the need to be
selective, recognizing the ample challenges that the country faces in terms of
environmental issues. Therefore, the following criteria for setting priorities have been
adopted to complement those already defined under the PNMARN:
64



*  The importance of the topic due to the link to investment and economic
growth (considering the environmental impacts generated by economic
activity as well as the potential restriction represented by the mishandling
and shortage of natural resources needed for the growth of the country)
*  Importance of the topic due to the existing levels of environmental
degradation
*  Links with the objectives of poverty alleviation and social equity
*  Existence of consensus on importance and opportunity of matters at hand
*  logical succession of the several actions that integrate the subprograms
VIII. Constituent Elements and Structure of the Structural Adjustment Program
For the construction of the Program, each one of the sectors and priority areas have been
evaluated, considering the following basic components for the construction of a public
policy:
*  Regulatory and policy framework
*  Plans and strategies
*  Fiscal instruments
*  Institutional arrangements
*  Social Participation
*  Monitoring and Evaluation System
The Adjustment Program includes actions found under the present plans of the Federal
Government. Such actions are oriented to establish, extend and complement the programs
in the process towards the integration of environmental issues in the sectoral agendas and
to obtain a greater impact in terms of the efficiency and effectiveness of environmental
management in a decentralized model. This program is based on the recognition of
significant progress already achieved by the federal government in terms of
decentralization and other advances that are summarized in the Project Document.
IX.   Inter-Sectoral Coordination
For the preparation of the consecutive stages of the Structural Adjustment Program, the
Government will ensure:
* Participation and commitment at the Cabinet level
* Establishment of an inter-secretarial coordination mechanism
* Effective working relationships (at a technical level)
o within SEMARNAT
o with other ministries and interested groups as pertinent
o with the Finance and Public Credit Ministry
65



* Monitoring and, as much as possible, measurement of the advances made and
the impact of the implemented policies in previous phases through the
development of sustainable development indicators/indexes and annual
performance report.
With the purpose of carrying out this important program, the Ministry of Environment
and Natural Resources requests technical and financial help from the World Bank.
Yours sincerely,
Signed by
Victor Lichtinger
Secretary for Environment and Natural Resources
66



ANNEX la
PNMARN
Analysis: Where are we?
Mexico is the world's 12th largest economy, the fourth megadiverse country; it has 3000
years of history and an extremely rich cultural and ethnic mosaic.
Among developing countries, Mexico is the second destination of direct foreign
investment and third in accumulated growth. It is the seventh world-wide receiver of
tourism, which in turn represents the second source of income for the country.
With regards to world-wide production, our country is world leader in silver, celestite,
honey, fruits, citruses, denim and cement.
It occupies the second world-wide place in fluorite production, fourth in arsenic, bismuth,
cadmium and graphite; fifth in molybdenum and zinc; sixth in antimony, barite and lead;
seventh in manganese and salt; eighth in plaster; ninth in copper and feldspar and twelfth
in sulfur.
It occupies the seventh place in world-wide production of hydrocarbons and natural gas;
the fourth place in production of coffee grain and sixteenth place in fishing. The Mexican
export industry is the eighth most important in the world.
Mexico's biological wealth and its various ecosystems, patrimony of present and future
generations, have a global value that is of such magnitude that it surpasses the economic
worth estimations of all the petroleum that could exist in the country. This is logical,
since each one of the species represents a link in the complex chain of ecological
processes that generate environmental services; in addition potentially representing a
resource subject to some type of advantage on its direct or indirect use.
The loss of natural resources capital has unacceptable and irreversible costs.
Although there have been improvements on strengthening the national economy, there
have also been problems with inequality, poverty, marginalization, and environmental
degradation, manifested at different levels throughout the regions of the country. The lack
of institutions and local management capacity are also evident.
In summary, this wealth has not been equally distributed among all Mexicans. According
to the U.N.-published Human Development Index, Mexico occupies the 51st place out of
174 countries.
67



ANNEX lb
PNMARN
Vision and objective: The Mexico that we want
The Mexico that we want is a country where:
* The economic development model is based on the principle of sustainability and in
particular that it generates lifestyle alternatives for Mexicans living under extreme
poverty levels.
* We work arduously in addressing and solving our environmental problems as well as
looking ahead while keeping in mind that the population growth rate experimented in
2001 was 1.55% which represents an increase of 1.5 million of Mexicans per year
during the next 20 years, which will in turn generate additional pressure on the
natural resources and environment.
* We fight impunity without exceptions.
* We can rely on solid consultation mechanisms and social participation in the natural
resources and environment planning and evaluation processes.
* We take advantage of the fact that Mexico is a country full of young people, which
represents the best hope and the main resource of the country to face the future
challenges.
* Mexicans and in particular young people, have the necessary education (including
environmental education) to participate widely in the protection of our natural
patrimony.
* The design and execution of activities on environment conservation and sustainable
use of natural resources have gender equity components which promote the
participation and commitment of women.
* The care of the surroundings and the environment is incorporated in all decision
making processes at all levels and sectors.
* Waste is handled in an environmentally sound manner in our cities, beaches and
fields in order to keep them clean.
* Cities are more human, less congested and contaminated.
* Scientific research and technological innovation is encouraged and supports the
country's sustainable development, productive processes and clean technologies, as
well as decision making.
* Indigenous peoples participate in the identification of productive alternatives that
allow them to improve their life standard, respect their traditional knowledge and
practices and to protect and conserve the environment.
* Environmental regulations and management are characterized by their efficiency,
effectiveness, transparency and quality of service.
* Participation of all social sectors is promoted in the protection of the environment by
means of promoting environmental investment.
* An excellent leadership is assumed in the international environmental agenda taking
into consideration our responsibility on confronting global environmental problems.
68



ANNEX Ic
PNMARN
Priority programs for SEMARNAT and its institutions
Table of the 17 programs with objectives, responsible entities and budget.
RESPON          COST
PROGRAM                 STRATEGIES                              GOALS                       SIBLE         ('000
ENTITY        pesos)
Sectoral and Institutional Programs                                            |
NATIONAL       To increase the reach and quality of  To increase the percentage of population with  CNA      9,503.0
WATER          drinking water provision and sanitation  access to safe drinking water, sanhtation,
PROGRAM        services as well as to enhance the  treated water volume and irrigation capabilities,
2001-2006      efficiency of water use in agricultural  as well as to verify that the concessions for
production and to promote technical,  national water use and residual water discharge
administrative and financial development are effective and that they comply with existing
of the sector.                     regulation on the matter and to enhance the
institutional capability for collecting fees, rights,
charges and tax payments
-ow                                                   -
ATIONAL      To include in the legal framework a clear Programs, projects and economic instruments CONAFOR  1,526.5
ORESTRY       and explicit distinction of the    will be developed to promote, induce and
ROGRAM       competencies of the three govemment  encourage the social and private sectors'
001-2006     levels and their respective institutions.  investment and participation in conservation,
o strengthen the National and State-level protection, restoration and sustainable multiple
Forestry Consultative Committees, as well use of forestry resources, protection of
as to establish clear responsibilities for  watersheds, socioeconomic development of
inappropriate land use changes and - in  ejidos and communities; capitalization of
he case of owners or holders of forestry  forestry activity and development of
resources - for lack of proper attention in environmental services projects.
plague and disease control.
TRATEGIC     To ensure the decisive, informed and  The recovery of critical areas in terms of  PROFEPA        123.40
PROGRAM FOR responsible participation of individuals and environmental resources with governance
NVIRONMENT organizations in the vigilance and    problems, through inspection and vigilance
L JUSTICE    enforcement of the Environmental Law  programs in priority natural protected areas. To
ND           and to strengthen PROFEPA's presence  undertake special operations in critical areas
NFORCEMENT and to increase its territorial scope, with a with altemative sustainability programs and to
001-2006      federalist criterion.              increase general observance of environmental
legislation. To carry out inspections along the
federal terrestrial-maritime zone and
inspections of transboundary movements of
hazardous waste.
69



TURAL       To create regional development models  To increase natural protected areas as a  CONANP       226.8
ROTECTED     such as normative and regulatory   percentage of the total national territory,
EAS         instruments, as well as to direct capacity- enhancing the conservation and administration
ROGRAM       building and technology transfer programs of flora and fauna species, as well as to attract
001-2006     to communities, and to promote     investment for the development of these natural
application of land-use planning at micro- protected areas and to achieve general
regional and community levels.     participation of society in their conservation.
70



RESPON-         COST
PROGRAM                 STRATEGIES                               GOALS                       SIBLE         ('000
ENTITY        pesos)
National Crusades                 -             ; -.   -;
NATIONAL       To promote the cwusade in each critical  Out of the 50 critical environmental zones, 3  SSFNA  No assigned
CRUSADE FOR zone among the holders of the natural  are selected every year as targets and added to (ENVIRONMEN budget
FORESTS AND    Forestry resources, the producers'  this crusade. These areas must also qualify as TAL
WATER          association and the citizens in general,  sub-watershed level and be included in Sector REGULATION
promote environmental services among  Programs from SEDESOL and SAGARPA, as  UNDER-
sectors that utilize water and forests for  well as relevant programs from other  MINSTRY in
productive uses (agriculture, livestock,  institutions. National Youth Environmental Fora SEMARNAT)
forestry, industrial).              will also be carried out, in coordination with
CECADESU.
NATIONAL       To carry out municipal and/or regional  To develop municipal or regional programs for SSGPA  No assigned
RUSADE FOR projects, through the strengthening of  gathering, sorting, confining and recycling of  (ENVIRONMEN budget
CLEAN        institutional capabilities, achieving access waste, as well as to strengthen institutional  TAL
EXICO         o financing mechanisms, as well as to  capacities (technical assistance, access to  MANAGEMENT
promote and carry out environmental  technology) and identify and have access to  UNDER-
education and cultural programs in  financing sources.                      MINISTRY in
coordination with the private sector.                                       SEM    N
71



RESPON-         COST
PROGRAM                 STRATEGIES                                GOALS                       SIBLE          ('000
ENTITY        pesos)
Strategic Programs        ._._.                                                                               . -
PROGRAM TO     To strengthen institutional management  To carry out certified services (ISO 9001-2000), SSGPA  No assigned
STOP AND       capacity for research and technological  to promote the environmental infrastructure  (ENVIRONMEN  budget.
REVERSE AIR, development as well as the capacity for  needed for water, industrial waste and  TAL
WATER AND      local management and for public     emissions to the atmosphere and to carry out  MANAGEMENT
ND           participation.                      PROAIRES and the National Inventory for  UNDER-
OLLUTION      To consolidate a system for environmental Hazardous Waste and Materials      MINISTRY in
information and for performance and                                          SEMARNAT)
sustainabilty indicators.
ROGRAM TO     To develop an effective and functional  To stop and revert deterioration processes for INE       2,122.0
TOP AND       scheme for environmental planning of land soil and for marne and coastal ecosystems  (NATIONAL
REVERSE LOSS use through the land use planning and to identifying causalities and generating resources ECOLOGY
OF NATURAL     identify and promote payment        through their sustainable use, in order to then  INSTITUTE)
CAPITAL        mechanisms for communties that      reinvest them in their conservation. To stop and
maintain their natural resources in a  revert the loss of biodiversity as well, raising
sustainable way and generate        awareness of the value that it represents
environmental services
TRATEGIC      To estatAsh proauct,ve and preveni,ve  To car-y out programs and projecls tor  NE           No assigned
PROGRAM TO     mechanisms for ecosystem conservation  conservation and promotion of natural  CONANP        budget.
RESERVE       through monitoring and management of  protected areas, conservation and protection of
COSYSTEMS     information, as well as to ensure public  flora and fauna species, watershed
ND THEIR      participation and co-responsible action in management, economic instrument
BIOLOGICAL     all social sectors                  development, carbon sequestration, recovery
DIVERSITY                                          and restoration of critical forest zones, as well
as capacity building and environmental
education.
ROGRAM TO     To establish mechanisms of coordination  To work in a coordinated manner with 14 other SSPPA
ROMOTE        and cooperation between SEMARNAT    government institutions in order to reach goals (PLANNING
USTAINABLE    and the other institutions that participate in and objectives and to develop projects and  AND
EVELOPMENT the building of the Sustainable        indicators that permit measurement of the 61  ENVIRONMENT
IN THE         Development Packs, whose objective is to goals established as commitments in chapter 5 AL POLICY
FEDERAL        define and establish clear commitments,  of the PNMARN 2001-2006, entitled   UNDER-
OVERNMENT goals, projects and performance         "Sustainability in the New Government"   MINISTRY in
indicators.                                                                  SEMARNAT)
72



RESPON-        COST
PROGRAM                 STRATEGIES                              GOALS                       SIBLE         ('000
ENTITY        pesos)
Regional and Multisectoral Progrfams
ORTHERN      To promote protection, conservation,  To create the Northem Border Sustainable  UCAI          13,263.00
ORDER         sustainable use, and recovery of species Development Consulting Committee.  (International
ROGRAM        in the Northern Border region, as well as  To establish communication and cooperation  Affaires
productive activities in the region.  mechanisms between this committee and the  Coordinating
To establish this program as a permanent Consulting Committees for Sustainable  Unit)
source of institutional synergies with other Development for the North and Northwest
sectors of society and government and  regions and with the Commission for Border
actors within the U.S.A. To negotiate  Environmental Cooperation
commitments and bilateral mechanisms  To build an indicator system that can reflect the
that allow the transference of resources  level of response to social demands in the
from the US to Mexico.             design of public policies concerning border-
specific issues.
To design and implement 'Binational Programs
of Environmental Education, Sustainable
Development Capacity Building and
Educational Communication" in the region's
states.
OUTH-         To cooperate with local environmental  To develop and implement cooperation  SSPPA       No assigned
OUTHEAST      authorities and work in coordination with  mechanisms between government and society (PLANNING  budget.
TRATEGIC      he Plan Puebla-Panama Commissioner's for promotion of socioeconomic development  ND
ROGRAM       Office. To promote the region's    and sustainable management of natural   ENVIRONMENT
development with strict observance of  resources, as well as to diagnose opportunities  L POLICY
environmental laws.                and limitations of natural media.       UNDER-
MINISTRY in
SEMARNAT)
EA OF        TO promote collaboration among all the  We expect that, by the end of 2002, the  INE          14,550.00
ORTES        organisms participating in development of following Land Use Plans will be complete:  SSPPA
ROGRAM        regional projects throughout all their  Regional Land Use Plan (scale 1 250,000),  (PLANNING
phases (preliminary studies, planning,  Coastal Land Use Plans of 4 priority micro-  AND
meetings, evaluation, etc.), installing  regions for conservation (scale 1:50,000) of the ENVIRONMENT
working groups and organizing meetings  Sea of Cortes region and the Pacific Northwest AL POLICY
and workshops. To implement actions  Region of Mexico Publication of the regulation UNDER-
aimed at preventing problems of local  for Tourist Marinas, Golf Courses and  MINISTRY in
impoverishment and chaotic growth  Wetlands. Elaboration of management     SEMARNAT)
around tourism centers.            programs for the following Natural Protected
Areas Archipi6lago de Bahia de los Angeles
and Isla del Espiritu Santo To operate the
National Integrated Management Plan for
Coastal Zones and to have a project for a
'Coastal Zone Law"; which would create
Natural Protected Areas for San Lorenzo
Archipelago and San Pedro Martir Island. To
initiate the Riverside and Fishing Women
Productive Project.
ESO-         To promote the conservation and                                            CONABIO               864.00
MERICAN      sustainable use of biodiversity through the                                 (National
IOLOGICAL    integration of conservation criteria in                                     Biodiversity
ORRIDOR      government programs and local planning                                      Commission)
and development practices in 5 biological
corridor states (Campeche, Chiapas,
Quintana Roo, and Yucatan).        I
73



RESPON         COST
PROGRAM                 STRATEGIES                              GOALS                       SIBLE         ('000
ENTITY        pesos)
S  eciai Programs                          ___.__
SPECIAL       To strengthen government mechanisms  To protect strategic resources of indigenous  CONANP  No assigned
PROGRAM FOR and instruments that ensure indigenous  communities and organizations: land, water  UCPAST  budget.
iNDIGENOUS     peoples the right to use natural resources forests, animal and vegetable species, coastal (SOCIAL
PEOPLES        in their regions and territones and to  zones and sacred sites Promotion of  PARTICIPATION
promote the use of appropriate     participation by these indigenous communities AND
technologies, including traditional  and organizations in environment and natural  TRANSPAR-
technologies, for the sustainable use and resource policy design, based on proper  ENCY COORD-
conservation of natural resources in  dissemination of environmental law and  INATING UNIT)
indigenous areas.                  regulation.
ENDER        To institutionalize and mainstream a  To put together a solid base of statistics and  UCPAST      2.5
QUITY,       gender perspective, as well as to establish institutional indicators that reflect the  (SOCIAL
ENVIRONMENT inter-institutional and international  participation of men and women in plans,  PARTICIPATION
ND SUSTAIN- cooperation and to define the processes of programs and projects implemented by  AND
BILITY       environmental management and        SEMARNAT, as well as to increase the   TRANSPAR-
ROGRAM       sustainable development through a   percentage or representation of women in the  ENCY COORD-
2002-2006      gender perspective.                Sustainable Development Consultative    INATING UNIT)
Committees To strengthen leadership
capabilities of women in six projects associated
with the Mesoamerican Biological Corridor
9d , I      .'-^rAr,d P'            ,<^                                                               Y
NVIRON-      To strengthen regional economies, in  To promote programs that interrupt the  CECADESU             3 53
ENTAL        particular the more backwards ones,  generational transmission of poverty, that  (CENTER FOR
YOUTH    which is the responsibility of all society, as create new opportunities and raise the quality  TRAINING AND
PROGRAM        well as to promote processes of    of Irfe for marginalized children and young  ENVIRONMENT
002-2006      education, capacity-building,      people To put together information and  AL
communication and strengthening of  knowledge in order to comprehend the effects  EDUCATION)
participation as they relate to    of human-induced environmental change, with
environmental protection and sustainable skills and abilities to establish a new
use of natural resources,          relationship with our natural surroundings.
74



ANNEX Id
PNMARN
Goals for 2001-2006
1. Goals for Integration
* To establish 13 watersheds under the Integrated Watershed Management (IWM)
scheme in order to improve planning and environmental management processes.
* To ensure that micro-watersheds that receive priority environmental attention
coincide with communities in the country's 250 poorest micro regions.
* To design and apply a master plan for recovery of the Lerma-Chapala Watershed
from the Integrated Watershed Management perspective.
2. Goals to promote sustainability through commitments by the Federal
Government
* Fourteen institutions and entities of the Federal Government responsible for
formulation and implementation of economic and social policies have undertaken
specific commitments to promote sustainability with specific actions within their
influence sphere.
Consistent with the PNMARN
-Air
* The daily average for ozone high points should not be above 130 in the Mexico
Valley Metropolitan Zone (ZMVM)
* The annual ozone maximum should not surpass 220 IMECA points in the
ZMVM.
* The percentage of days that are above the ozone standard in the ZMVM will be
reduced by 10%.
* Carbon monoxide and sulfur dioxide levels in Mexico City, Guadalajara,
Monterrey, Tijuana, Mexicali, Cd. Juarez and Puebla are maintained in line with
the applicable standards.
- Water
* To ensure that 78% of the population has access to improved sanitation.
75



*  To treat 65% of residual waters generated in urban and industrial centers
and to ensure that 100% of this volume complies with quality standards.
*  To promote a culture of infiltration and retention of rainwater.
*  To recover and reuse residual waters from agricultural activity in an increasing
manner.
* To achieve an integrated and sustainable management of water in watersheds and
aquifers.
*  To ensure the collection of water fees from diverse users.
*  To reduce water losses in the agriculture sector with diverse technologies and
systems of use.
*  To promote the technical, administrative and financial development of the
hydraulic sector.
-Land
*  To establish clear responsibilities for inappropriate land use changes and - in the
case of owners or holders of forest resources - for the lack of attention and
diligence in combating and controlling plagues and diseases.
*  To increase the installed capacity for handling solid waste, from the current 5.2
tons to 6.4 tons annually.
*  To widen the scope and the inclusiveness of the registry of hazardous waste and
materials generators from 8% in 2000 to 100% in 2006.
*  To conclude and keep updated the National Inventory of Hazardous Waste and
Materials.
*  To train 100% of the relevant local authorities in solid waste management in
watersheds that are part of the Sustainable Cities Program.
*  To stop and revert the loss of natural capital (water, forests and rainforests).
- Forest resources
* To increase the forest cover by one million hectares including restoration areas
and commercial forest plantations.
* To convert four million hectares to sustainable forest use.
76



* To diminish the forest surface affected by fires.
* To create and promote a market for environmental services in 600,000 hectares.
- Wildlife
* Reintroduction and/or recovery of 10 priority species (key, rare, threatened or in
danger of extinction).
- Environmental management instruments
* To technically conclude 15 Regional Land Use Plans.
* To legislate, in all the states, the presence of a State Land Use Plan.
* To increase the average of decentralized functions carried out by each state from
13 to 30.
*  To reduce the number of days needed to obtain a response in the Environmental
Impact Assessment procedure, in the regional or complex category, from 140 to
60 days.
3. Goals to properlv value natural resources and environmental services
-Natural Protected Areas
* Increase from 8 to 90 the Natural Protected Areas with sufficient administrative
capabilities for their operation (infrastructure, human and financial resources,
among others).
* Maintain and improve priority species populations in 90% of Natural Protected
Areas.
*  Annually collect 100 million pesos for user fees in Natural Protected Areas.
* Carry out restoration activities in 60% of the Natural Protected Areas' surface,
through reforestation, erosion control, etc.
4. Goals to achieve compliance and to combat impunity
* The percentage of forest inspections that detect total compliance with legal
standards will be increased from 10% in 2001 to 35% in 2006.
77



* The percentage of land area with some degree of protection within the National
Natural Protected Area System in which inspection and vigilance are carried out
regularly will be increased from 20% in 2001 to 100% in 2006.
* The percentage of inspections carried out on tourist service providers, that operate
in marine and coastal natural protected areas, that detect total compliance with
legal standards for protection of ecosystems and marine species will be increased
from 40% in 2001 to 57% in 2006.
* The percentage of inspections that do not detect irregular situations when
verifying compliance with regulation concerning use and protection of species
and protected marine areas will be increased from 55% in 2001 to 70% in 2006.
* The percentage of inspection visits that detect projects compliant with the
established standards in terms of an Environmental Impact Assessment will
increase from 65% in 2001 to 95% in 2006.
* The percentage of industrial and service complexes with inspection scores of 90
or above will be increased from 50% in 2001 to 90% in 2006.
5. Goals to promote social participation and accountability
* Increase attention for public denouncements in environmental matters from the
current 66% to 100%.
* Achieve attention and follow through for 90% of requests and proposals for action
generated by society.
* Release to the public domain, via the Internet, the information pertaining to the
state of natural resources and to the processes of environrnental management
through 23 base pages corresponding to central Administrative Units and 32
corresponding to SEMARNAT's Federal Delegations.
* Elaborate an annual report about public spending and achievements derived from
environmental and natural resource inspection and vigilance.
* Increase proportion of reports attended, from the current 35% to 60%.
78



Annex 2. EnvSAL Matrix: Objectives and Tentative Benchmarks
Overarching Objective: Balancing socioeconomic development with environmental protection and improvement
Key Issues and Objectives           Actions to be supported by First     Future Actions Ito be supported by Second and Third     Outcomes Indicators by 2006
Opera(hon                                     Operationsi
(Note that actions in italics are for    (Note that actions in bold ara triggers for the second
explanation purposes)                    operation)
Sub-Objective A: Ensure mainstreaming of environmental concerns in sectoral development agendas
A.l. Build consensus around an      (i) National Environment and Natural     Undertake mid-term review of National Environmental  In key sectors, environmental aspects
integrated program and accompanying  Resources Program (ENRP) published, with  Program and medium-term targets. Corresponding      are integrated into sectoral policies.
institutional and financial mechanisms  President's endorsement, emphasizing the  adjustment of targets based on review outcome.
to guide and monitor the incorporation  importance of mainstreaming environment in
of environmental concems in key     key economic sectors. ENRP fully        (i) Carry out public expenditure review of environmental  Increased coordination at a
development sectors.                consistent with the NDP.                 expenditures in key sectors, (ii) prepare strategy for  multisectoral level, as evidenced by
(ii) Monitorable, medium-term targets   financing of sectoral environmental programs; and (iii)  preparation of policy packages which
(Implementation by SEMARNAT and     developed and published in the ENRP by   agreement on, and implementation of, an appropriate   are based on consensus among key
all ITWGs)                          SEMARNAT and the concemed institutions  financing mechanism to support expansion of institutional  stakeholders
for at least 4 key sectors (water, energy,  capacity in SEMARNAT and the key sectors to support
tourism, and forestry) and targets confirmed  achievement of established medium-term targets.
with other sectors in high-level meeting,
convened by Office of Planning/President.
(i) Intersectoral Technical Working Groups  (i) Continued functioning of ITWGs, to maintain
(ITWGs) established for each of the key  coordination between relevant sectors; and (ii) policy
sectors (water, energy, tourism and forestry).  decisions consistent with ENRP taken on the basis of
(ii) Adequate functioning of ITWGs as   recommendations developed by ITWGs.
evidenced by outputs, namely (A) the
development of working terms of reference
(TORs) for the functioning of the ITWO,
which shall include, at a minimum, (a) the
scope of the work program, (b) coordination
arrangements, and (c) monitoring
arrangements to evaluate progress of fust
operation and intemalize lessons for future
intersectoral efforts; and (B) the
development of working TORs for activities
expected to be carried out for EnvSAL 11 in
each key sector.
79



Key Issues and Objectives                Actions to be supported by First      Future Actions Ito be supported by Second and Third    Outcomes Indicators by 2006
Operation                                      Operations]
(Note that actions in italics are for    (Note that actions in bold are triggers for the second
explanation purposes)                    operation)
A.2. Actions in Key Sectors
A.2.1. Water (Implementation by
Water ITWG, coordinated by CNA)
Need for clearer consensus on       (i) Publication of National Water Program  Develop strategic consensus via high-level policy meetings,  Adoption of water strategy, which
solutions to the water problem, given  2001-2006                             adopt by relevant agencies, and start to implement unified  reflects consensus among key
large number of existing uncoordinated  (ii) Completion of 13 regionalplanning  national water strategy, endorsed by CNA           stakeholders.
proposals.                          studies underwvay with stakeholder
participation to (i) diagnose water use and
availability, (in) develop sustainable water
resources management plans, fully
consistent wvith iVational Water Program.
Increase incentives for water       (i) Presidential Decrees (published in Diano  (i) Carry out a study of the fiscal framework of the water  Better alignment of water fees with its
conservation and increase resources for  Oficial, December 21, 2000, pp 12-17)  sector, to orient the formulation of reform proposals to the  economic value
investments and management through  issued to permit exoneration of past debts by  Ley Federal de Derechos en Materia de Agua, as a basis for
an increase and rationalization of water  federal govemment for municipalities which  the determination of the economic value of water in the  Increase number of functioning Water
fee collection                      agree to pay water fees in future and agree to  different availability zones, implementing a tariff structure  Basin Councils with self-management
forgo federal funding for water supply and  that reflects the marginal costs of supply, as well as  (autonomia de gestion)
sanitation in the event of fee non-payment,  incorporates the marginal cost of the resource.
(ii) Ley Federal de Derechos en Materia de  (u) Implement a scheme to provide river basin councils with  Increase number of functioning
Agua (article 23 IA) passed with proviso that  financial resources and to support their self-management,  Aquifer Comminees with an
up to 100% of municipal water fees      (iii) Implement a system of measurement of water-use of  independent administrative system.
collected may be retumed to municipalities  parties that have water rights
respectively, in accordance with an incentive
scheme under which municipalities need to
have an equal amount of funds invested in
hydraulic programs
(iii) Payment of water fees by municipalities
(greater than 2,500 inhabitants and the
Distrito Federal) that account for 55% of
municipal water use (by volume) in Mexico,
compared with a baseline of 24%.
(iv) At least 95% of water fees paid by
municipalities (that have signed convenios
with CNA) to SHCP are retumed to CNA,
and available for transfer to municipalities
that comply with the conditions set out under
the incentive scheme (article 23 1A)
(v) Information on amount of funds retumed,
on a national aggregate basis, to
muicipalitiesavailable_publily.
80



Key Issues and Objectives                Actions to be supported by First     Future Actions [to be supported by Second and Third     Outcomes Indicators by 2006
Operation                                     Operations]
(Note that actions in italics are for    (Note that actions in bold are triggers for the second
explanation purposes)                   operation)
A.2.M. Water (continued)
Improve water use and quality via                                           (i) (a) Publication of water availability data; and (b)  Verify that concessions for public
enhanced water rights and discharge                                          improved water rights registry as foundational steps in  urban water use and discharges in
administration, enforcement of water                                         the implementation of a functioning water rights market,  municipalities (with more than 50,000
usage and effluent discharges in                                             consistent with current regulatory framework.        inhabitants) are enforced and comply
accordance with rights/permits, and                                         (ii) Evaluate current water rights administration and  with environmental regulations.
establishment of more efficient water                                        discharge control systems with the aim of improving water  Increase inspections in municipalities
markets.                                                                     use and quality                                       (greater than 50,000 inhabitants).
(iii) Review availability and existing use information in
specific water scarce areas, and if necessary, adjust the
regional water programs.
(iv) Establish pilot schemes to (a) identify and fine water
users who use water in excess of rights (for example through
metering); (b) identify and fine dischargers who exceed
parameters; and (c) adjust water rights to accurately reflect
water availability.
Promote preservation of water                                                Carry out a pilot to assure sustainable use of water in a  Increase volume of wastewater treated
resources.                                                                   critical over-exploited aquifer through a process of  (as % of waste water collected).
negotiation with water users taking into account and making
the best use of existing govemment programs to meet
sustainability objectives
Need for an integrated strategy for                                          (i) Review existing policy and related framework and
wastewater treatment that takes into                                         prepare recommendations to move to a more integrated
account economic, social and                                                 approach for wastewater treatment, and (ii) apply integrated
environmental implications.                                                  strategy to achieve govemment's outcome indicators.
A.2.2. Tourism (Implementation by
Tourism ITWG, coordinated by
SECTUR)
Need for consensus on tourism -                                              (i) Conduct strategic sectoral study, drawing together,  Development of toufism-environment
environment policy among key                                                 assessing and complementing national and regional studies:  strategy, which reflects consensus
institutional and private sector                                             (a) develop scenarios of tourism sector expansion; (b) assess  among key stakeholders.
stakeholders.                                                                potential impacts of altemative scenarios, including
environmental and social costs, constraints, and benefits, (c)
assess effectiveness of current policy instruments; (d) assess
institutional capacity for environmental management, and (e)
identify priority issues and require the design/revision of
public policy and areas/regions of critical developments; and
(I) develop strategic consensus via high-level policy
81



Key Issues and Objectives                Actions to be supported by First      Future Actions Ito be supported by Second and Third    Outcomes Indicators by 2006
Operation                                      Operationsi
(Note that actions in italics are for    (Note that actions in bold are triggers for the second
explanation purposes)                    operation)
A.2.2. Tourism  (continued)                                                  workshops. (ii) Based on findings of strategic study and
high-level workshops, adopt by relevant agencies, and start
to implement a unified sustainable tourism strategy.
endorsed by SECTUR.
Promotion of sustainable tounsm     Programfor Sustainable Tourism Agenda    (i) Reengineering of SECTUR institutionalizing
2/ for Mexican Tourism prepared.         environmental and social considerations in organizational
structure and establishment of Consejo Nacional de Turismo
Sustentable
(h) Incorporate environmental variables in Tourism
Information System
(ii) Develop pilot Agenda 21 action plans in two key
tourism destinations,
(iv) Establish a Sustainable Tourism Award
Ensure tourist facilities are operated in                                    (i) Establish and implement a set of indicators and   Increased number of tourism facilities
a sustainable manner                                                         benchmarks for measurement of good environmental      with certified EMS
performance of tourist facilities.
(ii) Implement a pilot certification scheme for sustainable
tourism development.
(iii) Implement a pilot public disclosure scheme for the
above-mentioned indicators and benchmarks to promote
competition between tourist facilities based on good
environmental performance.
(i) Conduct pilot study on carrying capacity of coastal  More integrated planning approach to
Ensure new tourism developments are                                          regions, and expand coverage of studies to other regions,  new developments through increased
designed in a sustainable manner                                             once methodology is consolidated.                     use of SEA.
(n) Complete pilot Strategic Environmental Assessment
(SEA) for a priority region comprising (a) the establishment
of land use plans (ordenamiento territorial and ecologico)
covering tourism development and associated induced
development; (b) identification of infrastructure investments
requirements and potential financing mechanisms; (c)
agreement on the allocation of responsibilities across public
and private sector agents (cooperative approaches),
developed with the participation of all stakeholders as a
means of building consensus
(iii) Consolidate methodology and conduct Strategic
Environmental Assessment (SEA) of new tourist
developments bringing together all stakeholders
82



Key Issues and Objectives                Actions to be supported by First       Future Actions [to be supported by Second and Third     Outcomes Indicators by 2006
Operation                                      Operationsi
(Note that actions in italics are for    (Note that actions in bold are triggers for the second
explanation purposes)                    operation)
A.2.2. Tourism (continued)
Decrease overexploitation of, and    (i) Adoption by Congress of articles 198,  Development, with full stakeholder participation, of a  Increased cost recovery through user
improve operation of and investments  198a, 238-B of the Ley Federal de Derechos  strategy to generate additional revenues and investment  fees for tourism resources.
in national tourism resources, via direct  which allow for user fees for maritime  financing via use of a broader range of fiscal instruments,
and indirect charges (including, user  activities, protected areas, and whale  including service concessions, changed licensing fees etc.
fees, concessions, licensing fees) etc.  watching respectively, with provision for  and covering both protected areas and cultural heritage sites
earmarking of revenue generated for      of local and intemational interest.
reinvestment in the particular tourism
resource generating the revenue.
(ii) Twenty-fold increase in marine park
revenues in 2002, compared with 2001
(baseline of 68,000 pesos) as a result of
implementation of changes to article 198 of
the Ley Federal de Derechos
(iii) Amount of funds collected from user
fees for protected areas are publicly
available.
Increase incentives for efficient                                             (i) Prepare study to ensure full cost pricing of water,
resource use and conservation among                                           wastewater, solid waste, and electricity, including regulatory
tourist developments by moving to full                                        proposals; and (ii) implement strategy for existing and new
cost pncing for water, wastewater,                                            developments.
solid waste, and electricity.
Improve environmental conditions -                                            (i) Implement waste management plans for pnority areas to  Improvement in waste management
especially wastewater and solid waste                                         respond to tourist survey findings                     conditions in existing tourist areas
disposal -- at existing tourist sites.                                        (ii) Implement a pilot cooperative approach with private
businesses and other community stakeholders forjoint action
on wastewater and solid waste in an existing, large tourism
site such as Cancun
A.2.3. Energy (Implementation by
Energy ITWG, coordinated by
SENER)
Development of energy-environment                                             (i) Conduct strategic sectoral study to evaluate and draw  Development of energy-environment
policy                                                                        together national and regional studies' findings: (a) develop  strategy, which reflects consensus
scenarios of energy sector expansion, (b) assess potential  among key stakeholders.
impacts of altemative scenarios, including environmental
and social costs and benefits, (c) assess effectiveness of
incurrent polcy istruments; (d) assess institutional capacity
83



Key Issues and Objectives                Actions to be supported by First      Future Actions [to be supported by Second and I'hird   Outcomes Indicators by 2006
Operation                                      Operationsl
(Note that actions in italics are for    (Note that actions in bold are triggers for the second
_explanation purposes)                    operation)
A.23. Energy (continued)                                                     for environmental management, and (e) identify priority
issues and areas, and (f) develop strategic consensus via
high-level policy workshops (u) Based on findings of
strategic study and high-level workshops, adopt by relevant
agencies and start to implement a unified energy-
environment strategy, endorsed by SENER.
Improve fuels quality with respect to                                        (i) Evaluate least-cost retrofitting refinery investment plans  Reduce sulfur content in Magna
sulfur content                                                               using new sulfur-reducing tecinologies                gasoline to 300 ppm by weight and in
(n) Update regulations to reduce sulfur emissions.    Premium gasoline to 50 ppm by
weight,
Promote renewable cnergy potential in                                        (i) Ministry of Energy to approve the design and      Increase renewable energy capacity to
Mexico                                                                       preparation for implementation of a National Fund for  1,700 MW by 2006
Renewable Energy Promotion.
(ii) Carry out a study to examine incentives for independent
renewable energy producers, including policy options for the
pricing and transmission of renewable energy.
(in) Develop environmental regulations for renewable
energy sources
Promote rural electrification       Nationalframeworkfor rural services      Implement a program of rural electrification projects in
provisions (including water, sewage, and  selected states.
electricity) developed
Promote energy efficiency                                                    (i) Prepare a study on financial intermediation instrument  Achieve a savings in the final energy
and guarantee mechanisms to promote commercial energy  consumption index.
efficiency investment in the public sector
(n) Implement methodologies for measuring and monitoring
energy efficiency baselines by sector.
(iii) Implement business models and contract forms for third
party delivery of energy efficiency measures.
(Iv) Improve the transparency of rate and subsidy structures
in the electricity sector through publication of subsidy on
individual utility bills
(v) Conduct an assessment of the distributional impact of
current rate and subsidy structure
84



Key Issues and Objectives                Actions to be supported by First     Future Actions [to be supported by Second and Third     Outcomes Indicators by 2006
Operation                                     Operations]
(Note that actions in italics are for   (Note that actions in bold are triggers for the second
______________________________________  explanation  purposes)             operation)
A.2.3. Energy (continued)
Mitigate greenhouse gas emissions                                            (i) Implement methodologies for measuring and verifying  Programs that contribute to the
carbon reductions against established project by project  reduction of greenhouse gas emissions
baselines.                                            developed.
(ii) Increase portfolio of carbon offset investments suitable
through Carbon Finance, e.g reduction in gas flaring,  Certification process for CDM
renewable energy, energy efficiency.                  projects developed
(iii) Establish and start operation of Clean Development
Mechanism (CDM) Office, involving at least SENER
and SEMARNAT, according to rules set up at the
Marrakech and Bonn Conferences of the Parties of the
UNFCCC.
Ensure energy facilities are operated in                                    (i) Implement and consolidate environmental management  Pollution Intensity Index (Emissions
a sustainable manner.                                                        systems at the corporate level in PEMEX and CFE       per unit production and per unit
(fi) PEMEX and CFE to work with their suppliers to    energy consumption); e.g volume of
improve their environmental management                hazardous waste produced; decrease
in PCB use; wastewater discharges;
oil and waste spills; natural gas
venting and flaring; sulfur dioxide
emissions.
85



Key Issues and Objectives                Actions to be supported by First      Future Actions [to be supported by Second and Third    Outcomes Indicators by 2006
Operation                                      Operationsj
(Note that actions in italics are for    (Note that actions in bold are triggers for the second
explanation purposes)                    operation)
A.2.4 Forestry (Implementation by
Forestry ITWG, coordinated by
SEMARNAT)
Long-term vision for sector developed  (i) Long-term objectivesfor sector    (i) Develop a package of legal reforms, decrees and norms  Adequate legal framework based on
through the Strategic Forest Plan 2025  integrated in Administration 's Forest  needed, consistent with new long-term vision of forestry  new long term vision developed
to address range of forestry issues  Program 2001-2006.                      sector
including high rates of illegal logging  (di) Regulation and enforcementfunctions  (ii) Assess outcomes and adequacy of current criteria, norms,  Streamlined access rules for a
due to inappropriate regulatory     separated to ensure better management of  subsidies, financial mechanisms and information system of  comprehensive approach to forest
framework and enforcement.          forest resources, through the creation of the  existing programs for reforestation, plantations, and  products and services promotion
National Forestry Commission.            management of native forests and non-timber products as the  developed.
basis for formulating a socially and environmentally
sustainable promotion strategy.
(iii) Assess income generating altematives to improve
livelihood of forest communities through review and
analysis of ongoing pilots being conducted by govemment,
NGOs, academia, and private sector for the diversification of
non-timber forest products and their Impact on livelihood.
Need to improve livelihood of natural                                        (i) Identify, design and put in place the institutional and  Recognized certification entities
resources owners through appropriate                                         regulatory framework to implement certification schemes for  operating to support niche markets
valuation of forest resources                                                new markets and services, including those required by  and environmental services payments.
contractual arrangements, bonds and insurance for
environmental services payments and carbon markets.   Complementation of income through
(ii) Carry out a pilot on payment for environmental services  environmental services payments and
in watersheds, with clear provisions for equity and   carbon credits
sustainability
(in) Carry out a pilot to explore opportunities to issue carbon
credits and develop market.
Lack of appropriate financing for                                            Assess altemative instruments to improve access to financial  Improved access to financial services
sector.                                                                      services and products (loans, guarantees, factoring, bonds,  and products appropriately designed
futures)                                              for the sector
A.2.5 Other                                                                  Prepare sectoral program based on mid-term review of
GOM's National Environmental Program
86



Key Issues and Objectives                Actions to be supported by First     Future Actions Ito be supported by Second and Third     Outcomes Indicators by 2006
Operation                                     Operationsl
(Note that actions in italics are for    (Note that actions in bold are triggers for the second
explanation purposes)                    operation)
Sub-Objective B: Improving the effectiveness of environmental management processes
B.I. Create an appropriate enabling  Ley General del Equilibrio Ecoldgicoy la
regulatory environment and stepwise  Protecci6n al Ambienge: Ley General de
action plan to implement the Ramo 33  Bienes Nacionales; Ley Forestal; and Ley
decision (1999) to decentralize     General de Vida Silvestre changed to enable
management of environmental         decentralization of federal environmental
functions to sub-national levels.   management functions to sub-national
levels.
(Implementation by SEMARNAT and
SHCP)                               Development of criteria (with respect to  Progress on decentralization by further
personnel and goods) that are necessary to  devolution of environmental functions, including
assume environmental management         protection of water sources, prevention and
functions presently under federal       control of air pollution, licensing, environmental
jurisdiction, to be decentralized this year,  impact assessment, and the inspection,
relatng to selected toxic wastes, selected  enforcement and monitoring necessary for
environmental impact assessment          implementation of these responsibilities.
administration, conservation of soils, flora,
fauna and forest resources, and coastal
management.
(i) ISO 9001-2000 certification of EIA and  (i) Develop and implement training program for  Final transfer (including signature of convenio,
permits to be decentralized carried out by  state agencies to build capacity.        related training and initial audit to start
SEMARNAT's Sub-secretariat for          (ii) 6 States have begun decentralizaton (as  certification process) of at least one or more
Environmental Management.               evidenced by signature of convenio, capacity  environmental management functions from the
(iii) Decentralization plans prepared by at  building, or joint operation prior to   federal govemment to at least 25% states (that
least 20 States.                         certification) of at least one or more      have SEMARNAT-approved decentralization
(iv) Publication of all State decentralization  environmental management functions, based  plans).
plans that are approved by SEMARNAT.     on SEMARNAT-approved decentralization
plans.
(iii) Assess impacts and outstanding issues
related to decentralization at federal and state
levels and implement modifications, as
appropriate.
SHCP to develop guidelines for local taxes, fees
and charges as economic instruments for local
environmental policy.
87



Key Issues and Objectives                Actions to be supported by First      Future Actions Ito be supported by Second         Outcomes Indicators by 2006
Operation                            and Third Operationsl
(Note that actions in italics are for    (Note that actions in bold are triggers for the
explanation purposes)                    second operation)
B.2. Strengthen licensing and EIA                                            (i) Preparation of consistent environmental
process ensuring consistency between                                         impact assessment regulations for newly
federal and state environmental                                              transferred federal functions with existing State
standards and procedures.                                                    regulations.
(di) Issue new guwas de impacto ambiental in
(Implementation by SEMARNAT)                                                 order to minimize the processing time frame of
licenses, identify and assess cumulative impacts,
and increase open disclosure of information and
public participation
(iii) Final transfer of EIA function from the  Final transfer of EIA function from the federal
federal govemment to at least 2 states (that have  govemment to at least 25% states (that have
requested EIA function in their SEMARNAT-    requested EIA function in their SEMARNAT-
approved decentralization plans).           approved decentralization plans)
(iv) Assess, revise and initiate implementation of
changes to Licencta Ambiental Unica (including  Reduction of processing time frame of licenses
consideration of Cenlro Integral de Servrclos at  by 10%
the federal level)
(v) Develop guidelines for regional
environmental assessment
(vi) Analysis of experience with Strategic
Environmental Analysis (SEA) based on SEAs
carried out by other sectors.
B3. Ensure adequate financing for (i)  (i) 34 million pesos budget assigned for  (i) Carry out and initiate implementation of  Mechanisms are put in place in some states to
building State level capacity for   PDIA (federal grant program) to assist States  recommendations of a study to examine options  finance environmental programs.
environmental management, and (di)  to finance capacity building to assume new  for additional financing of environmental
investments to improve environmental  environmental management functions, and  programs at sub-national level.
management                          criteria for use of PDIA modified to ensure  (n) Continued allocation of budget to PDIA, and  PDIA resources are fully utilized by States
that only those States that plan to assume  continued utilization of PDIA by States for
(Implementation by SEMARNAT and     new functions can apply for the funds    capacity building.
SHCP)                               (ii) At least 10 states receive funding from  (ii) Expansion of PDIA to increase availability of  PDIA resources expanded.
PDIA.                                    resources, or geographical scope through
expanding the reach of the PDIA to a greater
number of States, or increasing the number of
topics to be supported.
88



Key Issues and Objectives                Actions to be supported by First     Future Actions Ito be supported by Second          Outcomes Indicators by 2006
Operation                            and Third Operationsi
(Note that actions in italics are for   (Note that actions in bold are triggers for the
explanation purposes)                   second operation)
B.4 Ensure adequate public          (i) Strategy developed to improve public  (i) Implementation and maintenance of website  Final transfer of EIA function (including related
participation and transparent processes  access to information on EIA and permits  on EIA and permits at federal level and selected  public disclosure requirements) from the federal
(for example, through use of website) based  states.                                 govemment to at least 25% states (that have
(Implementation by SEMARNAT)        on the recent passage of Ley de          (ii) Promote public participation in the Impacto  requested EIA function in their SEMARNAT-
Transparencia.                          Ambiental process by developing              approved decentralization plans).
(ii) Public disclosure of processing    regulations/guidelines
infornation on a pilot basis of the following  (ii) Further develop and implement legal
environmental management functions       framework for public disclosure on licensing
carried out by SEMARNAT: EIA and        processes and on permitting regarding wildlife,
permits (for example, through website).  forestry and soil, and federal coastal zoning
(iv) Publish an Annual Report on the         Annual Report on the Environment is published.
Environment.
B-5. Develop fiscal instruments to  Instruments mentioned above (see boxes   Prepare intersectoral program for the       Proposals for sectoral fiscal instruments to
promote behavioral change with      A.2. 1. and A 2 2.)                      development of fiscal instruments that promote  promote sustainable development presented to
respect to the environment                                                   good environment behavior, and, where       Congress.
appropriate, include earmarking of revenue to
(Implementation by SHCP)                                                     promote sustainability.
89



Annex 3: Statement of Loans and Credits
As of June 2002
Difference between
Onginal Amount in US$ Millions                      expected and actual
disbursementsa
Project ID    FY        Purpose                                          IBRD       IDA           GEF     Cancel    Undisb       Ong       Fmm
Rev'd
P057531            2002  MX Basic Ed Dev Phase II                       300 00      0 00           0 00      0 00     300 00      0 00     0 00
P060577            2002  MXSoutheastReg'lDevelopmentLIL                   5         000            000 0o00             5 00      017      000
P065988            2002  MX-Consolidat.Protected Areas (SINAP II)         000       000           16 10       000      682        000      000
P064887            2001  DISASTER MANAGEMENT (ERL)                      404 05      0 00           0 00       0 00    395 74     65 03     0 00
P063463            2001  METHANE CAPTURE & USE AT A LANDFILL              0 0o      0 00           6 27       0 00      6 43      2 22     0 46
P060908            2001  GEFMX-MESOAMERICANCORRIDOR                        00      0o00            1484       000      1402       325      000
P065779            2001  FEDERAL HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT            21800       000            000        000     20236     -1564      000
P066321            2001  MX. III BASIC HEALTH CARE PROJECT              350 00      0 00           0 00       0 00    350 00      0 00     0 00
P066674            2001  GEF MX-Indigenous&Community Biodiversity         0 00      0 00           7 50       0 00      663       2 35     0 00
P071323            2001  Bank Restructunng Facilty 1I                    50506      000             000       000     35001       001       000
P057530            2000  RURAL DEV MARG ARII (APL)                       55 00     0o00 0o00                  0 00     38 92      4 09      0 00
P060718            2000  ALTERNATIVEENERGY                                000        000            890       000       706       709       000
P066938            2000  MX GENDER (LIL)                                  3 07       0 00           0 00      0 00      3 07      1 74      0 00
P048505            1999  AGRICULTURAL PRODUCT                            44445       000            000       000     13538      5227     -2328
P007610            1999  FOVI RESTRUCTURING                              505 50    0o00             0 00      0 00    312 00    312 00      0 00
P007711            1998  MXRURALDEV MARGAREA(APL)                         4700       000            000       000      2877      2311       000
P007720            1998  MX HEALTHSYSTEMREFORM-SAL                       70000       000            000       000     15000      15000    10000
P044531            1998  KNOWLEDGE&INNOV                                30000        000            000       000     19537      8454       000
P055061            1998  MX. HEALTH SYSTEM REFORM TA                     25 00       0 00           0 00      0 00      1 27      1 27      0 00
P049895            1998  MX HIGHER ED FINANCING                          18020       000            000       000     13915      7885       000
P007700            1997  COMMUNITYFORESTRY                                1500       000            000       000       518       494       000
P007713            1996  WATERRESOURCESMANA                              18650       000            000      4000      7729      10388     4684
P007689            1996  MX. BASIC HEALTH II                             31000       000            000       000      1895       1895     1895
P034490            1995  MX TECHNICAL EDUC/TRAINING                     26500        000            000      6969      4807      11775     8772
P007710            1994  N BORDER I ENVIRONM                             368 00      0 00           0 00    313 38     2192      335 29    6189
P007648            1993  MXMEDIUMCITIESTRANSP                            20000       000            000      6550      3908      10458     8158
Total     5386.83      0 00          53.61     488 55   2858 50   1457 74    374 17
90



ANNEX 4: Statement of IFC's Held and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 4/30/2002
(In US Dollars Millions)
Held                  Disbursed
FY Approval    Company            Loan   Equity Quasi Partic Loan  Equity Quasi Partic
1998           CIMA Puebla           6.75     0    0      0  3.25     0    0     0
1994           CTAPV                 2.88     0 1.69      0  2.88     0 1.69     0
0              Chiapas-Propalma         0  0.82    0      0     0   0.82   0     0
1997           Comercializadora      2.41     0 1.72   4.38  2.41     0 1.72   4.38
2001           Compartamos              1  0.66    0      0     1   0.66   0     0
1999           Corsa                11.14     3    0      0 11.14     3    0     0
2001           Ecomex                   5     0   1.5     0     3     0   1.5    0
2000           Educacion              6.5     0    0      0   4.9     0    0     0
1997           Fondo Chiapas            0  4.18    0      0     0  0.54    0     0
1998           ForjaMonterrey       11.14     3    0  11.14 11.14     3    0 11.14
1991/96        GIBSA                16.23     0    0  54.57 16.23     0    0 54.57
1993           GIDESA                 2.5     0    0      0   2.5     0    0     0
1996/00        GIRSA                   45     0    0     60    45     0    0    60
1993           GOTM                  0.33     0    0      0  0.33     0    0     0
1997/98        Gen. Hipotecaria         0  0.36    0      0     0  0.36    0     0
0              GrupoBBVA                0  2.67    0      0     0   2.67   0      0
1998           Grupo Calidra           10     6    0    7.5    10     6    0    7.5
1989           Grupo FEMSA              0     0    0      0     0     0    0     0
1997           Grupo Minsa             12    10    0     18    12    10    0     18
1992/93/95/96/99 Grupo Posadas         25     0   10      0    25     0   10     0
1998           Grupo Sanfandila      7.81     0    0   3.41  6.48     0    0   2.74
1994/96/98/00  Heller Financial         0  0.32    0      0     0  0.32    0     0
2000           Hospital ABC            30     0    0     14   5.29    0    0   3.71
2000           ITR                     14     0    0      4    14     0     0     4
2000           Innopack                 0    15    0      0     0    15    0      0
1994           Interceramic             0     0    2      0     0     0    2     0
2000/01        InverCap                 0   0.07   0      0     0   0.06   0      0
1998           Merida III           29.17     0    0  70.35 29.17     0    0 70.35
1995/99        Mexplus Puertos          0   1.41   0      0     0   1.41   0      0
1996/99/00/01  NEMAK                    0     0 1.51      0     0     0 1.51      0
2000            Pan American            0     9    0      0     0     9     0     0
2002           Puertas Finas           13     0    0      0     0     0     0     0
2000           Rio Bravo               50     0    0    59.5   50     0     0  59.5
2000            Saltillo S.A.         34.5    0    0   41.95  34.5    0     0 41.95
2000           Servicios              10.5   1.9   0     10   10.5   1.9    0    10
2001           Su Casita                0 10.62    0      0     0 10.62     0     0
1999           Sudamerica               0    15    0      0     0     15   0      0
1997           TMA                   2.46     0   2.6  8.54   2.46    0   2.6  8.54
1992           TolucaToll Road       4.28     0    0      0   4.28    0    0      0
1991/92        Vitro                    0     0    0      0     0     0    0      0
1998           ZN Mexico II             0    10    0      0     0    0.9   0      0
1998           ZN Mxc Eqty Fund         0   15.3   0      0     0 14.77    0      0
1988/91/92/93/95 Apasco               10.8    0    0   43.2   10.8    0     0  43.2
1998           Ayvi                  8.57     0    0      0   8.57    0     0     0
1990/92/96     BANAMEX              67.79     0    0   2.75 67.79     0    0   2.75
91



0               BBVA-Bancomer        86.47    0     0      0 86.47     0    0     0
1995/99        Baring MexFnd            0   2.73    0     0      0  2.16    0     0
1998           CIMA Mexico              0    4.8    0     0      0   4.8    0     0
Total Portfolio:                    527.23 116.84 21.02 413.29 481.09 102.99 21.02 402.33
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan   Equity Quasi Partic
2001            La Colorada           300      0    0 18300
2001            GFNorte-CL          50000      0    0 100000
2001            Su Casita               0      0 2400      0
2002            Coppel              30000      0    0      0
1998           Cima Hermosillo       7000     0     0     0
1999           BANAMEX LRF 11       50000     0     0      0
2000            Educacion            3200      0    0      0
2001            PanAme-La Colora        0   1200    0      0
2001            BBVA-Bancomer CL    100000     0    0      0
2001            Greenmanor           7000      0    0      0
2001            Ecomex               3500      0    0      0
Total Pending Commitment:          251000   1200 2400 118300
92



ANNEX 5:
Mexico at a glance                                                              912001
Latin   Upper-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                           America   middle-
Mexico    & Carib.  income      Development diamond'
2000
Population, mid-year (nviltons)                       98.0       516       647                  Lrfe expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas met"od, USS)                   5,070     3,680     4,620
GNI (Atas method. USS biDions)                       497.0      1,895    2.986
Average annual growth, 1994-00
Population (%l                                         1.5        16       1.3
Labor force fXJ                                        2.5        2 3      2.0      GNI     i                       Gross
per                             pnmary
Most recent estimate (latest vear available, 1994-00)                              capita                        enroflment
Poverty (% of populadon below natIonal poveiny )e)
Urban population (% of total po0ulaon)                 74         75        76
Life expectancy at birth (years)                       72         70        69
Infant mortality (per 1.000 Om btirMs)                 29         30        28
Chuid malnutrition (% of chuklen under 5)                8         9         ..          Access to improved water source
Access to an improved water source (% of pooulation)    86        85        87
ltiteracy (% of popuation age 15+)                       9        12        10
Gross Pnmary enrollment (% ofschoolage population)     114       113       107
Male                                                 116         ..      106               Upper-rmiddle-rncome group
Female                                               113                 105
KEY ECONOMIC RAT1OS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1980     1990       1999      2000                                     _
Economic ratios
GDP (USS bi9rons)                           223.5    262.7      479.4     574.5
Gross domestc investmenVGDP                  27 2     23.1       23 5      23.3                     Trade
Exports of goods and serviceslGDP            10 7     18.6       30 9      31.4
Gross domesic savings/GDP                    24 9     22.0       21.9      21.5
Gross national savings/GDP                   22 4     20.3       20.5      20.1
Current aocount baiance/GDP                  -4.7     -2.8       -3 0      -3.1     Domestic
Interest payments/GDP                         2.0      2.2        2.1       2 0     savings                   i  Investment
Total debVGDP                                257      39.8       35 0      26.9    saMngs
Total debt servicelexports                   45 4     20.9       25.1      32 7
Present value of debtVGDP                       .        ..      33.9      261
Present value of debt/exports                  ..       ..      102.6      77 8
Indebtedness
1980-90  1990-00     1990      2000    2000-04
(average annual growth)
GDP                                  11       3.1      3.8        6.9       4.3               Mexico
GDP per capita                      -1.0     1A       2.3        54        2 3               Upper-rriddlie-ncorne group
Exports of goods and services        7 0     14 6     12.4       16 0       85
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1980     1990       1999      2000     Growth of Investment and GDP (%)
(% of GDP)                                                                         I
Agriculture                                   9 0      7.8        4.7       4 4     20
Industry                                     33 6     28.4       28 8      28 4
Manufactufing                               22 3     20o8      21t1      20 7      0
Services                                     57 4     63 7       66.5      67.3     20     9/    W           ga    99    oo
Private consumption                          65.1     69.6       67.1      67.5    x4
General govemment consumpbon                 10 0      8.4       10.9      11 0               -   GD0        -*  GDP
Imports of goods and services                13.0     19.7       32.4      33.2
1980-90  1990-00       1999     2000      Growth of exports and Imports (%)
(average annual growlt)
Agriculture                                   0.8       1.8       2.0       21      s.
Industry                                      11       3.8        4.2       6 6      ,
Manufacturing                                1.5      44         4.2      7.1     15s
Services                                      1.4      2.9        3.7       7 4     o,
Pnvate ronsumption                            1.4      2 4        4.3       9.5    -1S
General govemment consumpbon                  2.4      1.8        3.9       3.5    -30
Gross domestc investment                      -3.3     4.6        4.1       8.8             -     Exports  -     Irnfpans
Imports of goods and services                 10       12.3      13.8      21.4
Note: 2000 dat are preliminary estmates
'The diamonds show iour key indicators in the country (in bold) compared twih its income-group average. It data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
93



Mexico
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
omeafoc prIces                           1980    1910      1999      2000     Innatton 1%)
IX change)                                                                     7
Consumer pnces                                ..    26 7      18.6      9 5     30
ImpliditGDPdeflator                        334      28.1      14.9      109     20.
Government finance                                                             10
(% of GDP, inctdes curre7t gants)                                               0
Cunentarevenue                              27.4    253       20.9      21.8           ss     go   97     Be    33    00
Curent budget betarce                       4.1      0 9        1 5      2 0                  GDP defalor  eCP
Overall surptus5deWtdt                      -36      -2.6     -1.1      -1.1
TRADE
1980     1990      1999     2000      Export and Import levers (USS mill.)
(USS rmfltons)
Tota exports(fob)                         16,284  40,711    136.391  166,455    2s0000
Oil                                     10.441   10,104     9,928   16,383
Aonculture                               1,526    2,162     3.926    4.217    ISOo  . 
ManLffactures                            3.802   27,828   122,085  145.334
Totalimportsadf)                          19.342  41,593    141.975  174,458    100._.O
Consumergocds                            2,448    5,099    12.175   16,691     so ODD
Intermediate goods                      11.720   29.705   109.270  133.637
Capital goods                            5,174    6.790    20,530   24.130   o       d   
Export price index (1995=100)               134       99        96      106            34   35   go   97  38   33   00
Impot ponce index (1995=1O)                 67       90        99      102                  Expor        I meits
Tefnsoftrade(1995=100)                      201      110        99      103
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1980     1990      1999     2000     Current account balance to GDP i%)
(USS ml7ion51
Exports of goods and services             22.600  48.732    148.083  180,167 o
Imports ot goods and servces              27.430  51.535    155.465  190.494
Resource balance                          -4.a30  -2,603     -7.382  -10.326    .2
Net income                                4.438   -8,628    -13,306  -14,747
Net cuant transfers                         833    3,978      6.313    6,994    4 -
Current account balance                  -10,434  -7,451    -14,375  -18,079
Frnancng items (net)                      11.453  10,999     14,969   20,901
Changes in net reserves                   -1.019  -3,548      -594    -2,822      .
Memo:
Resefves induding gold (USS rnVtl3)nsl     3,052   9,909     31,829   33.595
Conversion rate (DEC, boalUSS)           2 00E-2     2.8        9 6      9 5
EXTERNAL DErBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1980     1990      1999     2000
(US$ ralfioris)                                                                 [Composition of 2o00 debt (USS mitl.t
Total debt outstanding and disbursed      57.378  104,442   167,626  154,687
IBRD                                     2,063  11,030     11,027   11.444                        41444
IDA                                         0        0         0         0               227"            4863
Total debt service                        10,958   11.311    39,760   63,038                                  4494
lBRD                                      255    1,552      2.155    2,220
IDA                                         0        0         0        0
Compositon of net resource flows
Offciai grants                             14       54
Officiat creditors                        795    4,168     -1,708     -525
Prtvate creditors                        -524     -582     13,181   -5,059
Foreign direct Investment                2.156   2,549     11,915   13.286
Portfolio equity                            0      563      3.901      478                        111142
World Bank program
Commitments                               625    2.562      1,671    1.130     A-IBRD                     E- BilateaI
Disbursements                             422    3,326       844     1,647    |B -DA    D - Other ul1,Fateral  F Pnate
Prncipal repayments                        89      801      1,323    1.330     C - IMF                    G- Shoil-ie-n
Net flows                                 333    2,525      -479       318
Interest payments                         166      751       832       890
Net tranfers                              167     1,774    -1.311     -573
Development Economics                                                                                           9/1012001
94



Annex 6: Fund Relations Note
*e~~~~~~11ki0           00FA     kj190Iar~       all            EX7TRNAL
RELATIONS
Public Information Noti                             DEPARTMENT
Public Information Notice (PIN) No. 01/99            International Monetary Fund
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE                                700 1 9th Street, NW
September 27, 2001                                   Washington, D. C. 20431 USA
IMF Concludes 2001 Article IV Consultation with Mexico
On August 2, 2001, the Executive Board of the Intemational Monetary Fund (IMF) concluded
the Article IV consultation with Mexico.'
Background
The Mexican economy performed well in 2000, although economic activity and the external
accounts weakened toward end-year, mainly reflecting the deterioration in the extemal
environment. Output growth decelerated during the fourth quarter from the rapid pace seen earlier
in the year, bringing real GDP growth for the year as a whole to nearly 7 percent. The 12-month
inflation rate declined to 9 percent in December (below the official target of 10 percent), associated
partly with strength in the value of the peso.
Real GDP contracted slightly on a seasonally adjusted basis in the first quarter of 2001 (growing
by 1.9 percent over a year ago). The authorities have revised downward projected real GDP
growth to 2Y2 percent in 2001, from the originally envisaged 4Y2 percent. There are risks that the
slowdown could be deeper, reflecting expected developments in the U.S. economy. The 12-month
inflation rate declined to 6.6 percent in June; the core inflation rate declined to 6.4 percent in June
from 7Y2 percent at end-2000. After growing by nearly 6 percent in 2000, real wage growth
continued strong in the first quarter of 2001, as a large proportion of wage contracts were
negotiated in the first two months of the year when domestic demand was still perceived as strong.
The 2000 fiscal deficit (0.9 percent of GDP) was broadly in line with the official target. Using a
comprehensive definition of the fiscal balance-the "augmented balance" or 'public sector
borrowing requirement'-the 2000 deficit was 4 percent of GDP (down from over 7 percent of
GDP in the previous year). Public sector revenues were higher than budgeted, as stronger oil
'Under Article IV of the IMF's Articles of Agreement, the IMF holds bilateral discussions with
members, usually every year. A staff team visits the country, collects economic and financial
information, and discusses with officials the country's economic developments and policies.
On return to headquarters, the staff prepares a report, which forms the basis for discussion by
the Executive Board. At the conclusion of the discussion, the Managing Director, as Chairman
of the Board, summarizes the views of Executive Directors, and this summary is transmitted to
the country's authorities. This PIN summarizes the views of the Executive Board as expressed
during the August 2, 2001 Executive Board discussion based on the staff report.
Wavc.ngton,. C. 20431 * TeWephone 202-623-7100 * Fox 202-623-6772 * www.imf.org
95



revenues more than offset shortfalls in nonrecurring revenues (in particular from privatization).
Non-oil tax revenues were broadly in line with the program (despite a substantialy stronger-than-
expected pace of economic activity), owing mainly to judicial decisions ordering the return of
certain VAT and sales tax receipts. The excess total revenue was used to finance additonal
expenditures-mainly by public enterprises-and to finance the Oil Stabilization Fund.
The BOM maintained a tightening bias in 2000 and into early 2001 during which Ume monetary
policy was tightened six Umes amid strong demand pressures. Domestic short-term interest rates
averaged 6 percent (in real ex ante terms) in 2000 and increased to 10 percent in the first quarter
of 2001. However, as domestic demand weakened and domestic interest rates began to decline,
the BOM reduced (in May and July 2001) the "corto' (commercial banks' settlement balances with
the BOM). These decisions spurred a further reduction of interest rates and helped reduce
appreciation pressure on the peso. Despite the strong international reserve build up, the monetary
base has been within the expected range of its projected levels for 2000-01. Bank credit to the
private sector fell 10 percent in real terms in 2000. Nevertheless, there are indications that bank
credit is resuming in 2001.
The overall external current account deficit remained broadly unchanged at 3.1 percent of GDP in
2000, as markedly higher oil and non-oil exports were offset by stronger-than-anticipated import
growth associated with the rapid expansion of domestic demand. The non-oil current account
deficit rose to 6 percent of GDP (compared with 5 percent in 1999). However, both export and
import growth started to decelerate in the second half of 2000. Capital inflows In 2000 were led by
foreign direct investment (which financed about three-fourths of the current account deficit) and
sizable corporate borrowing. Capital inflows strengthened in the first quarter of 2001, with foreign
direct investment at US$3.6 billion, despite the economic slowdown. The level of international
reserves almost covers external short-term debt by residual maturity but falls short of full coverage
of the annual gross financing requirement (which also includes the external current account
deficit).
There has been a considerable improvement in the health of the Mexican banking sector since the
last Article IV consultation discussions. Financial strength indicators show a marked improvement,
although with some limitations. The overall capital adequacy ratio, after adjustments to the book
value of certain assets and liabilities by the FSAP mission, complies with the minimum
requirement of 8 percent of risk-weighted assets. Asset quality indicators have improved in recent
years-largely reflecting the conclusion of debtor relief programs.
Executive Board Assessment
Directors commended the authorities for maintaining prudent fiscal and monetary policies in the face of
recent financial turbulence in emerging markets, the slowdown of economic growth in the United
States, and the elections of 2000. They congratulated the authorities for achieving a smooth,
democratic political transition. Directors noted that investor confidence in Mexico remains buoyant, with
capital inflows holding strong and sovereign debt spreads being affected little by the turbulence in
some other emerging markets. As a result, international reserves have increased and the peso has
strengthened.
Directors commended the authorities for the strong performance of the Mexican economy through
most of 2000, although economic activity had stagnated in the later part of the year, reflecting the
slowdown in the United States. In light of the authorities' strong commitment to macroeconomic
stability and the projected revival of the U.S. economy, many Directors expected economic activity to
rebound later this year. However, some Directors felt that the rebound might be somewhat weaker
96



than the previous estimate of 2.5 percent real GDP growth by the authorities, and they noted the stafrs
downward adjustmnent of the real GDP growth forecast in 2001. Directors supported the shift to a
formal inflation-targeting framework in the context of the strong domestic banking sector, and
commended the authorities for their success in lowering inflation, noting that expected inflation is now
below the official target of 6.5 percent during 2001. Noting the importance of maintaining
competitiveness, they emphasized the desirability of wage restraint to curb the recent rise in unit labor
costs.
Directors welcomed the authorities' commitment to stick to the budget deficit target in 2001,
recognizing that this will require further fiscal tightening on a cyclically adjusted basis. They concurred
that this policy stance is warranted to maintain investor confidence, lower borrowing costs, and
promote economic growth. They also commended the authorities for the considerable progress made
in improving fiscal transparency, including through the monthly publication of traditional fiscal data and
the quarterly publication of a more comprehensive measure of the fiscal balance and the augmented
debt. Directors considered it desirable that the authorities complete a ROSC module on fiscal
transparency.
Directors attached considerable importance to the authorities' efforts to reform the tax system,
emphasizing that these efforts are critical for medium-term fiscal sustainability, reduced reliance on oil
proceeds, and to lower the debt burden. They cautioned, however, that the planned administrative
measures would be fully effective only if they are accompanied by a comprehensive tax reform.
Directors noted the authorities' motivation for shifting the value-added tax from an accrual to a cash
basis, but generally agreed with the staff that this change should be carefully considered since it
potentially makes enforcement more difficult.
Directors endorsed the Bank of Mexico's current monetary policy stance in view of the favorable
outlook for inflation and the weak prospects for economic growth in 2001. They felt that monetary
policy should remain focused on achieving the long-term inflation target, namely, lowering inflation to
3 percent by 2003. While Directors agreed that the corto has proven to be a flexible and efficient
monetary policy instrument, most considered that a move toward direct interest rate targeting over the
medium-term will facilitate the communication of monetary policy intentions and will be appropriate
once monetary policy credibility is sufficiently well established.
Directors welcomed the FSAP mission's main findings, namely, that the banking system does not pose
a risk to financial stability and that other sectors of the financial system are not expected to be sources
of systemic risk in the near future. They also commended the progress in the observance of
international standards, practices, and codes. Nevertheless, Directors agreed with the authorities that
addiUonal actions are required to increase the financial system's resilience to shocks and to achieve
full observance of intemational standards. In this sense, they considered that the FSAP mission took
place at an opportune moment, when major legal reforms were under way. They encouraged the
authorities to quickly follow up on remaining issues identified by the mission, including resolution
procedures for nonviable banks, structural reforms to modemize the state-owned development banks,
and an action plan to further strengthen banking supervision. Directors saw the main challenge for the
banks as the resumption of broad-based and sound lending to the private sector, and expected that
this will be facilitated by a sustained reduction in interest rates and by reforms to improve the credit
infrastructure.
97



Directors regarded the present level of International reserves as satisfactory, as it almost fully covers
external short-termn debt by residual maturity, but noted that it falls short of full coverage of the annual
gross financing requirement. Given its overall sound economic management, Directors felt that Mexico
would benefit from having precautionary lines of credit, Including possibly a contingency credit line
(CCL). Several Directors encouraged the authorities to follow up with the Fund on this, including with
the preparation of appropriate actions. Several Directors observed that, despite the successful floating
exchange rate regime, the level of the real exchange rate poses some concems for extemal
competitiveness. In this respect, they supported the rebalancing of the policy mix, which will be
reinforced further through the planned fiscal reform. Directors commended the authorities for their plan
to extend a current bank debt monitoring system to provide monthly data on banks' total extemal
financing. In addition, however, they advised the authorities to monitor carefully the debt of private
nonbank corporations, as this is a potential source of vulnerability.
Directors noted that net capital inflows, including foreign direct investment, are expected to cover
extemal financing needs. They commended the authorities for their prudent debt management
strategy, which is leading to a manageable extemal debt profile and will provide protection against
turbulence in intemational capital markets. Notwithstanding the generally favorable outlook, Directors
observed that a negatve credit shock in emerging markets would pose a risk to capital inflows for
Mexico. They welcomed the authorities' awareness of this risk and their willingness to take prompt
action, and agreed that any adverse impact should be short-lived in view of the country's impressive
track record of implementing prudent macroeconomic policies.
Directors noted that Mexico's data are of good quality, timely, and adequate to conduct
surveillance effectively.
Public Information Notices (PINs) are issued, (I) at the request of a member country, following the
conclusion of the Article IV consultation for countries seeking to make known the views of the IMF to the
public. This action is intended to strengthen IMF surveillance over the economic policies of member
countries by increasing the transparency of the IMF's assessment of these policies; and (ii) following
policy discussions in the Executive Board at the decision of the Board.
Contact: Eliot Kalter, Division Chief, Mexico/Latin Caribbean/Western
Hemisphere Division, IMF
98



t ~~~~~i:aii*  l4tj~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Nogolos                                          00                IBRD 235~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBD 3
BAIA  ~    >                    -j     j~t
3D-~ ~ ~ ~ +A. v
Herteosillo  j  /  P,.d.u,N,                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Nowsa.l capitol
CAL IPOIPOA                                                                -   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Divided highways
R  ~~~~~~~~~~~~--Stato boo,doret
h t                     ~~~~~~G a/f  o f  mex/co
M ... His  Iu;1 I",I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~....)4
P A C/F/C      OCE~A N                                           GUAM TOt J.6a
JAIISCO       PO-LIC                              C.- h.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(1 I'/  P'
IIAI(Al    8~i)   %rca. .  C-pC c Ae      QUNN
CUP Off PC~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o
~~~~~Ch.lpaoc.ogo  Gasaca~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Cd ,
MIt.ETES 0  'OD   2m00     30                                                                ..% U'."
rc,o.nocn.bn..o,nonr.bcyc.w,ddenk. ntaff..Iu.v..~.tura  p'.ec,c.c3~?iz>'...~GUATEE           ALA
co                                                                             3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~HONDURAS
FEORUdARY 1992









IMAGING
Report No.:          24458   ME
Type:      PAD



