                              UNITED     MEXICAN     STATES

               Programmatic    Environment    Structural Adjustment     Loan
                                 Loan Number 7136-ME
         elease of the Second Tranche and Partial Waiver of        hree Conditions

                               Tranche Release Document

        Introduction
 e




1       The Programmatic      Environment    Structural Adjustment     Loan (EnvSAL),    a
I&$202.02     million  fixed spread loan for the United Mexican States (Mexico),       was
approved by the Board on August 6, 2002. The EnvSAL was declared effective on
December 17, 2002. The First Tranche of US$lOl.Ol       million (minus the front end fee of
1% of the loan amount capitalized) was released on December 19,2002.

2.      The EnvSAL supports the first stage of Mexico's medium-term outcome-based
program to promote sustainable development. The overarching objective of the program
is  to   balance    socioeconomic   development     with   environmental    protection and
improvement.     The program focuses on (i) mainstreaming of environmental concerns in
key sectoral development agendas, as prioritized by Mexico;         and (ii) improving the
effectiveness and efficiency of local environmental management processesin Mexico.

3.      This operation has supported Mexico to mainstream environmental concerns in
water, forestry, energy and tourism sectors through (a) the establishment of high-level
and technical coordination mechanisms with other sectors, including          the setting of
medium-term targets to promote mainstreaming of environment in sectoral policy; and
(b) the design and implementation of fiscal instruments to promote the payment of
municipal   water fees and investment in municipal hydraulic works and for revenue
generation from      the use of national    marine protected areas and corresponding
reinvestment in the environmental management of these areas.With respect to program
objective (ii), the EnvSAL has supported (a) the creation of an enabling environment to
decentralize federal environmental management functions to the State level via changes
to key laws; (b) the preparation and implementation         of a stepwise decentralization
strategy, which includes the use of third party certification to ensure that the quality of
decentralized    processes is   maintained;   (c)  the preparation    and publication    of
decentralization plans on the part of at least 20 states; (d) the assignment of budget and
targeted use of a federal grant program (PDIA) to finance capacity building in States with
plan&o assume new environmental management functions; and (e) the development and
implementation of a strategy to improve public access to information on Environmental
   pact Assessment (E      ) and permit applications based on the recent passage of a key
national law on the transparency of information.

4.      Mexico has met all the conditions of the Env AL, with the exception of three
conditions, which have been met for the most part. Partial waivers are sought for these
conditions: (i) condition 1: the establishment of Intersectorial Technical Working Groups
(ITWGs)    in water, energy, tourism, and forestry; (ii) condition 8: ISO-9001-2000

                                               2


certification of certain EIA review and approval, forest fire detection and control and
permit-issuance functions of the Ministry        of Environment    and Natural Resources
(SEMARNAT)       that are to be decentralized to the state governments from SEMARNAT;
and (iii) condition 11: public disclosure of processing information of certain permits. In
the case of condition     1, the ITWGs have all been established and are functional.
However, technically, a partial waiver is needed and warranted, since a few of the
positions described in the EnvSAL have been changed. These changes, in some cases,
were to ensure more appropriate representation in the ITWG              than was originally
envisaged during the preparation stage of the loan; in other cases,the agency in question
underwent reorganization resulting in changes in the title of the post. Nevertheless, in all
cases, the positions are at the same organizational level as envisaged in the EnvSAL,
continue to be with the same agencies specified in the EnvSAL, and will perform the
appropriate substantive functions. In the case of conditions 8 and 11, the majority of the
functions related to EIA review and approval and permits described in the EnvSAL have
already been certified and processing information of related permits is disclosed on
public websites. The exceptions relate to forest fire detection and control (which was
transferred out of SEMARNAT        to the Forestry Commission (CONAFOR)          ) following
approval of a new Forestry Law) and non-timber reporting (Permit No. SEMARNAT-03-
005).   In the case of the latter, this is likely to be delayed since the newly-appointed
Undersecretary (following recent Cabinet level changes) is conducting a complete review
of permitting procedures, and there is a likelihood that some permits will be combined.
Therefore it makes more senseto await completion of this review, prior to embarking on
certification and setting up a system to disclose these permitting procedures.

5.       Based on the assessment that the objectives of the program have been met in
substance and that all conditions have been met with the exception of three conditions
requiring minor partial waivers, it is proposed that the Second Tranche of the EnvSAL in
the amount of US$ 101.Ol million be made available to Mexico for withdrawal from the
Loan Account.

II 0     Macroeconomic     Framewor

6.       The macroeconomic policy framework of Mexico continues to be satisfactory.
          continues to implement its monetary and fiscal policies in accordance with its
         programs and within the framework of the multi-annual program PR
2002-2006 issued in June 2002 aspart of Mexico's national development plan
                                    I
                                                                       I      I




7 .      Economic  activity in Mexico     is starting to show signs of recovery after a
protracted stagnation over the past few years. Output fell by 0.3 percent in 2001 in
response to the sharp slowdown of the U.S. economy an            has since shown a modest
rebound. Real GDP increased by 0.9 percent in 2002 and 1.2 percent during the first half
of 2003. The weak economic growth performance has been attributed to a delayed U.S.
recovery and a contraction       of private investment      in  view    of global  economic
uncertainties. Despite a disappointing growth performance, the Mexican economy has
been able to weather the international economic downturn and emerging market
turbulence over the past few years maintaining financial and price stability and access to

                                                3


capital markets. The twelve-month inflation reached 4.0 percent by September 2003 and
is most likely    to fall below 4 percent by year-end, thereby attaining the monetary
authorities' medium-term inflation target of 3 percent plus/minus 1 percent. Domestic
interest rates came down significantly, reaching historic lows throughout the yield curve
on average during the third quarter of 2003, thereby creating adequate conditions for a
domestic demand recovery.       A floating exchange rate regime is being maintained and
even though there have been some periods of a weakening peso/dollar rate recently, such
depreciation of the exchange rate is not yet showing up in inflation              or inflation
expectations.

8        In  terms   of  fiscal  policy,  Mexico    remains    committed   to further    fiscal
consolidation in order to assure medium-term fiscal sustainability and underpin market
credibility.  Mexico is largely meeting its increasingly low annual deficit targets, based
on the traditional definition of the deficit, through the implementation of budget adjustors
that reduce spending in response to unexpected revenue shortfalls.         The fiscal deficit
stayed within its target in 2002 at 0.65 percent of GDP (not taking into account an
extraordinary budget appropriation for the liquidation of Banrural, a highly inefficient
rural development bank) and is within reach for 2003 at 0.5 percent of GDP largely as a
result of a high oil windfall this year. The authorities already announced a fiscal deficit
target of 0.3 percent of GDP for next year's budget. As a result of increasing credibility
in the authorities' monetary and fiscal policy stance, the Mexican government has been
able to refinance and redeem the remainder of its outstanding Brady bonds as well as to
increase the average maturity and lengthen the yield curve of domestic public debt.

III e    Second Tranche Conditions of the Em&AL

9        Achievements    under the second tranche of the EnvSAL             reflect important
advances in inter-institutional coordination, with the aim of facilitating mainstreaming of
environmental concerns in the sectoral development agenda. Terms of references for
future sectoral activities prepared by the ITWGs reflect the input from different sectors,
and has resulted in higher quality products.       The successful implementation of fiscal
instruments for both municipal water fees and protected areas,where funds are channeled
back to the sector to improve environmental management is also noteworthy.             On the
activities related to decentralization, an important advance has been the certification of
several processesunder the                        anagement Sub- ecretariat of the      inistry
of Environment.     There have been several recent Cabinet level changes in the Tourism,
Energy and Environment Ministries.       This has resulted in changes in Ministries'   staffing
and in reviews of existing programs. Nevertheless, this Program is considered to be a
key program by the Mexican authorities for mainstreaming environment in sectoral
policy, and             as formally requested the    ank to initiate preparation of the second
loan envisaged under the Program.

10.      The first second tranche condition is as follows:

         66  e    orrowek; through SEMA                has established the following      four
         intersectoral technical working groups (ITWGs), each designed to develop an

                                    4


integrated program and its accompanying institutional and financial mechanisms,
which program and mechanisms aim to guide and monitor the incorporation of
environmental concerns in key public sector decision-making processes with
regard to the relevant sector covered by the ITWG in question:


(a)    a water sector ITWG, composed of at least thefollowing members:


        CNA's Subdirector General de Programacidn


        SEMARNAT's        Director  General    de1 Sector     Primario,  Recursos
       Naturales, Foment0 y Normatividad

        SEMARNAT's      Director General Adjunto de Financiamiento Estrategico

        SHCP's    Director    General   Adjunto   de    Derechos,    Productos  y
       Aprovechamientos (Unidad de Poli'tica de Ingresos)

        SAGAWA's      Coordinador de Asuntos Internacionales

        SE's Director de Promocion de Proyectos (Subsecretarl'apara la Pequefia
       y Mediana Empresa)

        SCT's Director    General Adjunto de la Unidad de Infraestructura       y
        Carreteras para el Desarrollo Regional

and headed by the CNA Subdirector General de Programacion;

(6)     an energy sector IT      composed of at least thefollowing members:

        SENER's Director General de Informacidn, Estudios Energeticos y Media
       Ambiente     (Subsecretan'a   de    PoKtica    Energetica    y  Desarrollo
        Tecnologico)



                          irector General de Energl'a

        SEMARNAT's      Director General  Adjunto de Financiamiento Estrategico

                     irector Corporativo de Seguridad Industrial      y
       Ambiental

        CEE's Coordinador de Proyectos Termoelectricos

         ONAE's Director General

                                   5


      SEDESOL's     Director  General Adjunto     de Pueblos y Comunidades
      Indlgenas

      SHCP's    Director   General    Adjunto    de  Derechos,    Productos   y
      Aprovechamientos (Unidad de Polftica de Ingresos)

      SE's Director de Promotion de Proyectos (Subsecretarfa para la Pequefia
      y Mediana Empresa)

      SAGARPA' s Coordinador de Asuntos Internacionales

      Ll?C's Subdirector de Planeacidn Estrategica

      CNA's Subdirector General de Programacidn

and headed by the SENER         Director   General de Information,     Estudios
Energeticos  y lkledio  Ambiente   (Subsecretarl'a de Poll'tica   Energetica  y
Desarrollo Tecnoldgico);

0c    a tourism sector ITWG, composed of at least thefollowing members:

      SECTUR's Subsecretario de Planeacion Turiktica and Director General
      de Planeacion Estrategica y Polftica Sectorial

      SEMARNAT's      Director General de Foment0 Ambiental de1 Desarrollo
       Urbana, Transporte y Turismo

      SEMARJVAT's Director General Adjunto de Financiamiento Estrategico

      SHCP's    Director    General   Adjunto    de  Derechos,    Productos   y
      Aprovechamientos (Unidad de Poll'tica de Ingresos)

      FONATUR's     Director Adjunto de Planeacion y Foment0 a la Inversion

      SE's Director de                  royectos (Subsecretarl'apara la
      y Mediana Empresa)

      SCT's Director    General Adjunto de la Unidad de Infraestructura       y
      Carreteras para el Desarrollo Regional

      SAGAWA's      Coordinador de Asuntos Internacionales

      CNA's Subdirector General de Programacion

and headed by the           ubsecretario de laneacidn Turiktica; and

                                             6


               aforestry sector ITWG, composed of at least thefollowing members:

               SEMARNAT's      Director General de Federalization      y Descentralizacion
               de Servicios Forestales y de Suelos

               SEMARNAT's      Director General Adjunto de Financiamiento Estrategico

               SHY's      Director   General    Adjunto    de   Derechos,    Productos    y
              Aprovechamientos (Unidad de Politica de Ingresos)

               INIFAP's Director General de Investigation Forestal

               INE's   Director  General de Investigation       en Politica   y Economl'a
              Ambiental

               PROFEPA's Director General de Inspection y Vigilancia Forestal

               SE's Director de Promotion de Proyectos (Subsecretarl'apara la Pequena
              y A4edianaEmpresa)

               SCTT's Director   General Adjunto de la Unidad de Infraestructura          y
               Carreteras para el Desarrollo Regional

               SAGARPA's      Coordinador de Asuntos Internacionales

               CNA's Subdirector General de Programacidn

        and headed by the SEMARNAT              Director  General de Federalization       y
        Descentralizacio'n de Servicios Forestales y de Suelos."

         his condition   has been partially     met and requires a waiver.       Technical
groups were established during project preparation and continue to the current day. The
persons whose posts are named in the loan agreement, as noted above, have met for each
of the four working groups. The exception in the case of the Water      roup,  has been the
replacement of SCT's Director      General Adjunto de la Unidad de Infraestructura y
Carreteras para el Desarrollo      Regional with SCT's Director      General Adjunto      de
Planeacion.  The other exception has been in the case of the Tourism Group, in which
FONATUR's      Director Adjunto de Planeacidn y Foment0 a la Inversion has been
replaced by FONATUR's       Director Adjunto de Planeacion y Asistencia Tecnica, SE's
  irector     romocion        royectos has been replaced with SE's       irector de Enlace
Financier0  and SCT's Director     General Adjunto de la Unidad de Infraestructura y
Carreteras para el Desarrollo Regional has been replaced with SCT's Coordinadora
General de Planeacion y Centros.      These changes, in some cases, were to ensure more
appropriate representation in the ITWG        than was originally   envisaged during the
preparation stage of the loan; in other cases, the agency in question underwent
reorganization resulting in changes in the title of the post. Nevertheless in all cases, the

                                              7


positions are at the same organizational level as envisaged in the EnvSAL, continue to be
with the same agencies specified in the EnvSAL,          and will perform the appropriate
substantive functions. A waiver is therefore sought, as this change does not affect in any
material way the objective of this condition to set up inter-institutional     coordination
mechanisms.

12      The second second tranche condition is as follows:
    l




        "`Each ITWG has: (a) prepared written internal procedures for its functioning,
        which     shall include    (i) coordination    mechanisms     and  (ii)  monitoring
        arrangements to evaluate progress of its work (as relate to the actions covered by
        this Schedule and by its work program; and (b) defined the scope of its work
        program and prepared written terms of reference for addressing the tasks set
       forth in the letter dated June 26, 2002from SEMARNAT to the Bank. "

13      This condition    has been met.       Each of the ITWGs have prepared written
internal procedures for its functioning, which include (i) coordination mechanisms and
(ii) monitoring   arrangements to evaluate progress of its work, in addition to TORs
pertaining to tasks detailed in the letter dated June 26, 2002 from SEMARNAT          to the
Bank. These TOWShave been formally reviewed, commented upon, and endorsed by the
ITWG members.

14.     The third second tranche condition is asfollows:

        "Municipalities  (with more than 2500 inhabitants each and including the Distrito
        Federal), accounting for 55% of water use by volume in Mexico starting January
        1, 2002 and ending on a specific date no earlier than October 1, 2002, have for
        said period paid (or had paid on their behalf) all their water usefees due under
        Title II, Chapter VIII of the 2002 version of the Ley Federal de Derechos (Federal
        Rights Law) published in the Borrower's         Diario   Oficial de la Federation
        (OfSicial Gazette) on January 1, 2002. "

15      This condition has been met.      On October 1,2003, municipalities had paid, in
the period specified above, for 58% of water use by volume in      exico, exceeding the
percentage specified in the

160     The fourth second tranche condition is asfollows:

        "At least 95% of the fees referred to in paragraph 3 above (and paid by or on
        behalf of municipalities for which an agreement (convenio) has been entered into
        pursuant to Article Second of the Presidential    ecreepublished on page I6 of the
        First   Section (Primera     Section) of  the Borrower's     Diario   Oficial de la
        Federacidn (Official Gazette) on December 2192001) are available for transfer to
        said municipalities pursuant to Article 231-A of said key Federal de Derechos. "

                                              8


17      This condition    has been met.      Evidence received from the National Water
Commission of Mexico documents that this target has been met for each of the first three
trimesters of 2002.

18.     The fifth secondtranche condition is as follows:

        "Information detailing amounts (at an aggregate national level) of paid water use
       fees transferred to municipalities by CNA pursuant to Article 231-A of said Ley
        Federal de Derechos is publicly available within iMexico. "

19      This condition    has been met.     Information is available to the public on the
website of Mexico's National Water Commission (Comision National de Agua).

20.     The sixth second tranche condition is asfollows:

        "Total fees collected pursuant to Article 198 of said Ley Federal de Derechos
        (starting January 1, 2002 and ending two months prior to the Second Tranche
        Release Date), and available for usefor protected marine natural areas pursuant
        to the last paragraph of said Article (during said sameperiod), are at least twenty
        times greater than suchfees so collected for the sameperiod of the year 2001. "

21.     This condition    has been met.      During the period specified above, the fees
collected pursuant Article 198 and available for use for protected marine natural areas
were more than twenty times greater than in 2001. Information          received from the
Ministry of Finance indicates an over 60-fold increase in the resources available for use
for protected marine natural areas from user fees compared with 2001 by end October
2002. As this program continues to be implemented, the 60-fold increase has since been
greatly exceeded.

22.     The seventh second tranche condition is as follows:

        "Information detailing amounts of fees collected pursuant to Articles 198, 198-A
        and 238-B of said Ley Federal de Derechos is publicly available within Mexico. "

23.       his condition                     Information is available to the public on the
website of Mexico's      National Commission     for Natural Protected Areas (Comision
National de Areas Naturales Protegidas).

24.     The eighth second tranche condition is as follows:

        "The environmental impact assessment (manifestation de impact0 ambiental)
        review and approval functions of SEMARNAT's Subsecretarta de Gestion para la
        Protection Ambiental, its forest fire detection and control function, as well as its
       permit issuancefunctions pursuant to Article 11 of the Borrowe             General
        de1Equilibrio Ecologic0 y la Proteccidn al Ambiente (LGEEPA;              1Law on
        Ecological   Equilibrium  and Environmental       Protection), Article  11 of   the

                                                 9


        Borrower's Ley General de Vida Silvestre (General Law on Wildlife), Article 7 of
        the Borrower's Ley Forestal (Forestry Law) and Article 50 Bis of the Borrower's
        Ley de Bienes Nacionales (National Assets Law), have been certified by an
         independent certification      body as being in conformity           with International
         Organization for Standardization (ISO) quality management standard 9001:2000.
        For purposes of this paragraph, the permit issuancefunctions referred to above
        are thosefunctions (tramites) referred to within SEMARNAT as INE-05-002, INE-
        06-002,    INE-04-002,     INE-04-003,       INE-02-004,     INE-02-005,    INE-02-009,
        SEMARNAT-03-00.5, SEMARNAT-02-001 and SEMARNAT-01-002-A. "

25      This condition has been partially      met and requires a waiver.       Certification in
I&   9001:2000 has been obtained for most of the functions specified above, as evidenced
by formal documentation of certification received in December 2002. Exceptions are the
functions related to forest fire detection and control, since these functions was transferred
from SEMARNAT's        Subsecretarl'a de Gestion para la Protection Ambiental to the
National Forestry Commission , following approval by Congress in December 2002 of
the new Forestry Law. In addition, the function to process non-timber reports (Permit
No. SEMARNAT-03-005)          has still to be certified. This is likely to be delayed following
a complete review of all permitting procedures by the new Undersecretary, who was
appointed in September 2003, following Cabinet-level changesby President Fox which
have resulted in changesto SEMARNAT's            Secretary and Undersecretaries. There is a
strong likelihood that some permits may be combined as a result of the review. Therefore
it makes more senseto await completion of this review, prior to embarking on
certification and setting up a system to further disclose these permitting procedures. Since
certification of these functions do not affect the objectives of the project, following
receipt of a request by Mexico, a partial waiver is sought for pending actions related to
this condition.

26.     The ninth secondtranche condition is as follows:

         "All  of  the decentralization      plans, for    the assumption of      environmental
        management functions assigned to the Borrower's Estados (States) pursuant to
        said Ley General de1Equilibrio Ecologic0 y la Protection al Ambiente, prepared
        by such                                                  are published and thus made
        publicly

                                           et.      formation  is available to the public on


2 .                                       ition is as follows:

         "At least ten of the Borrower's         Estados (States) are receiving funding for
         capacity building under SEMARNAT's Programa de Desarrollo                  Institutional
                        IA, Environmental Institutional Development

                                            10


 9     This condition    has been met,    Evidence provided indicated that in 2002, 22
staies were authorized to receive funds under SEMARNAT's       PDIA. By the end of 2002,
97% of the authorized amount had been distributed, in accordance with the rules of the
PDIA.

30.    The eleventh second tranche condition is as follows:

        "SEMARNAT is publicly disclosing information (on its website, for example), on
       the processing status of each requestfor its review and approval of environmental
       impact assessmentsand of each request for      the issuance of a permit of the type
       listed in paragraph 8 above."

31     This condition has been partially met and requires a waiver. This has been
completed on a pilot basis for permits INE-05-002, INE-06-002, INE-04-002, INE-04-
003, INE-02-004, INE-02-005, INE-02-009 and information on theseis available on
SEMARNAT's       website. A partial waiver is sought in the caseof permits SEMARNAT-
03-005, SEM.ARNAT-02-00 l$ SEMARNAT-0 1-002-A for the same reasons as detailed
in paragraph 25.

