Report No. PID10896
Project Name             Mexico Programmatic Environment Structural...
Adjustment Loan
Region                   Latin America and Caribbean Region
Sector                   Environment
Project ID               MXPE74539
Borrower                 Government of Mexico
Implementing Agency      MINISTRY OF FINANCE
Palacio Nacional,
Primer Patio Mariano,
Tercer piso,
Col. Centro, Deleg. Cuauhtemoc,
C. P. 06000 Mexico, D. F.
Fax: (52) 52281142
Environment Category     Not Applicable
Date PID Prepared        January 22, 2002
Date PID Updated         June 17, 2002
Projected Appraisal
Date                     June 19, 2002
Projected Board
Date                     August 6, 2002
1. Country and Sector Background
Mexico is facing a substantial annual loss of welfare and growth
opportunities due to environmental degradation and depletion. Recent
estimates put this loss in welfare at about 10t of GDP , which is significant
both in absolute macroeconomic terms and in comparison with other OECD
countries. As a result, there has been growing recognition among
policymakers that there are substantial economic and institutional
distortions resulting from market and policy failures related to the
management, extraction and use of the country's productive environmental
resources and sinks for emissions and waste materials. Such distortions
serve as severe obstacles to long-term sustainable development and limit the
scope for short-term growth-oriented adjustments. Better integration of
environmental issues in economy-wide policies is essential to ensure that
future development is sustainable, and accordingly is being given high
priority by the Mexican Government. The proposed operation is the first in
an expected series of potential operations aimed at supporting the Government
of Mexico's (GOM's) sustainable development program.
2. Program Objectives and Loan Description
The overarching objective of the proposed Environment Structural Adjustment
Program (comprising three potential operations: EnvSAL I, EnvSAL II, and
EnvSAL III) is to support the Government's efforts to balance socioeconomic
development with environmental protection and improvement. Specifically, the
program to be supported by the adjustment program, which consists of a subset
of the Government's overall outcome-based, medium-term program, has the
following objectives:



(i)Mainstreaming of environmental concerns in key sectoral development
agendas, selected by the GOM, through (a) establishing appropriate goals for
the medium-term, (b) implementing key building blocks to move towards these
goals, (c) ensuring coordination and strengthened consensus among key
stakeholders, and (d) systematically measuring progress and impact; and
(ii)Improving the effectiveness and efficiency of local environmental
management process in Mexico through (a) decentralizing administrative
responsibilities to state governments in an efficient and effective manner,
(b) strengthening key processes, in particular licensing and EIA, and
ensuring consistency between state and federal standards and procedures, (c)
ensuring adequate financing for building state level capacity for
environmental management and investments to improve environmental management,
(d) encouraging adequate public participation and transparent processes, and
(e) developing appropriate fiscal instruments in support of environmental
policies.
The first loan of the program (EnvSAL I) would support initial actions,
including, as regards objective (i), the development of medium-term targets
for mainstreaming environment in key economic sectors, and the design and
application of fiscal instruments to promote better environmental management
in the water and tourism sectors; and, as regards objective (ii), changes in
laws to enable decentralization of federal environmental management functions
to the State levels, the preparation and implementation of a decentralization
strategy which aims to maintain the quality of decentralized processes
through innovative use of certification, and efforts to improve public access
to information particularly for EIA and licensing applications, that are
vital first steps in the GOM's medium term program.
3. Loan Financing
The proposed US$200 million EnvSAL I is expected to be disbursed in two
tranches, of which $100 million would take place upon Board approval in
August 2002, and the remaining $100 million in December 2002. It is
estimated that the subsequent operations (EnvSAL II and EnvSAL III) will be
about 18 - 24 months apart, with future amounts subject to the depth of the
reforms.
The proposed loan does not increase resources available for public sector
spending. Under Mexico's fiscal regime, an adjustment loan from the Bank
substitutes financing from alternative, more expensive debt sources and
substitutes foreign for domestic lending. It does not increase aggregate
fiscal resources available to environment and other sectoral agencies since
the fiscal envelope is defined by the binding primary fiscal surplus targets.
4.  Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
5. Environmental Aspects
The proposed operation does not have an environmental rating, since it is
classified as a SAL. However, since the raison d'etre of the operation
itself is to help the Mexican Government mainstream environment in a number
of key sectors, the operation's design is very proactive with respect to
internalizing environmental and social safeguards concerns within the
operation at the macro level. This occurs at two distinct levels. At the
sectoral level, a strategic study is called for in the context of the second
operation which examines environmental and social impacts in the broad
context of sector expansion plans or regional development plans (through
-2 -



Strategic Environmental Assessment). With respect to decentralization of
environmental management functions to state authorities, the project places
particular emphasis on assuring adequate capacity and actions with respect to
EIA, licensing, and public participation.
Further, since the program focuses on incorporating sustainable development
in public policies, there will be an ongoing process of evaluating the actual
environmental and social impact of the proposed reforms. These impacts are
essentially expected to be positive, as they seek to change behavior toward
more environmentally sustainable use of resources. Nonetheless, to the
extent that limitation of access to resources or other social impacts may
occur, the strategic studies and policy design are called upon to address
such potential impacts and to involve stakeholders in the preparation and
review process. The decentralization reforms in particular will bring
responsibility for environmental management to the local level. This is
positive in that responsibility will be shifted to the state and municipal
levels, which typically in most countries are responsible for environmental
degradation. However, it is essential that with this responsibility,
technical assistance and resources are also available to the states and
municipalities in order for them to fulfill these new responsibilities. In
particular, an improvement in local capacity with respect to environmental
impact assessment is critical, and is flagged as such as a crucial area to be
supported by future operations.
Contactm Points:
Kulsum Ahmed
Task Team Leader
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Tel.: (202) 473-1130
Fax: (202) 522 0199
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No.:   (202) 458-5454
Fax No.:   (202) 522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not necessarily be included in the final project.
INEGI, 2000. Sistema de Cuentas Economicas y Ecologicas de Mexico (1993-1999).
Insituto Nacional de Estadistica Geografia e Informatica. Mexico City, Mexico.
-3 -



