at7  2  R   =
RESTRICTED
Report No.   PA- 3 5a
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
THIRD LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ECUADOR
November 10, 1970
Agriculture Projects Department



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
After-Devaluation (August 17, 1970)
US$1                           -= Sucres 25.25
Sucres 1                        - US$      0.04s
Sucres 1,000,000- US$39,60oo00
Before Devaluatioz
US$1                            - Sucres 18.18
Sucres 1                        - US$      .05-
Sucres 1,000,000                - US$55,0O.9,00
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
1 kilogram (kg)                 - 2.20 poun4s-
1,000 kg - 1 metric ton           2,200 pounds
1 kilometer (km)                  o 0.62 dile.
1 hectare (ha)         2        -2.47 acies
1 square kilometer (km
100 ha                        - 0.39 square mile
= 247.11 acres
1 liter (1)                     - 0.26 gallon
1,000 millimeters (mm)          - 39.37 inches
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
AU                              - Animal Unit
CB                              = Central Bank
COFI3C                          - Development Finance Company (Ecuatoriana de
Desarrollo, S.A. - Compania Financiera)
FIMD                            - Foot-and-Mouth Disease
GDP                             = Gross Domestic Product
IDB                             - Inter-American Development Bank
INIAP                           - National Institute of Agriculture
Research
TDB                             = National Development Bank (Banco Nacional de
Fomento)



ECUADOR
THIRD LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS .................... ................               i
I. INTRODUCTION .1
II. BACKGROUND .1
A. General.                                                         1
B. Livestock Sub-Sector.                                            2
C. Animal Health .................,                                 3
D.  Agricultural Services ................     q  ..........        4
E. Agricultural Credit ................... .   ..........           4
F.  Government Policies for Livestock Development  ..               5
G.  Performance Under Loan 501-EC ....         ...............      6
H.  Interim Second Livestock Development Project
Credit 173-EC .................................              7
III.   THE THIRD PROJECT ...................................               8
A.  Project Description .............................               8
B.  Detailed Features ...............................               8
C.  Cost Estimates ..................................              12
D.  Proposed Financing ..............................              12
E.  Procurement .....................................              14
F.  Disbursements from the Credit Account ....       .......       14
G.  Auditing ........................................              15
H.  Organization and Management ....         .................     16
I.  Lending Operations ..............................              17
IV.    MARKETS, PRICES, TAXATION AND PRODUCER BENEFITS                    19
V.     BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ..........................               21
VI. RECOMMENDATIONS .22
This report is based on the findings of a mission composed of Messrs.
F. Knobel, D. Ritchie (IDA), R. Milford (Consultant) and C. Percival (Con-
sultant), who all contributed to the report but with Mr. Knobel having
primary responsibility.



-2-
ANN IX i';s
1.  Organization Chart - Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock
2. The Banking System
Table 1 - Annual Volume of Credit Granted by Sector by Principal
Cre(lit Institutions, 19614-1968
Table 2 - Condensed Balance Sheet of !flnvisaged Participating
Banks, June 30, 1969
Table 3 - Consolidated Annual Profit and Loss Statement 1964-1969
Table 4 - NDB - Comparative Condensed Balance Sheetj 196L4 and l968
3. Tnvestments Financed and Sources of Finance, Loan 501-m:(1
4. Model 1 - Development of Beef Breeding/Fattening Ranch, 300 HTa
Table 1 - On-ranch Investment Cost Projections
Table 2 - Herd Dcvelopment Projections
Table 3 - Projections of Sales and Operating Fwepnsos
Table 4z - Financial Projoction
5. Capital tRequirements for Feeder Steers
6. fiodel 2 - Development of Dairy Farm, 600 Ha
Table 1 - On-farm Investment Cost Projections
Table 2 - Herd Development Projections
Table 3 - Projections of Sales and Operating ibxpenses
Table 4 - Financial Projection
7.  Technical Services Budget - INIAP
8.  Technical Services Budget - Department of Seed Certification
9.  Technical Services Budget - National Development Bank
10.  Technical Services Budget - Project Administration
11. Disbursements
Table 1 - Phasing of Project Investments and IDA Disbursements
Table 2 - Estimated Schedule of Quarterly Disbursements
12. Organization Chart for the Project
13. Duties, Responsibilities and Authorities of the Project Director
l]h. Projected Sources and Application of Funds - Central Bank
15. Projected Sources and Application of Funds - Participating Banks
16. Major Processing Facilities: Pasteurizing Plants and Slaughter Houses
17.  Basic Assumptions on the Effect of Devaluation
18. Financial Rate of Return of Ranch/Farm Models
19. Incremental Costs and Benefits
MAP - Project Areas



ECUADOR
THIRD LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUOMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        The Government of Ecuador has requested an IDA credit to continue
its program of livestock development. The Project for which financing is
sought would be the third livestock project supported by the Bank Group in
Ecuador. The first two, Loan 501-EC approved in 1967 and an interim Cre-
dit 173-EC, provide funds primarily for development loans to beef cattle
ranches in the Coastal Region.
ii.       The Third Project would continue to finance beef cattle develop-
ment in the tropical Coastal Region but would expand the lending program
to include dairy farms in the temperate Sierra Region. Development loans
would be made to approximately 350 beef cattle ranchers and 225 dairy farm-
ers for on-ranch investments, including agricultural machinery and equip-
ment, pasture improvements, fencing, water facilities, buildings, and live-
stock.
iii.      In addition to the finance for beef ranch and dairy farm develop-
ment, proceeds from the Credit would be used to help finance:
(a) pasture and beef cattle research and a beef ranch management
training center within the National Agriculture Research
Institute (INIAP);
(b) a seed multiplication and certification service in the Ministry
of Agriculture and Livestock;
(c) technical assistance to help modernize the business operations
of the National Development Bank (NDB); and
(d) technical services for Project administration and execution.
iv.       Total Project cost would be about US$19.7 million:  US$16.5 mil-
lion for beef/ranch dairy farm development, US$1.5 million for the INIAP
and the seed and the NDB programs, and about US$1.7 million for other
technical services. The IDA credit of US$10 million would finance 51% of
total Project cost; participating banks would finance about 25% by provid-
ing about US$5 million; ranchers and farmers would contribute about
US$3.9 million (20%); and the Central Bank would provide US$0.8 million
(4%). The foreign exchange component would be approximately US$5.8 mil-
lion, or about 30% of total Project cost and about 58% of the Credit.
Financing local costs of approximately US$4.2 million would assist Ecuador
to bring about desirable improved production practices in the livestock
industry and diversifications of marginal banana plantings.



- ii -
v.        Proceeds from the IDA credit for beef ranch and dairy farm devel-
opment would be made available by Government to the Central Bank for on-
lending to participating banks. The banks would pay 8% per annum on IDA
funds on-lent by the Central Bank, and would grant loans to beef ranchers
and dairy farmers at 12% interest, with repayment periods of 7 to 12 years,
including grace periods of 2 to 5 years. IDA funds for the INIAP, seed
multiplication, NDB and Project Director components of the Project would
be interest-free grants by Government.
vi.       Authority for policy coordination and supervision of the Project
would be vested in a National Project Commission representing tile various
institutions concerned with livestck development in Ecuador. A Project
Director, assisted by two Regional Technical Directors, would be responsibie
for the management and execution of the Project. Under their supervision,
technical assistance to beef ranchers and dairy farmers for the preparation
and supervision of development plans would be provided by livestock techni-
cians employed by participating banks and seconded to the Project Director.
vii.      Vehicles required for technical services would be procured through
local competitive bidding. Goods required for ranch and farm development
would be purchased by Project beneficiaries from local commercial sources.
viii.     The rate of return to the econiomy of the Project would be about
22%. The financial rate of return to the producer is estimated at about
21% for the beef model enterprise and 41% for the dairy model enterprise.
In addition to substantial increases in net income expected to be realized
by participating ranchers and farmers at full development, the Project
would generate substantial increases in the supply of milk (an additional
40 million liters annually) and beef products (an additional 7,500 metric
tons annually) for a population with one of tthe highest growth rates (3.4%)
and lowest levels of per capita beef consumption (7 kg) in Latin America.
ix.       The Project is suitable for an IDA credit of US$10 million.  The
Borrower would be the Government of Ecuador and it would assume the foreign
exchange risk.



ECUADOR
THIRD LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Ecuador has requested an IDA credit to help
finance the continuation of its program for livestock development. This
was initially supported by a Bank loan of US$4 million (Loan 501-EC),
approved in 1967, and an IDA credit of US$1.5 million (CR 173-EC) approved
in September 1969. The objective of both projects is to assist in the dev-
elopment of the beef cattle sub-sector in the Coastal Region, the principal
beef producing area of Ecuador. Loan 501-EC was a first-stage project,
designed to obtain experience in the development of the livestock sub-sector
and also to provide a sample survey of the livestock industry to serve as
the basis for further Bank Group financing. It was fully committed 6 months
in advance of the 2-year forecast. The interim Credit was made to fulfill
the strong demand for long-term development credit by beef cattle ranchers,
pending the preparation by Government and consideration by IDA of a third
livestock project (see PA-17a, July 19, 1969 for details of the Interim
Second Livestock Project).
1.02      The First Project was prepared by the National Planning Board,
assisted by two IBRD missions in 1966. Tle Second Project was prepared
early in 1969 by the Project Director (Loan 501-EC) and an IBRD mission;
and the Third Project was prepared by a Special Commission within the
National Planning Board, assisted by the Project Director and an IBRD mis-
sion. The Tlird Project would continue to assist the beef cattle program
but in addition would include development of the dairy sub-sector, Sierra
Region; the expansion of Project-oriented research and training in animal
production; and the establishment of a seed multiplication and certification
scheme.
1.03      This report is based on the findings of a mission led by F. Knobel
(IDA) and composed of D. Ritchie (IDA), R. Milford (Consultant) and C. Per-
cival (Consultant), which was in Ecuador in September/October 1969. Since
completion of the appraisal. the sucre was devalued about 39%. The pro-
jections made in this report have been tested against the possible impact
of the devaluation. Based on the revised estimate the Project continues to
show a strong economic and financial justification.
II. BACKGROUND
A. General
2.01      Ecuador, one of the smallest countries in South America, is
bounded by Colombia, Peru and the Pacific Ocean. Its land area of about
275,000 km2 is divided into three natural regions: the western tropical
lowlands, the Coastal Region; the central temperate highlands, the Sierra



- 2 -
Region; and the eastern wet tropical lowLand, the Oriente Region (see Map).
Land use -and populacion distribution are determined by altitude, rather
than latitude (the Equator bisects the northern part of 1icuador). a<; well
as topograr?hiv, climate and the influence of the flumboldt current.
2.02      Population, now estimated at close to 6 million, is increasing
at about 3.4, .unually.  Approximately two-thirds is rural., with about 557.
of the labor fo-ce *engageu in agrlculture, including livestock, forestry
and fisheries. While average population densitv is low, there are areas
of over-population, especially in the Sierra Region, which contrast with
extensive uninhabited areas in the Coastal and Oriente Regions.
2.03            Agriculture is tne most important factor in thek Ecuadorian ecrcn-
omy. It generates about one-third of the! Gross Domestic Product (CDP), or
roughly twice that produced by the industrial sec:tor aud it (ontributes
nearly 90'%0 of foreign exchange earnings. bananas, cacao ancd coftee account
for over 80% of total exports. Agricultural output, however, has increased
at a rate of only 2.5% per year iii real terms from .1960-62 to 1966-68. Al-
though the Gross National Prodluct grew at an annual rate of about 4.5%
during the l9t9's, Ecuador remains one of the poorer coumtries of Latin
America, with a per capit:a cU    i f.f about irS$220.
!I.- Lvestock Sub--Sector
2.04            While the livestock sector contributes only about 7% of GDP, it
is expected to play an increasingly important role in the development
strategy. Major objectives of thie new Development Plan include diversifi-
fication of production, increased exports, higher agricultural incomes and
improved levels of nutrition. The livestock sector is planned to grow at
8.7% per year, primarily through private investment supported by improve-
ments in the availability of credit, technical services and research facil-
ities. At this rate, the Plan estimates that beef consumption would in-
crease 11% and milk consumption 17% by 1973.
Beef Cattle
2.05      The national herd of about 1.8 million cattle, is approximately
65% beef cattle, most of which are in the Coastal Region. Only small
numbers are found in the Sierra highlands and the Oriente Region. About
1.5 million ha of improved and natural pastures are devoted to beef produc-
tion in the Coastal Region but this area can be expanded by developing 0.5
million ha of forest land and by converting about 0.1 million ha of margin-
nl basnna land into pastures.
2.06      Native cattle breeds (Criollo) comprise about 657 of the animal
population. These are being improved by the introduction of Brahrman and
Santa Gertrudis bulls. Carrying capacity averages 1 animal umit (AU) 1/
per ha.
1/   1 animal unit (AU) is equal to each animal in the herd except suckling
calves.



- 3 -
2.07      Around 200,000 cattle are slaughtered anniually.  An offtake of
about 12% indicates the present low level of productivity. Withl better
animal husbandry practices and basic capital investments, producers could
readily attain offtakes of 20% or more. Out of a total meat consumption
of 12 kg per capita, beef represents only 7 kg, one of the lowest levels
in South America. 1/ Except for small quantities exported to Peru, Ecuador
consumes all the beef it produces. Despite high consumer prices in relation
to low average incomes, domestic demand is higlh, particularly in the two
main cities of Quito and Guayaquil.
Dairy Cattle
2.08      The dairy industry comprises some 600,OOU cattle.  Practically
all thie milk is produced in the Sierra Region, and levels of output vary
widely. Cattle are predominantly liolstein/Friesian, either pure or up-
graded Criollo, with a high production potential. Specialized dairy farm-
ing is generally confined to the interandean valleys.
2.09      Total milk production is estimated at 600,000 liters per day, or
about 3 liters per cow. About half is pasteurized and consumed mainly in
Quito and Guayaquil, either as whole milk or milk products. The remainder
is consumed in the smaller towns as raw milk or used for on-farm production
of cheese and butter.
2.10      Substantial increases in dairy production are possible as there
are no serious teclnical barriers. The main problem, however, is the poor
quality of the pastures due to low grade seeds and need of fertilization.
C. Animal Realth
2.11      Poor management associated with poor nutrition is reflected in
low weaning rates of 50% to 60% (calves weaned per 100 cows) and retarded
slaughter age (3 to 4 years) on Coastal beef ranches and high calf mortal-
ity and low milk production on Sierra dairy farms.
2.12      rhe thlree major animal healtlh problems are:  foot-and-mouth disease
(FMD), tick infestation, and internal parasites.  "ID is endemic in Ecuador
and control through a national vaccination campaign is to be undertaken whien
funds and technical assistance become available from the Inter-Ame ican Dev-
elopment 13ank (IDB) and UNDP.  Increased imports of vaccine are scheduled as
an interim  measure to supplement local production.  Meanwhile, since it may
be some time before a nationwide program would be fully operational, effec-
tive control measures for Project ranches/farms would be obtained by a com-
pulsory EMD vaccination program for all cattle on Project ranchies/farms.
Assurances to this effect were obtained durina' negotiations.
1/   Bolivia, 8 kg; Colombia, 20 kg; Argentitia, 80 kg.



- 4 -
2.13      Tick infestation, particularly in the Coastal Region, can cause
serious losses where frequent dipping is not practiced. Facilities are
provided on Project-financed ranches. Improved grazing management and
adoption of prophylactic measures to control internal parasites could con-
tribute significantly to reducing the calf mortality rate. There is test-
ing for eradication of tuberculosis in dairy cows, and heifers are vaccinated
against brucellosis, using vaccine produced locally.
D. Agricultural Services
2.14      Most agricultural services responsible for the development of the
livestock sector are provided by specialized semni-autonomous agencies with-
in the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock, particularly The National Agri-
cultural Research Institute (INIAP) and the Center of Animal Healthl. Bilat-
eral and international agencies (Netherlands Government, FAO, UNDP, US-AID
and Rockefeller Foundation) as well as the banking system and private
specialists provide assistance in certain specialized fields, such as research
and training. Agricultural services in the past have been inadequate, mainly
because of the lack of financial and physical resources rather than shortage
of staff.
2.15      The extension services of the Ministry of Agriculture and Live-
stock, with provincial and sectional offices throughout Ecuador, provide
livestock and veterinary services. A new Seeds Department within the Minis-
try promotes the availability and use of good quality pasture and crop seeds
through seed certification. Annex 1 shows the organization of the Ministry
of Agriculture and Livestock.
2.16      Well organized national research services are provided by INIAP,
which operates five research stations. It has an excellent dairy husbandry
research and farmer training school at Santa Catalina Experiment Station,
near Quito. This program, established in 1967 with Netherlands Government
bilateral aid, is being phased out in 1970. A continuation of this desir-
able program is included in the Project. An expanded tropical beef cattle
husbandry research program and a new ranch management training center is
planned at Pichilingue Experiment Station in Los Rios Province. It would
also receive Project financial support and technical guidance. Two major
and five smaller universities in Ecuador provide undergraduate training in
agriculture and veterinary medicine. Twelve middle level institutions,
under the control of the Ministry, offer diploma courses in agriculture.
E. Agricultural Credit
2.17      Institutional credit for agriculture and livestock comes princi-
pally from: private commercial banks, the Government National Development
Bank (NDB) and the Central Bank. Although the private banks provide the
greatest amount of annual credit, NDB, through its countrywide system, is



- 5 -
the principal institution concerned with providing medium- and long-term
credit for agricultural development. Traditionally, the bulk of credit
granted by private banks goes into the intermediary trade channels of pro-
cessing and marketing; only a small part goes to the producer. Generally,
loan terms are under 1 year at 12% interest per annum. Maximum nominal
interest rates are fixed by the Monetary Board, but when commissions of 1%
to 2%, tax levies of 1.5% to 2% per transaction, and discount of these
charges, plus interest for the entire term of the loan are all considered,
the effective cost is around 18% per annum.
2.18      Total agricultural credit granted annually by the banking system
about doubled between 1964 and 1968 from S 510 million (US$28 million) to
S 1,070 million (US$59 million) (Annex 2, Table 1). However, the agricul-
tural sector receives only about 15% of the total credit to all sectors.
This is strikingly low when it is considered that the agricultural economy
accounts for about one-third of GDP (para 2.03). More than one-half of all
credit goes to the commercial sector and about one-fifth to the industrial
sector. Agricultural suppliers' credit is slight, but borrowing from tradi-
tional private lenders is common among low-income rural families.
2.19      Generally, private commercial banks have not granted medium- and
long-term loans for development purposes. This is due, in part, to statu-
tory restrictions. Article 172 of the General Banking Law for private com-
mercial banks (Annex 2, pp. 14 to 21) sets a term tip to 5 years without a grace
period. To enable conmercial banks to make Project loans of 7 to 12 years,
including grace periods of 2 to 5 years, it would be necessary to amend this
regulation. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that Government
would amend Article 172 to enable privatr coimmercial banks to make long-term
ranch/farm development loans in accordance with Project criteria.
2.20      NDB and Ecuatoriana de Desorrollo, S.A. (Compania Financiera),
called COFIEC, are the only credit institutions participating in the First
and Second Projects. Several private commercial banks expressed interest
in participating in the Third Project. Private banks tend to concentrate
their operation in the principal cities of Guayaquil, Quito, Cuenca - but
they are opening branchies. It is anticipated that the private banks would
make about 40% and COFIEC about 10% of the long-term development loans.
The other 507 would be made by NDB.  Tnis would give an adequate and com--
petitive coverage in Project areas. Annex 2 contains further information
on the banking system in Ecuador.
F. Government Policies for Livestock Development
2.21      Government realizes the necessity of increasing the food supply
and also recognizes tthe importance of expanding the volume and variety of
exports to reduce its dependence on bananas, coffee and cacao. The live-
stock sub-sector is expected to play an increasingly important role in
accomplishing these objectives.



- 6 -
2.22      The 1969-1973 National Development Plan (Plan), prepared by the
National Planning Board, accords high priority to livestock development
and sets these production targets for the beef and dairy cattle sub-sectors:
value of livestock production is planned to increase 8.7% per annum com-
pared with 5.47 for agriculture overall; and the area devoted to pastures
is expected to increase at three times the rate of that used for annual
and perennial crop production.  The Plan sets an annual growth target for
the national herd of from 1.8% in 1969 to 2.4% in 1973.  It also projects
a 2% annual increase in the output rate of beef cattle and a 14% annual
increase in milk production per dairy animal by 1973. According to the
Plan, achieving these production levels would result in increases in per
capita consumption of beef from about 7 kg per year to 7.8 kg, and of milk
and milk products from about 73 liters to 86 liters in 1973.
2.23      Central Government expenditure for agriculture is less than 11%
of total spending, and tthe perceintage has been declining since 1965. Pub-
lic spending for lixvestock is only about 1% of the total.  oIn tle other
hand, the Goverinmenit has taken measures to encourage private investment in
livestock by eliminating import duties on agricultural machinery and breed-
ing stock and providing liberal tax rates and exemptions for farm enter--
prises.  Also, lt has required private lending institutions to make 15, of
their deposits available as credit to agriculture, and has reorganized the
Agrarian Reform Institute to expedite reglstration of land titles.
2.24      The Third Project would finance the entire investment program
for beef and dairy development enivisaged in the Plan. Government's major
contribution would be to improve the existing facilities for research and
strengthen both animal Ihealth and extension services.
C. Performance Under Loan 501--EC
The Project
2.25      The First Project (Loan 501-ElC), confined to the Coastal Region,
concentrated oni the improvement of established commercial beef cattle
ranches. An additional objective was diversification from bananas. Loan
funds for long-term ranch development were provided 75% by IBRD and 257. by
NDB and COFIEC, which also provided shlort-term working capital. Technical
services were also supplied to participating ranchers.  The Project included
a modest tropical grass research program and seed multiplication scheme
and a countrywide livestock survey to provide information for a later, more
comprehensive project.
Performance
2.26      Within 18 months after the Loan became effective in December 1967,
all funds allocated for ranch development (US$3.7 million) were committed
for the furtlher development of 132 beef ranching enterprises.  The total



value of new investments is US$6 million, including the contribution of NDB,
COFIEC, and ranchers. Loans ranged from US$6,500 to US$100,000 in size and
averaged about US$35,000. Annex 3 shows the categories of new ranch invest-
ments and the sources of financing.
2.27      Whien the appraisal was made in 1966, it was forecast that about
240 loans would be granted. At that time there was little information to
assess the scope and range of participation. Furthermore, since the ap-
praisal, there was marked inflation in Ecuador and the costs for most input
items substantially increased over the estimates. Prices for cattle in-
creased about 30%. Also, per unit costs for pasture establishiment increased,
brought about, in part, by a greater participation than anticipated by
ranchers in the northern Santo Domingo/Esmeraldas area where most lands
cleared had been heavily forested. Clearing costs in the southern Guayas
area are much lower since the plant coverage is open to semi-brush. In-
creased input costs have been largely compensated by a corresponding in-
crease in output value. Beef prices have increased 30% since Project effec-
tiveness.
Evaluation of Impact of Project
2.28      Although the Project is too new to fully measure financial and
economic gains, available information indicates that substantial benefits
will accrue to the Project's beneficiaries and to the country's economy.
Ranch development plans show a financial rate of return of 15% to 20% on
new investments and Project administration and management are good. The
Project has also been timely in two major respects. First, a severe drought
in 1967/68 in two provinces made it necessary to move female breeding stock
to other Project provinces where rainfall was normal; sonme 5,000 heifers,
many of which would have heen slaughtered without the Project, were placed
on Project ranches. Second, the Project assisted in diversifying the de-
pressed banana economy. Several ranch development plans are being carried
out to convert banana land to pasture.
2.29      The small Project component for the tropical grassland/beef
cattle research program and seed multiplication scheme got underway at
Pichilingue Experiment Station. I\wenty trial plots of 0.5 ha of grasses
and legumes, established early in 1969, have given results that will be
useful in expanding the scheme under the Third Project (para 3.08).
1t. Interim Second Livestock Development Project
Credit 173-EC
2.30      Early in 1969, the Government requested additional funds to con-
tinue the program initiated under the Loan. To prevent a gap in the Lend-
ing Program between the First Project and the next, an interim 12-month
project was prepared (Credit 173-EC). It covers the period between total
commitment of Loan 501-EC and IDA consideration of the Third Project.



2.31      The Credit of US$15 million is to be used under the same criteria,
conditions and areas as tihose applied to Loan 501-EC.  There is a continuing
strong demand for long-tern  finance and over 50% of the Credit has been
committed.
III.  THtE THtRD PROJECT
A. Project lescription
3.01      The Third Project would consist of ttLt- following:
(a)  Development of about 35(0 beef raniches in the Coastal 'legion
(Ainex 4);
(b)  Finance for purchase of feeder steers (Annex 5);
(c)  Development of about 225 dair-y farnu  in the Sierra region
(Annex 6);
(d)  Expansion of a tropical pasture/beet research unit
and establishment of a beef cattle Vianagement training
center within TN IAP (Annex 7):
(e)  Establishment of a scheme for seed multiplication, pro--
cessing and certiitcatiton servtccs withiin t!he
Miiiiistry of Agriculture and Livestock (Annex 8);
(f)  Improvemetit of the husiness operations of WNVP (Annex 'i); and
(g)  Teclnical services for Project administration and
execution (Annex 10).
B. Detailed Features
Beef Ranch Development - Coastal Region
3.02      This sub-project would continue the lending program for develop-
ment of beef cattle production initiated under Loan 501-EC and supplemented
with Credit 173-EC. A limited lending program outside of the Coastal Region
(Sierra, Oriente) may be considered, provided that, within the judgment of
the Project Director and with the approval of the Project Commission, such
would be administratively, financially and technically feasible. The tro-
pical Coastal area consists of about 60,000 km2, occupying most of the
country to the west of the steep Ajndean slope (see Map).  Tlere is a variable



-9-
annual rainfall of 500 to 3,500 mn, resulting in zones that range from semi-
arid to tropical rainforest. Most cattle are located in the wetter zones.
Beef ranching could be expanded by developing unused forest lands and con-
verting crop lands, e.g., bananas, where returns have become marginal.
3.03      Pasture species and productivity vary widely according to rain-
fall, soils and management. The basis for cheap beef production is pasture,
and more emphasis would be placed on the introduction of legumes and the
sowing of pasture mixtures appropriate to the various environmental con-
ditions. With existing pastures, present estimated stocking rates of 0.5
AU per ha for the dry zones and 2 AU per ha for the wet zones could be
more than doubled. Most cattle are on ranches varying from 200 to 1,500
ha, depending on amount of rainfall.
3.04      Investments that have proved necessary and effective for the
First Project would be continued. These include pasture establishment and
renovation, purchase of cattle, fencing, water supply, stock handling
facilities, dips, scales, machinery and functional buildings (Annex 4, Table
1). Pasture development would require the initial importation of quantities
of tropical legume seeds. However, participating ranchers would sow areas
specifically for seed production to ensure self-sufficiency at the ranch
and national level.
3.05      Land possession is usually by title but in some areas (Esmeraldas),
it is held by right of customary use. Titles are being legalized on a cadas-
tral basis, and ranchers can obtain title acceptable for long-term loan
collateral.
Dairy Farm Development - Sierra Region
3.06      This new program would increase milk production on existing dairy
farms located in the interandean valleys and associated slopes in the pro-
vinces of Carchi, Imbabura, Pichincha, Cotapaxi and Tungurahua (see Map).
Annual rainfall varies from 400 to 800 mm, according to area. Pastures
consist of mixtures of temperate species and in dry areas production is
maintained with irrigation. Present annual production from unimproved
pasture of about 1,000 to 1,500 liters per ha could be increased two to
four times by improving pasture and herd management. Initial heavy phosphate
fertilizer application, along with the introduction of white clover and good
quality perennial grasses, would increase carrying capacity from around 1
to 1.5 AU per ha to over 2 AU per ha.
3.07      Principal investment items would include reseeding, application
of phosphate fertilizer, fencing, water supplies, machinery and equipment,
farm buildings and local breeding stock (Annex 6, Table 1). While the
pasture improvement program would require the initial importation of quanti-
ties of temperature pasture seeds, particularly perennial rye grass and
white clover, local production on Project farms would eventually meet needs.
Adequate commercial channels exist to import and distribute seeds.



- 10 -
Tropical Pasture/Beef Research Unit an4d Rauil Management Training Center
3.08      lhe tropical pasture/beef unit, administered by INIAP at Piclli-
linque Fxperiment Station, would be expanded under the Tlird Project.  Thle
program would be production-oriented to help ranichers increase productivity
throughl better management and better pastures.  INIAP would establish a
Researchli Planninig Coimittee witii the Project Director as one of the wembers.
An internationial plant nutrition specialist would provide consultanit services
equivalent to about 2 man-years.  lie would conduct field research on pasturei
establishment and maintenance, initially in the dairy areas of thle Sierra
Rxegion but tie would also initiate investigations in the beef cattle areas
of thle Coastal Region and in the Paromo Zones of the Sierra Region. Addition-
ally, he would train station staff in researclh teclniques. Oine member of
tiie unit's staff would be sent overseas for about 2 years trainiug in plant
nutrition.
3.09      A ranch management training center would be established to offer
short courses in all aspects of ranch management and production for Project
technicians, administrators, ranchi owners and foreman.  1wo iLiternational
experts would be employed, one a specialist in beef htusbandry training and
the other in livestock production economiics and farm management. These
specialists, who would be required for about 3 man-years, would assist in
the planning and teaching of training courses, would train icuadorian coun-
terparts and would evaluate the impact of the three projects on livestock
development.  Additionally, about four miiembers of thie Training Center would
be sent overseas for 6 to 12 months' training.
3.10      Technical assistance would also be given to the dairy training
center at Santa Catalina Experiment Station by an international expert in
dairy husbandry management.  He would train Ecuadorian counterparts to take
over the full training program in about 3 years. This would be a continua-
tion of the program started under bilateral aid in 1967 (para 2.16).
Improved Seed Multiplication Scheme
3.11      The Project would provide funds for the Department of Seed Cer-
tification, Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock, to establish facilities
for seed production, processing, storage, testing and certification and
for overseas training of local staff (Annex 8). Ecuador today lias no
seed certification program, but such a program would ensure supplies of
quality pasture seeds for the Project as well as better quality seeds for
general agricultural crops.
3.12      Two seed testing laboratories would be established, the major
one in Quito (Sierra Region) and a smaller unit in Quevedo (Coastal Region).
A seed processing plant at each of these sites would also be constructed.
A separate section would be set up within the De'artment to administer
operation of the plants. When prbduction and trade becomes commercially
viable, these plants would be taken over by- oumaefeial interests, permitting
thle Department of Seed Certification to concentrate on regulation, supervision
and extension. It is estimated that the transfer would be achieved within
5 to 7 years.



- 11 -
3.13      An internationally recruited technical expert would be employed
to assist in planning the program, training the field staff and setting up
the seed processing equipment. Several international sources 1/ may be
drawn upon for this kind of expertise. To cover the possibility that funds
would not be available from another source, provision is made in the Project
for financing this technical service.
NDB
3.14      Finance would be provided for (a) the short-term services of a
management consultant to assist NDB in streamlining and modernizing its
operations; (b) the installation of an automated accounting system on a
phased approach if found feasible by the management consultant; and (c) the
purchase of about 10 vehicles for project technicians (Annex 9).
3.15      With respect to the foregoing international expertise required for
execution of the Project, it was agreed during negotiations that the terms
of reference, qualifications and contractual arrangements for the following
specialists would be subject to IDA approval: plant nutrition specialist
(para 3.08); beef husbandry training specialist and livestock production
economist (para 3.09); dairy husbandry training specialist (para 3.10); seed
processing specialist (para 3.13) and management consultant (para 3.14). It
was further agreed that these specialists would be employed within 1 year
from the date of effectiveness.
Project Administration
3.16      This would include a Project Director paid from IDA funds, two
Regional Technical Directors, Deputy Project Director, an Administrative
Assistant and possibly two farm management/economist specialists, all to be
paid from the Technical Services Account from the 1.5% commission accruing
to the Central Bank (para 3.38). About 18 livestock technicians would be
employed and paid by participating banks and seconded to the Project Director.
1/   UNDP, FAO, USAID, Rockefeller Foundation.



- 12 -
C. Cost Estimates
3.17      Cost estimates are based on prices prevailing in Ecuador.  To
allow increases in prices and to cover unforeseen costs, a contingency
allowance of about 10% has been added. Project costs are summarized in
the following table:
%   of
Total     % of
Pro-     Foreign
S (million)          US$ (million)      ject      Exchange
Category           Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total  Cost         Component
Development
Beef Ranches       196.9   65.6  262.5   7.8    2.6    10.4    53            25
Dairy Farms         60.6   50.5  111.1   2.4    2.0        4.4    22         45
Technical
Services
INIAP - Research
and Training      12.6   12.6   25.2   0.5    0.5        1.0     5         50
Seed Improvement
Scheme             2.6    5.1    7.7   0.1    0.2       0.3      2         66
National Develop-
ment Bank           -     5.1    5.1    -       0.2      0.2     1        100
Project Adminis-
tration           17.4   10.1   27.5   0.8    0.3       1.1      5         30
Participating
Banks             15.3      -    15.3   0.6      -       0.6     3          -
Subtotal           305.4  149.0  454.4  12.2    5.8    18.0    91            32
Feeder Steers
(Working Capital)  43.2      -    43.2   1.7       -       1.7     9          _
Total              348.6  149.0  497.6  13.9    5.8    19.7   100            30
D. Proposed Financing
3.18      Since the estimated foreign exchange component of the Project
amounts to US$5.8 million, US$4.2 million of the IDA credit of US$10 mil-
lion would be used to finance local currency expenditures. Local currency
financing is needed to encourage investments in simple agricultural inputs
and to provide sufficient participation to bring about improved management
and production practices in the livestock industry. The proposed sources
of finance and percentage of participation are shown in the following
table:



- 13 -
Parti-
IDA         pating       Ranchers/        Central
Credit        Banks        Farmers          Bank    Total
Category            (US$M)   %   (US$M)    .   (US$M)  %         (US$M)  %
Development
Beef Ranches              6.2   60      2.1   20    2.1   20          -      -  10.4
Feeder Steers              -      -     1.4   80    0.4   20          -      -   1.7
Dairy Farms               2.0   45      0.9   20    1.5   35          -      -   4.4
Technical Services
INIAP - Research and
Training                1.0  100       -      -      -    -         -      -   1.0
Seed Improvement
Scheme                  0.3  100       -            -    -          -      -   0.3
National Development
Bank                    0.2  100       -      -     -    -          -      -   0.2
Project Administration  0.3   27         -      -      -    -        0.8   73   1.1
Participating Banks       _             0.6  100       -    _         -      -   0.6
Total                    10.0   51      5.0   25    3.9   20         0.8    4  19.7
3.19      Overall, IDA funds would finance about 51% of total Project cost.
It is to be noted that a higher contribution would be expected from dairy
farmers (35%) than from beef ranchers (20%). This would be reasonable in
view of the higher profitability and stronger cash flow for dairy farmers
as compared with beef ranchers (Annex 6, Table 4 and Annex 4, Table 4,
respectively).
3.20      Participating banks would finance about 20% of the investments
made for beef ranch development, as under the First and Second Project, and
likewise for dairy farm development. In addition to providing about 80% of
the finance for feeder steers, the banks would provide the short-term credit
required for production expenses and would finance the cost of technicians
employed by them and seconded to the Project. Thus, their overall contri-
bution would be at least 25% of total Project cost.
3.21      Beef ranchers and dairy farmers would, on average, contribute 20%
and 35%, respectively, of estimated development costs in the form of cash,
labor and materials. Beef ranchers would in some instances make further
contribution because their annual net income during the early stage of
ranch development would be reduced by retention of breeding stock that
otherwise would hIave been sold (Annex 4, Table 3).
3.22       Development costs of the INIAP and seed improvement sub-projects
including employment of international specialists would be financed by rhe
IDA credit. Annual operation costs would be provided largely by Government
through budget support and a small amount received by the respective entities
from sale of seed.



- 14 -
3.23      The detail of Project administration costs and the means of finan-
cing are shown in Annex 10.
E. Procurement
3.24      International competitive bidding would not be appropriate for the
Project since there is no central purchasing entity and because ranchers and
farmers should have freedom of choice in selection of goods. Furthermore,
individual contracts are small and numerous, and the size and combination of
farm investments would vary greatly. Therefore, goods required for ranch/
farm development, including fencing, agricultural machinery and equipment,
materials for structures, fertilizers, pasture seeds and livestock, would
be purchased by Project participants from local commercial sources. Similar
procedures for Loan 501-EC and Credit 173-EC have proved satisfactory. With
numerous agricultural suppliers for most items, both imported and local,
sufficient competition in the supply of goods is assured and adequate facil-
ities exist for servicing agricultural machinery and equipment. No import
duties are levied on agricultural machinery and breeding stock. Fertilizer
imports are subject to an ad valorem duty of 10% for raw components (mainly
rock phosphate) and 15% on complete types. The one small fertilizer manu-
facturing and mixing plant in Ecuador cannot supply the Project farms, and
imports would, therefore, be required. Dealers' margins, averaging about
25% to 30% of CIF values, are within an acceptable range.
3.25      Local competitive bidding would be employed for the purchase of
the farm vehicles required for Project administration. International bid-
ding for goods required for the INIAP and seed improvement schemes would
not be appropriate because of their specialized nature, availability of
foundation seed only from environmental zones similar to Ecuadorean condi-
tions and the small quantity of individual items needed. Such goods would
be imported directly by the respective entities. Under the First Project
there was some delay in the issuance of import permits. Agreement was ob-
tained from Government during negotiations that import permits would be
issued without delay.
F. Disbursements from the Credit Account
Beef Ranch/Dairy Farm Development Loans
3.26      Disbursements to the Central Bank would be as follows:
-    75% of beef ranch development loans (60% of development cost)
-    70% of dairy farm development loans (45% of development cost).



- 15 -
Disbursements would be based upon appropriate documentation submitted by
the banks to the Central Bank, including a statement of the categories of
investments, country of origin of goods, certification by the participating
bank and approval of the Project Director (except as this function may be
delegated by the Project Director to the Regional Technical Directors) that
the disbursements were for approved Project purposes.
INIAP and Seed Improvement Scheme
3.27      Disbursements would be made to INIAP and the Ministry (Department
of Seed Certification) for 100% of the CIF of goods imported and 100% of
local capital costs based upon appropriate documentation, certification by
INIAP and the Ministry and approval by the Project Director.
NDB
3.28      Disbursements would be made to NDB for 100% of management con-
sultant services, 100% of the CIF of imported vehicles, and 100% of goods
and services related to programming an automated accounting system, based on
appropriate documentation, certification by NDB and approval by the Project
Director.
Project Administration
3.29      Disbursements would be made for salary, emolument, international
travel, housing and family allowances of the Project Director, based on a
withdrawal schedule submitted by the Borrower to IDA. Disbursements for
purchase of vehicles for the Project Director and technical staff not includ-
ing livestock technicians employed by participating private banks and the
equipment and furniture needed for two Project offices (Quito and Guayaquil)
would be made against 100% of costs, supported by appropriate documentation
and approval by the Project Director.
3.30      Disbursements for most ranch/farm  development plans would be phased
over 3 years. Full disbursement would be achieved within about 5 years,
although about 80% would be disbursed by the end of the third year. Annual
phasing of Project investments and forecast of quarterly IDA disbursements
are shown in Annex 11.
G. Auditing
3.31      Several independent auditing services acceptable to IDA are avail-
able within Ecuador. These include both official Government auditing bodies,
such as the Superintendent of Banks and the External Auditor, and at least
two international auditing firms, Deloitte, Plender, Haskins & Sells (British)
and Price Waterhouse and Company (USA). Assurances were obtained during nego-
tiations that the Central Bank and each participating bank would maintain
separate accounts for Project activities and that these accounts would be
audited annually by an independent accounting service acceptable to IDA.



- 16 -
Assurances were also obtained that tLhe audited reports would be submitted to
IDA not later than 3 months after the close of the respective institution's
fiscal year.
H.  Organization aLd Mmageient
Administration
3.32     nTe Government would be the Uorrower and its official representa-
tive would be the Ministry of Agricittiire and. Livestock. During the esti-
mated 5-year period to carry outt the Project, coordination and supervisto:
authority would be vested in a National Project Comnission.  It would tormoj-
late policies and procedures and would approve the Project Director. T'he
Commission would be created l,y Presidential dfrree prior to effectiveness of
the Credit.  Composition of Khe Project C;ommis.Iion, shown in Annex 12, to-
gether with its functions would be subject to IDA approval.  Assurances to
this effect were obtained duhing niegotiations.
Technical Services for Project. Administratioa
3.33      The Project Director would have overaill responsibility for execu-
tion of the Project and woul(i he particularly concerned with technical, fi-
nancial and economic aspects of livestock development programs.  He would
approve or reject ranch/farm development plans and would subuit approved
plans to participating banks as a basis for making loans to Project bene-
ficiaries. This function would be delegated to the Regional Technical
Directors as, within his judgment, they become 17uialified to assume such a
responsibility. his duties and responsibilities are further detailed in
Annex 13. Under Loan 501-EC and Credit 173-EC, the Project Director is an
expatriate, employed by IBRD and seconded to Government.  This arrangement
is satisfactory. It is expected, however, that, during the Third Project,
the post of Deputy Project Director would be created and a qualified Ecua-
dorian would be selected by the end of Project year-2 who could eventually
be promoted to Project Director. Several livestock technicians working
under the First Project show potential for such a responsibility. The
qualifications, duties, responsibilities and terms of employment would
be approved by the Project Director after consultation with IDA. During
negotiations, assurances were obtained that a Project Director would be
employed for at least the disbursement period; that his qualifications,
duties, responsibilities and terms of contract would be subject to IDA
approval, and that his appointment would be a condition of effectiveness of
the Credit Agreement.
3.34      A Regional Technical Director would be employed for both the
Coastal Region and for the Sierra Region. Primarily, each would be respon-
sible, under the direction of the Project Director, for execution of
Project components related to hlis respective region. No difficulty is
anticipated in recruiting qualified Regional Technical Directors in Ecuador.



- 17 -
They would be employed by the Central Bank and seconded to the Project for
at least the disbursement period. Assurance was obtained during negotiation
that their qualifications, duties, responsibilities and terms of employment
would be approved by the Project Director after consultation with IDA.
3.35      As under the First and Second Projects, qualified livestock tech-
nicians would be employed and paid by participating banks and seconded to
the Project Director. Their selection and appointment would be subject to
the approval of the Project Director and Regional Technical Directors. They
would have their headquarters in Project facilities while engaged in Project
activities. No difficulty is expected in recruiting in Ecuador the 15 to
20 technicians that would be needed. During negotiations, assurances were
obtained that such technicians would be employed.
I. Lending Operations
Policies
3.36      Applications and loans would be processed and serviced by the par-
ticipating banks in the same manner as under the First and Second Projects.
Loan applicants would meet the creditworthiness criteria of these institutions,
which would bear the full credit risk. Security for loans would include real
estate mortgage and, if needed, chattel mortgages on livestock and equipment.
Increased real estate value, resulting from ranch/farm development improve-
ments would be reflected in the values established for collateral purposes.
Lending Program - Terms and Conditions
3.37      The following schedule shows the terms for IDA funds to be used
for the Project Lending Program:
Term of      Grace
Interest   Loans       Period
(%)    (Years)     (Years)
IDA funds to Government                             (usual IDA terms)
Government to Central Bank                       6.5 (keyed to the on-lending
terms between Central
Bank and participating
banks)
Central Bank to participating banks for:
(a)  beef ranch development                   8      9-13          3-5
(b)  dairy farm development                   8      8-10          2-3
Partilcipating banks' loans to:
(a)  beef ranchers for development           12      8-12          3-5
(b)  dairy farmers for development           12      7-9           2-3



- 18 -
The repayment terms for IDA funds on-lent by the Central Bank to participating
banks would be keyed to the terms given by them on the subloans plus 1 year
for slippage. Repayments received from the participating banks would go to
Government. Thus all IDA funds used for beef ranch and dairy farm develop-
ment would be repaid to Government by the end of year-16 1/. The Central
Bank would establish and maintain a Livestock Account for the IDA funds used
for long-term beef ranch/dairy farm development loans. The flow of funds is
shown in Annex 14). During negotiations, assurances were obtained with
respect to the Lending Program and that at least one subsidiary Loan Agree-
ment between the Central Bank and a participating bank would be executed
prior to the effective date.
3.38      The Central Bank would earn a spread of 1.5% on the IDA funds on-
lent to participating banks. Tnis spread would accrue to a Technical Services
Account to be established and maintained by the Central Bank. It would be
used to pay: (a) local and office costs of the Project Director; (b) salaries,
local and office costs of the Deputy Project Director, the two Regional Tech-
nical Directors and other technical staff; and (c) the costs of the Central
Bank's services for handling Project accounts. Since there would be a sub-
stantial gap between income and expenditures during the first years of the
Project, it would be necessary for the Central Bank to make an interest-free
advance to the Account (Annex 14). During negntiations. satisfactory
assurances were obtained with respect to the employment of Project staff, fund-
ing and operation of the Technical Services Account.
3.39      Participating banks would make subloans to beef ranchers and dairy
farms based on development plans recommended by the Project Director or Re-
gional Technical Director (para 3.33). In addition, they would provide from
their own resources the short-term credit needed for production expenses and
for purchase of feeder steers. The interest would be 12% per annum on the
outstanding balances of the loans for development purposes and a nominal
rate of 12% for short-term loans. This would be acceptable to the ranchers/
farmers and would be in line with the prevailing charges for rural credit
(para 2.17). The banks would earn a spread of 4% between the cost of IDA
funds borrowed from the Central Bank at 8% and on-lent at 12%. This would
be adequate to cover the cost of livestock technicians employed for Pro-
ject activities, loan risk, administrative costs and profits. Individual
development loans above US$100,000 equivalent would require prior approval
by IDA. As under the First Project, the amount of funds to be used for
purchase of breeding cattle would not exceed 40% of the total loan except
when, within the judgment of the Project Director, a higher investment of
up to 50% of the loan would be warranted, reflecting above-norm coefficients
of productivity and an advanced stage of ranch/farm development. The ap-
plication of Project funds by participating banks is shown in Annex 15.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations with respect to the lending
terms and conditions.
1/   A 16-year period would cover 12-year subloans made in Project year-3
and 1 year additional for slippage of the amortization schedule.



- 19 -
IV. MARKETS, PRICES, TAXATION AND PRODUCER BENEFITS
Markets
4.01      Because of the high rate of population growth and the low level
of per capita meat and milk consumption in Ecuador, production from the
Project is intended primarily for the domestic market. Some marketing of
cattle to Peru is done but the annual number fluctuates widely.
4.02      Live cattle, beef, milk and dairy products produced by Project
beneficiaries would be marketed through existing commercial channels.
Sufficient pasteurizing and slaughtering capacities exist to process the
beef and dairy products generated by the Project. The nine major milk
processing facilities are handling 360,000 liters per day, about 66% of
their combined capacity. The major municipal abattoirs are operating near
capacity, but new private facilities at Santo Domingo and Guayaquil are
operating at only 50% and 15% of capacity, respectively. See Annex 16 for
capacity and present production of major processing plants.
4.03      Demand for meat and dairy products is high.  Despite recent in-
creases in milk prices, total consumption in Quito and Guayaquil has con-
tinued to rise and is now about 190,000 liters daily. Lack of milk for
processing has restrained increases in consumption, and the Sierra milk
producers' association believes that a market exists for an additional
2 to 300,000 liters per day. The growth in human population at about twice
the expected increase in beef cattle numbers also indicates a continuing
demand for beef products in the domestic market. Demand for breeding
cattle is high and no difficulty is anticipated in marketing about 20.000
surplus heifers expected to be available from Project beef ranches and
dairy farms at full development (beef, year-10; dairy, year-7).
4.04      Although the marketing system has deficiencies, such as no beef
grading system, rudimentary municipal slaughtering facilities, and no pro-
cessing of by-products, none are sufficiently critical to discourgage invest-
ment in beef and dairy cattle production.
Prices
4.05      The price to producers for whole milk is about US$0.10 per
liter and about US$0.32 per kg liveweight for beef. Consumer prices
vary, depending on location; in Quito, milk costs S 2.70 per liter (US$
0.15) and supermarket beef prices range from about S 20 to S 44 per
kg (US$1.10 to 2.40), depending on cuts.
4.06      Producer milk prices were increased 21% in July 1969 after remain-
ing at S 1.40 (US$0.08) for several years. Meat prices in Quito have in-
creased 40% since 1965, but have stabilized since mid-1968; Guayaquil meat
prices have increased only slightly since 1967. Municipalities have the
power to fix prices for staple foods, while Central Government sets minimum
milk prices to producers. The increase in milk price to farmers was passed



- 20 -
on entirely to the consumer in Quito and about 65% in Guayaquil. The present
price level provides sufficient incentives to farmers to invest in beef and
dairy production.
Taxation
4.07      Although farmers are subject to both property and income taxes,
liberal exemptions and deductions and low tax rates generally result in
limited charges. Farmers may deduct 20% of the value of improved pastures
from the value of their land subject to taxation; most fixed improvements
and cattle used for commercial purposes may also be deducted, as can the
balance of long-term loans secured by mortgages. On the remainder, taxa-
tion amounts to only about 2% of assessed land value for property taxes and
3% of the assessed land value for income taxes. Under the Project, taxa-
tion levels would decline initially because of the allowable deductions.
At full development, however, property and income taxes paid annually by
loan recipients would be about S 25 million (US$1 million) or about S 10
million (US$400,000) above the amount presently paid. This is equivalent
to about 8% of gross income for the ranchers/farmers.
Producer Benefits
4.08      Substantial increases in income would be derived from investments
under the Project (Annexes 4 and 6, Table 4). Typical results based on
projections for illustrative beef cattle and dairy cattle models are shown
below:
At Present      After 5      After 10
Years       Years
  -   -   -   -  -    (S   '000) -     -  -  -  -  -
300-ha Beef Ranch
Net Income                                     57           163          367
Incremental Net Income                          -           106          310
Debt Service                                    -           110          168
Net Income After Debt Service                  57            53          203
Increment After Debt Service                    -            (4)         146
Incremental Rancher Investment
Tlrough Herd Buildup                          -           474       1.124
60-ha Dairy Farm
Net Income                                     68           265          379
Incremental Net Income                          -           197          311
Debt Service                                    -            95           -
Net Income After Debt Service                  68           170          379
Increment After Debt Service                    -           102          311
Incremental Rancher Investment
Through Herd Buildup                                     145          162



- 21 -
4.09      The financial projections take account of the recent devaluation
of the sucre by about 39%. Original analyses were based on the situation
prevailing prior to devaluation and, while its impact cannot be projected
with certainty at this time, the assumptions made to reflect the likely
impact are set-forth in Annex 17. Reflecting such assumptions, the finan-
cial rate of return for incremental investments to the beef ranchers is
estimated at 21% and for dairy farmers at 41% (Annex 18). Sensitivity
analyses indicate that there would be little change in the financial
rates of return if operating costs increase 15%, prices 10%. If. though.
operating and investment costs increase 10% but prices decrease 10%, the
rates of return would be lower or about 16% for beef ranchers and 31% for
dairy farmers. The assumed effect of devaluation on financial projections
is also reflected in Annex 4 Tables 1, 2 and 4, Annex 5, Annex 6 Tables 1,
2 and 4, and Annexes 7 to 10.
4.10      A portion of the incremental income generated by the Project
would give rise to private savings and thus additional investment. The
Project would result in an increase in herd numbers on Project-financed
ranches, part of which would be sold and part retained as breeding stock.
Animals retained for future expansion constitute on-ranch capital formation.
After 6 years, the value of these additional breeding stock retentions
would be approximately US$28,000 per beef breeding fattening ranch and
after 4 years, US$4,500 per dairy farm. In addition to the value of these
retentions, present incentives are sufficiently strong to encourage ranchers
and farmers to further develop their properties, even beyond the level
indicated in the model projections.
V. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
5.01      The Project would assist Ecuador in increasing its supply of beef
and milk to feed a rapidly growing population. After about 10 years, Project
ranches and farms would aupply about 80,000 head for slaughter annually, or
an increase of about 25% over present national offtake. The incremental
production of beef would be about 7,500 m tons per year, with a value of
US$5 million at present prices to producers. This represents an increase
in consumption of about 1 kg per person at the present population level.
Incremental milk production would be about 40 million liters annually,
valued at current prices at about US$4 million. The additional milk pro-
duction from Project farms would represent a 20% increase to present pro-
duction, and additional consumption of more than 5 liters of milk per person
per year. In addition to increases in milk and beef consumption, approx-
imately 20,000 surplus breeding animals would be available annually from
Project ranches to the livestock industry.
5.02      The rate of return to the economy on new investment under the
Project is estimated at 22%, including the investment of INIAP's research
and training activities, the improved seed scheme, modernization of the
NDB, and Project administration, all of which would have direct but non-
quantifiable benefits for thie economy (Annex 19). Th-ke Project would also
enlist the participation of commercial banks more fully in extending long-
term credit to agriculture.



- 22 -
5.03      If, following devaluation there should be parallel rises of about
the same magnitude (10 to 15%) in prices and costs, there would be no
significant change in the rate of return. If, though, investment and
operating costs should increase by 10% and prices decrease by 10% the rate
of return to the economy would be about 17%.
VI. RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached with respect to the
following substantive issues:
(a) an FMD vaccination program would be carried out for all
cattle on Project ranches/farms (para 2.12);
(b) the General Banking Law would be amended to enable private
commercial banks to make long-term loans under the Lending
Program (para 2.19);
(c) within 1 year of the effective date, a short-term manage-
ment consultant would be employed as well as specialists in
plant nutrition, beef husbandry, dairy husbandry and live-
stock production economics to assist in carrying out an
applied pasture beef production research program, training
programs in animal husbandry (para 3.15);
(d) the Central Bank would act as the intermediate channel to
on-lend the IDA funds to participating banks to assist in
financing the development of beef ranches and dairy farms
(para 3.37); and
(e) the Central Bank would employ the Project administration
staff and would service thie Technical Services Account
from its 1.5% commission on IDA funds on-lent to partici-
pating baniks (para 3.38).
6.02      In addition to the customary conditions, the following have been
agreed upon as conditions of effectiveness of the proposed Credit:
(a) establishment of a National Project Commission and the
appointment of a Project Director subject to IDA approval
(paras 3.32 and 3.33); and
(b) execution of at least one Third Livestock Project Subsidiary
Loan Agreement between the Central Bank and a participating
bank (para 3.37).
6.03      The Third Project is suitable for an IDA credit of US$10 million.
The Republic of Ecuador would be the Borrower and would assume the foreign
exchange risk.
November 10, 1970



ECUADOR: THIRD LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART
MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE AND LIVESTOCK
MINISTER
[ SUB- SECRETARY
PRGRAMICULTUANDEAOFC
ECONOMICS DIVISION
PUBLIC AFFAIRS          PROGRAMMING AND             PLC   N
ADPUB3LICATFIONS        AGRICULTURAL                AGRARIAN
ADEPARTMENTIN           COORDINATION                ECONOMICS
DEPARTMENT                 DEPARTMENT
FINANCE DEPARTM^ENT                                                                         SERVICES DEPARTMENT l
FORESTRY SERVICE                         AGRICULTURAL                         SEED CERTIFICATION                         AGRICULTURAL    L
r--~ 1                       1                   I EDUCATION SERVICE                            SERVICE                             EXTENSION SERVICE
WATER            AGRICULTURAL       METEOROLOGY                                NATIONAL           NATIONAL            NATIONAL           STATE
RESOURCES        RESEARCH                             CENTER OF                                                                          FERTILIZER
INSTiTUTF  INSTITUTESER VICE                 AILHETHWHEAT                                RICE                BANANA             FRIIE
IlNSTITUT        INSTITUTE          (SNMH)            ANIMAL HEALTH            COMMISSION         COMMISSION          BOARD              FACTORY              >
NINERHI)         (INIAP)                                                                                                                                      z
r'z
x
NOTE :Organizations appecring along broken line are autonomous or semi autonlomous instltutionls.                                                   IBRD-4690(R) 






ANNEX 2
ECUADOR
THIRD LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
The Banking System
1.        Only about 15% of the total credit granted annually in Ecuador
goes to agriculture (includes livestock, fishing and forestry). Approxi-
mately 15% is provided by the Central Bank, principally rediscount of
agricultural trade paper; 45% by the private credit institutions; and 40%
by the Government National Development Bank. A detailed breakdown of annual
volume of credit by sector and institutions is given in Table 1.
A. Central Bank
2.        At the head of the banking system is the Central Bank (CB).  It
is essentially private in corporate structure, with 90% of its capital
shares owned by the private banks and the other 10% by Government. Its
hieadquarters are in Quito and there are 10 branches countrywide.
3.        CB would participate in the Project by serving as fiscal agent
on behalf of the Borrower for channeling IDA credit funds to participating
banks, and to handle the technical services funds for Project administration.
It participated similarly in the First Project (Loan 501-EC) and the service
has been satisfactory.
B. Private Banks
4.        Sixteen commercial banks comprise the private banking system.
Banco del Descuento, Banco La Filantropica, Banco del Pichincha are the
principal banks. Banco La Filantropica and Banco del Pichincha are expected
to participate in the Project as are several of the smaller banks - Banco
De Machala, Banco Popular Del Ecuador and Bank of America NTSA. Banco del
Pichincha has headquarters in Quito and seven branch/agency offices in the
northern parts of the Coastal and Sierra Regions. Banco La Filantropica
has headquarters in Guayaquil and is rapidly expanding, with a countrywide
chain of 30 branch offices.
5.        In 1965, under Article 172 of the General Banking Law (paras
14 to 21), private banks were authorized to lend 15% of their deposits to
agriculture. While this authorization resulted in an immediate doubling
of the 1964/65 agricultural credit figure, there has been little change from
1966 to 1968. Generally, loans are short term at 10% interest annually, 1/
1/   Increased to 12% early in 1970.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
with pre-payment of interest. This, together with commissions, inspection
charges, statutory fees and renewal charges, increases the real cost to
around 18% per annum. However, Article 172 regulates the terms of
loans for general agriculture, livestock and fisheries purposes to 1 to 5
years. Loans for livestock fattening are limited to 1 year and for pasture
and livestock improvement to 5 years. Furthermore, repayments of principal
on 5-year loans must be made after the first 18 months.  Tie regulation
would need to be modified to permit banks to grant longer term loans
appropriate for fulfillment of the ranch/farm development plans to be
carried out under the Project.
6.        A condensed balance sheet for each of the banks expected to
participate is shown in Table 2. These are well managed institutions and
participation in the Project would be their first experience in the field
of development lending in the agricultural sector.
C. Finance Corporation
7.        There are two financial development corporations: the Comission
de Valores - Corporacion Financiera Nacional, a Government institution,
and Ecuatorian de Desarollo S. A. (Compania Financiera) (COFIEC) 1/, a private
finance development corporation. The National Finance Corporation would
not be a participating credit institution In the Project.
8.        COFIEC has rapidly created a lending portfolio for agriculture and
industry although it has been in operation only since 1966. Out of a total
of S 258 million (US$14.2 million) lent in 1968, about 60% was for manufac-
turing and 15% for agriculture. Paid-in capital increased from an initial
S 9 million (US$0.5 million) to S 45 million (US$2.5 million) in 1968. Net
income in 1968 was S 6.6 million (US$0.6 million), or about 16% on paid-in
capital. COFIEC made 11 long-term loans for beef cattle development, valued
at US$800,000, or 16% of total loans made under the First Project, financed
by Loan 501-EC. Its 25% contribution was financed by a borrowing arrangement
with the First National City Bank. It is expected that this arrangement would
be continued under the Interim Second Project and the Third Project.
D. National Development Bank (NDB)
9.        The Banco Nacional de Fomento (National Development Bank - NDB)
is a semi-public institution, specializing in lending to the agricultural
sector. Its organizational, administrative, financial and operational
1/   See Report No. DB-54, Appraisal of Two Ecuadorian Finance Companies, for
detail.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
pattern was restructured in 1964. (IDB was instrumental in bringing about
basic changes.) The reorganization consolidated and centralized the activi-
ties of 15 semi-autonomous branch banks (now branches of NDB). As a result,
NDB has improved its financial operations, increased its credit services,
improved its loan recovery performance, and has received larger annual
amounts of capital from Government for credit purposes.
10.       NDB through its Banking Credit Department, gives short-term (2
years), medium-term (7 years) and long-term (15 years) loans. Interest
rates are 8%, plus 1% for a devaluation fund. However, interest is collec-
ted at the time the loan is granted, which, together with additional charges
for forms, commissions and statutory taxes, brings total real cost to around
12%. Loans to small farmers for development are made at 8% through its
Supervised Credit Department. Under Loan 501-EC, long-term loans of 8 to 12
years are granted at 10% on the amount committed (not advanced), but interest
is not prediscounted.
11.       Sources of funds are Government, loan recoveries, rediscounting
with CB and external loans. 1/ Government contribution is fixed by law and,
in 1967 and 1968, NDB received S 51 million (US$2.8 million) and S 53 million
(US$2.8 million), respectively. Receipts from loan recoveries account for
40 to 50% of new loans granted annually.
12.       NDB covers the entire country, with branch and agency offices in
40 locations. Of these, 12 branch offices in the Coastal and Sierra Regions
would be the principal participants in the Third Project. Five branch
offices in the Coastal Region are processing loans under the First Project.
Though NDB has in recent years made improvement in its operations, there is
need for increased efficiency to reduce its high operating costs. For
example operating costs as a percentage of loan portfolio are running around
8% annually (Table 3). Also, personnel and general expenses are high, being
about 75% of total expenses. Operations could be streamlined in many areas,
e.g., procedures, reporting requirements, kinds and numbers of forms, account-
ing records and control. NDB handles about 25,000 borrowers' accounts
annually, entailing a formidable amount of paper work. Overall, NDB's co-
operation and participation in the First Project has been acceptable, but
there have been difficulties, solved by the persuasiveness and persistence
of the Project D)irector. A comparative condensed balance sheet (1964 and
1968) is shown in Table 4.
13.       It is estimated that the NDB would make 50% of the loans under the
Third Project. Considering the magnitude of this involvement, and its
1/   Principally from IDB:  EC-SF8 of US$1.7 million; EC-26 of US$6.3
million; and a third loan of US$6.0 million. As in the past, the
third loan would be used for mixed agriculture, tree crops and
small livestock enterprises. The amount of individual loans for
livestock enterprises would not exceed US$10,000.



ANNEX 2
Page 4
importance to the success of the Project, it is appropriate to provide
NDB with technical and financial assistance to improve the quality and
efficiency of its operations. This was discussed with NDB management, who
stressed that any such assistance should be directly applicable to accom-
plishing these objectives. As one step, NDB wishes to consider installation
of an automated accounting system. This appears feasible, since such
facilities, as IBM, are available in Ecuador (Ministry of Finance has a
computer). Since training would be an important element, this program would
be phased and, under the Project, would be applied to that part of NDB's
system concerned with the Project.
E. Extract from the General Banking Law
14.       Article 172 - Commercial banks may use 15% of their deposits
for the promotion of crop farming, stockraising and fisheries through the
grant of loans to be made in accordance with the following guidelines.
The terms shall be:
(a) Up to 5 years for slow-yielding crops such as olive, cacao
oilseeds and other exportable products, for water supply,
improvement of pastures, improvements with a view to grazing
livestock on public land, growing of fodder crops, and
fisheries;
(b) Up to 3 years for intermediate crops, such as sugarcane,
banana and the seeding of pastures, for building fences,
tick baths, barns, corrals and other useful improvements;
(c) Up to 1 year for annual crops such as corn, beans, wheat,
barley, potatoes, cotton, rice, oil-seeds, tobacco, etc.,
and for clearing grazing land;
(d) Up to 5 years for the raising, development and improvement
of herds of livestock;
(e) Up to 1 year for livestock fattening;
(f) Up to 3 years for the improvement of the land as, for
example, marsh drainage, other drainage projects, land
clearance, laying waterpipes, etc., and for building housing
for rural workers; and
(g) Up to 4 years for building silos on ranches.



ANNEX 2
Page 5
15.       In the case of the loans for terms of 3 years, repayments shall
be made after the first 10 months and,in the case of those for terms of 5
years, after the first 18 months. Interest shall invariably be collected
quarterly in advance.
16.       Within its rediscounting quota, the Central Bank of Ecuador shall
discount loans made by commercial banks under the terms of the present
Article at a rate of interest of at least 1 point below the regular re-
discounting rate.
17.       Operations of this kind undertaken by commercial banks outside
the percentage laid down in the first paragraph of the present article shall
also be discountable at the Central Bank at the same rediscounting rate.
18.       Loans made under these provisions, maturing within 5 years, may be
rediscounted at the Central Bank of Ecuador in accordance with the provi-
sions of Article 61(b) of the Act concerning Monetary Management, amended
in this sense.
19.       In granting loans for the promotion of crop farming and stock-
raising under the provisions of the present article, the following require-
ments shall be met:
(a) The applicant shall demonstrate, to the satisfaction of the
lending bank, that he is the owner or lessee of the land in
which the proposed investment is to be made;
(b) The applicant shall submit an investment plan that must be
approved by the lending bank;
(c) The loan shall be secured by a mortgage or pledge on the
harvest or livestock and such additional sureties as the
bank may consider necessary;
(d) In the case of loans for stockfarming the applicant shall
submit a certificate issued by the stockfarmers' association
established in Ecuador, indicating the breed of livestock or,
failing this, a certificate issued by the corresponding
agricultural center.
(e) All persons receiving loans for the purpose defined in the
present article shall be required to report annually on how
the investment is progressing.
20.       Banks shall be required to supervise the investments being made
with these loans, through their own investment departments. The cost of
such supervision shall be chargeable to the borrowers.
21.       Lending banks may declare the obligation due and arrange for the
immediate collection of the amount owing, if the loan is not being used for
Lhe purposes for which it was granted.
October 20, 1970






ANNEX 2
Table 1
ECUADOR
THIRD LIVESTOCK DIVELOPM1NT PROJECT
Annual Volume of Credit Granted by Sector
bY Principal Credit Institutions, 1964-1968
-                  (S million) - - - - - - - - -           %
Credit Institution                                                                    of Total
and Sector                      1964        1965       1966        1967      1968       1968
Private Banks
Agricultural                   161         344        482         470       481         45
Commercial                   3,470       3,430     3,214       4,225      3,337         85
Industrial                     444         491        580        638        683         51
Other                          536         388        449         594       504         56
Total                    4,611       4,653      4,725       5,927      5,004         69
National Development
Bank
Agricultural                   247         253        305         354       439         41
Commercial                      21          13         17          19        23          1
Industrial                      81          42         40          46        40          3
Other                           27          27         17          46         48          5
Total                       376         335       379         465        550          8
Central Bank
Agricultural                   101         133        153         186        148        14
Commercial                     747         517       570         447        559         14
Industrial                     421         648       555         454        623         46
Other                           19          13        105         112       343         39
Total                     1,288      1,311      1,383       1,199      1,673         23
All Institutions
Agricultural                   509         730        940      1,010      1,068         15
Commercial                   4,238       3,960     3,801       4,691      3,919         54
Industrial                     946      1,181      1,175       1,138      1,345         19
Other                          582         428        571         752       895         12
Total                    6,275       6,299      6,487       7,591      7,227        100
Source: Central Bank, Statistical Bulletin No. 506
October 20, 1970.



ANNEX 2
ECUADOR                             Table 2
THIRD LIVESTOCK DEVELPMKNT PROJECT
Condensed Balance Sheet of Envisaged Participating Banks, June 30, 1969
Banco     Banco       Banco   Bank      Banco
del        de       Popu-      of        de
COFIEC     Pichin-   Filan-      lar del Amer-      Macha-
cha      tropica    Ecuador   ica        la
Assest                             - - - - - - - - - - -(S million) - - - - - - - - - - - -
Cash                                 16         206       111          55      48           17
Loans and Discounts                 205 1/      583       437         131      44           48
Loans Past Due                       -           45        43          10       1            4
Bank Bonds                           -           28        55          15       3            6
CB Shares, Mortgage
Certificates                                  12         22           5       5           1
Real Estate and Equipment             6          36        26           6      12            6
Other                                 4          26        64           6       3            4
Deferred hKpenses                     2           2        15           2      11            3
Branches and Agencies                -           10        21           2       1            1
Letters of Credit                    30           6        19          23       6            2
Total                          263        954        813        255      134          92
Liabilities
Deposits                             -          603       483         129      81           72
Medium and Long-term Debt.           79          -         -           -       -            -
Other Obligations                    83          46        64          10       6            2
Bank Bonds                           -           29        55          15       3            6
Mortgage Certificates                _          155        98          38      _            _
Rediscounts - CB                     -           13        20           3       7            2
Deferred Income                      12          14        11           2       1            1
Letters of Credit                    22           6        19          23       6            2
Dividends Payable                     5          -         _           -       _
Total                          201        866        750        220      104          85
Capital and Reserves
Paid-in Capital                      56          4O        40          23      30            5
Reserves                              1          44        23          10      -             1
Undisbtributed Profits                5           4        -            2      -             L
Total                           62         88         63         35       30           7
Total Liabilities,
Capital and Reserves                263         954       813        255      134           92
I/ Includes S 8 million in equity capital
Source: COFIEC and Banking Gazette, June-July 1969.
Note : See Table 4 for NDB balance sheet.
October 20, 1970.



ANNIM 2
Table 3
ECUADOR
THIRD LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
National Development Bank
Consolidated Annual Profit and Loss Statement, 1964-1969
Accounts                       1964   1965   1966   1967   1968   1969
Jan-July
Income                         ----(S million)-----------------
Interest received              58.9   62.2   63.9   63.5   66.4   L2.1
Commissions                     L4.l,   L.8    3.9    3.h    4.0    5.3
Various profits                 6.5    5.9    6.5    9.4    4.5    6.4
Recoveries                      0.4    o.6    3.9    0.5    o.4    0.2
Total                     70.2   73.5   78.2   76.8  75.3   5L.o
Expenses
Personnel and
General Expenses             45.5   46.8   50.3   52.5   60.1  36.3
Interest and
Commissions paid             23.0   21.2   15.6   15.8   16.7  11.3
Property expenses              1.0    1.3    1.3    1.3    0.5    0.2
Penalties, depreciation
and amortizations             3.8    3.9    3.8    3.8    3.1    0.1
Total                    73.3   73.2   71.0   73.4   80.4  147.7
Net Loss                  3.1                           5.1
Net Profit                        0.3    7.2    3.4            6.3
Loan volume outstanding at
end of year                 761    808    803    902  1,011
Total Expenses as a
Percent of Loan volume       9.6    9.1    8.8    8.1    8.0
Source: Auditor - National Development Bank.
Oetober 20, 1970.



ANiNE' 2
Table-
ECUADOR
THIRD LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENfT PROJECT
NT)B - Comparative Condensed Balance Sheet, 1964 and 1968
(S million)
1964    1968                              196L    1968
Assets                                       Liabilities
Cash and Checks                 94     112  Money Deposits               193      214
Provincial Banks Accounts       91      -   Various Deposits               -       30
Loans                         958      766  Other Obligations             -        62
Loans - Past Due             n.a.      244  Short-term                    63      267
Discounts                       5h      89  External Loans                 75      -
Investments                     51     205  Central Bank                  66       89
1Mortgage Bonds                175      -   Loans from Private Banks   Wo8         -
Other Assets                    L9      37  Discounts with Banks          -        35
Deferred Assets                 [4      43  Reserve for Discounts          5[      -
Buildings and Equipment         47      63  Mortgage Bonds Issued          87     165
Inventory                      13       -   Other Liabilities             13       61
Profit and Loss Account          3       3  Deferred Liabilities          26       53
Branch Bank  Accounts       111        7
1,096     983
Capital and Reserves
Paid-in Capital             457      529
Reserves                      26      50
483     579
Total                  1,579   1,562        Total                 1,579   1,562
Source: National Development Bank.
Oct,ober 20, 1970.



ANNEX 3
ECUADOR
THIRD LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Investments Financed and Sources of Finance, Loan 501-EC
Distribution of 132 Ranch Loans by Investment Category
Amount of         % of
Investment Category                No.            Loan Fund         Total
($ '000)         -
Buildings                         207                 78             2
Fences                          2,779 km             445            9
Watering facilities             1,08                 455             9
Pasture development            49,748 ha          1,670            34
Corrals                           247               122             2
Dips                                89              113             2
Machinery (Units)                   79              h36             9
Cattle                          6,916             1,543            32
Other                              -                  35            1
Total                                          4 ,897          100
Financing of Total Investment Cost
Source                                              Amount          % of
($ million)      Total
IBRD (501-EC)                                           3.7          58
Participating Banks                                    1.2           19
Ranchers                                                1.5           23
Total                                             6.h          100
Source: Quarterly Progress Report for period ending June 30, 1970
October 20, 1970



ECUADOR
uD
THIRD LIVFSTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Model 1. - Development of Beef Breeding/Fattening Ranch. 300 Ha
H                                                             On-Ranch Investment Cost Projections
Average Units   Unit     Average Cost -    - - -           - - Investments by Year - - - - - - - - - --- - -              Total Coat
pe    r Ranch  Cost      (eWach        _           1                        2                       3              Sucres      US Douars
(No.)         (S7        SOOO             Units      Cost          Units     Cost            Units      Cost    TS 7Lllin)   (tT'S$o)
Investment Category                                                   (No.)      (S'OOO)       (No.)    (S'OOO)          (No.)   (StOOO)
Past%= IMprovement
Nev                 (Ha) 100           1,200       120.0             -          _             50       60.o              50.0      60.0      36.0          1,980
Renovation          (Ha) 200             500       100.0            100        50.0          100       50.0              -         -         30.0           1,650
Fences
New                 (km)  10           4,000         40.0             2.5       10.0           2.5      10.0               5.0     20.0      L2.0             660
Watering Facilities
WeULs                 (No.) 1          3,000          3.0             1          3.0          -         -                 -        -          0.9              50
Dams                  (No.) 0.5        4,000          2.0             0.5        2.0                                                          o -  -  -  0.6   33
Tanks                (No.) 1           4,000         4.0             -          *-            -         -                  1        4.0       1.2              66
Troughs              (No.) 3           2,000         6.o              1          2.0           1         2.0              1         2.0       1.8              99
Engine and Pump       (No.) 1          6,000          6.o            -           -            -         -                  1        6.o       1.8              99
Ranch Structares
Corrals               (No.) 1          8,000          8.0             1          8.0          -         -                 -        -          2.4             132
Dips                  (No.) 0.5       15,000          7.5             0.5        7.5          _         _                 _        -          2.3             124
Building repairs      (No.) 0.25      12,000          3.0                  -    _              0.25      3.0              --                  0.9              50
Housing (Ranchhands) (No.) 1           6,ooo          6.o             0.5        3.0          -         -                  0.5      3.0       1.8              99
Machinery & Equipment
Tractor             (No.)  0.1       110,000        11.0             -           -             0.1      11.0              -        -          3.3             181
Equipment            (No.)  0.1       65,000          6.5             0.1        6.5          _-                                   -          1.9             107
Scales               (No.)  0.25      20,000          5.0            -           -             0.25      5.0                  -   -           1.5              83
Breeding Stock
Bulls                (No.)  6         15,000         90.0             3         45.0            2       30.0               1       15.0       27.0          1,485
Heifers              (No.) 50          3,000        150.0            30         90.0           20       60.0              -         _0                      2,7
Subtotal                                         568.o                      227.0                   231.0                      110.0    170.4            9>373
Contingencies (10%)                                  57.0                       23.0                    23.0                       11.0       17.1            940
Total Before Devaluation                              625.0                      250.0                   254.o                      121.0     187.5          10,313
Total After Devaluation                               750.0                      300.0                   305.0                      145.0      262.             ,



ECUAICOR
TMI)R LIVfSPO1:1  D VRLOPIPENP PR M1
Model 1. - Leve1opment of Beef Breeding/Fattening Hanch, 300 Ha
Herd Development Projections
----------------------------_----------------- End  of Ranch Year----------------------------------------------_--------
Before
Category                      Development           i            2            3           4           5            6            7           8            9          10           11-20
Herd Composition (No.)
ftveding Gows                            125                163         187           192        200          222         253          260          260         260          260          260
Bulls (41%)                                5                  7           7             8          8            9          10           10           10          10           10           10
Calves                                    69                 75         106           131        144          150         167          190          195         195          195          195
Heifers - 8-24 months                     35                 35           38           53         66           72          75           84           95          98           98           98
Heifers - 24-36   l                       33                 33          33            37         52           65          71           74           83          93           96           96
Steers--i 2-      n                       34                 34          37            53         65           72          75           83           95          97           97           97
Steers  - 24-36                           32                 32          32            36         52           63          70           73           81          93           95           95
Steers  - 36-448                          30                 31           31           25         17           -
Cull Fattening Females                    12                 18          21            21         22           25          25           25           25          25           25           25
Total Animals                            375                428         492           556        626          678         746          799          844         871          876          876
Total Animal Units (AU's)                306                345          375          415        471          515         567          597          636         663          668          668
Purchased Steers                          -                  30           50           go         85           65           30          -            -            -           -
Totel an 9T_                                                375          425          505        556          580         597           -            _            _           _
Mortality (No.)
Breeding Cows                              6                  6            7            6          6            4            4           4            5            5           5            5
Heifers - 8-24 months                      2                  2            2            1           1           1            1            1           1            2            2           2
Heifers - 24-36                            2                  1            1            1           1           1            2            2           2            2            2           2
Steers  -8-24    H                         2                  2            2            1           1           2            2            2           2            2            2           2
Steers  -24-36   '                         2                  1            1            1           1           1            1            1           1            2            2           2
Steers  -36-48                             1                  1            1            1           1           -            -            -           -            -            -           -
Purchased Steers (2%)                      -                  1            1            2           2           1            1                  -                  -            -           -
Total                                     15                 14           15           13         13           10           11          10           11           13          13           13
Sales (No.)
Cul Cows                                  15                 12           18           21          21          22           28           41          41           41           41          41
Cull Bulls                                -                   1            2            0           1           1            1            1           1            1            1           1
Heifers - 24-36 months                    10                 -            -            _           _           _            -            17          26           35           45           45
Steers  - 24-36                           -                  -            -             6          18          51           62           69          72           79           91           91
Steers  - 36-48    n                      29                 29           30           30          24          17           -            -           -            -            -
Sub-total                          654                 42           50           57          64          91           91          128         140          156          178         178
PUrchased Steers                          -                  29           49           88          83          64           29           -            -           -            -
Total                                                        71           99          145         147         155          120           _            _           _            _
Purchases |lo.)
Breeding Females                          -                  30           20            -          -            -           -
Bulls                                     -                   3            2            1           1            2           2            1            1            1           1            1
Feeder Steers                              -                 30           50            90         85           65          30
Total                                     -                  63           72            91         86           67          32            1            1            1           1            1
Production Data
Mortality (Adult) - %                       54                             4             3          3            2            2            2           2            2            2           2
Effective Calving Rate - %                55                 60           65            70         75           75           75          75           75           75          75           75
Carrying Capacity - AU/ha                  1.0                 1.2         1.4           1.7        1.8          1.9          2.0         2.0          2.           2.2          2.22
Extraction Rate - ,                       14.4                 9.8        10.1          10.3       10.2         13.4         12.2        16.0         16.6         17.9         20.3        20.3  o



5CUAIBOR
o                                                                                                             rHIRD LrlSTOCK DEVRLOPhPNr PROJECT
4Model 1. _ Develo nt o Beef Breedine/Fattening  Eanch, 300 Ha
prejeotion of Sales acd Operating Rape.ses
(5 ' 000)
Unit Value
of  Cattle     Before       - --- -    - -  - -- ----- -        - ---- ----    -    - -- ---  -----R - hYC   --- --- --           ea--- - ---- ------ - - ---          -- - - - -- --
e ars  Years  Development       I             2             3                             5             6              7             b              9             10           11-20
0-5    6-20
No. Value     No. Value    No. Value   No. Value         No. Value    No.  Value    No. Value    No. Value    No. Value    No. Value    No. Value    No. Value
Sales
Cull Cows                                   2.1    2.4   15    31.5   12    25.2   18    37.8    21    44.1    21    44.1   22    46.2    28    67,2    41    98.4    41    98.4    L1    98.4    41    98.4.   L1    98.4
Cull Bull                                   3.5    4.2    -      -        1     3.5     2     7.0    -       -       1     3.5     1      3.5     1     5.2      1     4.2     1      4.2     1     4.2      1     4.2     1     5.2
Neifer- - 24-36 months                      2.3    3.0   10    23.0             -      -      -       -      -              -      -      -      -      -       17    51.0    26    78.0    35   105.0   45   135.0    45   135.0
Steers - 24-36 months                       2.4    2.7    -      -       -      -      -      -        6    14.4   18    43.2   51   122.4   62   167.4    69   186.3    72   194.4    79   213.3    91   245.7    91   255.7
Steers - 36-48 months                       2.4    2.7   29    69.6    29    69.6    30    72.0   30    72.0   24    57.6    17    40.8    -            -       -      -                     -       -         -          -
Subtotal                                             54   124.1   42    98.3    50   116.8   57   130.5    64   148.4   91   212.J   91   238,8   128   339.9   140   375.0   156   420.9  178   483.3   178   483.3
Feeder Steers                               2.4    2.7    -      -       29    69.6    49   117.6   88   211.2   83   199.2    64   153.6    29    78.3    -           -      -       --         -          -      -      -       -
Total Sales: Before Devaluation                      54   124.1    71   167.9    99   2345.    145   341.7  147   347.6  155   366.5  120   317.1  128   339.9   140   375.0   156   420.9  178   483.3   178   483.3
Operating Stpenses After Devaluation                             124.1          184.7         257.8          275.9          382.4         403.2         348.8          373.9          412.5         463.0          531.6          531.6
Wages Foreman  1/                                               12.0           13.0           13.0          13.0          14.0           15.0          16.0           17.0           18.0           19.0          20.0           20.0
Farmhande a /                                             13.0           13.0          13.0           13.0          16             18            20             22             24            24             24             24
MaIntenance Butldings  3/                                        1.0            1.3           1.5            1.4           1.5            1.5           1.5            1.4            1.4           1.4            1.4            1.4
Fen-et and Water  4/                                 4.0                   4                     4             4              4             5              6              7             8              8              8
w-,hi*-ry   51                        ~~~~~~10.0     11             12            13             13             13            13             13            13             13             13            13
Pastnoe  6/2                                         6.0            6             6              6             6              6            10             14             18            18             18             18
Animal Health  7/                                                 9.8          11.1           12.8          15.5           16.3           17.6          19.4           20.8          21.9           22.6           22.8          22.8
Fuel, Oil end Luib*ieants  8/                                     3.8           5.4            8.2          10             10            10             10            10             10             10            10             10
Freight  9/-                                                      1.6           1.3            1.5           1.7            1.9            2.7           2.7           3.8            5.2            4.7            5.3           5.3
Bulls Ld7                                                         -             -              -             -             l            20             20            10             10             10            10             10
Contingenoies (10%)                                               6.1           6.6            7 1            7.6           9.2          10.7           11.7          11.8           12.7           13.0           13.2           13.2
Subtotal                                                   67.3           72.7           79.0          84.1          101.8         118.4          129.2         129.8          140.2          143.7         145.7          145.7
Fooohase of Feeder Steers  11/             1.4    1.7             -            43.8           73.0         131.4          125.1          94.9           52.8           -              -              -             -
Total ExpeOsO: Bef.re Devalustion                          67.3          116.5          152.0         215.5          225.9         213.3          182.0         129.8          140.2          143.7         155.7          145.7
After Devalu-tion                          67.3          131.1         17_.0          242.4         951h.        - 240.0         204.2          146.0          157.7          I61.7         163.9          363.9
Net,Op rat...irg I-e: efore .  evol-atIon                        56.8          51.4           82.4         126.2          121.7         153.2          135.1          210.1         235.8          277.2          337.6          337.6
After Devalu-tion                         56.8           53.6          86.8          133.5         128.3          163.2          144.0         227.9          254.8          301.3         367.7          367.7
1/ IncreaSing from S 1,000 to S 1,500 per month.                                                                                         8/ Based on tractor hours ranging up to naxteun of 1,000 in Year3 to 500 in !ears-4-20;
Z  From 2 men at s 500 to 5 men at S 650 per month.                                                                                      and up to 8,000 km/year for 1 vehiole.
3/ 2% of value.
/ 8% of value.                                                                                                                           9/ s 30 per head sold.
7/10% Of value.
/ Clearing 100 ha per ycar.  Boch phoophote from Year-6 increasing to 100 kg per ha per year.                                           10/ S 10,000 per bull.
Z/ S 26 per head.                                                                                                                       -
l1/ ?Ine fattening empen.e.  of S 60/head.



ECUADOR
THIRD LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Model 1.- Beef Breeding/Fattening Ranch, 300 Ha
0
o                                                                                        Financial Projectionr'
CD                                                                                            (S' 000)
-  - -----_-_--_-----------_---- - -------Ranch Tear -               --- -- - ---- ------------------------------
Before
Development         1          2         3          4          5         6           7          8           9          10           11-20
0
CASH INFLOW
Sales, except fattening             124.1           108.3     128.5      113.6      163.2       234.2     262.7     373.9        412.5     463.0       531.6          531,6
Sales, fattening operations           -              76.6     129.3      232.3      219.2       169.0      86.1        -          -           -         -
Bank loan                             -             240.0      244.0    116.0         -          -          -          -          -_          -         -
Subtotal                       124.1           4214.7    501.8      491.9      382.4       403.2     348.8     373.9        412.5     463.0       531.6          531.6
CASH OUTIfLW
Ranchers Investment Contribution    -                60.0       61.0      29.0        -          -          -                     -           -         -
Investment on Loan Funds              -             240.0     244.0      116.0        -          -          -          -          -           -         -
Op. expenaes, except fattening        67.3           81.8       88.9      94.6      114.5       133.2     145.4      146.0       157.7      161.7      163.9          163.9
op. expenses, fattening Z/            -              49.3       82.1     147.8      139.6       106.8      59.4        -          -           -         -               _
vSisbtotal                      67.3           431.1     476.0      387.4      254.1       240.0    204.8      146.0        157.7     161.7       163.9          163.9
CASH BALAICE                          56.8           (6.4)      25.8     104.5      128.3       163.2     144.0      227.9       254.8      301.3      367.7          367.7
DEBT SERVICE
Interest on Bank Loan (12%)           -              14.4      44.9       64.9       72.0        72.0      68.4      64.8         50.4       36.0       18.0            -
Loan Amortization 3/                  -               -           -         -          -         30. )     3* 0      120.0       120.0      150.0      150.0
Interest on Working Capital Loan      -               3.8       6.3       11.4       10.8         8.3       4.6        -          -          -           -
Subtetal                         -              18.2      51.2       76.3       82.8       110.3     103.0      184.8       170.4      186.o      168.o            -
CASH BALANCE AFTER
DEBT SERVICE                          56.8          (24.6)    (25.4)      28.2       45.5        52.9      41.0       43.1        84.4      115.3      199.1          367.7
ANNUAL INCRE2ffTAL
CASH BALANCE 4/                       -             (81.4)    (82.2)    (28.6)       (11.3)      (3.9)    (15.8)    (13.7)        27.6       58.5      142.3          310.3
ANNUAL INCREMINTAL
HERD VALUES5                          -             124.3      205.4     p80.0       378.6      474.-0     886.8     962.0       1045.8    1111.3      1124.3        1124.3
TOTAL ANNUAL
INCREMENTAL BALANCE                   -              42.9     123.2      251.4      367.3       470.1     871.0      948.3      1073.4    1169.8      1266.6         1434.6
31/ After devaluation
7/ Including purchase of fattening steers.
3/ Based on annual amortization of 5% in years 5 and 6; 20% in years 7 and 8; and 25% in years 9 and 10.
4/ As compared to ranchers' net cash position before development.
/ As compared with before development herd value of S 579,000.  Also reflects rising value of cattle between years 1-5 to years 6-?o.



ANN a 5
F.CUADOt
THIRD LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Capital Requirements for Feeder Steers
Total
Project Year                                        US$
1      2       3      4       5      6       7      1    Total        Equivalent
(I 000)
Per Ranch
Animals Purchased (No.)            30     50      90     85      65     30       -       -     350
Total Capital Required(S'000)    48.0   80.0  144,0  136.0  104.0   57.0    -            -     569.0          22.5
Total Incremental Amount
Required                         48.0   32.0   64.0   -        -      -        -       -     144.0           5.7
Provision of Incremental
Capital (S'00Q)&
Ranchers (20%)Y'                  9.6    6.4  12.8   -         -      -        -      -       28.8           1.1
Banks (80%)                      38.,   25.6   51.2   -        -      -        -      -      115,2           4.6
Total                       48.0   32.0   64.o   -        -       -                     144.0            5.7
Project Total
Total Capital Required
(S million):
1st year ranch plan 100             4.8    8.0   14.4   13.6   10.4    5.7    -          -       -
2nd year ranch plan 150              -     7.2   12.0   21.6   20.4   15.6    8.6    -           _
3rd year ranch plan 100              -       -     4.8    8.0   14.4   13.6   10.4    5.7        -
Total                         4.8   15.2   31.2   43.2   45.2   34.9   19.0    5.7         -
Annual Incremental Total            4.8  10.4   16.0   12.0   -          -       -       -       43.2      1,700.0
Incremental Distribution
(S million):
Ranchers (20%)                    1.0    2.1    3.2    2.4   _-            -           -       8.7         340.0
Banks (80%)                       3.8    8.3   12.8    9.6   -        -        -       -      34.5       1,360o0
Incremental Total After
Devaluation                       1.8   10.4   16.0   12.0   -        -        -       -      43.2       1,700.0
1/ Ranchers? contribution would vary. For calculation purposes it is shown as 20% on average.
October 20, 1970



,OUADOR
THIRD LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMESNf PROJECT
-
a.                                                                             Model 2. - Development of Dairy Farm, 60 Ha
a
'4
On-Farm Investment Cost Projections
Average Units   Unit   Average Cost -   - - - - - - - - - Investments by Year - - - - - - - -   _
         Investment Category                         per Farm        Cost      per Farm             1                        2                     3                     Total Cost
(No.)        ()    (s  r oor,       Units      Cost        Units       Cost        Units     Cost          Sucres       Dollars
Pasture 'stablishment-                 -       kNo./         vSl    kS 'J0          (No.)     (S '000)    (No.)       (S '000)    (No.)   (S '000)       (S.millio-n)   (3'C00)
Cropping               (Ha)                  24           800         19.2          8         6.4          8          6.4          8          6.4         3.8           211.1
New Pasture            (Ha)                  24         1,300         31.2          8        10.4.         8         10.4.         8         10.4         6J            343.1
Renovation             (Ha)                 132           900        127.6         Lb        39.6         44         48.4         L4         39.6        25,5         1,403.7
Fences
New                    (Xm)                   1.5       4,000          6.0           1.5      6.0         -           -            -          -           1.2            66.0
Watering Facilities
Troughs                (No.)                  5           500          2.5           5        2.5         -           -            -          -            *5            25 3
Tank                    (No.)                  1        5, 5S0         5.5           1         5.5        -           -            -          -           1.1            27.5
Pump and dips          (No.)                  1         9,000          ).0           1        9.0         -           -            -          -           1.8            60.5
Farm Structures
Yards                   (bo) 400                            20         8.0           -         -          20          8.0          -          -           1.6            88.0
Sheds                  (No.)                  1         4,500          4.5           -         -           1          4.5          -          -            .9            49.5
Silos                  (No.)                  1        12,000         12.0           -         -           1         12.0          -          -           2.4           132.0
Irrigation Canal       (Km)                   0.5          20         10.0           0.5     10.0          -          -            -          -           2.0           110.0
Machinery and Equipment
Tractor                (No.)                  0.3    110,000          33.0           0.3     33.0                -                 -          -           6.6
Implements             (No.)                  0.L      82,800         33.1           0.4.    33.1           -                -                -           6.6           3641
Ailking machine        (No.)                  0.25    50,000          12.5           -                      0.25     12.5                                 2.5           137.5
Breeding Stock
Bulls                   (No.)                  1       15,000         15.0           1        15.0          -                -                -           3.0           i65.0
Heifers                 (No.)                  5        6.000         30.0           5        30.0                     -     -                -           .43,n 
Subtotal                                                          359.1                  200.5                   102.2                    56.4        71.7         3,876.3
Contingencies           (approx. 10%)                                 35.9                    20.5                    9.8                      5.6        7.            468.7
Total  Before Devaluation                                         395.O                   221.1                  112.0                    62.0         79.0        4,345.b
Tot al That after Bevaluation                                    4194.0                  276.0                   140.0                    78.0       111.1          4,400.0
1/  Unit cost S 1,10t in year-2.                                                                                                                                        4 -ooo



c2.UAOOR
o                                                                                    PHIdD 2.1.16312HLIVSrOOK D LOFEN  FRfOJECT
S                                                                                 .'4sodel 2. - DOvO2.opmnt of Dairy Far., 60 Ha
,Herd Derelopm?nt Projections
- - - - - - - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - - - ka- d of Rsach sYear. - - - - - - - - - -  _
Before
Category                                    Deveqlpnqnt         1          2         3          4         5          6          7         5          9          20      11-15
Huerd GCoposition (No.)
Cows                                                64              ?I         73        75         62         94        9k         94         94        94         94         94
Bnlla                                                S                5         5          5         5          5          6         5          6          6         6          6
Calves                                              51              51         60        66         70         74        85         85         865       85         85         85
Heifers - 8-24 aonthao                              19              21         22         26        23         23        23         23         23        23         23         23
lHeiera - 24_36 mntha                                2.a            l         _20         21        25         14         14        14         14         14        1.4        14
Total Animals                                      157             166        180       196        205        210       221        221        220       221        221        221
Total A:nimjl Units JAU's)                         106             115        120       130        135        136        136       136        136       136        136        136
Mortality (No.)
Ca,w                                                 2               2          2          1         2          2          2         2          2          2         2          2
Bull Calovs                                           3               3         2          2         2          2          3         3          3          3          3          3
Hsifor Calva3                                         7              5          b          4         4          4          4         4          4          4         4          4
Heifer - 8-2h months                                 1               2          1          1         1          1          1         1          1          1          2         1
Heifere - 24_36 months                               1               2          2.        1       _.            1          -          _         _          _          _         _
Total                                               2.              12         10          9        10         10        2.         10         10         10         10        10
Sales (No.)
cOf  aone                                           12              12         12        12         13         15         17        17         17         17        17         17
Call Balla                                            -1                        -          -         1          -          1          -         1          -         1          0.5
Bnul Celves  Y                                      28              22         23         28        3n         33         34        39         39         39         39        39
.liter Calves                                         -               -         -          -         6          8         10         16        16         16         16        16
Heiferse2h36  orths                                   3               1         1          1          1         3          3          3         3          3          3          3
Total                                                43             36         36         41         ^         59         65        15         76         75         76'        75.5
Porchases (No3.)
Heifere                                                               5
Bulls                                                 -              1          -I         -                    -          1         -          1          -         1         0.5
7 otal                                                -               6          _         _          I.         _         1          _          1         _          1          0.5
Technical Coefficients
Calving Rate - %                                     80              80        85         90         90        90         90         90         90        90         90        90
Ibrtality Bull Calves  %                             10              10         8          6          6         6          6          6         6          6          6        6
Iteifer Calvee.% -25                                      20         15        15         12         10        10         10         10         10        10        2.0
Ysifers -  8-24 months -%                  5               5          4          3         3          3          3         3          3          3          3        3
Fsmales over 27  months -J                 3               3          3          2                    2          2         2          2          2          2
Ceva in Milk - S                                     7       70           7     5         T5        7575  75                         75 75  75       75        75
vDaily PdoNctien/Cow  in  Mk - Liters                 65              6,5        7.0        8.0       9.0      2.0.0      11.5       2110       11.0      110       1o .0    0h.O
Production/Crso per Lactation                     1,900           2,000     2,300      2,400      2.700     3,000      3,300      3.600     3,'.00     3.600      3,600      3,600.
Total Milk Production - 000 liters                   98.0          106.8      135.4     160o6      193.8      222.7     28561      2$.        23.        215.1      285       2t51
Calf Milk ^ 2000 liters   3/                         13.0           10.4        9.0        9.9       10.5      11.1       12.9       12.9       12.9      12.9       12.9       12,9
Ifilk Sold - 000 liters                              85.6           96.4      126.4     150.7      383.3      201.6      29i.2     272.2      212.2      272.2      272.2     272.2
Milk Psoductioa/ha- Liters                       1,600           1,800      2,300      2,700      3,t00     3,7d0    4,800       4,800      4,830      4,800       t,S00    4,8o0
Carrying Capacity - A*lha                             1.8             1.9       2.0        2.2        2.3        2.3       2.3        2.3        2.3       2.3        2.3        2.3
1/  Sold'at 1 week of age.
2/ Sold at 6 eonths of age.
3/  Before developrent 530 liters p-r calf;  Year-1. 1.0 liters. foro  Year-2, 307 liters.



0'                                                                                                                                9ICIAOR
rHIPD LIVESTOCK DSVELOPMENr IR 0OJC
Model 2. - Development of Dairy Farm, 60 Ha
PMojection of Sales and Operating dbcpense
Unit Value   Before-____________________________________Ranch Yea-------------
of Cattle  Development    1               2               3             4                56                              17             8               9             10          11-15
Years
9-15      No.  Value  No. Value    No. VoIce    No.    Value  No.   Value    No.    VaIun    No.   Valu3   No.   Value   No.   Value   No.   Value   No.   Value   No.   Value
Sales
Cull Cose                                   3.0    12    36.0    12    36.0    12    36.0    12    36.0    13         39.0     15      45.0    17      51.0    17    51.0    17    51.0    17    51.0    17    51.0    17    51.0
C.llBulls                                   1.0     -       -      1     4.0      -      -       -      -      1       8.0       -       -      1       1.0      -      -      1      4.a      -      -      1      1.0       .5   2.0
Bull Oalves                                 0.18   22      1.0    22     1.0    23      4.1    28      5.0    31       5.6      33      5.9    34       6.1    39      7.0    39      7.0    39      7.0    39      7.0    39      7.0
Heifer Calves                               1.2     -       -      -       -      -      -       -      -       6      7.2      8       9,6    10      12.0    16    19.2    16    19.2    16    19.2    16    19.2    16    19.2
Heifers - 24-36 months                      3.0     3      9.0     1     3,0      1     3.0      1     3.0     1       3.0       3      9.0      3      9.0      3     9.0     3      9.0      3     9.0      3     9.0      3     9.0
Subtotal                                      37    49,o    36   417.0    36    43.1    41   411.1    52         58.8     59     69.5    65      82.1    75    86.2    76    90.2    75    86,2    76    90.2    75.5  88.2
410k Salem  1/                              1.70   85.6 145.4    96.4 163.9   126.1 211.9   150.7 256.2  183.3  311.6    211.6  359.6  272.2  462.7   272.2 462.7   272.2 462.7   272.2 462.7   272.2 462.7   272.2 462.7
Total Saleso: Before Deval-ation               -   194.4      -   210.9      -   258.0     -   300.2      -    370.4       -    429.1      -    544.8      -   548.9      -   552.9      -   548.9      -   552.9      -   550.9
- After Devaluation                              232.0          283.8          330.2           407.4            472.0           599.3          603.8          60t.2          603.o          60Y.6
Operating Expenses
Wages Foreman  2/                                         19.5           23.          25.L           27.3            29.3             31.2            32.5           32.5           32.5           32.5           32.5            32.5
Farmhans  V3/                                      17.6           31.2           32.8           34.3            35.9             37.4            39.0           39.0           39.0           39.0           39.0           39.0
.ilkers 1/                                          5.9            6.8            6.8            9.4             9.4             12.3            15.6           15.6           15.6           15.6           15.6           15.6
Buildings  5/                                   2.0            2.0            2,2            2.7             2.7              2.7             2.7            2.7            2.7            2.7            2.7            2.7
Fences and Water 6,                             2.4            2.1            3.4            3.4             3.4              3.1             3.7            3.7            3.7            3.7            3.7            3.7
Machinery  7/                                  10.0           10.0          1V.0            18.3            18.3            18.3             18.3           18.3           18.3           18.3           18.3           18.3
Pastures  87                                   18.0             -              -              -             36.0             36.0            36.0           36.0           36.0           36.0           36.0           36.0
Ani.mal Health  9/                                           5.3            7.1            7'5           8.2             8 5              8.8             9.1             9.1            9.1            9.1            9.1            9.1
Fuel, Oil and  ubricants  10/                               3.8            5.4            8.2           10.0           10.0              10.0            10.0           10.0           10;.0          10,0           10.0           10.0
Supplemeetary Fesd  11,                                     25.7          18.0                                    -                -               -               -                      -              -              -
Bulls  12/                                                    -              -              -              -            10.0                _            10.0              -           10.0              _           10.0             5.0
Contingencies (15%)                                         16.4          15.9           16.9           17.9            24.5             24.0            26.5            25.0          26.5            25.0          26.5            25.8
Total Expanses: Brorc Devaloution                  125.9          122.2          129.1          130.6           188.0            1841.           203.L          191.9          203.4          191 9          203            197.7
- After Devaluation                              137.5          145.2          140.9           211.5            207.1           226.8          215.9          228.2          215.9                          222-4
Net Operating Incom- . Rfre Devlluat-on                     68,5          88,7          128,9          169.6           l82-4            245.0           341.4          357.0          319.5          357.0.          349.5          353.2
- Al'ter Devluatien                   -           94.5          13c.6          183.3           195.9            264.9           370.5          3t7.o          380.&          387.9           379.8          383.6
Milk sales expre-ue1 in '000 liters                                                        7/  10% of value.
2/  Increasing from S l,lOO to 3 2,500 per mon-month.                                           /       Year-h Ouper phosphate at 400 Kg:h.1
3/' 4 men at S 600 increasing to S 750 per san-ossnth.
s. 5o/neadexcluding bull calvos.                                                                                                                        0'
4,  One milkor, 10 .ow-.  Tn-roeoing from s 105 - s 150 per mon-mmnth.
10' Based on eaximums 750 tractor hours and 7,000 lme for 1 vehicle.
5/ 28 of value.
-/   2%of valu. 11, JoncoItrutus for mili:ing 2s 2 lb per day, neifer calves 300 lbhead.
6/'  3% of valu-.                                                                        '     12/ From Year-L, yearling bull purchased every 2nd year.



ECUADOR
THIPI) LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Model 2 - Dairy Farm, 60 Ha
Financial Projection
(S' 000)
Before               ----------------------------------------------- Ranch Year -------------------------------------------------
Development               1         2         3         4         5         6          7         8         9        10        11-15
CASH INFLOW
Sale of Cull Animals             49.o                 51.7      47.4      48.4      64.7      76.5      90.3       94.8      99.2      94.8      99.2        97.0
Milk Sales                      145.4                180.3     236.4    281.8    342.7    395.5         509.0     509.0     509.0     509.0    509.0         509.0
Bank Loan                        _                 177.2      93.4      50.4         -         -         -         -         -          -         -           -
Subtotal                      194.4                409.2     377.2    380.6    407.4    472.0         599.3    603.8      608.2     603.8    608.2         606.0
CASH OUTFLOW
Farmers' Investment  Contr.        -                  95.5      50.4      27.1         -        -         -          -         -          -         -           -
Investment of Loan Funds           -                 177.2      93.4      50.4         -        -         -          -         -          -         -           -
Operating Expenses             125.9                 137.5    145.2    146.9    211.5    207.1    228.8    215.9            228.8    215.9    228.8          222.4
Subtotal                     125.9                 410.2    289.0    224.4    211.5    207.1    228.8    215.9            228.8     215.9    228.8         222.4
CASH BALANCE                       68.5                  (1.0)     88.2     156.2    195.9    264.9        370.5    387.9      379.4    387.9    379.4          383.6
DEBT SERVICE
Interest on Bank Loan (12()                           10.7      26.9      35.5      38.5      30.7       23.2      15.5       7.7         -         -           -
Amortization of Loan i/                                 -         -          -       64.2      64.2      64.2      64.2      64.2         -         -           -
Subtotal                                            10.7      26.9      35.5    102.7        94.9      87.4      79.7      71.9         -         -           -
CASH BALANCE AFTER DEBT
SERVICE                          68.5                 (11-7)     61.3    120.7       93.2     170.0    276.8    308.2        307.5      387.9     379.4       383.6
ANNUAL INCREMENTAL
CASH BALANCE 2                    -                   (80.2)     (7.2)     52.2      24.7    101.5    208.3    239.7         239.0      319.4     310.9       315.1
ANNUAL INCREMENTAL
HEED VALUE 3I                                          40.6      68.o      112.1    147.0    145.4    162.2    162.2          162.2     162.2    162.2        162.2
TOTAL ANNUAL INCREMENTAL
BALANCE                           -                   (39.6)     60.8    164.3    171.7    246.9    370.5          401.9      401.2     481.6    473.1        477.3
In 5 equal annual payments
j Compared to pre-development cash balance
3 As compared with pre-development herd value of S 591,800.
October 20, 1970



lt3  2113!'/O.X 42721.1P L... :1.12tI..
0technical d3rvicos 3udg?e  - 1TNTA
(.esearch ard Training)
Foreign
nxpend,ture Items                                                                                                                      Project Year                    Total 0ost       EchQacge  ( % of
o                                                 M~~~~~~~       ~      ~~~~~~~~~     ~     ~~~umber of  Goot'Onit  Toaljet  1      2            3              U3$           -omponet  Total)
-    Field Operations                                                Units                (3S0033               (33000)               -        (S 000)- - - - - -              ($'000)        Amount
       Clearing Forest                                              400 na                1.3/ha                 520                 260          260           -                28.6           -
Fencing (40 a 10 ha paddocks)                                 32 kh,               4.5'kml               14                   -            72            72               7.)          4.0
Water tanks and towrs                                          7                   9.1 ea                  18                    9           -             9               1.0          3.5
Pumpa (210)                                                    2                   4.5 ea                   9                   5            -             4               0.5          0.5
Water piping                                                   tkm                 1.8/100 m              14c                  44            53           5o               7.9          7.9
Wate- trughs                                                  20                     .9 ea                 18                    9            9           _                1.0          1.0
Corrals, crush, dip, scales                                    -                    -                      82                  -            62            -                4.5          0.8
Pasture s0e0s and fertilizers 3.                               -                    -                     218                  77           77           64               12.1         12.1
Tractors - 35 hp                                               2                  67.5                    135                 135            -            -                7.4          7.4
Trailers                                                       2                  11.0                     22                  22            _            -                1.2          1.2
Disc cultivator - large                                        1                     -                     22                  22            -            -                1.2          1.2
Disc caltivator - sMall                                        1                     -                     15                  15            --                            o.8          o.8
Rotary enw.r                                                   1                     -                     22                  22            -            -                1.2          1.2
Small seed cleaner and motor                                   1                     -                     18                   -            15           -                1.0          1.0
Seed storage equipment                                         -                    -                      36                   -           36            _                2.0          2.0
Workshop equipment and tools                                   -                     -                    110                  110           -            -                6.0           6.o
GOnerator - 25 km                                              1                     -                     55                  55            -            -                3.0          3.0
1,588                 785          604          199               87.3         5o.6          55
Buildings
Training center, laboratories and furniture                                                             5,454               4,375       1,079             -              300.0         60.0
Store, wsrk3hop, machinery shed                                                                         1,022               1, 022          -             _               56.0         11.0
Housing for technical staff                                                                             2,045               1.023       1,022             _              115.0         23.0
Lomestic water and electrical installations                                                               681                 681          -              --              37.0          7.0
9,202               7,101       2,101            _               503.0        10l.0          20
Vehicles
Long wheel-base (landrover type)                               4                  54.5                    218.0               109          109           __               12.0         12.0
Truck                                                          1                 145.0                    145.0               145           -             __               8.0          8.0
Bus                                                            1                 145.0                    145.0                145          --            -                8.0           8.0
508.0               399         109                             28.0         28.0         100
Pasture mud Anslytical Laboratories
Balances, refrigerator, oaen, furnacq
kjeldal, glassware, chemicals,                                                                          4J00,0                 200.0       200.0          -               22.0          22.0        lOD
dehydrator and trays, mill
Library and Classroom Equipment
Books and Journals                                                                                         36                   12          12            12               2.0          2.0
Duplicating equtpment                                                                                      27                   27           -            -                 1.5         1.5
Calculator                                                                                                 20                   20           -            -                1.1         1.1
Audio visual aids                                                                                           55                  55                        -                 3.0         3.0
138                 114          12            12                7.6         7.6          100
Training Scholarships and Teshnisel Assistance
Scholarships 2/                                                                                           636                  254         254           128                35.0
Plant Nutrition Specialist 3/                                                                             545                   -          545            -                 30.0
Other                                                                                                   4,909                1,636       1,636         1,637               270.0
6,090               1,890       2,435         1,765               335.0      268.0           82
Subtotal                                                                                         17,926              10,489       5,461         1,976               987.9      477.2           48
Contingencies  (aboet 5%)                                                                                 094                  524         273            97                49.1       23.8           Ul
Total Before Devaluation                                                                         18,i20              11,013       5.734         2,073              1,037.0    $01.0            50
Total After Devluation                                                                          25,250               14,765        7,700        2,785              1,000.0    500.0            50
1' Based on estimate of US$20/ho seed requirement for -owing of general pa.tures aid US$4,000 for special seeds a.d fertilicers for posture research program.
3/  Overseas triting of 6-12 months for about 4 moers of teaching staff at  raining Center and 2-year degree oriented for an officer of the Research Unit.
3/  fmnded about 12 months under Loees 501-SC and about 12 additional months urder the Third Proje_t.
4/  Includes Beef Husbandry rraining Specialist, Dairy Husbandry Prrining Specialist and Livestock Prediction farm .M4nagemnt Specialist - each for 3 years.
NOTE:  Sstimated annu1a operating exnenses of S 2.0 sillion wou d ic provi3cd by rational budget capport t  ITNlAP.



ANEEX 8
ECUADOR
THIRD LIVEST0CK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Technical Services Budget - Department of Seed Certification, Ministry of Agriculture
- - - - - - - - - - - -Project Year - - - - - - - - - -        Total Cost      Foreign Ex.       % of
Expenditure Items                         Total Cost           1               2              3              4               us$            Component         total
(S'000)                                  (S'000)                                 ($'000)         ($'OOO)
Buildings and Storage
Quito                                       800             500            300              -             -                  44              11
Quevedo                                     80c              -             500           300              -                  44              11
1,600             500           800            300              -                  88             22              25
Seed Analysis and Certification
Laboratory equipt (Quito)                   145              -             145              -             -                   8               8
Laboratory equipt (Quevedo                   73              -              73              -             -                   4               4
218             -             218              -             -                  12              12             100
Seed Processing and Treatment
Complete Plant (Quito)                      636              -             636              -              -                 35              35
Complete Plant  (Quevedo)                   636              -              -            636              -                  35              35
Mobile Processing Plant  (1)
including Truck                           218             218             -               -             -                  12              12
1,490            218            636            636              -                  82              82             100
Transport
Jeeps (4)                                    218            218             -               -              -                  12              12            100
Training Scholarships and Tech. Ass't.
Scholarships (4)2                            380             95             95             95              95                 21              21
Seed Processing Expert                     1,636            409            409            409               9                                 90 
Total                                   5.542           1 440          2 158         1,440              504               305             239             100
Contingencies (10%)                        554            144            216            144              50                 30              24              78
Grand Total Before Devaluation          6,096           1,584          2,374          1,584             554                335             263              78
Total After Devaluzation                7,700           2,000          3,000         2,000              700               300             200              66
COverseas training of 6-12 months for local staff.
These services are included in Project cost but could be contracted by Ministry of Agriculture from
international aid sources, para 3.13 of report, for an estimated period of 36 man-months.
NOTE: Estimated annual operating expenses of S 1 million(lJS$55,000) would be provided by national budget
support to Ministry of Agriculture
October 20, 1970



ANNEX 9
ECUADOR
THIRD LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Technical Services Budget - National Development Bank
Project Year      Total Cost    Foreign Exchange
Expenditure Items         Total Cost     1       2    3          US$            Component
(S'OO0)            (S1000)          ($1000)          ($'000)
management Consultant
Services 1/                 400       200      200    -           22              18
Automated Accounting
System                    1,812       45o      goo   462        100              100
Vehicles (10)                 550       270      280    -           30               30
2,762       920   1,380   462         152              148
Contingencies (10%)           276        92      138    46          15               15
Total Bsfore Devaluation   3,038      1,012   1,518   508          167             163
Total After Devaluation    5,100      1,700   2,550   850          200             200
1/ Estimate of 6 man-months at about US$ 3,750/month.
Dctober ac, 1970



SCUADOR
C)                                                                     rHIRD LIVSTOCK DEVELOPMENT ROJECr
0
0~
D                                                       Technical Services Budget - Project Administration (Central Bank)
o                                                                                                         Total Cost        Fore; gn Exchange
H                                                                   Project Year                        Sucres      UW         Component
1         2        3                   5         ('ooo)    ('I00)    US$ '000   6
Expenditure Items
A. Financed by Central Bank -
Depuity Prject Director (1)                   250        260      270      280        300       1,360
Admiinistrative Assistant (1)                 100        110      120      140        150         620
Regional Technical Directors (2)              400        440      460      480        500       2,280
Specialists (2)                               400        440      460      480        500       2,280
Secretaries (3)                               160        160      165      170        170         825
Drive rs (2)                                   80         82       83       b4         85         414
Mssengers (3)                                  45         46       47       49         50         237
Office Rental                                 150        160      170      175        180         835
Office Expenses                                20         25       30       35         35         145
In country per diem 1/                        315        315      315      315        315       1,575
Transportation 2/                             150        150      150      150        150         750
Admini strative Post - CB 3/                  100        100      100      100        100         500
Contingencies                                 230        212      230      242        265       1,179
Subtotal                                  2,400     2,500    2,600    2,700       2.800      13,000       715
B. Financed by DA Credit -
Projec Director 4/                            750        750      750      750        750       3,750       206      165         80
International Travel 5/                       220        220      220      220        220       1,100        60       60       100
Vehicles (6 and replacements)                 480         -       400        -         -          880        48       38         80
Project Squipment                              20         -        10                              3)         2        2        100
Office Equipment and Furniture                259         10       10       10         10         299        16        8         50
Contingencies 6/                              180        130      210      130        131         791        43       38         90
Subtotal                                  1,900      1,110    1,600    1,110      1,110       6,830       375      311         83
Total Before Devaluation                  4,300      3,610    4,200    3,810      3,910      19,830    1,090       311         30
Total After Devaluation                   6,ooo     5,oo    ,800    5,300         5,400      27,500    1,090       311         30
1/ 150 days at $300/day for Project staff but not including livestock technicians from the p articipating banks.
/ Operating cost for vehicles at S 20,000 each plus local air travel.
3/  Estimate cf direct administrative cost for Central Bank.
Includes salary, gratuity, international travel, family and other allowances.
'/ International travel for training of Project staff including livestock technicians from the participating banks.
i5/ About 10%.



ANNEX 11
Table 1
ECUADOR
THIRD LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Disbursements
Phasing of Project Investments and IDA Disbursements (Annual)
Project year
PROJECT INVESTMENTS(S million)       1        2       3        4       5       Total
Beef Ranches
1st group - 100                    30.0   30.5    14.5       -       -         75.0
2nd group - 150                     -      45.0    45.8    21.7      -        112.5
3rd group - 100                     -       -      30.0    30.5    14.5        75.0
Subtotal                       30.0  775.      90.3    52.2  i1.7         262 5
Dairy Farms
1st group - 50                     13.8    7.0      3.9      -       -          24.7
2nd group -100                      -      27.6    14.0     7.8      -          49.14
3rd group - 75                      -       -      20.7    10.5      5.8       37.0
Subtotal                       13.8   =3h.3   -7Z                        -11.1
INIAP- Research and Training         14.7    7.7      2.8      -       -          25.2
Seed Multiplication Scheme            2.0    3.0      2.0      0.7     -           7.7
National Development Bank             1.7    2.5       .9      _       -           5.1
Project Administration                6.0    5.0      5.8      5.3     5.14       27.5
Participating Banks                   2.6    2.7      3.6      3.4     3 0       15.3
Feeder Steers (working capital)       4.8   10.4    16.0    12.0       -          43.2
TOTAI                               75.6  141.4   160.0    91.9    28.7         497.6
IDA DISBURSIMENTS- (US$'000 rounded)
Beef Ranches                       700   1,800   2,100   1,250       350         6.2
Dairy Farms                        250      625     700      325     100         2.0
INIAP-Research and Training        585      305     110     -         -         1.0
Seed Improvement Scheme            080     120      080     020       -         0.3
National Development Bank          075      100     025      -        -          0.2
Project Administration             065      060     065     055      055        0.3
'OTAL                              1,755   3,010   3,080   1,650      505        10.0
Percent of Total                      18       30      31      16        5      100
1/ 60% of investments for beef ranches; 45% of investments for dairy farms; 100% of
investments for INIAP, seed multiplication scheme and TDB; and 27% of Project
Administration costs.
October 20, 1970



ANNX 11
Table 2
ECUADOR
THIRD LIVESTOCK DEVEWPMENT PROJECT
Disbursements
Estimated Schedule of guarter]y Disbursements
of US$ 10 Mi1lion Credit
(U$ '000)
Quater                                         Quater
Ending        Disbursed       Balance          Ending         Disbursed       Balance
1971                                           1974
Sept. 30         400            9,600          March 31          700            2,800
Dec. 31          400            9,200          June 30           6o0            2,200
Sept. 30         500            1,700
1972
Dec. 31          400            1,300
March 31         500            8,700
June 30          500            8,200          1975
Sept. 30         6oo            7,600          March 31         h00               900
Dec. 31          700            6,900          June 30           300              6oo
Sept. 30         200              4oo
973
Dec. 31          200              200
March 31         800            6,100
June 30          900           5,200           1976
Sept. 30         900            4300           March 31          100              100
Dec. 31          800            3,500          June 30           100               0 -
October 20, 1970.



ECUADOR: THIRD LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART
PROJECT COMMISSION
Ministry of Agriculture
Ministry of Finance
National Planning Board
Central Bank
r -------____ - --                              INIAP                                                                    ---
l                                               National Development Bank                                                        l
l                                               Private Banks                                                                    l
l                                               Coastal Cattlemen's Association                                                  l
Sierra Livestock Producers'Association                                          l
l                                               Project Director(Executive Secretary)
l                                                               l
l                                                          .
PARTICIPATING                                               REGIONAL TECHNICAL                                                           PATING
BANKS                                                         DIRECTORSS
LIVESTOCK                                                                                                                        LIVESTOCK
TECHNICIANS OF                                                                                                                  TECHNICIANS OF
PARTICIPATING                                                                                                                   PARTICIPATING
BANKS                                                                                                                           BANKS
PARTICIPATING BEEF RANCHERS AND DAIRY FARMERS
z
mz
_.RD-4687(2R) Ii,
IBRD-4b87(2R) 



ANNEX 13
ECUADOR
THIRD LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PRO)JECT
Duties, Responsibilities and Authorities
of the Project Director
The Project Director, who shall be responsible to the Project
Commission, will have the technical responsibility for implementation and
execution of the Third Livestock Development Project and shall have the
following specific duties and powers:
(a)  advising the Project Conmission on major policy decisions
concerning the Project;
(b) executing the Project in accordance with policies and
procedures agreed to by the Project Commission;
(c) cooperating with the management of participating banks in
accomplishing Project objectives;
(d) approving secondment of such staff to his office as he
considers necessary to carry out Project activities;
(e)  training of Project staff as may be necessary for fulfill-
ment of Project objectives;
(f) approving or disapproving all ranch/farm development plans
prepared and appraised under the Lending Program;
(g)  following-up, supervising and giving technical assistance
as he may deem necessary to ensure success of each farm
development plan financed under the Project;
(h) advising participating banks through the relevant Project
Commission to suspend, where appropriate, premature loans
under the Lending Program whenever he finds that the farm
development plan for which the particular loan has been
granted is not being carried out in accordance with the
terms of the respective loan agreement. He shall inform
the participating bank through the Project Commission if
and when the situation has been satisfactorily rectified;
(i) establishing and maintaining farm records for sample farms
as needed for Project evaluation;



ANNEX 13
Page 2
(j) making recommendations to the proper authorities in partici-
pating banks with respect to:
(i) remuneration for Project staff and other compensation
necessary to attract the most qualified personnel
available; and
(ii) the recruitment, suspension or removal of Project
staff;
(k) preparing the annual budget for the offices of the Project
Director and Regional Technical Directors financed by the
Project Technical Services Account;
(1) preparing quarterly and annual progress reports for submission
to the Project Commission for transmittal to IDA; and
(m) advising the agencies concerned on the planning and operation
of the Project-oriented tropical pasture/beef research unit
and ranch management training center (INIAP) and of an improved
seed multiplication scheme (Department of Seed Certification).
Co-'..o- 20, 1970



ECUADOR
THIRD LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Projected ocurces and Application Df Funds - Central Bank Livestock Account
tsucres million)
------ - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Year - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
1         2          3          4          5          6          7          8          9         10         11         12         13         14
SOURCE OF FUNDS
IDA Credit for:
Beef Ranch Loans                          20.8       52.5       52.4       25.8        5.1        -          -          -         --                    -          -          -          -
Dairy Farm Loans                           6.6       16.7       15.6        7.2        1.9        -          -          _         _           _         _          _          _          _
Technical Services                         2.6        1.7        2.4        1.7        1.7        -          _-                                    -               -
Interest Receipts from PB's
Beef Loans (8%)                            0.8        3.9        8.1       11.0       12.1       12.1       11.6       10.5        8.2        5.6        2.5        0.5       _          _
Dairy Loans(8%)                            o.4        1.3        2.8        3.9        4.0        3.3        2.4        1.6        0.8        0.3       -          -          -          _
Repayment of Principal by PB's
Beef Loans                                 -          -          -          -          -          2.6        6.4       15.7       27.5       34.0       37.9       26.1      6.4         _
Dairy Loans                                -          -          -          -          2.3        7.2        9.7        9.7        9.7        7.1        2.3       -          -          _
TOTAL                                   31.2       76.1       81.3       49.6       27.1       25.2       30.1      37.5        46.2       47.0       42.7       26.6     6.4          _
APPLICATION OF FUNDS
Beef Loans to PB's                        20.8       52.5       52.4       25.8        5.1        -          -          -         -           -         -          -          -          _
Dairy Loans to PB's                        6.6       16.7       15.6        7.2        1.9        -          -          -         -           -         _          _          _          _
Technical Services (IDA Credit)            2.5        1.7        2.4        1.7        1.7        -          _-                                    -                -
Technical Services (CB Account)            1.6        1.6        1.8        2.2        2.2        0.1        0.1        0.1        0.1        0.1        0.1        0.1      0.1         0.1
Interest Payment to Government (6.5%)         0.5        3.1       6.5        9.0        9.9        9.9        9.6        8.4        6.6        4.5        2.2
Beef Loans                                 0.5        3.1        6.5        9.0        9.9        9.9        9.6        8.4        6.6        4.5        2.2        0.4       -          -
Dairy Loans                                0.4        1.0        2.2        2.9        3.1        2.5         1.8       1.2        0.5        0.3       _          _          _          _
Principal Payments to Government              -          -         -          -          2.3        9.8       16.1       25.4       37.2       41.1       40.2       26.1      6.4         _
Subtotal                                32.5       77.4       80.9       48.8       26.2       22.3       27.6       35.1       44.4       46.o       42.5       26.6                  _
Technical Services (CB Account)              (1.3)     (1.3)      (o.4)      (O.8)      (0.9)       2.9        2.5        2.4        1.8         1.0       0.2         o.0    (0.1)         _
TOTAL                                   30.9       74.8       78.6       45.9       23.1       21.4       26.6       34.5       44.0       45.5       42.1       26.5      6.4         _
j  Costs of Project Director.  See Annex 10 for details.
CB would recover accrued deficits during years 1-5 and 12.13 of about S 3.0 million (uS$ 120,000) from surpluses in years 6 and 7.                                                                 -
October 20, 1970



ECIADOR
THIRD LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
irojected Sources and Application of Funds - Participating Banks
(sucres million)
---- - - --- ---------------- -                         - -------Yar- ---------------- - - - -----Year-
SOURCES OF FUNDS                           1          2          3         4          5          6         7          8          9        10         11         12         13         14
CB - Beef Loans                         20.8       52.5       52.4      25.8        5.1             -          -         -          -          -          -          -               -
CB - Dairy Loans                         6.6       16.7       15.6       7.2        1.9                        -          -         -                -         -          -
Interest Receipts
Beef Loans (12%)                         1.7        7.7       16.2      22.3       24.4       24.4      23.5       21.0       16.6       11.0        5.2       1.0
Dairy Loans(12t)                         0.7        2.6        5.0       7.7        8.0        8.0        5.0       3.5        1.7        0.5        -          -
Repayment of Principal
Beef Loans                                -         -          -          -         3.5        8.7       20.9      36.7       45.5       50.7       34.9        8.7
Dairy Loans                               -         -          -          3.3       9.9       13.1       13.1      13.1       12.4        3.3        -          -
TOTAL                                 29.8       79.5      89.8       66.3       52.8       54.2      62.5       74.3       76.2       65.5      40.1        9.7        -          -
APPLICATION OF FUNDS
Beef Loans                              28.0       70.4       70.3       34.4       6.9                        -         -           -          -         -                -
Dairy Loans                              9.5       24.1       22.3       10.4       2.7        -         -           -         -          -          -
Technical Services                       9.1        9.8       13.2      10.9       11.6        7.0       6.o        5.3        4.0        2.6        1.1        0.        -
Interest Payments to CB (8%)
Beef Loans                                0.8       3.9        8.1       11.0      12.1       12.1       11.6      10.5        8.2        5.6        2.5        0.5        -
Dairy Loans                               0.4       1.3        2.8        3.9       4.0        3.3        2.4       1.6        8.0        0.3        _                     -         _
Repayment of Principal to CB
Beef -Loans                               _         -          -          -         -          2.6        6.4       15.7      27.5       34.0       37.9       26.1        6.4
Dairy Loans                               _    -          -               -         2.3        7.2        9.7        9.7       9.7         7.1       2.3        -          -
Subtotal                             47.8      109.5     116.7       70.6       39.6       32.2      36.1       42.8       57.4       49.6       43.8       27.0       6.4
Cash Surplus (Deficit)                    (18.0)    (30.0)    (26.9)       (4[3)     13.2       22.0       26.4       31.5      18.8       15.9       (3.7)    (17-3)       (6.4)
TOTAL                                29.8       79.5       89.8      66.3       52.8       54.2      62.5       74.3       76.2       65.5       40.1        9.7        _         _
/ Repayment terms in this projection are based on average terms for beef loans of 10 years (including 4 years of grace) and dairy loans of 8 years
(including 3 years of grace). However,for any laans made for as long as 12 years in project year-3 the last principal payment would mature in
year-15. This period plus 1 year for slippage gives a 16-year Project lending program.
After year-5,annual technical services cost is estimated at 1% of outstanding balance of livestock loans.
October 20, 1970



ANNEX 16
F,CUADOR
THIRD LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Major Processing Facilities:
Pasteurizing Plants and aaughter Houses
Average          Average
Daily          Number of
Facility          Location           Capacity         Thruput          Suppliers
(Lte r-s/day)    (Liters/day)
1Milk Processing
1/
Alianza-/         Tulcan               40,000            2,000            10
Ibarra            Ibarra                2,00o2/          2,000            l02/
Friedman           Cayambe              50,000          25,000            55
Gonzalez3/        Cayambe                5,ooo           5,000            12
Miraflores        Cayambe               35,ooo          20,000            36
Pasteurizadora    Quito               120,000          107,000           210
llesa             Lasse                80,000,          140,000           5o2/
La Avelina        Latacunga             50,0002         38,000            25
Indulac           Guayaquil           100,000           90,000           100
Fresia (Super)    Guayaquil            60,000           30,000            502/
TOTAL                             542,ooo          359,000           558
Average        Average
Mlajor Slaughter                                        Daily           Daily
Houses          Location           Capacity          Thruput        Production
H Head/day)      (Headiday)        (kg)
Municipal          Quito               15 2/             120             23,000
M4unicipal        Guayaquil            1504/             152             23,000
MYFGSA            Guayaquil             300               40              7,000
Fresca            Santo Domingo          50               35              6,000
Municipal         Ambato                 40o2/            40              6,000
MeIunicipal       Cottocallao            4o/              140             6,000
TOTAL                              730               427             71,000
1/  New facility
2/  Estimate
3/  No pasteurizing facilities
4/ New facility nearing completion has a capacity of 210 head per day
October 20, 1970



ANIMEX 17
Page 1
ECUADOR
THIRD LIVESTOCK DEVELPMEITT PROJECT
Basic Assumptions on the Effect of Devaluation
1.     On August 17, 1970, subsequent to field appraisal, the par value per
Ecuadorian sucre to the US dollar was changed from sucre 18 to 25.   At the
same time the official selling rate of the sucre to the US dollar changed
from 18.18 to 25.251 equivalent to a devaluation of 38.9%.   Originally,
Project cost estimates, prices, operating costs, number of participating beef
ranchers, and dairy farmers were assessed on conditions prevalent before
devaluation.
2.     Devaluation in the order of 40% can be expected to have various effects
on the Project, but it is not yet possible to determine with precision its
impact on investment, operating costs, and commodity prices.   The results
o: 6Cvaluation are likely to be felt especially in:
(a) the increase of the sucres equivalent of the foreign exchange
component of on-farm investments, and
(b) local labor costs.
To a lesser degree, changes are also likely to occur in the domestic price
lcAe-ls for current innuts and beef and milk prices.
3.     To measure -the possible effects of devaluation, the following adjust-
ments have been made:
(a) the value in sucres of all foreign exchange components has
been increased by the full devaluation amount, i.e. 38.9%;
(b) investments in local currency components have been increased
by 10 to 15,%, or, on average, by 12.5%;
(c)  labor cost increase in local currency investments has been
assumed at half the devaluation percentage, or about 20% (local
currency investment components consist mainly of items in which
labor is an important factor);
(d)  higher operating costs would require 10 to 15% (average 12.5,)
more operating capital than originally computed.
(e) rursuant to devaluation, prices for livestock products would.
increase about lO0o and operating costs, 10 to 15' (average 1265?);
an,



AIRE L 17
Page 2
(f) incremental herd value would be higher than calculated before
devaluation by 10 to 15% (average 12.5%).
.      The total Project investment cost in sucres would be about 42O hi-her
then originally estimated.   About 30%  result directly from the effect of
Ikvaluetion and, because of a shift in cost sharing, about 12% from an in-
-recse in number o-' participating ranchers and farmers. Depending on the
sroportion between foreign and local cost in the various investment compo-
nents, the cost increase expressed in sucres, would be:
(a)  beef ranch development, about 20p;
(b) dairy farm development, 25%;
(c)  I: IAP - research and training, 25%;
(d)  seed improvement scheme, 35,%;
(e)  National Development Bank, 40%; and
(f)  Project adrninistration, 25%.
5.     Because of the partially offsetting effects of devaluation, no major
chan-es would occur in the rates of return.   The overall rate of return to
tuhe economy would be 22% as compared with 24b before devaluation.   The
linancial rate of return for the beef model w-yould remain at 21%, mainly
because the foreign exchange component of on-farm investment is small; while
return to the dairy with a higher foreign exchange component would drop by
foar points but still would be high, or about L1%.
'Tovember 10, 1970



j  T TAl) OR
THIhD LTVEFSTOCK LEVEILORMENT PROJECT
Financial Rate cf Return of Ranch Models
(S'000)
- - - - -  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -   Ranch Years    - - - - _-
1         2          3          4          5          6          7         8          9         10        11-14        15        16-19         20
Model I
Beef Breeding/Fattening
Benefits
Incremental Sales                       60.6     133.7      251.8      258.3      279.1      224.7      249.8     288.4      338.9      407.5      407.5      407.5      407.5   1,531.8
Costs
Investment Costs             2        300.0      305.0      145.0       -          -          -          -          -          -          -          -          -          -          -
Incremental Operating Costs             63.8     103.7      175.1      186.8      172.7      137.5       78.7       90.4       94.4      96.6       96.6       96.6        96.6      96.6
TOTAL                            363.8      408.7      320.1      186.8     172.7      137.5       78.7       90.4       94.4       96.6       96.6       96.6       96.6       96.6
Net Cash Flow
Rate of Return: 21%             (303.2)   (275.0)    (68.3)        71.5      106.4       87.2     171.1      198.0      244.5      310.9      310.9      310.9      310.9   1,435.2
Model 2
Dairy
Benefits
Incremental Costs                       37.6      89.4      135.8      213.0      277.6      404.9      409.4      413.8      409.4      413.8      411.6      573.8       _          -
Costs
Investment Costs                       276.0     140.0       78.0       -          -          -          -          -          -          -                                _          _ -  3
Incremental Operating Costs             11.6      19.3       21.0       85.6       81.2      102.9       90.0      102.9       90.0      102.9       96.5       96.5       _          _
TOTAL                            287.6      159.3       89.0       85.6       81.2      102.9       90.0     102.9        90.0     102.9        96.5       96.5       -          -
Net Cash Flow                           (250.0)    (69.9)    (36.8)    127.4        196.4      302.0      319.4      310.9      319.4      310.9      315.1      477.3       -          -
Rate of Return: 41%
Includes incremental value of herd.
|   Includes purchase and operating costs of fattening operations.
/  Lifetime of dairy sub-project set at 15 years.                                                                                                                                                       H
October 27, 1970



ECUADOR
THIRD LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMWT PROJECT
Incremental Costs and Benefits
(Sucres million )
-  -  -  -  -  -  _-  Project  Year  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -
1         2         3          4          5         6         7          8         9         10        1U         12         13        14         15       16-19        2C
Benefits
Incremental Sales, beef                    6.1       22.6      51.4       77.0      91.8       90.1      86.5       88.7     102.1      120.5     135.9      142.8     142.3      142.8      142 8      142.3      136.2 i
Incremental Sales, dairy'                  1.9        8.3      18.2       30.1      44.1       61.8      78.        88.o      885        88. 88       6       88.7       88.6      88.6      i23.4./
Subtotal                              8.0       30.9      69.6      107.1     135.9      151.9     165.4     176.7      190.6      209.1     224.5      231.5     231.4      231.4      266.2      142.8      526.2
Costs
Investments, beef ranches                 30.0       75.5      90.2       52.3      14.5         -          -         -                    - _                  - _  _     _
Investments, dairy farms                  13.8       34.6      35.8       16.9       5.1                              -         - -  - _              -                                                                -
Incremental Operating Coets, beefS/        6.4       20.0      39.5       55.4      62.9       58.5      45.9       34.7      30.8       32.8       33.7      34.o       34.o      34.o       34.o        34.o      34.0
Incremental Operating Costs, dairy         o.6        2.2       3.9        7.8      i4.1       18.9      20.0       20.7      20.6       20,7;      20.9      21.0       20.6      20.6       20.6                     -
Investment, INIAP                         17.5        6.8       1.0         -          -         -          -                    -         .          _         -          _                    _           _
Investment, Improved Seed Scheme            2.0       3.1       2.0        o.6                   ,          _         _          _       , _          _         _                               _           _
Investment, National Development Bank       1.7       2.5       0.9         -          -         .          .         _          -         .          _          _         _                    _
Technical Services, Project Admin.          4.9       3.7       3.9        3.9        3.9
Technical Services, Banks                   3.2       4.1        5.1       5.1        5.0
Subtotal                             80.1      152.5     l82.3      142.0     105.5      77.4       65.9       55.4      51.4       53.5       54.6      55.0       54.6      54.6       54.6        34.o      34.o
Net Flow                                    (72.1)   (121.6)   (112.7)    (34.9)       30.4     74.5        99.5     121.3      139.2     155.6   _169,        176.5      176.8      176.8     211.6       108.8      502.2
Incremental Revenue to Government-          0.1       0.t*      (0.4)      0.5        0.5      0.3         0.9       0.4        0.4       0.5        0.5       0.5        0.5        0.5       0.5         0.5        0.5
Net Flow to Economy                         (72.0)   (121.4)   (113.1)    (34.4)       30.9     74.8        99.8     121.7      139.6     156.1      170.4     177.o      177.3      17iT3     212.1       109.3      502.7
Rate of return to the econoew over a period of 20 years.  _2
Lifetime of dairy sub_project is set at 15 years.
i/ Including fattening opeati-ons.
/ Including incremental value of herd.
/ Slaughtering taxes, -ortgage taxes, sovemeot permits, export and import duti-e.
October 27, 1970



-- '-----------
CC              -               - = - =     -------
.<^n ~~~__ __ _ 0.ssR4zIk/=       __--X  -*        5 
%~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
NEN
->-  - 1,- -  ' i. -.   ;---------------                            9
Y=--tA,? *w - -> w ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n.G6briel?
+~~~~~~~~~~~ -= --    - -- -  -         
==k                                                             jFR~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RA-  * .
-f -  =-    -     -= -  -     -    -   -     -2 -   -: -  -   -  tlf -    -    -   -   -    .-
0~~~~~
- - --    ---------7  Si,<  -  
;  Xf; <B< AR&tAZU                                                     SA             A
==NTA             ...                                            -CU-N==G.Ar ............. ECU
PROJECT- AEA S T A   
onto Elena    GU ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~     ~ ~ ~ ~ Ohe   a     od
f~~~~----  - --=--- -=- -=-                              rECA-
OGenerel Plaza
---- --"--                                             A X UJ wy
- -----------.                                                                                   ECUADOR 
=- -= =--=---- ===--=  -   ==---    =     Z-                F         
-  - =   J    ! E   V                 tY --                DEVELOPMENT PROJECT I
-   d                       >    h .                             ~~~~PROJECT AREAS 
/       /'"Vaco                                              A        and Santa Catalina
CARIAMANGA  ~ ~    ~     ~    ....Provioncal boundaries
coastal Region(Beef sub-secor)r
Si1erra Region(Dairy sub-sector)
JANUAt R  197
JAUR  190,                                                                                                                 IBR  Z7OASSItr-Aeicnh gRa 



