CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 222 EC
Development Credit
Agreement
(Third Livestock Development Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED DECEMBER 10, 1970


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 222 EC
Development Credit
Agreement
(Third Livestock Development Project)
BETWEEN
S
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED DECEMBER 10, 1970


﻿AGREEMENT, dated December 10, 1970, between REPUB-
LIC OF ECUADOR (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter
called the Association).
TVHEREAS the International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development, by a loan agreement between the Bank, the
Borrower and Banco Central del Ecuador (hereinafter
called Banco Central) (Livestock Development Project)
dated June 19, 1967, made a loan to the Borrower for a
livestock development project aimed at increasing beef
production in selected areas in the territories of the Bor-
rower (hereinafter called the "First Livestock Loan");
WHEREAS the Association, by a Development Credit
Agreement between the Borrower, Banco Central and the
Association (Interim Second Livestock Development Pro-
ject), dated January 20, 1970, made a credit to the Borrower
for the continuation of the project referred to above (here-
inafter called the "Interim Second Livestock Credit")
WHEREAS the Borrower has requested the Association to
provide further financial assistance for livestock develop-
ment;
WHEREAS the Association is prepared to make a develop-
ment credit to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions
hereinafter set forth; and
WHEREAS Banco Central is willing to act as the agente
fiscal y fiduciario of the Borrower for the purposes of this
Credit;
Now THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:


﻿4
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
SECTION 1.01. The parties to this Development Credit
Agreement accept all the provisions of the General Condi-
tions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of
the Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
SECTION 1.02. Wherever used in this Development Credit
Agreement, unless the context otherwise requires, the sev-
eral terms defined in the General Conditions have the
respective meanings therein set forth, and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Lending Program" means Parts A and B of the
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Development Credit
Agreement;
(b) "Third Livestock Project Account" means the ac-
count referred to in Section 4.03(i) of this Development
Credit Agreement;
(c) "Third Livestock Project Technical Services Ac-
count" means the account referred to in Section 4.03(ii)
of this Development Credit Agreement;
(d) "Participating Bank" means any financial institu-
tion, acceptable to the Association, which shall have be-
come a party to a Third Project Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ment;
(e) "Third Livestock Project Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ment" means the agreement that shall be entered into, on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, be-
tween the Borrower, represented by Banco Central as its
agente fiscal y fiduciario, and a Participating Bank in
accordance with Section 4.04 of this Development Credit


﻿5
Agreement, and shall include any amendments thereto made
with the approval of the Association;
(f) "Third Livestock Project Subsidiary Loan" means
the loan made or proposed to be made by the Borrower,
represented by Banco Central as its agente flscal y fiducia-
rio, to a Participating Bank in accordance with a Third
Livestock Project Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(g) "sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be
made by a Participating Bank to a rancher or a farmer in
accordance with Part A of the Lending Program;
(h) "rancher" means a beef-cattle producer to which a
Participating Bank proposes to make or has made a sub-
loan;
(i) "farmer" means a dairy-farmer to which a PL'-tici-
pating Bank proposes to make or has made a sub-loan;
(j) "Technical Services Advance" means the advance
the Borrower shall cause Banco Central to make to the
Third Livestock Project Technical Services Account in
accordance with Section 4.13 of this Development Credit
Agreement;
(k) "Investment Plan" means a program of develop-
ment to be carried out by a rancher or a farmer for improv-
ing the physical resources of his beef ranch or dairy farm,
including pasture establishment and renovation, fencing,
water supply, stock handling facilities, dips, scales, machin-
ery, functional buildings, purchase of livestock, and other
related on-ranch or on-farm items, or any combination
thereof, as approved by, or under the authority of, the
Project Director; and
(1) " INIAP " means the Instituto Nacional de Investi-
gaciones Agropecuarias of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
SECTION 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions in this Devel-


﻿6
opment Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to ten million
dollars ($10,000,000).
SECTION 2.02. (a) The Association shall open a Credit
Account on its books in the name of the Borrower and shall
credit to such Account the amount of the Credit.
(b) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account as provided in, and subject to the rights
of cancellation and suspension set forth in, this Develop-
ment Credit Agreement and in accordance with the allo-
cation of the proceeds of the Credit set forth in Schedule 1
to this Development Credit Agreement, as such allocation
shall be modified from time to time pursuant to the provi-
sions of such Schedule or by further agreement between
the Borrower and the Association.
SECTION 2.03. The Borrower shall be entitled to with-
draw from the Credit Account in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods or services required for the Project and to
be financed under this Development Credit Agreement:
(i) the equivalent of seventy-five per cent (75%) (or
of such other percentages as may be established
from time to time by agreement between the Bor-
rower and the Association) of such amounts as
shall have been actually disbursed by Partici-
pating Banks on account of payments under sub-
loans for financing the reasonable cost of goods or
services included in Category I (a) of the alloca-
tion of the proceeds of the Credit referred to in
Section 2.02 of this Development Credit Agreement;
(ii) the equivalent of seventy per cent (70%) (or of
such other percentages as may be established from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower
and the Association) of such amounts as shall have
been actually disbursed by Participating Banks on
account of payments under sub-loans for financing
the reasonable cost of goods or services included in
Category I (b) of the allocation of the proceeds


﻿7
of the Credit referred to in Section 2.02 of this
Development Credit Agreement; and
(iii) such amounts as shall have been paid (or if the
Association shall so agree, shall be required to meet
payments to be made) for goods or services included
in Category II of the allocation of the proceeds of
the Credit referred to in Section 2.02 of this
Development Credit Agreement;
provided that no withdrawal under sub-sections (i) and
(ii) of this Section shall be made in respect of any sub-
loan which, by itself or together with other sub-loans made
to the same farmer or rancher, shall exceed the equivalent
of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000), unless the prior
approval of the Association shall have been obtained; and
provided, further, that no withdrawal under sub-section
(iii) of this Section shall be made in respect of sub-sections
(a), (b) and (c) of Category II of the allocation of the
proceeds of the Credit referred to in Section 2.02 of this
Development Credit Agreement, except for the plant nutri.-
tion expert referred to in Section 4.10(ii) of this Develop-
ment Credit Agreement, the seed processing expert referred
to in Section 4.11(iv) of this Development Credit Agree-
ment, and the management consultant referred to in Section
4.12 of this Development Credit Agreement, unless the pro-
grams under which withdrawal is requested shall have been
reviewed by the Project Director and approved by the
Association.
SECTION 2.04. No withdrawals from the Credit Account
shall be made on account of payments for taxes imposed
by the Borrower or any of its political subdivisions on,
or in connection with, the importation or supply of, goods
or services included in Category II of the allocation of the
proceeds of the Credit referred to in Section 2.02 of this
Development Credit Agreement.
SEcTIoN 2.05. The currency of the United States of
America is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02
of the General Conditions.


﻿SECTION 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
SECTION 2.07. Service charges shall be payable semi-
annually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
SECTION 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account
in semi-annual installments payable on each April 15 and
October 15 commencing on April 15, 1981, and ending on
October 15, 2020, each installment to and including the
installment payable on October 15, 1990, to be one-half of
one per cent (  of 1%) of such principal amount, and
each installment thereafter to be one and one-half per cent
(1 %) of such principal amount.
ARTICLE III
Use of Proceeds of the Credit
SECTION 3.01. The Borrower shall cause the proceeds of
the Credit to be applied in accordance with the provisions
of this Development Credit Agreemont to expenditures on
the Project, described in Schedule 2 to this Development
Credit Agreement.
SECTION 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the goods and services to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit shall be procured in accordance
with such procedures as are set forth in Schedule 3 to this
Development Credit Agreement, or as they shall be modified
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and
the Association.
SECTION 3.03. Except as the Association may otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall cause all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclu-
sively in carrying out the Project.


﻿9
ARTICLE IV
Particular Covenants
SECTIOX 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out or
cause the Project to be carried out with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with sound administrative,
financial, economic and agricultural practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the purpose.
(b) The Borrower shall carry out or cause Part A of
the Project to be carried out according to the operating
policies and procedures set forth in Schedule 4 to this
Development Credit Agreement, as they shall be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and
the Association.
(c) The Borrower shall cause the Participating Banks
to be provided with such facilities as they shall require to
carry out Part B of the Project, whenever the Participating
Banks' own resources are inadequate.
SECTION 4.02. The Borrower shall: (i) enter into an
agreement with Banco Central under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association providing (a) for the with-
drawal by Banco Central, as the agente fiscal y fiduciario
of the Borrower, of the proceeds of the Credit from the
Credit Account in accordance with Section 2.03 (i) and (ii)
of this Development Credit Agreement, and for the dis-
bursement of the amounts so withdrawn through the Third
Livestock Project Account in accordance with Third Live-
stock Project Subsidiary Loan Agreements; and (b) for
the withdrawal by Banco Central, in such capacity, of such
proceeds from the Credit Account in accordance with Sec-
tion 2.03(iii) of this Development Credit Agreement, and
for the use of the amounts so withdrawn for expenditures
under Parts C through E of the Project; (ii) exercise its
rights pursuant to such agreement in such a manner as
to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Associa-


﻿10
tion; and (iii) except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, not take or concur in any action which would have
the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving
any provision of such agreement.
SECTION 4.03. The Borrower shall cause Bavco Central
to:
(i) open and maintain on its books a Third Livestock
Project Account and the necessary sub-accounts, to
be used exclusively for the purposes of the carrying
out of Parts A and C through E of the Project;
(ii) open and maintain on its books a Third Livestock
Project Technical Services Account to which it shall
credit the proceeds of the Technical Services Ad-
vance and the commission it shall receive on account
of Third Livestock Project Subsidiary Loans, and
from which it shall withdraw amounts required:
(a) to pay local and office costs of the Project Direc-
tor; (b) to pay salaries, local and office costs of the
Deputy Project Director, the two Regional Techni-
cal Directors, two technical specialists, one adminis-
trative assistant and such other staff as the Bor-
rower and the Association may agree from time to
time; and (c) to defray the costs of the services
provided by Banco Central for handling the Third
Livestock Project Account and the Third Livestock
Project Technical Services Account; and
(iii) have the Third Livestock Project Account and the
Third Livestock Project Technical Services Account
audited annually by auditors acceptable to the Asso-
ciation and transmit to the Association, promptly
after the completion of such audit and not later
than three months after the close of Banco Central's
corresponding financial year, certified copies of the
financial statements relating to such accounts and a
signed copy of the auditors' report.


﻿11
SECTION 4.04. The Borrower, represented by Banco Cen-
tral as its agente fiscal y fiduciario, shall enter into a Third
Livestock Project Subsidiary Loan Agreement with each
Participating Bank, under terms and conditions satisfac-
tory to the Association, including those set forth in Sched-
ule 4 to this Development Credit Agreement, providing for
the lending by the Borrower to the Participating Banks,
out of the proceeds of the Credit, of such percentage of
sub-loans made by any Participating Bank under the Lend-
ing Program as may be agreed to from time to time by
the Association under Section 2.03 (i) and (ii) of this
Development Credit Agreement. The Borrower shall exer-
cise its rights and fulfill its obligations under the Third
Livestock Project Subsidiary Loan Agreements in such a
manner as to protect the interests of the Association, the
Borrower and Banco Central. Except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not take or concur
in any action which would have the effect of amending,
assigning, abrogating or waiving any provision of any
Third Livestock Project Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
SECTION 4.05. The Borrower shall: (i) cause Bnaco Cen-
tral to maintain or cause to be maintained, records ade-
quate to identify the goods financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit, to disclose the use thereof in the Project,
and to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained
sound accounting practices the operations and financial
condition of Banco Central in respect of the Project and of
the Third Livestock Project Account and the Third Live-
stock Project Technical Services Account; and (ii) fur-
nish to the Association all such information as the Asso-
ciation shall reasonably request concerning the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Credit, the goods financed out of
such proceeds, the performance by Banco Central of its
obligations under the agreement referred to in Section 4.02
of this Development Credit Agreement, the Third Live-
stock Project Subsidiary Loan Agreements, the Project,
the Third Livestock Project Account and the Third Live-


﻿12
stock Project Technical Services Account and the admin-
istration, operations and financial condition of the Bor-
rower and Banco Central insofar as they may be pertinent
to the execution of the Project.
SECTION 4.06. The Borrower shall establish a Project
Commission and shall maintain it during the disbursement
period of the Credit. Said Project Commission shall have
such composition, organization, powers and functions as
shall be satisfactory to the Association.
SECTION 4.07. The Borrower shall employ or cause to
be employed:
(a) During a period of time of at least five years counted
from the Effective Date, a qualified and experienced live-
stock expert internationally recruited, acceptable to the
Association, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association, to be the Project Director; and shall cause
him to be supported by an adequate number of qualified
livestock technicians acceptable to, and upon terms and
conditions satisfactory to, such Project Director;
(b) Unless the Borrower and the Association shall other-
wise agree, within two years counted from the Effective
Date, a qualified and experienced livestock expert, accept-
able to the Association, Banco Central and the Project
Director, to be the Deputy Project Director, for a period
of time, on terms and conditions, and with such duties and
authority as shall be satisfactory to the Project Director,
in consultation with the Association and Banco Central;
(c) During a period of time of at least five and a half
years counted from the Effective Date, two qualified and
experienced livestock experts to be approved by the Project
Director, in consultation with the Association and Banco
Central, with such duties and responsibilities and on such
terms and conditions as shall be satisfactory to Banco
Central and the Project Director, to be Regional Technical
Directors in the Coastal and Sierra Region, respectively;
and


﻿13
(d) During a period of at least five years counted from
the Effective Date, two technical specialists and one admin-
istrative assistant, approved by the Project Director in
consultation with Banco Central.
SECTION 4.08. The Borrower shall cause all cattle on
Project farms and ranches to be routinely vaccinated
against foot-and-mouth disease.
SECTION 4.09. The Borrower shall promptly make its
best effort to obtain that the laws of the Republic be
amended so that private commercial banks be enabled to
participate in Part A of the Project, under the terms and
conditions specified in paragraph C of Schedule 4 to this
Development Credit Agreement.
SECTION 4.10. The Borrower shall cause INIAP: (a) to
expand the tropical pasture/beef research unit and eFtab-
lish a ranch management training center at Pichilingue
Experiment Station in Los Rios Province with administra-
tive and dormitory facilities for about twenty students,
offering programs acceptable to the Association; (b) to
employ (i) a plant nutrition expert to work principally
in the Sicrra Region for about two years, (ii) a beef cattle
production specialist, (iii) a farm management specialist,
and (iv) a dairy production specialist, all internationally
recruited, acceptable to the Association, under terms and
conditions, including terms of reference, satisfactory to the
Association, within a year counted from the Effective Date,
and (c) to establish a Research Planning Committee, with
such composition, organization, powers and functions as
shall be satisfactory to the Borrower and the Project Direc-
tor, who shall be a member of such Committee.
SECTION 4.11. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall: (i) establish two seed testing
laboratories, one in Quito and the other one in Quevedo; (ii)
construct a seed processing plant at each of these locations;
(iii) set up a separate section within the Department of


﻿14
Seed Certification of its Ministry of Agriculture to admin-
ister the operation of the seed processing plants; (iv) em-
ploy a seed processing expert internationally recruited,
acceptable to the Association, on terms and conditions,
including terms of reference, satisfactory to the Associa-
tion, within a year counted from the Effective Date, to
assist in planning a seed production program, training the
field staff and setting up the seed processing equipment
required for the above mentioned facilities; and (v) pre-
sent the seed production program to INIAP and the Project
Director for approval before implementation.
SECTION 4.12. The Borrower shall cause Banco Nacional
de Fomento to employ a management consultant of inter-
national reputation and acceptable to the Association,
under terms and conditions, including terms of reference,
satisfactory to the Association, within a year counted from
the Effective Date, to assist Banco Nacional de Fomento
in modernizing its lending operations and procedures.
SECTION 4.13. The Borrower shall cause Banco Central
to make an advance to the Third Livestock Project Techni-
cal Services Account in Banco Central, in an amount
adequate to meet the expenditure requirements from such
Account, to be reimbursed only when and as accumulated
receipts in such Account shall exceed disbursements.
SECTION 4.14. (a) The Borrower and the Association
shall cooperate fully to assure that the purposes of the
Credit will be accomplished. To that end, each of them
shall furnish to the other all such information as it shall
reasonably request with regard to the general status of the
Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such information shall
include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower and the inter-
national balance of payments position of the Borrower.
(b) The Borrower and the Association shall from time
to time. exchange views through their representatives with


﻿0
15
regard to: the performance by the Borrower of its obliga-
tions under this Development Credit Agreement, the ex-
penditure of the proceeds of the Credit, the Project, the
Project Commission, the agreement referred to in Section
4.02 of this Development Credit Agreement, the Third
Livestock Project Account, the Third Livestock Project
Technical Services Account, the administration and opera-
tions of Banco Central in respect of the Project, and of
any agency or agencies of the Borrower assisting the Bor-
rower in the carrying out of the Project or any part thereof,
and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit
and the maintenance of the service thereof. The Borrower
shall promptly inform the Association of any condition
which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit or the main-
tenance of the service thereof or the performance by the
Borrower of its obligations under or pursuant to this
Development Credit Agreement.
(c) The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportu-
nity for representatives of the Association to inspect the
the Project and any documents and records relating thereto
and to visit any part of the territories of the Borrower for
purposes related to the Credit.
SECTION 4.15. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower undertakes to insure or cause to be
insured the imported goods to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit against marine, transit and other haz-
ards incident to acquisition, transportation and delivery
thereof to the place of use or installation and for such
insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency
freely usable by the Borrewer to replace or repair such
goods.
SECTION 4.16. The principal of, and service charges on,
the Credit shall be paid without deduction for, and free
from, any taxes, and free from all restrictions, imposed
0


﻿16
under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
SECTION 4.17. This Development Credit Agreement shall
be free from any taxes that shall be imposed under the
laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories
on or in connection with the execution, delivery or regis-
tration thereof.
SECTION 4.18. The Borrower shall promptly issue or
cause to be issued such authorizations and permits in re-
spect of the importation of goods and services as shall be
required for the carrying out of the Project.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
SECTIox 5.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of
the General Conditions shall occur and shall continue for
the period, if any, therein set forth, then at any subs.-quent
time during the continuance thereof, the Association, at
its option, may by notice to the Borrower declare the prin-
cipal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable
immediately together with the service charges thereon and
upon any such declaration such principal, together with
such charges, shall become due and payable immediately,
anything in this Development Credit Agreement to the
contrary notwithstanding.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
SECTION 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of this Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 10.01(b)
of the General Conditions:
(a) the agreement referred to in Section 4.02 of this
Development Credit Agreement shall have been duly au-


﻿17
thorized or ratified by all necesary corporate and govern-
mental action;
(b) the Commission referred to in Section 4.06 of this
Development Credit Agreement shall have been established;
(c) the Project Director referred to in Section 4.07(a)
of this Development Credit Agreement shall have been
employed;
(d) The Technical Services Advance, in an amount ade-
quate to meet the expenditures requirements from the Third
Livestock Project Technical Services Account for the first
year of the Project shall have been made; and
(e) at least one Third Livestock Project Subsidiary Loan
Agreement shall have been duly signed and shall have
become effective.
SECTION 6.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter within the meaning of Section 10.02(b) of the Gen-
eral Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions
to be furnished to the Association: (i) that the agreement
referred to in Section 4.02 of this Development Credit
Agreement has been duly and validly executed by the Bor-
rower and Banco Central and has become effective in ac-
cordance with its terms; and (ii) that the agreement re-
ferred to in Section 6.01(e) of this Development Credit
Agreement has been duly and validly executed by the par-
ties thereto and has become effective in accordance with
its terms.
SECTION 6.03. The date of April 30, 1971 is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 10.04 of the General
Conditions.
SECTION 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under
Sections 4.01, 4.03, 4.05, 4.06, 4.10 and 4.11 of this Develop-
ment Credit Agreement shall terminate on the date on
which this Development Credit Agreement shall terminate


﻿18
or on a date 16 years after the date of this Development
Credit Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous
SECTION 7.01. The Closing Date shall be December 31,
1976, or such other date as shall be agreed between the
Borrower and the Association.
SECTION 7.02. The Ministro de Agricultura y Ganaderia
of the Borrower is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of the General
Conditions.
SECTION '1.03. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Agricultura y Ganaderia
Quito, Ecuador
Cable address:
Minagricultura
Quito
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNEsS WHEREOF, the Borrower and the Association,
acting through their representatives thereunto duly author-


﻿19
ized, have caused this Development Credit Agreement to
be signed in their respective names and to be delivered in
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of
the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
By /s/ CARLOS MANTILLA ORTEGA
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ J. BURKE KNAPP
Vice President


﻿20
SCHEDULE 1
Allocation of Proceeds of Credit
Amounts Expressed
Category                            in Dollar Equivalent
I. (a) Long-term loans for investments
in beef ranch development
(b) Long-term loans for investments
in dairy farm development
II. Technical Services:
(a) INIAP-Research and Training           900,000
(b) Seed Improvement Scheme               300,000
(c) Banco Nacional de Fomntcfo            200,000
(d) Project Admiinistration, including
salary, family and housing
allowances, and international
travel of the Project Director;
international travel of the
Regional Technical Directors and
livestock technicians; office
equipment and vehicles                200,000
III. Unallocated                               400,000
Total         10,000,000
Reallocation Upon Change in Cost Estimates
1. If the estimate of the cost of the items included in Cate-
gory II shall decrease, the amount of the Credit then
allocated to, and no longer required for, such Category
will be reallocated by the Association to Category III.
2. If the estimate of the cost of the items included in Cate-
gory II shall increase, an amount equal to the portion,
if any, of such increase to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit will be allocated by the Association, at the
request of the Borrower, to such Category from Cate-
gory III.


﻿21
SCHEDULE 2
Description of Project
The Project is the second stage of a livestock develop-
ment program of the Borrower and consists of:
Part A: The extension through Participating Banks of
long-term sub-loans to:
(i) beef-cattle ranchers for the development of
beef-cattle breeding/fattening ranches, pri-
marily in the Coastal Region; and
(ii) dairy-farmers for the development of dairy
farms, primarily in the Sierra Region.
Part B: The extension by Participating Banks of short-
term loans (up to two years) to beef-cattle ranch-
ers benefiting from loans included in Part A (i)
of the Project for the purchase of feeder steers,
and to ranchers and farmers for other working
capital needs.
Part C: The expansion of the tropical pasture and beef
research unit and the establishment of a ranch
management training center at the Pichilingue Ex-
periment Station within INIAP.
Part D: The establishment of an improved pasture seed
production and certification program.
Part E: The improvement of the financial and lending oper-
ations and procedures of the Banco Nacional de
Desarrollo.
Part F: The provision of technical services for the admin-
istration and execution of the Project.


﻿22
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
1. Goods and services required to carry out the Project
shall be procured through regular commercial channels
from responsible suppliers; and
2. Vehicles to be financed under Category II (d) of the
allocation of the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured
on the basis of local competitive bidding, from suppliers
with efficient servicing facilities and sufficient spare parts
stocks located and available within the territory of the
Borrower.


﻿23
SCHEDULE 4
Operating Policies and Procedures
A. Participating Banks shall make sub-loans only on the
basis of Investment Plans. No more than 40% of the pro-
ceeds of each sub-loan shall be used for purchasing breed-
ing cattle, unless the Project Director shall approve that
up to 50% of such proceeds be used for said purpose.
B. Participating Banks shall process all applications for
sub-loans in accordance with their normal administrative
and financial procedures and shall accept as securities real
estate mortgages and, if needed, chattel mortgages on live-
stock and equipment. For the purposes of evaluating the
collateral offered to them, they shall take into account the
increased real estate value resulting from farm/ranch im-
provements to be financed out of the proceeds of the sub-
loan. The Participating Banks shall be entitled to reject
the application of any rancher or farmer on the ground
of credit worthiness, but shall not modify the Investment
Plan on the terms and conditions of the sub-loans.
C. Participating Banks shall make sub-loans under the
following terms:
(i) sub-loans for Part A  (i) of the Project: in an
amount of about eighty per cent (80%) of the total
on-ranch investment as described in the applicable
Investment Plan, for a term ranging from not less
than eight to not more than twelve years, including
a grace period ranging from not less than three to
not more than five years, at 12% per annum; and
(ii) sub-loans for Part A  (ii) of the Project: in an
amount of about sixty-five per cent (65%) of the
total on-farm investment as described in the appli-
cable Investment Plan, for a term ranging from not
less than seven to not more than nine years, includ-


﻿24
ing a grace period ranging from not less than two
to not more than three years, at 12% per annum.
D. Participating Banks shall provide funds from their own
resources to ranchers or farmers who shall have received
a long term sub-loan, for working capital requirements and
the purchase of feeder steers, in such amount, terms and
timing as set forth in the applicable Investment Plan.
E. Banco Central, acting as agente fiscal y fiduciario of the
Borrower, shall grant Third Livestock Project Subsidiary
Loans to the Participating Banks to reimburse them the
following percentages of sub-loans made and disbursed by
them the following percentages of sub-loans made and dis-
bursed by them, under the following terms:
(a) 75% of amounts disbursed under sub-loans for Part
A (i) of the Project, for a term ranging from not
less than nine to not more than thirteen years, with
a grace period of three to five years, and a six and
one half per cent rate of interest per annum;
(b) 70% of amounts disbursed under sub-loans for Part
A (ii) of the Project, for a term ranging from not
less than eight to not more than ten years, with a
grace period of two to three years, and a six and
one half per cent rate of interest per annum.
All such loans shall carry a commission fee of 11/2% per
year payable to Banco Central.


﻿25
SCHEDULE 5
Duties, Responsibilities and Authorities
of the Project Director
The Project Director, who shall be responsible to the
Project Commission, shall have the responsibility for im-
plementation and execution of the Third Livestock Devel-
opment Project and shall have the following specific duties
and powers:
(a) advising the Project Commission on major policy
decisions in respect of the Project;
(b) executing the Project in accordance with policies and
procedures agreed to by the Project Commission;
(c) cooperating with the management of Participating
Banks towards accomplishing Project objectives;
(d) approving secondment of such staff to his office as he
considers necessary to carry out Project activities;
(e) training of the Deputy Project Director and the Re-
gional Technical Directors and other Project staff as
may be necessary for fulfillment of the Project
objectives;
(f) approving or disapproving of all ranch/farm Invest-
ment Plans prepared and appraised under the Lend-
ing Program;
(g) following-up, supervising and giving technical assis-
tance as he may deem necessary to ensure success
of each ranch/farm Investment Plan financed under
the Project;
(h) advising Participating Banks to suspend and, where
appropriate, premature sub-loans under the Lending
Program whenever he finds that the ranch/farm In-
vestment Plan for which the particular sub-loan has
been granted is not being carried out in accordance
with the terms of the respective sub-loan agreement.


﻿26
He shall inform the Participating Bank if and when
the situation has been satisfactorily rectified;
(i) establishing and maintaining farm records for sam-
ple ranch/farms as needed for Project evaluation;
(j) making recommendations to the proper authorities
in Participating Banks with respect to:
(i) remuneration for livestock technicians and
other compensation necessary to attract the
most qualified personnel available; and
(ii) the recruitment, suspension or removal of live-
stock technicians;
(k) preparing the annual budget for the offices of the
Project Director and Regional Technical Directors
financed by the Project Technical Services Account;
(1) preparing quarterly and annual progress reports
for submission to the Project Commission for trans-
mittal to the Association; and
(m) approving in consultation with the Association the
programs for, and assisting in the execution of, the
tropical pasture/beef unit and ranch management
center (INIAP) and the improved seed production
scheme (Department of Seed Certification).
The Deputy Project Director and the Regional Project
Directors shall have such duties and powers as the Project
Director shall reasonably impose on and delegate to them.


