Docunent of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 8241
PROJEC. COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
TRANSMIGRATION III PROJECT
(LOAN 2248-IND)
DECEMBER 31, 1989
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department V
Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official datles. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 square kilometre (km2)            100 hectares
1 kilometre (km)             =      0.62 miles
1 hectare (ha)                =     2.47 acres
1 acre                       =      0.405 hectares
1 kilogramme (kg)            =      2.20 pounds
CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
US$1.00    =     Rupiah 1700.0
FISCAL YEAR
1 April to 31 March
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AARD                   : Agency for Agricultural Research and Development
BAKOSURTANAL           . Badan Koordinasi Survey dan Pemetaan Nasional
National Mapping Organization
BAPPEDA                : Provincial Planning Agency
Bina Program, PANKIM  : Directorate of Planning of DG, Settlement
Preparation
DGE                    : Directorate General, Estates
DGT                    : Directorate General of Transmigration
DITADA                 : Directorate of City and Regional Planning
DPW                    : Department of Public Works
DRC                    : Dry Rubber Content
ERR                    : Economic Rate of Return
FAO                    : Food and Agriculture Organization of the United
Nations
GOI                    : Government of Indonesia
KK                     : Families
LRDC                   :  Land Resources Development Centre
MDSE                   : Ministry of Development Supervision and Environment
MOA                    : Ministry of Agriculture
MOT                    : Ministry of Transmigration
PCR                    : Project Completion Report
Phase II               : Planning at reconnaissance level
Phase IIIA             : Detailed site planning
PIR-TRANS              : Nucleus Estate/Smallholder Model for Transmigration
PLPTT                  : Centre for Transmigration Training
PMU                    : Project Management Unit
PTP                    : State Owned Estate Corporation
PUSDIKLAT              : Centre for Education and Staff Training
RePPProt               : Regional Physical Planning Programme for
Transmigration
RSI                    : Resident Staff, Indonesia
SAR                    : Staff Appraisal Report
TAG                    : Transmigration Planning Advisory Group
Tcam Khusu!            : Planning Team, DG Estates
Trans I                : First Bank Assisted Transmigration Project
Trans II               : Second Bank Assisted Transmigration Project
Trans III              : Third Bank Assisted Transmigration Project
Trans V                : Fifth Bank Assisted Transmigration Project
TSSDP                  : Transmigration Second Stage Development Project
UNDP                   : United Nations Development Programme



FOR OFFICIL US ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washmgton. D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
O4ke dJ Dsecsw.G.iu
Opwratw Ivdaktum
December 31, 1989
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR$ iND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report - Indonesia
Transmigration III Proiect (Loan 2248-IND)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report - Indonesia Transmigration III Project (Loan 2248-IND)",
prepared by the Asia Regional Office and the Food and Agriculture
Organization of the United Nations. No audit of this project has been made
by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disckAed without World bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
TRANSMIGRATION III PROJECT
(LOAN 2248-IND)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface         ........................................................      i
EvaluaLion Summary .........         .....................................   ii
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART I.
I. Project Identity.                                                       1
2. Background.                                                            1
3.  Project Objectives and Description.                                   2
4.  Project Design & Organization.                                         3
5.  Project Implementation.                                               4
6. Project Result.                                                        8
7.  Project Sustainability .11
8. Bank Performance .11
9.  Borrower's Performance .13
10.  Project Relationships .13
11. Consulting Services .13
12.  Project Documentation & Data .14
PART II.
Comments from the Borrower .15
PART III.
Statistical Information
1.  Related Bank Loans and/or Credits .17
2. Project Timetable .18
3. Loan Disbursements .19
4.  Project Implementation .19
5.  Project Costs and Financing .20
6. Project Results .21
7. Status of Covenants .26
8. Use of Bank Resources .27
Annexes
1. Number of Studies .29
2.    Phase IIIA Results .............                                   30
3.    Implementation of Settlements Planned under Tcans III              38
4.    Farm Sizes Proposed in Trans III Phase IIIA Reports                39
5. Baturaja Extension .40
6.  Part I Amplifications .48
MAPS      IBRD Maps 17019 & 17020
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization



INDONESIA
TRANSMIGRATION III PROJECT (LOAN 2248-IND)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This is a Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Transmigration
III Project in Indonesia, for which Loan 2248-IND in the amount of US$101.0
million was approved on March 22, 1983.  The loan was closed on June 30,
1988, one year behind schedule. An amount of US$7.0 million was cancelled
in June, 1987 and a further US$1.26 million was cancelled after the last
disbursement in January 10, 1989.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the FAO/World Bank Cooperative
Programme, Investment Centre (Parts I and III), the Borrower (Part II) and
the Agriculture Operations Division, Country Department V of the Asia
Regional Office (Preface, Evaluation Summary, and input into Parts I and
III).
A draft PCR was prepared by a consultant to the Ministry of
Transmigration, and included a socio-economic survey in the area of the
settlement component.   The final PCR is based,  inter-alia,  on the
consultant's draft,  the Staff Appraisal Report,  the Loan Agreement,
supervision reports, progress reports, correspondence between the Bank and
the Borrower, and internal Bank memoranda.



- ii -
TRANSMIOWAION III PROJECT (WOM 2243-IND)
PROJECT COMPLTION REPORT
£"tAU^TION S Y
Obiectives
1.       The objective of the project was to provide institutional support
to the Ministry of Transmigration (MOT) to improve its planning
capabilities and its staff quality through training and technology
transfer, and to support {"e settlement of 2,000 families in a tree
crop/annual crop farm model which was an extension of a major settlement
financed under a previous Bank loan (Transmigration I).
Imolementation Exrerience
2.       The settlement site selection and evaluation component was the
major part of the project (63% of total costs) and was carried out by
foreign consultants and by local consultants assisted by foreign
consultants  (Annex 1).   This component had a slow start due to the
inadequacy of the initial site screening process (which was subsequently
corrected) and administrative problems (including security clearance for
aerial photographs), and eventually led to the need for a one year
extension.   The platning was initially constrained by the Borrower's
emphasis on a standard, upland food crop production model for site
development, w.ich was not appropriate for the majority of production
environmerts ur.der the conditions which could be realistically expected
during implementation.  This policy was modified early in the project so
that the majority of plans rely on tree crops or wetland development as the
major economic activity.
3.       The actual settlement of the 2,000 families at Baturaja was
completed ahead of schedule.   The intended cattle distribution fell far
short of target due to very poor management of the cattle component in the
Transmigration I area which was to supply the cattle to the project.  The
rubber development was implemented well from a technical viewpoint, but was
delayed due to budgetary and administrative problems.   The agricultural
extension services were poor, but were improved in the last years of the
project by a consultancy working with the extension staff.   Road
maintenance was initially poor, and the increased _oad construction
expenditure contributed to tha settlement component cost being 19% higher
than appraisal estimate in US dollars (III, 5).
4.       A change occurred during the project period in the institutional
arrangements for training in the MOT, which led to a greater emphasis on
staff training and manpower development rather than staff and transmigrant
training.   The organization of the applied research program was
substantially different to that envisaged at appraisal, but t.,e
modifications made during implementation salvaged some useful results for
the transmigretion program.   An environmental monitoring  systems
consultancy through the Ministry of Environment made proposals for a
sequential system of environmental monitoring in the provinces, which is
being followed up under the Transmigration V project.



- Lii -
Results
5.       The site selection component largely achieved the objective of
providing a substantial stock of well-planned settlement sites. Due to the
change in emphasis on the selected development model during implementation,
some modification of the details of earlier plans will be necessary.
Although the unavailability of adequate screening data caused early
problems, this capacity to undertake broad land form, land use and land
potential analysis in the screening process was developed very well during
the project, and the output in the form of reports and maps is being widely
sought after and used in both the public and private sectors. The number
of site plans produced is far in excess of immediate requirements because
of the reduced new settlement program since 1987.   However, greater use
would be made of these plans if there vas more effort directed at
dissemination of their availability to other Covernment  (especially
regional) and non-Government entities.
6.       The Baturaja settlement can be considered successful and had a
conservation ERR of 11% (I, 6.7).   The major variance from appraisal
occurred in the lowei productivity of annual crops (cropping intensity and
yield) and greater reliance on off-farm employment, which represented a
lower-risk option under the production circumstances (I, 5.13). The rubber
yield prospects based on the results of the adjacent area are good.
Institutional and extension arrangements are being introduced to minimize
the chances of excessive tapping which occurred in most of the
Transmigration I area.
Sustainabilitv
7.       The large stock of site plans made available under the project
will contribute to the adoption of sounf production models at f curei
settlements.   It is expected that future site selected will stiil be
largely carried out by consultant teams, but the technology transfer under
this and the succeeding Transmigration V project should enhance the MOT's
ability to more rationally manage such consultancies.
8.       The Baturaja settlement is sustainable,  largely because of the
anticipated rubber income for settlers.   Experience from the adjacent
Transmigration I area raises an unanswered question concerning the
desirable degree of latex tapping for smallhelders with additional land but
without access to development credit (I, 6.6 and 6.9).
Findings and Lessons Learnt
9.       The major site evaluation component has introduced a sound forward
planning system on a very large scale by any standards.   However, the
imposition on the consultant planners of a restrictive and largely
inappropriate model in the early part of the project emphasises (a) the
need to have any planning done within a legitimate policy framework, and
(b) the need for Bank supervision missions to focus not only on the
adherence to correct and timely contractual procedures, but also on the
technical content of the product in programs such as this. Similarly, end-
use of the products should receive attention.



- iv -
10.      The Baturaja settlement under this and the preceding project
confirmed the contention that a tree crop-based model is an appropriate
form of development for transmigrant smallholders on poor upland podzolic
soils; it also confirmed that, under prevailing resource and service
conditions, the majority of settlers will not adopt a high-input annual
cropping system, but rather elect for a lower input system complemented by
off-farm cash employment, and a gradual increase in the area of tree crop
to expand cash income.
11.      The reference in Pcrt II ineicates the Borrower's perception of  a
high value in the Bank's relatively in::en.;ive supervision of complex
settlement projects and input into the overall program development.  This
raises the policy question as to the extent the Bank is willing to provide
operational/technical assistance as opposed to superficial supervision.



INDONESIA
TRANSMIGRATION III PROJECT
(LOAN 2238-IND)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART I
1. Project Identity
Project Name      : Transmigration III Project
Loan Number          2248-IND
RVP Unit          : Asia
Country           :  Indonesia
Sector            : Agriculture
Sub-Sector        : Transmiaration
2. Background
2.1      With  the fifth largest population in the world, around 166 million
in 1985, growing at about 2% per annum, Indonesia's population pressure is
an  increment  of  3.5  million  each  year.  Over  100  million  people are
concentrated on the islands of Java, Bali and Lombok, whereas the outer
islands are relatively sparsely populated. During most of this century
successive governments have striven to move people from the densely
populated islands to the more sparsely populated outer regions tt1'ough a
series of transmigration programmes.
2.2      The main objectives of the national transmigration programme are to
relieve population pressure in critical areas of the overcrowded inner
islands;  to  raise  the  standard  of  living   and   increase   employment
opportunities of the rural poor mostly from the inner islands; increase food
and tree crop production; and to foster regional development in the outer
islands and promote national unity.
2.3      The   Government   of   Indonesia  (GOI)  greatly  accelerated  its
transmigration programme during the third Five Year Development Plan
(Repelita III - 1979 to 1984), increasing its target to 500,000 families.
For Repelita IV (1984 to 1989) the original target (since reduced) was to
resettle 750,000 families. To support the transmigration programme, and
improve its quality, the GOI requested World Bank financial assistance for
site selection and evaluation, resettlement and programme development.
2.4      At the beginning of Repelita III, administrative responsibility for
the transmigration programme was held by the then Directorate General of
Transmigration  within  the  Ministry  of  Manpower and Transmigration, with
responsibility  for  individual  activities  sub-divided   amongst   various
Ministries. Due to the increasing scale and importance of the programme, the
Ministry of Transmigration (MOT) was created in April 1983. The Ministry is
assisted by other departments, including the Directorate General of Agrarian
Affairs and Badan Koordinasi Survey dan Pemetaan Nasional (BAKOSURTANAL)
which is a hational Mapping Organization.



- 2 -
2.5      Bank support for Transmigration comprises a continuur of  projects,
i.e. Trans I, II, IIJ, IV and V, together with a subsequent Second Stage
Transmigration Development Project currently under appraisal. All projects
overlap to some extent in both preparation and implementation, and are
interactive in that there may be comnmon L.ntractual arrangements and lessons
derived from one project. may be incorporated in an ensuing project. The
present PCR abstracts from this continuum and the purview does not examine,
perforce, any lessons incorporated in subsequent projects. Trans I and II
were related precursor projects. The first Bank-assisted transmigration
project consisted of two schemes in South Sumatera, one of which was for
settlement of 4,500 families near Baturaja. The project was implemented by a
Project Management Unit (PMU). Under the second Bank-assisted project it was
'ntended to settle 30,000 families in Jambi Province subsequertly amended to
20.000 families and to include two sites in South Sumatra Province. However,
it became evident that site selection and evaluation was a major constraint
to the size of the GOI programme and the quality of its settlements,
Consequently, funds were also made available under the Trans II project for
reconnaissance (termed Phase II planning) of 144 sites and detailed planning
(termed Phase IIIA) on 37 sites.
3. Project Objectives and Description
3.1      The  overall  objective  of the project was to assist Government in
improving its transmigration planning and support capability and to settle a
further ?,000 families at the Baturaja Transmigration site. The main
objectiv-- of the three project components are given below. For more detail
on project objectives and sub-components see Annex 6.
a)  Site Selection and Evaluation
3.2      This  component  aimed  to  increase  the  quality  of transmigrant
settlements by locating migrants in areas with reasonable agricultural
potential and by providing sufficient lead time to permit adequate planning
and coordination among implementing agencies. It was in effect an expanded
continuation of the site planning carried out under Trans II and had the
following objectives: Land Identification; Long-Range Planning; Manpower
Development; Institution Building; and Coordination.
b) Baturaja Extension and Development
3.3      Under  the  first  Bank-assisted  transmigration project (Trans I),
4,500 families were settled in Baturaja, South Sumatra. The extension had
the   following   objectives:  Settlement;  Second  Stage  Development;  and
Monitoring and Evaluation.
c) Programme Development
3.4      The objectives of the three  sub-components  devoted  primarily  to
institution building and programme development were: Directorate General of
.ransmigration  (DGT)  Training;  Agricultural  Research   in   Suppurt   of
Transmigration; and Technical Assistance to the Ministry of Development
Supervision and Environment (MDSE).<1>
<1>      This Ministry is now called the Ministry of Population and
Environment.



- 3-
4. Project Design and Organization
4.1      The  project  was  designed  as  a  substantial  enlargement of the
transmigration planning programme initiated under Trans II, as an  extension
of  the existing Saturaja Settlement Project implemented under Trans I, plus
assistance for supporting programmes in other Ministries. A disbursement
period of four years WaS envisaged and the total base costs of the
components without  physical  and  price  contingencies  were  estimated  at
appraisal as follows:
-  Site Selection and Evaluation           US$117 million
-  Baturaja Extension and Development    US$ 26 million
-  Programme Development                   US$ 10 million
Total:    US$153 million
a) Site Selection and Evaluation
4.2      The  component  was  prepared by DITADA in the Department of Public
Works (DPW) with the assistance of the Transmigration Planning Advisory
(Group (TAG) (a consultancy group) and the Land Resources Development Centre
(LRDC) of the British Overseas Development Administration (ODA). It was
based on planning procedures developed during the latter stages of the
Transmigration II project and was well prepared with a clear conceptual
foundation.
4.3      Given   the   Governmen  s  increased  targets  for  transmigration
settlement, the timing of the c, onent was most appropriate. Although the
component was initially the responsibility of DITADA, after the uDgrading of
the  Department  of  Transmigration  to  a  full  Ministry   in   1983   the
responsibility for site selection was transferred to the Directorate General
of Settlement Preparation (Bina Programme, PANKIM). During the change-over
period the TAG played a vital role in ensuring continuity in the planning
effort. Further, the involvement of the TAG in project design was a major
factor in the ultimate success of the project component.
b) Baturaja Extension and Development
4.4      This  component  was  designed  in  detail  by the Baturaja Project
Management Unit (PMU) within the DGT, with assistancc from FAO/UNDP.
4.5      Two  design  factors  made   significant   contributions   to   the
implementation of the component. First, the PMU established under Trans I
which  managed  the  implementation  of  the  extension  and,  second,   the
establishment of the 2,000 ha of rubber, which created off-farm employment
opportunities and which will provide a cash income for the transmigrants
once tapping commences. The lack of a credit component is likely to have a
negative effect on further agricultural development in the area.
c) Programme Development
4.6      The three sub-components in this  category  supported  respectively
training, agricultural research and environmental monitoring. The sub-
components appear to have been added as riders to the major project
activities of site selection and Baturaja development. Although valid
topics, their priority over other pressing concerns, such as land disputes,
is not fully clear. Implementation of these three sub-components suffered
from insufficient preparation detail and knowledge about procedures and lags
within GOT. In particular, provision was made for foreiqn consultancies to
execute each (together with local costs for training and related civil
works). Support in this form was not welcomed by one agency (i.e. AARD) and
engagement of foreign consultants in the two other cases proved to be time-



consuming. Further, there may have been insufficient recognition of the
inherent lags in research and training and the lead time required for their
incorporation into on-going implementation programmes such as site selection
and settlement. Lastly, structural linkages are weak within GOI  to  utilize
research and environmental i,ndings, not only inter-ministerial (MOT, MDSE
and MOA), but also within MOA itself.
4.7      Specifically, the training component proved  to  be  insufficiently
prepared. A UNDP/FAO document utilized as a basis had not been formulated
for an investment project and gap.s emerged in coverage of training modules,
manpower planring and system weaknesses, which were sobsequently rectified.
5. Project Implementation
5.1      Site  planning was carried out by foreign consultants (task concept
contracts)  and  by  local  consultants  assisted  by  foreign   consultants
(assistance concept contracts) with supervision by the lAG. Due mainly to
delays in completing the assistance conceDt contracts, the loan closing date
was extended by one year to June 30, 1988, disbursement continuing to
December 31, 1988. There were significant variances between estimated and
actual project costs especially for the Site Selection and Evaluation and
for the Programme Development components. The actual project costs were only
about 70% of those estimated at appraisal. This was mainly due to
disbursements for the Site Selection and Evaluation component in US dollars
being less than expected. This was because of the lower number of planning
studies carried out, cuts in the local budgets and the depreciation of the
Rupiah, which had the effect of reducing costs when, later in the project
period, Bank US dollar funds were disbursed against local costs. Baturaja
Extension costs were US$31.1 million as against the appraisal estimate of
US$26 million and this is mainly explained by increased expenditure on road
re-construction. About US$5.8 million was re-allocated from site selection
to programme development to finance start-up activities for Trans V.
a) Site Selection and Evaluation
5.2      The number of studies completed  under  the  10  main  consultants'
packets   is   summarized   in  Annex  1.  Results  by  site  for  plans  at
reconnaissance level (Phase II) and detailed site plans (Phase IIIA) are
listed in Annex 2, whereas Annex 3 gives implementation progress of the
settlement sites planned under Trans III up to March 1, 1989.
5.3      The site selection process had a slow start and, mainly as a result
of inadequate Phase I screening and the lack of proper topographical maps
and aerial  photography,  experienced  a  high  rate  of  rejection  due  to
constraints  of  topography,  local  people and forest classification.<1> In
consequence insufficient sites were recommended at Phase II so that only 171
Phase IIIA  studies  were  undertaken  by  the  consultants  instead  of the
contracted 204. The gross settlement capacity from the Phase IIIA studies
was 241,596 amilies, 81% of the target for Trans III planning. The problems
of identifying large tracts of land for new settlement based on an upland
foodcrop model had the effect that the average settlement capacity of sites
was also less than anticipated. However, the planning cost per family was
US$327, US$63 per family less than anticipated at appraisal.
5.4      There  were  significant  delays  in  the production of the studies
which were induced initially by changes to the contracted lists of sites for
Phase II study as a result of the site rejections. Site reallocation
inevitably led to delays whilst awaiting release of air photographs. As a
direct   result   of   these   problems  revised  planning  procedures  were
implemented.  These  included  Regional  Physical  Planning  Programme   for
<1>      Expanded in Annex 6.



Transmigration in order to rationalise the reconnaissance data base on land
resources, and the transfer to BAKOSURTANAL of the management of aerial
survey as part of its national mapping programme. Topographical maps <1>
produced by the consultants were expensive and often not up to standard due
to  the  difficulty  in  preparing  accurate  maps in remote tropical forest
conditions. In an attempt to overcome the problem, the testing of an
airborne radar mapping system was continued under Trans III and tests
instituted on an inertial positioning system coupled with a laser sensor
mounted on a helicopter. The airborne laser system proved to he superior to
the radar system and was able to produce accurate topographical maps at
scales of 1:20 000 with 5 m contour lines and 1:10 000 with 0.5 m contours.
5.5      Planning  was  init>ally  based  on  a standard model evolved under
Trans II of a 0.25 ha houselot, a cleared arable lot of 1.0 ha for food crop
production and 2.25 ha of reserve land normally allocated to tree crops. The
arable compor,ent was intended to provide the settler with sustainable self-
sufficiency in food crops plus surnlus production for sale, the proceeds of
which would be used to finance the development of the reserve land.
Evaluation of chemical soil analysis, together with accumulated experience
gained on soil problems in implemented sites, led to the conclusion that
major soil fertility problems were widespread, particularly those related to
high acidity and aluminium toxicity. Consultants questioned the validity of
the arable component of the model which required high inputs of fertilizer
and lime in order to sustain reasonable levels of food crop production,
concluding  in  most  cases  that,  even  with high inputs, the surplus food
production was not sufficient to finance the development of the reserve land
to a cash (tree) crop.
5.6      Although  planning  was  based on a total holding size of 3.5 ha, a
degree of uncertainty became  evident  at  higher  policy-making  levels  in
Government  about  the  actual  size  of  farm  units  to be implemented dnd
eventually the 3.5 ha was amended by Ministerial Decree in 1985, laying down
a new holding size of 2.0 ha (2.25 ha for wetland), government considering
that a 3.5 ha holding for transmigrants  was  excessive.  The  consensus  of
opinion by the consultants was that the new model is viable, given increased
inputs of fertilizer and lime and provided that one ha is immediately
developed under tree crops as a cash crop in parallel with the development
of the first arable (food crop) area. This model is a clos parallel to the
developed components given to settlers under the Baturaja extension which
has proved to be a viable model.
5.7      This decision came at a time when the  viability  of  the  standard
arable  model  was  already  under critical review, with d shift of emphasis
away from arable crops and towards tree crops as a principal source of
transmigrant   income.   The   simultaneous   reduction   in   the  rate  of
implementation due to reduced rupiah budgets allowed a thorough re-
evaluation to take place. It was felt that the consultants should not be
constrained by rigid TOR practically imposing a predetermined farming model
but   should  propose  farming  models  adjusted  to  local  conditions.  To
aemonstrate the possiblity of other farming or production systems, the
project financed a number of pilot studies on small scale irrigation and
drainage systems, production of sago in Irian Jaya, fish farming, lime
quarrying and spontaneous transmigration. Although none of these pilot
studies was implemented in the field, they  nevertheless  introduced  a  new
line of thinking within Bina Programme which permitted consultants to adjust
to local conditions and thus reduce the rate of rejection and propose more
viable  development  models based on tree crop and wetland development. As a
result a wide range of models and inputs was devised, with the consultants
invariably suggesting the immediate development of tree or wetland cash crop
components as being significantly more profitable than dryland arable crops.
<1>      See Annex 6 for more detail.



-6-
A.nnex 2 summarises the models. Further, the Phase IIIA studies completed or
in an advanced stage prior to the Ministerial Decree were planned on the
former standard 3.5 ha holding.
5.8      Detailed Phase III A plans were therefore completed in a variety of
model types and sizes under the project. Most of the earlier plans  followed
the standard upland model, but with caveats that heavy applications of
fertilizer and lime would be needed to obtain satisfactory yields with
annual  crops,  and  that  savings could not normally be generated to enable
development of tree crops on the reserve area as the main cash  crop.  Later
plans   emphasized  up-front  development  of  tree  crops  (PIR-TRANS)  and
maximization of the use of wetland Potential.
5.9      The current MOT policy for new settlements  is  to  have  a  2.0 ha
model on better quality upland soils (which will be very rare), 2.25 ha on
wetland sites, and usually 2.5 ha in tree crops models including up to
2.0 ha in tree crops (PIR-TRANS), with flexibility amongst units within a
settlement. Many plans will, therefore, have to be adjusted to the current
guidelines (see Results).
b) Baturaja Extension and Development
5.10     Settlement  of  the  2,000 families was completed slightly ahead of
schedule, whereas, due to the slow provision of funds from the Ministry of
Finance to the Government estate (PTP X) responsible for planting the
rubber, rubber development was delayed by about two years. The delay in
planting rubber means a postponement of cash income for the settlers, a
longer period of time during which they will be dependent on subsistence
level food cropping and off-farm employment and rubber maintenance extending
out of the project period.
5.11     A major variance between planned and actual project  implementation
concerned the distribution of cattle. Only 342 cattle were distributed, the
target being 2,000. Clearly, this variance could have been avoided if cattle
sources other than the poorly managed component of the Trans I project had
been proposed. Remedial action was ineffective and even if it had been
effective it would probably have been too late to assist the farmers
maximise  their  food  crop  component  in  the  critical  early  years   of
settlement.
5.12     Until  the  latter  stages  of the project Government services were
weak, monitoring and evaluation had not been developed and road maintenance
was poor. In particular, agricultural extension was poor to mediocre due to
inadequate programming, training and supervision and only oriented towards
food crops. The appointment of consultants to provide rubber extension and
training resulted in a much improved extension situation.
5.13     The major  risk  cited  at  appraisal  was  declining  agricultural
productivity  over  time.  Initial  dryland  food  crop  yields were much as
expected, but instead of the predicted improvements, yields have stabilized
at about the low initial levels. Total food crop area cultivated by a family
in a year appears to increase to about 1.6 ha just before rubber tapping
commences and then to fall to 1.2 ha (based on experience in the Trails I
area). The appraisal report suggested a constant 3 ha of annual cultivation
as from Yea,, 2 of the project and was clearly over-optimistic. The low
yields are a result of the relatively low inherent fertility of the soils
and the low applications of fertilizer of only 60 to 160 kg/annum made by
the settlers to their food crop area after the period of free supply by MOT.
The reduced area of cultivation is due to farmers selecting alternatives
which have a higher return per man-day with less risk (off-farm work and
rubber development or tapping).



- 7 -
5.14     On the other hand, rubber yields under a normal tapping  regime  in
the Trans I area are about 5 to 10% higher than predicted ror the Trans III
area. There is every reason to expect the same  yields  for  the  Trans  III
area, which enjoys good stands of immature well-grown rubber. In the Trans I
area two systems of tapping rubber are in operation. For about half the
rubber   area   tappiiig  is  organised  on  a  "mini-estate"  basis  by  the
cooperatives, with about 50% of the settlers hired to tap on a controlled
normal alternate day basis. The balance of the Trans I rubber area is tapped
by the settlers themselves on an individual holding basis. In this case, a
significant propo.tior (undefined) of the settlers tap intensively, i.e. 5-7
times per week. Where Intensive tapping is practised, yields of ORC are
reportedly up to double that of normal tapping. However, the accelerated use
of tree bark is likely to halve the effective lives of the trees. See
Annex 5 for more details.
c) Programme Development
5.15     All  sub-components  suffered from procedural delays of uo to three
years due, in part, to a lack ot CDI counterpart budget. Trainine, activities
concentrated upon training of headquarters' staff, overseas training, and
training of trainers, suDported by a consultancy (PT UNISYSTEMS - Louis
Berger).   This  contrasted  to  wider  coverage planned during appraisal to
include field staff and transmigrants, to be carried out by the Centre for
Transmigrant  Training  (PLPTT)  <1>.  The  shift in emphasis was due to the
upgrading of DGT to Ministerial status and the creation of a new Ministerial
Centre for Education and Staff Training (PUSDIKLAT) <2>, as well as the
revealed need  to  reinforce  the  central  training  system,  to  introduce
manpower planning, and to draft training modules inter alia. A: a result of
institutional  and  programme  changes,  the  PLPTT,  which   has   regional
responsibilities, received only some 10% of the planned disbursements. Only
one out of the four PLPTT provincial training centres was  constructed,  and
none of the staff housing planned at five provincial sites was built.
5.16     Because of AARD preferences for carrying out research work directly
by its component research institutes rather than from foreign consultancies,
much  of  the  research  proqramme  development and support planned for Bank
support was not carried out and most of that executed was funded by
Government.  The  planned  feasibility  study  and  financial proposal for a
comprehensive transmigration research in the Outer Islands (48 man months)
was not carried out and no loan funding utilized for this purpose. However,
most resources were from GOI funds and loan funds utilized mainly in the
year  1986/87.  No  research  support  at  all was provided from any sources
within GOI or Bank in 1985/86. The major effort was carried out in farming
systems research by a spread of agencies within AARD <3> in sites in
Baturaja and East Kalimantan. Sustained research over a three-year period
was carried out in Baturaja. Broadly, lags in implementation and gaps in
coverage were compensated by a close integration of Trans II, III and V
research efforts when work was contracted with competent agencies which
carried out related continuing activities common to the three rrojects.
However, implementation lags/gaps could have been avoided during preparatioi
with greater attention to design, government budget procedures, contractural
norms of AARD, and with appreciation of needed lead times.
<1>      Pusat Latihan Dan Penataran Transmigrasi.
<2>      Pusat Pendidikan Dan Latihan Pegawai - a feature of most ministries
except Agriculture.
<3>      SRI, CAER, CIPRO, Regional Research in Sembawa, Medan and Menado



- 8 -
5.17     The  only  external  consultancy  actually  executed  in  Programme
Development was for environmental monitoring, which, made proposals for a
two-level sequential system of monitoring in the provinces.
6. Project Results
a) Site Selection and Evaluation
6.1      This  component  undoubtedly achieved its immediate objectives. The
plans produced, although fewer than anticipated, did provide a stock well
ahead of the rate of implementation. However, as previously discussed, most
of the soils at the sites dictate tree crops to be th  most appropriate land
use, the rate of settlement and usE of plans will have to depend on the
institutional capacity of the Director General of Estates (DGE), the banking
system, and priovate sector nucleus/smallholder schemes to sponsor such
development. Unfortunately, there has been little involvement of the DGE in
the planning process. Consequently, wl,le the Phase III A plans provide a
useful basis for sitp selection in a regional development context and give
the basis for model selection, in many cases there will be a need for
revision of the settlement plans regarding size (29 of the 171 plans are on
a 3.5 ha model) and methodology of development.
6.2      With  regard  to  project  risks,  the  expanded settlement targets
anticipated at appraisal did not materialize, and, as mentioned previously,
they were in fact reduced. This was reflected in the rate of implementation
and, as shown in Annex 3, only 2,866 families were settled up to 1 March,
1989 on the 154 sites planned under Trans III, i.e. about 1% of the planned
capacity of 242,000 families.
6.3      There are a number of reasons  for  the  poor  utilisation  of  the
plans<1> one being the slow start to settlement planning. Although the first
plans became available in 1985, due to lengthy administrative procedures, it
was only at the end of 1986 that they could have been implemented. But by
then the scaling back of the transmigration programme had become effective.
However,  as  mentioned  in  para.6.1,  the  plans  are  a valuable planning
resource.  This  emphasizes  the  need  for  (a) an  efficient  storage  and
retrieval system (which is not evident), and (b) much greater disseminat,on
and use of the plans by Bappedas and other agencies such as DGE (currently
grossly insufficient).
6.4      The  activities of RePPProt in preparing a systematic evaluation of
land resources on 1:250,000 format have had a major impact. Not only have
these activities substantially reduced the Phase II rejection rate but they
have supplied reliable geo-data base and resource maps suitable for regional
planning by MOT and other agencies.
6.5      The  component  also has had a positive impact on the technological
environment. During the studies a wide range of resource data was collected
and evaluated. Virtually all studies concluded that successful long-term
settlement would depend on development of a tree crop or a wetland rice
conmponent, thus making a significant contribution towards the GOI's recent
policy change away from settlement based purely on a dryland food crop
model.
<1>      See Annex 6 for further detail



- 9 -
b)  Baturaja Extension and Development
6.6      In  achieving its major objectives this component can be considered
a success. However, the major variance from appraisal is the striking
difference between anticipated and actual food crop production, realized
food production per farm unit being only about 70% for rice and less than
10% for other crops compared to appraisal projections, which expected the
intensive use of purchased inputs and high cropping intensities; in
addition, crop yields per ha were only 50% to 75% of projections. Farmers
proved reluctant to adopt the intensive food crop model developed by AARD
and prefer lower risk approaches. Poor extension and the lack of credit for
the purchase of inputs, such as fertilizers, aggravated the situation. Also,
the plentiful opportunities for off-farm employment reduced the necessity
for intensive food production. However, modest amounts of fertilizer are
being used and some annual crops are being grown for cash income
6.7      The  economic  rate of return (ERR) has been re-estimated to be 11%
measured over a 30-year period compared to 14% estimated at appraisal. This
comparison needs to be highly qualified. The SAR economic rate of return
owed much to a non-rigorous treatment of costs (i.e. 30%) allocated
arbitrarily   away  from  the  project.  In  contrast  the  PCR  re-estimate
incorporates most Baturaja costs, is based upon more precise ex-post data
and is the low point of a range dictated by inferences about prevailing
tapping methods. The 11% re-estimate is based upon direct benefits, and upon
substantially lower yields and area of food crop production, offset by
slightly higher tapping yields. The ERR also includes benefits from the two
installed rubber factories financed by the project.
6.8      If,  however,  intensive  tapping  practices presently practised by
many transmigrants become more widespread, then under the assumptions used
in Part III - Section 6, rubber benefits rise and the ERR would increase to
17.1% measured over the same period, assuming a tapping life of 10 years as
compared to 20 years with normal tapping. Discussion with two rubber experts
indicated that ir.tensive tapping is sustainable for 10 years, provided that
any panel disease, such as Phytophthora palmivora, can be easily controlled
by fungicide application. Pressures for intensive tapping stem from income
demands on a sole hectare of rubber stand plus a drive to establish a second
hectare of rubber in the absence of any credit system to meet such
expenditure.
6.9      Financial  analysis  on  1  ha of rubber model has been carried out
separately to illustrate the profitability of the two tapping methods. Over
a period of 50 years, the internal rate of return of the intensive tapping
method  is  30.9%  compared  to  23.2%  for  the  normal   tapping   method.
Maintenarce, planting and replanting costs over the same period have been
included in the analysis, i.e. 3 cycles for intensive tapping and 2 for
normal. Although the assumptions used in this comparison can be debated, the
inference is that the situation at Baturaja should be continuously monitored
to provide factual data for further analysis of the benefits and costs of
more intensive rubber tapping for smallholders.
6.10     Note also that there are substantial secondary benefits accruing to
the project stemming from maintenance of 7,000 ha of rubber planted in the
Trans I area but financed by Trans III. The volume of such benefits is such
as to overshadow the direct benefits described above and would raise the ERR
substantially, the level depending again upon the tapping method that would
prevail. See page 7 of Part III.
6.11     Financial  returns  have  also  been  calculated  in  the  form  of
increased farm incomes. Annual average family incomes from food crops appear
to stabilize at about RpO.28 million (1989 constant prices) at full
development (Year 16). On the other hand, rubber makes a much more
significant contribution to farm incomes. Total net income per family is re-
A-t'  ' A at   t    ' 16  million   of  which  r    r    ,tribu-    1



- 10 -
million (74%). This compares with the appraisal estimate of a total net
income of Rp3.03 million, of which food crops contributed 46%. Thus, the SAR
appears to have underestimated rubber income by about 5%, but overestimated
the value of food production by as much as five times.
6.12     The positive impact of the project in the Baturaja area was clearly
evident during the mission's visit. Self-financing of the construction of
improved brick-built housing and the planting of additional areas of rubber
was taking place, particularly in the units of the Trans I area where rubber
has been yielding for some time. Significant increases in business activity
were reported to be taking place in Baturaja township and locality.
c) Programme Development
6.13     Recognizing  the  change in focus and activities, the training sub-
component has nevertheless been successful in deepening the approach to
training within MOT with considerable benefits to the later programme of
Trans V and TSSOP rather than to Trans III itself. The achievements include:
the introduction of a manpower planning system with comDuter support;
establishment of a multi-directorate Manpower Development and Training
Committee to decide upon priorities and budget, the creation of a core of
skilled training officers, drafting of training modules, and introduction of
skill gaps' assessments and needs-based training, including village leaders.
Substantial in-service and overseas staff training has been carried out
under the loan with skills' enhancement, albeit including some civil service
training required for promotion.
6.14     The Baturaja farming systems  research  (soil  conservation,  mixed
farming, varieties and tillage) appears well executed, more relevant, and
its results could be more easily transferred to the Baturaja settlement.
However, the demonstration effects were not perceptible for farmers. Other
efforts, although executed adequately, gave  technical  results  which  were
often not relevant, were compartmentalized, and not linked to the mainstream
of transmigration planning or implementation, either structurally (within
MOA   and  MOT),  or  adequately  publicized  by  orderly  dissemination  of
publications.  Inappropriate  research  efforts  relate  to  an  alang-alang
control and a high input food crop model. The research on inter-cropping
contrasted with pure stand tree crop decisions already taken in Trans III
and other site selection work. Inter-cropping models are nevertheless
relevant for alternative low cost farm unit designs in the long term.
6.15     Assistance for environmental monitoring was  expeditiously  carried
out  in  1986/7  and 1987/8 by a local university with foreign assistance. A
literature review was carried out (which highlighted the difficulties of
assembling past studies in Indonesia), legal aspects were tabulated, some
inter-agency  consensus  established,  and  a  multi-disciplinary   workshop
conducted. The environmental proposals comprise an initial low-level early
warning system for emerging environmental problems in transmigration areas,
followed by in-depth assessment, both to be carried out by the provincial
planning offices (BAPPEDA). The detailed proposals provided a starting point
for review of needed procedures both within the Ministry of Environment as
well as within Transmigration. However, the theoretical nature of the
proposals limited their immediate usefulness, as do the financial outlays
and the overly broad definition of environment to include human ecology.
Broadly, the lack of structural linkages among ministries and within the
Trans III project itself limited the "feed-in" of results from this effort
to site selection or to the Baturaja settlement.



7. Project Sustainability
7.1      The very adequate stock of sites already selected and available for
settlement has lea to a reduction in the new site planning activities under
Trans V. These contracts have been modified to plan second stage development
activities for existing upland sites which were based on the old annual crop
model.
7.2      The  benefits  from  the  Baturaja extension, which are mainly as a
result of the rubber planting, are likely to be sustained provided that
adequate rubber maintenance, fertilization and tapping techniques are
adopted by the farmers. Thus, to a large extent, sustainability will depend
on the cencinuing provision of an effective extension service orientated
towards rubber production once the consultants are withdrawn. Further,
sustainability in the longer term will depend on timely rubber development
to replace the present rubber at the end of its useful life. Those farmers
adopting the intensive approach to tapping will have to initiate replacement
planting much earlier than those using normal tapping. Notwithstanding the
fact that some farmers intensively tapping in the Trans I units are already
developing new areas of rubber from their high rubber incomes, the creation
of credit facilities would enable all farmers, regardless of tapping
frequency, to develop additional areas to rubber.
8.  Bank Performance and Lessons Learnt                                                           ;
8.1      Much of the project was generally well conceived, except that  food
crop production in Baturaja was grossly over-estimated and the Programme
Development component could have been given more attention. Also, during
appraisal, the problem with cattle availability in Trans I should have been
detected and alternative sources of cattle identified.
8.2      During the six years of project implementation the Bank  spent  106
staff weeks on project supervision and, on average, two supervision missions
were  mounted  each  year.  Coverage  appears   to   have   been   adequate.
Responsibility for supervising the Baturaja extension was given to RSI and,
on the whole, the split in responsibility appears to have worked well.
Supervision staff recognised problems as they arose and dealt with them
adequately, producing useful, detailed supervision reports and aide-memoires
which recommended the necessary actions to be taken. A high degree of staff
continuity and ability contributed to the effectiveness of the supervision
effort.
8.3      Although  the  Site  Selection  and  Baturaja  componer1.s  were not
formally linked, the split in supervision responsibility and the production
of separate supervision reports appears to have resulted in an almost
complete polarisation between the two components. However, the emerging
lessons from Baturaja were becoming evident at the same time through the
site preparation studies (para.5.5).
8.4       In perspective, much of the results of the Trans III site selection
activities are not directly applicable in their present form. In magnitude,
it was probably one of the Bank's biggest support for external consultancies
for land development planning. Although the studies were ably carried out
technically within the stated terms of reference, the contribution of the
studies has been reduced by both exogenous and endogenous factors. The end
of the oil boom meant that GOI no longer had the funds to implement the
volume of plans prepared. The immediate utility of the studies has been
eroded by continuing GOI uncertainty about the desirable farm size for
transmigrants and by the emergent weakness of the food crop model upon which
many  sites  were  planned.  However,  the  plans  can  contribute  to   the
development of the outer islands if they are properly disseminated by MOT,
and the Bank should now place greater emphasis on this aspect.



- 12 -
8.5      The main lesson to be learnt from the  planning  component  is  the
need to move away from settlement based on rainfed food crop production.
Although this need was recognized in the Transmigration Sector Review dated
October 24, 1986, it came too late to affect planning under Trans Ill.
However, under Trans V the PIR-TRANS nucleus estate model of 0.5 ha
house/food crop lot plus 2.0 ha of tree crops has been accepted by GOI as
the primary model for resettlement but without significant interaction with
the Directorate General of Estate Crops, which is responsible for the
overall planning of the tree crop development programme. Other lessons
learnt are that it would have been preferable to have built in some
flexibility in the development models to be applied by the consultants and,
as there is a time lag before plans can be utilised when several agencies
are involved, assistance should have been provided to streamline the
utilization of the plans.
8.6      A number of lessons can be learnt from the Baturaja development:
a) Although most of the soils at Baturaja are not fertile, they are
better than the soils at the majority of more recently planned and
implemented sites, particularly those in Kalimantan and Irian Jaya;
wnen it is considered that settlers were largely only at a self-
sufficiency level in food production at Batur-ia, which also has
the advantage of favourable access and exposure to commerce, this
does not bode well for other transmigration sites if they were
obliged to rely on annual cropping as their economic base.
b) In the Trans I area, the early investment in rubber compensated for
the deficiency in the food crop component and rubber became the
main source of income for the settlers. This emphasises the
importance of establishing rubber, or other tree crops, at or about
the time of settlement. Farmers are keen to develop additional
areas to rubber and, within their cash flow constraints, are in
fact doing so. Consequently, holding sizes allocated to settlers
should preferably include at least 2 ha for tree crops, as is the
case at Baturaja.
c) Farmers are interested in maximising income and  obtaining  a  high
return per man-day of labour without excessive risk. The adoption
of an "excessive" rate of rubber tapping should therefore have been
anticipated in the absence of adequate financing possibilities
through alternative income or credit to expand the rubber area on
their ample reserve lands. This suggests that long-term credit
should have been organized in the project and/or that the viability
of a model based on a more intensive tapping regime should have
been examined as to its appropriateness for smallholders in this
situation.
d) Other lessons are the need to adjust research to local conditions
and markets, and to ensure the dissemination of research through an
adequate extension service. The provision of short-term credit for
annual crops may have increased the use of production inputs, at
least in the period until rubber income is available, but this
cannot be automatically assumed in view of the apparent attitude of
settlers in the contiguous Trans I area.



- 13 -
9. Borrower Performance
9.1       In  general,  the  overall performance of the implementing agencies
was  reasonably  satisfactory,  although  coordination   difficulties   were
experienced.
9.2      The  relatively smooth implementation of the Baturaja Extension was
mainly due to the presence of the PMU originally set  up  to  implement  and
manage  the  Trans  I  project and subsequently given responsibility for the
Trans III extension. The presence of PTP X was  also  a  major  contributory
factor  towards  the success of the project. Although the rubber was planted
late, it was planted to a high standard. The  PTP  X  crumb  rubber  factory
completed under the project is efficiently run, producing a consistently
high quality product and utilising most of its present capacity.
9.3      The complexity of  the  Site  Selection  and  Evaluation  component
provoked management difficulties, particularly during the period of ste.ff
reorganisation  resulting  from   the   formation   of   the   Ministry   of
Transmigration. The resultant poor distribution of disciplines within Bina
Programme, PANKIM <1>, and the inexperience and weakness of its staff led to
the TAG taking on an increasing role and becoming almost wholly responsible
for technical supervision of the planning work. The very limited skills
development within Bina Programme under Trans III, has, however, led to d
dete-mined effort under Trans V to transfer the technical responsibilities
to B;na Programme staff. There are still, however, some deficiencies in the
skill mix in Bina  Programme,  especially  in  the  agricultural  and  agro-
economic fields.
9.4      While  Bina  Programme  did  not  always take full advantage of the
advice provided by the TAG, on the whole the quality of its staff improved
considerably through on the job training. Some of Bina Programme staff are
now able to take on much larger responsibilities than before and are now
able to speak English quite fluently.
10.   Project Relationship
10.1     Close contacts between the 3ark and the borrower on  the  one  hand
and between them and the participating agencies on the other resulted in the
resolution of a number of implementation issues and a relatively smooth
implementation. The main weakness related to the programme development
component, where liaison between MOT and the other agencies involved was
relatively poor.
11. Consulting Services
11.1     Consultants played a major role in the project,  all  the  planning
work in the site selection and evaluation component being carried out by
consultants. The quality of work varied considerably Detween the consultants
engaged on the planning studies. Those who had gained experience under Trans
II produced generally acceptable results, whereas new consultants had
considerable   difficulty   in   achieving  satisfactory  managerial  and/or
technical performance. Sir M. MacDonald and Partners and their associates
were retained to staff TAG during Trans III. They provided competent overall
guidance and monitoring of the programme at all levels. Regional Advisory
Groups were also established in the provinces and played an important role
in improving coordination between central and provincial offices.
<1>      Programme Planning Department.



- 1L -
11.2     An  important  project  objective  was  the  transfer  of   skills,
particularly from the foreign consultants to their domestic associates. This
was formalized through the Assistance Concept I and II programmes. The
gradual transfer of responsibility with on-the-job skills transfer achieved
only limited success, with the achievement by domestic consultants of some
Phase IIIA reports at a reasonable standard. However, an inherent weakness
of many Indonesian consultant companies is the insecurity of tenure of their
professional staff and they are thus unable to develop in-house managerial
and technical competence. This appears to be partly associated with the
restrictions on GOI billing rates for local profes;ionals. Consequently,
development of technical skills is likely to be slow.
12. Project Documentation and Data
12.1     The  Staff  Appraisal Report appeared to provide a useful framework
for the Bank and the Borrower during the project implementation period.
12.2     Preparation for the PCR mission to Indonesia was  good,  such  that
most of the required data was readily available. The mission drew heavily on
data prepared by Bina Programme, PANKIN and by the TAG for the site
selection component. The most comprehensive records of settlement planning
are cLrrently held by TAG. Should the TAG be dissolved, then steps must be
taken to conserve their accumulated data base and library of documents.



- 15 -
PART I,
1.       The GOI in general concurs with the contents of the PCR prepared by
FAO/CP. Comments were made on an earlier draft and these have been largely
taken into account in preparation of the final report.
2.       We have the following additionial comments on the final report:
2 1      Although  it is correct that only 2,866 families were settled as at
March 1, 1989, on sites which had Phase III A s udies completed under t)e
project, some of the Phase II stildies financed by the Bank were passea To
local consultants for completion of Phase III A plans using GOI funds, and
were subsequently settled. Consequently, while there has been only limited
use made of the p'lans prepared under Trans III, the number is greater than
that indicated in the report.
2.2      We  concur  that  greater  dissemination aad promotion of the plans
needs to occur if maximum returns are to be made on the investment. On
transfer of the 0.G. Pankim directorates to the central Kalibata office, it
will also be important that ample and well-organized storage space is
allocated for the accumulated reports.
2.3      Various  references  are  made  to  the  issue  of lack of adequate
coordination between units and agencies involved in the programme. We
appreciate that this has been a major problem, and steps are currently being
undertaken to address this with the assistance of RSI.
2.4      We remain cautious and  doubtful  about  the  assertion  that  more
intensive tapping of rubber may be advantageous for smallholder situations.
This practice, if carried out excessively in the early period of maturity,
will reduce tree girth with consequent reduction in productivity. In some
situations, uncontrolled and intensive tapping has resulted in exhaustion of
bark panels after five years. We do agree, however, that the Baturaja case
offers the potential to compare intensive and regular tapping regimes in the
same environment on well-established stands of rubber.
3.        With respect to World Bank performance and assistance, we consider
that:
3.1      World Bank-coordinated supervision missions can be extremely useful
in providing non-government review and partial audit during implementation.
These should be scheduled to occur not only on a regular basis but, where
possible, should also take place at times when events, critical to the
timely and successful implementation of the project, are schedul'd for
completion.
3.2      In  this  regard, it is unfortunate that a schedule for supervision
missions and reviews was not included as an Annex to the Loan Agreement and
(in this case) referenced in Section 3.04 (b).
3.3      The  early  supervision  missions were not sufficiently detailed to
provide the Ministry with clear guidance on how the Bank conceived that
funds should be utilised. However, latterly (from 1986 through 1988)
supervision under Bank guidance was rigorous and detailed recommendations
for improvement were provided.
3.4      Alth,1ugh  the  Ministry  created a special unit for coordination of
foreign-assisted projects, as required under Section 3.07 of the Loan
Agreement, the unit was generally ineffective due to the structure of its
relationship with'n the Ministry and with participating agencies. This
became apparent at an early stage but it was not until the latter part of
the project (1987-88) that the Bank encouraged the Ministry to move away



- 16 -
from adherence to that Section. Through the Bank's intervention during that
period the Ministry has been able to establish more effective coordination
of the Independent budget holders participating in the project.
3.5       In  summary then, the Ministry of Transmigration and the World Bank
have developed during the life of the project, a close and generally
effective working relationship. It is felt that this could have been more
effective in the early stages of the project if there had been a mutual
agreement on a schedule for more frequent supervision missions, involving
all agencies, during the initial 2-3 years of the project.



- 17 -
PART III
1.   Related Bank Loans and/or Credits
Loan/Credit Title       Purpose   Year of       Status           Comments
Approval
Transmigration & Rural  Transmi-        1976      Closed      PCR/PPAR (1983)
Development Project       gration &            Apr.13, 1983  considered pro-
(1) (1318 IND)              R.D.                              ject a success
despite initial
doubts.
Transmigration II         Settle-       1979      Closed      PCR (1988)
Project (Ln.1701-IND/   ment &                 Dec.31, 1986  suggests limited
Cr. 919-INn)               R.D.                               success
Transmigration IV         Settle-       1983   Two 1-year
Project (2288 IND)        ment &               axtensions to
R.D.                closing date
of Dec.31,
1989 agreed.
Transmigration V          Mapping &    1985   Closing date
Project (2578 IND)        Settlement           Dec.31, 1990
Planning
Transmigration            Second          -    Appraised
Second Stage              Stage                Oct. 1988
Development Pro-          Settlement
ject                      Development



- 18 -
2.   Project Timetable
Item                Date Planned      Date Revised      Date Actual
Identification/Prepa-       Oct. 1980         May 1981          Sept. 1981 2/
ration
Appraisal Mission                                               Sept. 1981
Post-Appraisal Mission                                          Jan. 1982 1/
Appraisal                                                       Feb. 17, 1983
Board Approval                                                  Mar. 22, 1983
Loan Signature                                                  Apr. 18, 1983
Loan Effectiveness                                              July 1, 1983
Loan Closing                June 30, 1987    June 30, 1988    June 30, 1988
Loan Completion             Dec. 31, 1987    Dec. 31, 1988    Dec. 31, 1988
1/ Project reformulated.
2/ Site selection and evaluation component prepared by DITADA.
Baturaja extension component prepared by Baturaja PMU assisted by
FAO/UNDP (Project Proposal).
GOI prepared draft project proposal for development of an environmental
management system.
AARD submitted brief proposals for agricultural research component
followed by an inception report in December 1982.
DGT training prepared by GOI.
Comments:
Major issues concerned the ftrmulation and initial inclusion of four
project components: East Kalimantan resettlement, Baturaja extension,
project prt-paration and staff training in DGT. In the proposed East
Kalimantan component the settlement areas were heavily timbered and a plan
for timber disposal was requi td. Following the post appraisal mission, due
to the lengthy period required for full timber utilization, it was agreed to
defer the East Kalimantan component and to exclude it from Trans III.



- 19 -
3.   Loan Disbursements
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(US$ million)
1983   1984   1985   1986   1987    1988    1989
Appraisal Estimate         5.00  35.00  70.00  93.00  101.00  101.00  101.00
Artual                     0.00  16.78  39.22  51.88   76.87   85.18   92.74
Actual as % of Estimate       -     48     56      56     76      84       92
Date of Final Disburse-                     January 10, 1989
ment
Comments:
The loan agreement was amended on July 10, 1986 to re-allocate
US$5.8 million for start-up activities for Trans V and USS2.3 million for
reconstruction of about 50 km of access roads in the existing Baturaja
project area. During August 1987, the Bank cancelled US$7.0 million from the
loan.
4.   Project Implementation
Indicators                         Appraisal    Actual
Estimate
1. Site SeleLtion and Evaluation
Phase II Reconnaissance Studies                           275 1/       228
Phase IIIA Task Studies                                   110           95
Phase IIIA Assistance Concept Studies                      94           76
Settlement Capacity (Families)                        300,000     241,596
2. BaturaJa Extension
Reconnaissance (ha)                                    50,000      50,000
Clearing of Secondary Forest (ha)                       3,000       3,000
Construction of Primary Roads (km)                         40           70
Construction of Village Roads (km)                         70           80
Construction of Houses and Village Facilities
(Family)                                             2,000        2,000
Settlement of Families                                  2,000       2,000
Distribute Cattle                                       2,000          342
Establish Rubber Trees (ha)                             2,000       2,000
Construct Crumb Rubber Factories:
- at Baturaja                                             1            1
- at Way Abung                                            1            1 2/
Construct and Staff:
- Farmers' Cooperative Centre                             1            1
- Rural Extension Centre                                  1            1
- Plant Protection brigade                                1            1
1/ Appraisal est'imate included 48 sites which were examined under a Trans
II extension.
2/ Under construction.



5. Proiect Costs and Financing
A. Proiect Costs
Appraisal Estimate . .             . . . . . Actual . . . . .
Local      Foreign        Total         Local      Foreign        Total
Item                            Costs       Exchange                     Costs      Exchange
Costs                                   Costs 2l
.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  (USS   million)    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
Site Selection and Evaluation                52.6         64.4         117.0          18.0        61.1          79.1
Baturaja Extension and Development           10.6         15.4          26.0          16.0        15.1          31.1
Programme Development 1/                      5.3          4.9          10.2           4.3        15.0          19.3
Physical Contingencies                        8.6          9.0          17.6            -           -             -
Price Contingencies                           8.6          6.4          15.0            -           -
Total Project Cost                           85.7        100.1         185.8          38.3        91.2         129-5
Front-end Fee                                   -          1.5           1.5            -          1.5           1.5
Grand Total                                  85.7        101.6         187.3          38.3        92.7         131.0
B. Proiect Financing
Source                           Planned                      Revised                        Final
(Loan Agreement)
(USS million)     X          (USS million)      Z          (USS million)      X
IBRD Expenditure Categories              101.0          54              94.0         52              92.7          71
Domestic (GO[)                            86.3          46              86.3          48             38.3          29
rotal                                    187.3         too             180.3         100            131 0         10
I/  Includes consultant's services other than for site selection and evaluation, plus start-up activities for
Trans V by BAKOSURTANAL (USS5.8 million) not envisaged at appraisal.
21 Nominal disbursement in USS, some of which was applied for Rupiah expenditure as per Loan Amendment of
July 1986.



- 21 -
6. Project Results
A. Direct Benefits
Indicators                 Appraisal          Estimated at         Estimated at
Estimate          Closing Date      Full Development
1. Site Selection and
Evaluation
Settlement Capacity    300,000                241,596                241,596
Planned (Families)
Families Settled on
Pldnned Areas          Not Stated               2,866                    -
2. Baturaja Extension
and Development
Settlement (Families)    2,000                  2,000                   2,000
No direct benefit indicators were quantified in the SAR.
B. Economic Impact of the Baturaja Extension Component
Appraisal                 PCR
Estimate                Estimate
Economic Rate of Return 1/                  14%                    11.3% 2/
Underlying Assumptions
1. Max. yietd of rubber                 1.45 tons/ha            1.5 tons/ha
2. Yield of food crop                       Hign                    Low
3. Area of food crop                    Large (3 ha)        Small (about 1.5 ha)
I/ For details see cash flow in Annex 5, Table 6.
2/ With normal tapping of rubber.
Comments:
1. Yields and Benefits
The principal direct economic benefits of the project in the Trans
III area would be the incremental rubber production from 2,000 ha, the
increase of food crop production which would be mostly consumed locally, and
the benefits from the rubber processing plarts. In addition, 100 ha of
rubber planted individually on a second ha has also been included from Year
20 onwards.
Rubber yields are estimated to be higher than those projected in
the SAR, i.e. the peak yield is now re-estimated at 1.5 tons/ha compared to
1.45 tons/ha at appraisal. In general, the food crop yields are lower than
those presented in SAR, and the effective food crop area is also smaller.
For benefits from the two processing plants, 95% of rubber
production under Trans I and III is assumed to be processed by the plants.
The benefits of the processing plants are generated from two sources: saving



- 22 -
of transport costs of moisture content in the latex and cup lump that would
have been marketed in absence of the factories, and upgrading of rubber
quality. Transport costs are estimated at Rp375/ton/km for 250 km. Benefits
for quality upgrading are taken at Rp45/kg based on the difference of SIR 20
and SIR 50 prices.
In addition, there are important subsidiary rubber production
benefits accruing to the project from expenditure on maintenance of immature
rubber trees in the adjacent Trans I area, which is also financed from the
Trans III loan. The mission estimates, following discussions with Team
Khusus, that 35% of rubber production in Trans I (7,100 ha) would be
foregone if adequate maintenance had not been provided. These aggregate
benefits are substantial and exceed the direct Trans III benefits, discussed
above.
2. Pricing and Costs
Costs and benefits are expressed in constant 1989 prices. Actual
investment costs from 1982-1988 have been adjusted to 1989 level on the
basis of GDP deflator. Exchange rate of Rpl,700/US dollar, standard
conversion factor 0.9, and conversion factor of unskilled labour 0.8, have
been used in the analysis. For traded commodities economic farmgate prices
are based on international market prices. Financial and economic prices of
outputs and inputs are presented in Annex 5, Table 4. All actual costs have
been included in the analysis except costs under category 1C which are
cooperative development, extension and conservation costs. Based on the
project area (2,003 ha out of 9,100 ha under Trans I and III), only 22i of
road costs have been allocated under the Trans III project.
3. Economic Rate of Return
For normal tapping of rubber and using direct benefits on the Trans
III area only, the overall economic rate of return (ERR) is estimated at
11.3%  for  the  Baturaja  settlement  sub-component,  using  the   previous
assumptions and discounting costs and benefits over 30 years (one cycle).
Both costs and benefits of replanting of rubber are not included in the
analyses. The costs and benefits of rubber processing plants are taken into
account in this analysis. The PCR estimate of ERR is less than the SAR
estimate of ERR (14%) mainly because food crop production is much less than
anticipated at SAR.
If the practised intensive tapping of rubber as described in
para.5.14 becomes widespread, and if the tapping benefits are substantially
advanced in time while losing only minimal aggregate rubber produczion (i.e.
13% less), then a substantially higher ERR (about 17%) would theoretically
be possible.
The intensive tapping is stimulated by the farmer's demands for
immediate purchasing power as well as his need to clear and develop a second
ha of rubber, accentuated by the lack of credit facilities in the project
area.
If the substantial benefits from maintenance of the immature rubber
trees in Trans I are taken into account together with their cost, with
normal tapping the ERR would rise to 27.8%. However, the costs of rubber
maintenance in Trans I area are essentially part of the Trans I settlement
investment, as are the benefits. If the favourable assumptions for tapping
of rubber are considered together with the benefits from maintenance, the
ERR would be 47.2%. The ERR are summarized in the table below:



- 23 -
Costs and Benefit from Maintenance                  Tapping Method
of Trans I area                     Normal           Intensive
Not included                       11.3               17.1
Included                           27.8               47.2
The provincial authorities report substantial multiplier effects on
the local economy through enhanced purchasing power, employment, and
expenditure resulting from the Trans III project in Baturaja. These spin-off
effects, demonstrated by the arrival of some 4,000 spontaneous migrant
families, are not incorporated in the ERR.
C. Financial Impact 1/
SAR             PCR 3/
.... (Rp'000) ....
Farm income at full development 2/
-  Food crop                                1,400             280
-  Rubber                                   1,600           1,680
-  Off-farm                                    30             200
Total                                   3,030           2,160
1/ For details see Annex 5, Table 5.
2/ Expressed in 1989 constant prices.
3/ With normal tapping of rubber.
Comments:
Farm models for Baturaja have been prepared to reflect the income
levels of farmers in the project area. Cropping patterns and other
parameters are based on data collected during the mission's visit and on the
socio-economic survey conducted in 1987 (see Annex 5). The total harvested
food crop area over 1 year is estimated at about 1.2-1.6 ha per family.
Family labour has not been costed. In Year 1 (1982/83) when the subsistence
package is available, the farmer's net income was reasonable at about RpO.5-
0.6 million (expressed in constant 1989 prices). In Year 6 (1987/88) the net
income remains the same as that of Year 1, although the subsistence package
is not provided. Due to 1 ha of rubber plantation, tapped normally, the net
income would increase gradually from RpO.75 million in Year 10 (1991/92) and
then reach its peak at Rp2.16 million or about US$1,300 in Year 16
1997/98). At full production, return per man-day is estimated at Rp8,300
US$4.9). The maximum yield of ruDber is estimated at 1.5 tons/ha as
compared to 1.45 tons/ha in the SAR.
However, available information indicates that many settlers are
tapping rubber trees more intensively than usually recommended. This
intensive tapping would give a higher yield and a shorter tapping period as
compared to the normal tapping method. The mission estimates that the
maximum yield could go as high as 2.8 tons/ha, and the tapping period would
be shortened to 10 years, as compared to 20 years for the normal tapping.
Until Project Year 9 (1990/91), the farmer's net income would be the same as
that of the normal tapping because incomes are generated from the same



- 24 -
source: food crops and off-farm. Net incomes would significantly increase
from about Rpl.5 million or US$880 in Project Year 10 (1991/92) when rubber
tapping commences to the maximum of about Rp3.8 million or US$2,200 in Year
16 (1997/98). Return per man-day is estimated at Rp9,300 (US$5.5) under
intensive tapping in Year 16. However, under the intensive tapping method,
income from rubber is expected only until Year 1i (2000/2001) or 10 years
after tapping commences, at which time tapping panels will be fully
utilised.
l
In order to illustrate the comparative profitability of the two
tapping methods9 financial analysis based on a 1 ha model of rubber has also
been carried out over a period of 50 years. Maintenance and replacement
costs over this period have been included in this analysis, but famiy labour
used for harvesting, weeding and fertilizing have not been costed. The FRR
for the intensive tapping method is 30.9% compared to 23.2% for the normal
tapping method, illustrating that adoption of intensive tapping increases
the financial returns substantially.
NOTE-
The   above   analysis   by  FAO/CP  indicates  that  it  would  be
advantageous for settlers to intensively tap rather than tapping on
alternate days, under the assumptions used. The detailed analysis is not
presented in the attached tables, and accumulated evidence of estate-managed
rubber is contrary to these findings. However, the assertion is important
enough to warrant periodic monitoring of the production and tree response at
Baturaja by DGE. Currently, the expansion of the tree crop smallholder
programme  is  constrained  by  limited  capacity  of  the  GOI  tree   crop
institutional   services  and  the  banking  system.  Any  innovation  which
potentially reduces the dependence on these services should be investigated.



C. Studies
Studies                   Purnose as Defined at Anpraisal           Status                           Imoact of Study
Feasibility Study               Produce comprehensive research    Not done               None
programme suitable for external
assistance
Alang Alang Control             Special Study in Outer Islands    Completed              Results not of practical use.
Home Gardens                        -     -    -   -       -        Completed            Results usefu' for future planning.
Airborne Radar Topo Napping                                         Completed            System useful for simple profiling but not for detailed surveying.
Airborne Laser Mapping                                              Completed            System proved reliable. accurate and cost effective.
Ten pre-feasibility studies                                         Completed            Served as prototype for studies under Trans V.
for Second Stage Oevelnp-
cent Progracme
Fresh and Brackishwater                                             Stage I Completed   Fish pond production identified as feasible.
Fisheries
Southern Irian Jaya Imple-                                          Completed            Regional Plan available.
centation 'Study
Sago Production                                 -                   Completed            Not recomended due to market constraints.
Small-Scale Irrigation                          -                   Completed            Feasibility study showed low IRR of 7.4b.
Limestone Quarrying                             -                   Completed            Difficulty in identifying areas suitable and available.
Spontaneous Transmigration                      -                   Completed            New farm models proposed.



- 26 -
7. Status of Covenants
Covenant                   Subiect                       Deadline for            Status
Compliance
Loan Agreement
3.01(b)         G0I/PTP X to enter into Subsidiary             -         In compliance
Loan Agreement for construction of
rubber factories.
3.02(b)         Employ consultants for training.        June 30, 1983   late, but all recruited.
research and environmental
monitoring.
3.06(a)         Appoint qualified full-time staff              -         In compliance re monitoring;
member for M and E of Part B.                            consultant used for evalu-
ation.
3.06(b)         Provisions for road maintenance.                -        Not in compliance in funding
in earlier years; currently
satisfactory.
3.07            Special unit for Bank-assisted                  -        Partly in compliance; under
projects, with sub-units for each                        revision with NOT.
project.
3.08(a)         Carry out Part A in accordance                  -        In compliance
with agreed site selection
procedures.
3.08(b)         Furnish list of sites to be in-         June 30, 1983   In compliance
vestigated.
3.09            AARD to furnish Inception                       -        In compliance. although
report for Part C.2.                                     with an agreed different
approach to research than
originally conceived.
4.02            Audited accounts by 6 months                    -        Although 10 audits were
after end of FY.                                         required in this project,
only 4 accounts are sub-
stantial. Audited accounts
for final FY vet to be
produced.
Disbursement Conditions
Sch. 1. para 4b  Subsidiary Loan Agreement                        -         In compliance
signed
l



-27 -
8. Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs
Stage of Project Cycle                    Planned    Revised         Final
-(staff weeks)
Through Appraisal                            -           -           110.9
Appraisal through Board approval             -           -            16.0
Board approval through Effectiveness         -           -              -
Supervision                                  -           -           105.6
Project Completion Report                   8.0        14.0            3.9 1/
Total                                                             236.4
/  Not final figure.



- 28 -
B.  Miss1ins
Riss1in         Month/  No. of   Days in   Specialization  Performance Rating 3/  Type of
Year   Persons  Field I  Represented _/    Status   Trend                 Problem 4/
Identification/
Preparation
Appraisal         )  Not available to mission
Post Appraisal
Appraisal
Supervision:       Nov.83       1          6         A                     2        2            M/T/F
Mar.84      5         42         A,B,C,C,E             2         2           M/T/F
Sep.84       1        10         8                     2         2           M/F
Dec.84       1        10         8                     -         -              -
Sep.85      3         22         B                     2         2           F
Mar.86      4         32         A,B                   2         2            M
Jul.86      2         20         B                     -         -              -
Dec.86      6         52         A,B,C,F,G             2         2            M/T
Aug.87      3         26         A,B                   2         2           M/T
Mar.88      2         16         A,B                   2         2            M
1/  Estimate. Most missions combined supervision/appraisal of two or more projects.
2/  A = Agriculture Specialist, B = Civil/irrigation Engineer, C = Mapping Specialist,
0 = Livestock Specialist, E = Agricultural Economist, F = Economist, G = Remote
Sensing Specialist.
3/  Status 2 = Moderate problems
Trend 2 = Stationary
4/  M = Managerial, T = Technical, F = Financial.
C.   Costs
Not Available.



- 29 -
AUNNEX 1
INDONESIA: TRANSMIGRATION III PROJECT (LOAN 2248-IND)
TRANS - III: NUMBER OF STUDIES
Number  of          Number  of                 Pilot              Additional
Fkt         studies              studies                 Studies              studies
contracted          undertaken                 urdertaken         undertaken
_ -   I |77-t   -.i. II       IA|1(T.^C    |'- AG                   1 
A    2    | 13       9     2    | 11   | 
:.ew^,.^lcon.:e:;;
rea-ibilizv
B 5  96  1 ll  c 1.22      6       -      3    irriztior,  Rz zioral contex:
seile-...   Soil ccnj5erva:i:r.
. ______ -- .1 -      _____          __. _ l      i ,es:or.e    A.lter zaive f - -ces
22     11      11C   22    11       3      5   1                 esibilitv
11 1____ I _____ I ____ ____ ____ _____ _____ ___________ Re-ional contexz
22        1   9           |11   |3    |7                        Feasib4litv
22                          I ______- ..e.ic al contex:
125      12   110   127   112   1 3               1Feasibility
1      1_____  I  ______  I  _____  I   _____  ______  ______  _____________ Regional  context
v 2?          11      9    22  II        31       5                     Feasibilitv
11 12_  1        1              3   1  -   I-                      P.ion.l context
t!1||23    11;    |ll   1 3 jil   K  j3    I -    I ___I __ |?e;ional context
_l                                         6
TH1-  1-_ 6  1-  1-  16  v1  -I_________
feasibiltv
I25l 1Q2    16         23          3                               R.e t
L.    I I    3 I         I 4..        I            ......Ib1--eeliaFt 
_  ~~ 11 -                       K - 1  --I   -          aIR2o      1______
p2$-   In       c            9256 |  | 23       __        _         _ _ _              _
(T) = Tas'  s:udies (A)   Assistan.ce Conce,t



- 30 -
ANNEX 2
INDONESIA
TRANSMIGRATION III PROJECT
(LOAN 2248-IND)
TRANS - III: PHASE IIIA RESUL'TS
Abbreviations
SFSE 82   :   Screening (PF'ase II) Feasibility Studies and Detailed
Engineering (Phase IIIA) carried out under Trans III
WPP            Wilaya Pengembangan Partial (Partial Development Region)
SKP            Satuan Kawasan Pengembangan (Development Unit)
KK             Kepala Keluarga (Family Head, i.e. No. of families)



A\nnexs 2
l;!S    wp:(stP .       It: of i.    Wt;irg1        Ttu I t.         rar  rce I  Wvos! :: !.i' t.1            :°                      t ,g;  f  tC r  ;l        l;    5  I          trst;
;gtil  tO be           ilC, Aet.' 5:1:' 1                                                                              VwS t   l  t'!rtOi
thl    otmt3ni                                                  i     :r,                           *r s  
*Pf>ov,nc, P.RKu
Etinillaing l/flI;    22                                      ;116      Wetl:Ad                                   Cnic-ern ai:                                                           ,rc^ r ;e:
ltngi,ining 1;;M"                        2.25                 $M1      Ytt'anc                                                  st ^s.-rt-eunlm,   1                          52       Oa^rtdnf  rloulf!2
Ot  .U11111/8'.            l9    2.25 s2                         Iein                                      Xr             9tr-i-r!:^4nicil                 C.. .i                rr9nzt  Eftov'ri
to;s intl lll^/t:     1'10    2.iS                 611       Stlan,                                   None            r;r:et     n.ta Il                            52       bramige rmciri:
tCI 0blIil4    '           83     2;2S                 i         Wg e0ane                                 U.'at           mm nicani I2                                           De rainage *evu.rd
i OU Ifaah IlilclAi          131l   2.25                  167       ret),nd                                  Ror.t                                            t.1thilc  U*!         Drrinsite reurii*
let 1nigh ttillitl            4X72.2   MS                           Ytetltnd                               tn Nonitecl                                              i     l o  U    Or& i.;age recuired 
lo:t iten5a   Ilillb"s           1113   2.25                2H62       ittilano                                 hone            seml-c'e:befical I                             ; 2     Dtainag t touirtO
Iota lingah Illib/C             12i3    2;,2S                1tlO    etlraOd                                    Rvit            Sefi-ttchanica)                  a             p?  ~ rcinz    retuiree
10o8l tng1th Xlllb/Di        tl  I2   2.S                    45t2      Wetiand                                  hOne            S:Fi-mctahnical                103            250      Drainigt rtnuired
7O:1 tenan ll h 1/02             MQS   LA2                    6!26     wet.'1rd                                 Hen!            'emi-neehan1:11                :i             i60       DOfar-age re-.uirEo
kCta ttinslS ti [IIhr           fill    2.25                 4617      WftLnc                                   kInt            ;e:h   ftiC!                    25            .50$     Drainage rez if e:
tntgea  12JJl,C.t,t   :t 7   2.SD         t;'0      O.S ha houselt   ^ 2.Q  ta ,fe           01t O1:410      l{+al  letn                     .              2        !Rt:i:e
U.'u; .19 yedin                 L2f     I2.S                   h! ela                                            t^re           '*k-::!!                         X4                      #ng    Eoulrto
lthJI tsin:ln  t111{   5 13     .00                i17         rr;nC      1 .0 ha tftt oroo           Futcer          Sb-en^tl.;*S                                             etlt,!
(old Fi l
to Z
rx



S"j' '2 Phtse ill A StuOies - Surriary of fesults
Naple Of IIPPJSEP,       No of Et.   No1)D9Ig        1oel ra        Fara eodel lHNuselot Q.2£ he            lypelsi        Peth^d sf land  Fert.liser   L1ii.  (gli              Co-traritLs
sl2e/Ck       to ce          !Czc.  lere S.tEd)l                     ^f                ;E:r:!1tg        ig0 .er.nuo       Ioryiiidl
Ihal          dee.o Ce4                                              Tree C!.cs                         Idr.lenGl
I Prorince LALBAR
Ulef Sebut IYl/A              rl'0    2.t0                "!60      -r!tt land + 1 .0 ha tree croD    PuDbtr                'i-rechenica'                 £21           -Q0       Frtil;h.. !rn, :rtGit
hangs  Kau J.llb/8            13      3.50                 1i22     frlr!ye!enG * 2.23 " e tret             p.tber          Seei-pecanuical              "23           1200
ianga ftCo  TlcTC              908    3.50                 5555    0r Yet i 4  * 2.2' ha tree              Putber           ezI-lechinical               .'5           :0        Sicoe, ftrUiiity
crop
mange Mat  illc/G             1224   3.50                 1'-9      Drylhetlond 1 2.25 Cs tree              Rubber         Seal-nechicical                ^ 5          1200       lcoe, fertility
crop
Ranqi  Yeralai                1222   2.00/2.25            4204      itxture dry/yetliand, tree croG    Pubber              Serai-mechanical               251          7700      fertility,  i;t!
lYDIIA/
Cinga  Fera£ai                1616    2.00                          Orylwet(and * 1.0 ha tree crop    Putter               Seni-rechanical               220           5000      Slcpe. fertility, fortstry
7;Y111ll
kanga kerakai                 1560   3.50                 0*4;    Oryland t 2.25 ha tree crop              Rubber          Seni-rechanicol               351           7100      Fertilty, l.ra
IYl(I/N
kengL Pinch IlIa/S            1230   3,50                 1;.6      Ory/aetiand  $ 2.25 ha tree            Rubber          Seni-rechanical               230           1224      3OlDt, fertiiity
crop
Range Pinoh  liOu/E            113    3.50                .1i9      Ory/vetland $ 2.25  ha tree            Rutber          Se,i-uecbanict 1              25            1200      Sloc,t  fertilit
crop
an;1 TlaaD Illb/C           108T   3.50                  5009     Dryenod . 2.25 ho cree crop             Rubber          Ser-netchanical               W56           100       Fertility, live
Stptncjk )/C                 1271    J.50                 t'°S     Drylwtiland ' 2.25 ha tree              Pukte'          'em -,tL0n-'l                 25             ^CQ      Sl;t  'ertill:y
crcr
Singkawng,                   SSli   3.0D                 2HAc      bryiend * 2.0 ha tree croD              Rubber          Sem.-rechanhcel                                         ic:e,  !ertility
W010,01 ,J                                                         IPIR)
Sugbraja OlYa/A              It(0    2.00                 05u2     Dryland s 1.0 ha tree crop              Ruober          Seni-rechfinical              431          2700       fertility, line
Sutartijl J!Y/C              1960    2.Q0                 *!!3     Oryland 4 1.0 ta tret crops             Rutter          Seei-aechanica)               t;1          2 1t0      CertiLty, lire
Suharaji 0lYAJD              14(5   2.00                  ;s5      brylend 4 1.0 hB  tree C!op             Rutter          Cea-rechentical               34           2;00       fertiUltr,  ) 
Suharalla  IYa/E             1956   2.00                 '.'3      Ortlnod * 1.0 ha tree crop              PuDber          Seri-rechtnical                1          e150       Frrtilty, lire
Sukaraja  llYl/G             !l20   2.00                           Dr2 vryland + 1.0 ha tree cr^:          Putber          3ec-r-eChn I L!                            22C0        e,tiiity. I;re
Sungai Antu Jba/A               0   *                        O    PIR                                      Rubber                                                                Not re:ornetced f3r  %rze;itt
and B                                                                                                            .1e^etou
Sungli Ante OXlWC            16P6   2.00                 t.;       Dry!/etland  # 1.0 hi tree crop   Pubber               Seni-rechanalu                 320           MD00      Slote, fertility. droirner
lutuarPg Iiti                 110   2.00                 22rT      Dryland t l.G  ha tree croo            Pu2ber          Seai-rechanicfl                            '.Q0        Certilty, l'ne
1l0YU-Sukareja
0!Ya/F
Tubang Tit  h.OId/C         1414   3.S0                   92l     Orylend t 2.25 ha tree :°oo             Rubber          Seo1-wechanlc1l               295           '200      iertflity. line
tuobenO liti 1lhd/0         1!96    M.50                 0422    DVyland * 2.25 ha tree crcD              Ruoter          Seri-re:hson:ol               721           400        0ood liortsv'y,  erti1t!,
!'rt
tuebsn; titi 1d0/f          1352    2.00                 t 'S     Cryland + 1.0 ha t'ee crop              Pubber          Serm-?e:heni:aT               l.i           42Q!      5e'UIe ty. lire
luabang Titi liVG/f         l.10    2.00                 A(V1     Dryland * 1.0 t.o :ee croc              ?ubWer            el I-ni:han I:lI                          !00         at)it;    re 
.. sus;out         f....
(OjAt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(



xtNt of WPP;SI,P          Xo of i.t.   OclOI.          itC:i  rtt     C1'!. r.C:I :f.S!I tC,t 11               :,:E...         K,:: ci  an,           :; *r    ;D  )5 11               rsts 1ftInls
s:e:*   2 tt          E1t,~!ic  sreri s:ttefl                  :1                 :ert             C;i:nnit.    Ilry!r:l1
S Provina: .SuVsti
Babit  SI;II  IsollF               0   0                              s eCt CrcCSd t3 i:e:'aI  itaUI           Ki)             Uet :rC^Ed                       5              0      fr Sive Scds. SI::fs
Cons. Studyl
'.t'V «gurg 1hlJA              23il   2. 00                  7S5e   X 4  .  t.  ;ste :f::                        4::r           ; -^e:r.'z:i                  .             5!          EriU   i   hIr.r                                              I
l.ltu  Asur'9  t1134/A'         5t0    2.00                   13i2     1.0 ha^ ~t-lno  * Qi.S 6.  t    ae      Pute r P.tz1raftsticr              5           1!                      Iotler.ktatLon   !  clclt
iSpOntilil  *,'4- '   ,   ''OD                                                                                                           ^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rc ,ect
3Soontan)                                                             Crope
tetlptt Bitat lotin                       so9 3,50           W1(1      Dr'.and * 2:Sa rl te   foD              Putter             t                                          liSC.    furtill't
fIOIIF
tttlOit Babat Toqar              e      3.50                 5629     Oryland #?.25 ha  tree cruo              Putter          Sea--aechanict3                F18          t250       fertility
IY]b/G
MulIti 9a)iti IIIlE.             509   3,50 soSS                      Oryland # 2.25 ha tree :!a               Putter           Senl-tiechAniCl               *21           ;250      firtility
Peninjun 11Db/J               1033    2.00                  i3i1    Oryland I 1.0 ha tree CroD                Ruter           seti- e:hrn;:fl                              25tkO      Firtihit!, lit
Sungai Petli  llrrji.           260    2.00                 ;i.2      0.5 ha sehah * 1.25 ta tret              Pulttr          Pechmcl;2                       £0            .00       Ir.lementation  is Wet
Pilot Project)                                                         crcp
touros  as
jr 3
Ab L
lX



SF5i 6t Phase III A Studies - Suruary cf Pesults
Nare of tPPISl;P  *   Ko of 71.   Holding          Total hi       Fart todel IHouseiCt 0.25 ha          ThGe(s)         Vethlid of Iard  Fertillser   Ltine 19/lk            Constraints
sle/tk        to te          tic. there staeteJ                     ^f              :c trr.g         il/lWt!rvAa       ldryland)
Ihal         Odteloped                                              ;ree  Croes                       ldrylend
8 Province LALIEN2
turs1i  l0,U  Ifast)         1130   2.00                ;2eS      Dro,!cnd * 2.0 ha tree croo            Uitter         Xancal                         5ES        5200       Slcce. fertility, torestry
rraai l)s!i (W.est)          145S    2.00               10494    Orlrand I 1.0 ha 'N     e croo          putwr          ftnuel                         05         '2t0       fertility, slo:t, ferestry
tuati lIaiUI                 111o    2.00                1120     Oryland a 1.0 ha tr'e cre              F r.Uber       Se&i-techanital,               9          22.3       Slcce. fertility, flonoinS
Luall ha/VY  (North)         2320   2.00                10943     Oryland 4 1.0 ha tree crop             Rouber         ranual                        22s         3900       Fertility, slope, !ortstyr
Avia IlaIT Isouthl          1110   2.00                 6260     Orpland * 1.0 ha tree creo             Futter         Seni-Sechanical               .!S         2128       Slcoe, fertility   flooding
lauli londing lob/H          2455   2.00                 1410     Dryland a 1.0 ha trte :roo             Coconut        Semi-R'echaaical              ilS          2150      Slope, fertility, floeeinj
(North)
auat  btodaIng 61D/H         1100   2.00 130                     Pryland t 1.0 ha tree crop             Coconut        Seei-mechaawcal               165         2150       Sloet, fertility, flooding
ISouth I
Iausi bondang lob/I         2000   2.00                 8l00    Oryland t 1.0 ha tree crop               Coconut        Seai-NechAnicai               '60         2t10       Slope, fertility, flooding
uvarateawh lIla/ll           SI0    2.00                2420    Dryland t 1.0 ha tree crop               Rubber         Seei-Nechanical              380          2223       Slope, fertility, flooding
luarateeth  l11aICl          l25   2.0'J                 2050     Oryland o 1.0 ha tree croo             Rueber         Sezi-mechanical               380         2223       Slope, fertility, flooding
Oangabulik 11/9             1140   2 00                IOC60      Dryland 0 1.0 ha tree crop             Coconut        Sera-nechanical              360          6300       Fertility, forestry
(IKor th;
hingboulik till              S1l    2.00                6058    Dryland * 1.0 he tree crop              Coconut         Sezi-mechanical              395          3000       Fertility
(South)
oangsbulik JIlE             1625   2.00                 1846     Oryland * 1.0 ha tree crop             Coconut/        Seni-aechanial               "ED0         "!00      Fertility, slopes, forestry
rettan
SukanandAng A/C             1140   3.50                IOU       Orylanid 4 2.^S ba tree crop          C,^onut/        'SC-r.hiani:l                 l O          45O0      Fertility, sandy soils,
rat:in                                                              'orestry
Sukansndang I/D            1220   2.S0                  1180    Dryland * 2.2S ha tree crop             C2conut/       Semi-sechanical               tlO         4900       Fertility, soil depth,
(Etst)                                                                                                  rattan                                                             f'^estrj
Sukaxandang l/0            llOS   3.SO                  1012     Dryland * 2.25 ha tree croo            Coconut/       Sezi rechanical               4lO          StO0      Fertility, soil deeth.
(vest)                                                                                                  rsttaq                                                              forpstry
Suvamneding Ili              000   3.ID   94S5                   Oryland 4 2.25 ha tree crtp            'cconul/       Seti-aechanical              0eo           SGOO      fertility, sloDes, forestry
ratlan
Suhacandang 1/f            1O0O    2.00                 1510     Oryland # 1.0 ha tree croo           '.C:aont         seai-uiche t:l                303         4250       Fertility, slopes, forestr1
Ifastl
Subamantang llt            1015   2.00                 Slt4    Dryland a 1.0 ha tree croe               Coconut        Sero-setctanics8              ;'0         *250       Fertility, s er.s   fcrestfy
lest)
Sutetandang 1/6             956   3.10                  1216    Dryland 4 2.25 ha tree cMO              Coronut/       Seol-&echanl:el               '80          1800      Fertility, sandy soils,
rat;:.n                                                             forestry
Itwe hlour III A-D         610   2.00                 IS9      Oryland * 2.0 ha tret croo              co:eout        S!eitnte:han Il II                        15SO      fertility, fortstry
TeVth  irur III/BC           tlS    2.00               2640    Dryland a 1.0 ha tree crop              ?ueter          senl-eechail:al               Ito         1430       Fertility, forestry
i" S'J9TDTII us
29129
no y0.,At hi
21129                                                                                                                                                                                           m



SFSE 12 Phase III A Rtudis - .urr.-ry  f Ftsultj
Case of  $P/St P        ko of tI   Holding         lets) hta      Fars moOl IKouselot O.25 toa          Tye'sl         Ieth;d of l)r4d  ifrtiliser   lire Il9;k           Cnstsa"Ots
si:eIki      to be          rtc. anere stited)                    of                cw:^            Ir!'anna         idrylen )
(be)         devIeOpd                                             itee CroCs                        lorylandi
a Province ZAllTN
Avars Ancalong  Ill/A            0    0                     0    Hont                                   !Icne                                         0             0       ejct : sloet, forest status
Iutara An.slong  Illtt       I130   3.30                 7280    O1r1lnd * 2.2$ ha tree crop            C:onut         Sesi-mechani1                't0            M       fertility
Muobrn  ahtu Il/D            11\0   .QO (no0    Dry!snd a 2.0 Na tree crop                             Ctconut         Sersi-eechaenical            °00          ;io        o-ordiratien reuired with
FIP VI
iara  Iahalu IIE            IOGO   3.00        .        900    Dr)land i 2.0 he tree cro               CoO:Ohut       Stri-ethiancul               lQ300         iS       co-ordination rtCuirtd tith
FTP VI
vuars Vahav Il/F             1370   3.00               1ilGQ      Dryland + 2.0 ha tret croo            Coconut        Sesl-sechanical              '00           750      Co-ordination rtauired with
PIP VI
uvrs Va hau ll/G             1685   2.50                 °G 5    O.S ha a 2 ha tret PIR                 Coconut        Seni-stchanitcl              lO3           400      Co-ordination reouirted  ith
PIP VI
Poni. SIainnag                460   3.S0                 3910    Dryland + 2.25 ha tret crop            Coconut        Semi Mechanical              350          1300      Fertility, lita
lYIa/E
Aantau Pulung la/Ds          1120   i.00                 6120     Oryland * 2.0 ha tree crop            Coconut        semi-wechaniacl              t0            700      Availting allocation of  !ES
INES)                                                                                                    agency
Rantau Pulung IaOh          1110   3.00                 7100    Oryl&nd * 2,0 ha toree crom            Coconut        cemi-mechanp:0a              2of           100      Avaiting  lIlocation of PIES
I NES)                                                                                                   agency
Sebunta) fl8d/C              112S   2.50                4.°6      O.S ha house)ot * 2.0 ha tree         Cocoa          seti-pechanical               !5           20       ;ertilaity
crop (liES)
Sebunial jlvd/E              12.5   2.50                1. .9     0.' ha hegs!tot * 2.0 tree            :.cc!          .erl-V.ect:n0c±)              !!S '!50              Ffe:ility
crop INES)
Sesayap  /IA-C                .65   2.00                sel    Dryland * 1.0 ha tvee crop              Cocoa          SenD-9chaatil'.              2QO          '600      Access, liaD
IPRPIE)
Sotek ITIsC                   110   2.00                    0    None                                                                                 0             0      Unsuitable land, reject
lalissyan IA/A               1225   2.00                4910    Oryland i 1.0 ha trte ;ror              Coconut        Seti-techani:l               20G             0      ictss, water, stallow soil
IPAM~)
Telisayan 1l/8                135   2.00 QO             i          ryland * 1.0 ha tree Grop            Coconut        Eera  et:hani al             200             0      AccesS,  later. shallor soil
(FPF11E)
talisayan Il/C,D             1680   2.00                .620      aryiand * 1.0 ts trte crop            Ctconut        Strie-tecthnictl             ?tO             0      Access.  iater, shallow soil
IPPPTEI
tanjung eOoab TlIl/F          340   0                       0    Kcne                                   None                                                 0      0      Peject: flooding,  slopes
Tlanjuni   Se1or VIllA        EII    2.00                l.'Q     DrylI!rd * I.O ha tree crop           Co:c^ut        Sri-niechanicel              ;s0           200      fertility
IPRPE)
tS SUBIOtAL is
11797
117°1                                                                                                                                                                                    tIZ
I                  S-



Sf   E2 Phase Ill A Stucies - Suciary of Pesults
Rise  Of tPP/S3P         No of Lt    HcIding         lo )al he      il  Drootl klouselet 0.25 ha            Iot: s)        Ctthof of laan   fertilisef   LIAe  ig/ik              Ccnstraints
siz:ehl       to be          tet. whert Itateto                       of                cieairon          19iqavoooe        torylandl
Ihei          eevi'!ceoe                                              Iret Crons                         Idryl3nd
8 Provinte liJt
louner Ililu A                2400    2.2S                 :i;i  t!tItad                                     4n 'eol Mech0tnical                              0           16t      Pen ,t,  drinigt,  ltour
Oese  111F1ti-, L-R           *120    2.50                1l465      0.5 ha houselot I 2.0 ta tree           Putter          Serl-pectanicel               i6i            050      Soils, land teru t. s::ess
croo a?IF.l
Seraa  Il/A-C                 1290    2.25                 420D0      etland                                 42ne            Sti-r.echenictl                  0             0      PecoLe.  fertvli:y.    tInsce
Weras II!i                    Sioo    2.00                 53f1      WeWaOr0iean   * i.c  o toe1  :v^e    PuSher             Sesl-rae:soical                34?          1500       Pttott  itrt"t1
ercat 11/02                     "'    2.00                   2St      let/orylood 4 1.6  .a tree  c0   Co:oc;ut,             Sezi-riehtnical                241          1500       0eaoce, ;aru:r:t
;eshnv,
Cc ffee
Bttea IIJD1                    100    2.00                  2611     oetldryland 4 1.0 ha tret crop    Potber                Sell-rechawcal                 341          IScD       0eott, Ftrtility
Etrmi  If/(f                   1,20    2.25                 4225     vetlend  * 1.0 he trte crop             Clove.           SeAi-mechanical                 0              D      PeoIot,Ftrtilhty,drain*qt
Ru:ier
Barm   I/Ft HtI00    2.00                                  S351     Tet1tn   * 1.0 ha trte crop              Pubber          Seai-techanical                 0              0        merote, Fertility
mlaa  ilF2                     124?    2.00                 4235      Yet/dryland  * 1.0 tree crop            Rutter          Seai-rechanical               341           1500       Retott, fertilit)
6OaDoro fI}lelA                1509    2.50                 5119      0.5 ha hocstlot * 2.0 ha tree           Rutter          Seui-aech nical                                o S00  5 SloDes, rteote, aa0tteinq
crop (PIR)
Boaboro XIIII/C-0              1500    2.50                 5461      0.5 ha houstlot a 2.0 tret              Puoher          Seti-Kechonicel               650            S60       Sloas, reaote. etrketing
crop IPIR)
lorboto leilt/F                1500    2.50                 I140      O.  ha houjselot * 2.0 ha (PiRI    puaber               Sesil.iechanficl               190           S0o       Slopes, recotl, £areittirg
Elopal 11111aJO                2:^0    2.25                 5135      het/drylaad                             None             inuil                        2               50       Fertliltp, access, vattr
supply
6upul XXIlIhID-E               2140    2.25                 5o60     oit/dryland                              lone            Manual                         I5 10                   Fertility, access. water
6apul 10111t/E                 2300    2.25                 5830      ttt/drylnd                              Hoone           Maonul                         .°S           750       Fercil.ly   ec:ess   uoeer
wply
Jagebob xxlvc!N                3!h     2,25  LS9                      acioly ittlend                          More            Kanual and                    1I0            600       fertility,
!etl-stchanical                                         warting,transoortaton
Jgatbot fOIYcO-0               2000    2.25                 4,25    Kmainly  fetland                          Mont            lanual and                     140           600       fertilitLY, aCLess.  alOes
Stti-sechenical
J4gebob XltVc/O                I10I    2.25                 1449      lt  1F wetlano                          NoOne            sanual and                    140           600       fertility, acess, rarit:s
Seci-techanica I
A43i0  f5101tC                 1912      .50                1145      let(drylnod * 2.25 ha trte              Coconut         casual                         2t5 iS0                 Carhet,  luttr   vcgly
true
aokaope  W5!I&A-E             10    2.00                 10627       0,yCetllnd  * 1.0 la 'te t'-n    lubber.                jeal-Mechanical                cS0                     Sroslon,  Soil 4!::h. F!g  Al
Pikooc  IiXa/8-F               1420    2.00                 15s34     Dry!etteito  * 1.0 ha t!et crop    Puaoer               Stail-.:haniu)                 650                      Erosion, Soil decth. m;ch Al
RakcOa ZIIaI/C-F               "'10    2.00                 1 ;.      OrA/tl and I 1.0 ha t'ee cre   Putter                  eCCi.Mtcnaniiit                550                     rrosion, Soil cectt. hdn Al
huting  1llIl/jI              1fOo   3S00                  S':S      let/drrlind  * # ee  c-o                tvtctr         lmansal                          °D 150                  rertility   eerte:s.  Ic:ess
stttr sueply
?uting 2lilic/f2               1500    M.Q0                   Ol?     iet/dryland  " tet :r.o                 Pauber          Msnuel                        'S             ;S        ;Irtility,        t:le:s. !::  S.          -
water sr*301v                             CD    Z
Ota   l IIIIIi/ll              ISQ0    2.25                  "        taet orylin! aI,  ha tree Coo   C;o;nct                  i .t-re:honical                tie         .250        'etil;y, ac:ess, ro'Ie:s                   r    n
':tshlt                                                                                                          *    xev
Oteba III:  ll2                1500    2.25                  1509      Yet/oryiano      .0 I.    tl:'a. :':0     ':t- .t t      et.-Ir:tani                     6   S          GSI10   erc I:v, o::ess. *.r -!:S                      N
0K.ite Otlf21i                 2000 1    .5Q   6       i l6            hetI4rleed  * 2 .3 5 G !    ttetr t:c S.e                          .-:l  !; :                        e*.s ,  s  r
>z  Vt3;11if2                  2000    1,50   *             tC20C      yeti,rilod  a 2.20 7 a  tree            Cs::nut         *em..r.tet.:nicrl r;!                        :!e        Ir:  lUr   teso.   rie:o



SfSE 12 Phse III A Studies - Srt.Ary or Fesults
Name of IPPISLP          No of S1   Holdir.g        lo:tl ha       Farm model  youstelct 0.25 ha          Tvivsl si          hm* H 1 lne  :trtil,s!r   lime tg I.             trstraInts
sizeilA       to be          ett. whert stutell                     t'                cI r  ng         @lI;eanu           t lora'ao4
Iha)          deve!op!d                                             Pee Crcgs                         ior)'Indl
8 Province IPJA
0.IabD  oiJ fICI              2060    2.2'                 H41    gainly wet!apd i 1.0 ha tree           Ck:Inut/         Sel ?!:hriefl                6i0          ;250       Aetilit, access. r.rlets
Ohbaa X1l1MC2               2000    2.iS               542      Drylwet!ar.1 + 1.0 tla tree c!ca    *           :^ tJ    rl teche     l             tg           !  Q       Fertilty3, access. :ettl 
tUslev                                                              Y!I r SuCOY
Okoba flhl1f/ 0l              2000   2.25                 5456     Yet/dryland * 1.0 ha  tree             Cocenut         Semi     ace.;                            1000      fertility, ac:ess, rarkets
croo                                   ictsh!vr
Okaba  hlllI/D2               2000   2.25                 6915     Yet/dryland * 1.0 hi  tree             Coconut         Seni-eechonical.             tiS          1000      ftrtility, access, mlarkets
croo                                    ceshew
Okaba 1111i!/D3               2000   2.25                 1861     Cetldryland 01.0 ha  tree              Coconut         Semi-mechanical              t            1000      Fertility, access,  tarhets
crop                                   !cashew
Okabe XlIlllfii               2000   2.25                 5401     let/dryland f1.0 ha  tree              Coconut         seli-rethanizal              655          10W0      Fertility, acctss, narkets
crop                                   Icashew
Okabo   I1if/E2               2000   2.25                 I559     mainly metland 4 *   0 ha tree         Coconuts       Semi-techanical               ll           1250      fertility, access, markets
crop
OkahI IlilIt/FI               3500   2.25                 4163     Nainly Wetland                         Coconlut Ca    seil-echanical               6U5           1000      Fertility access, markets
Cashew
Okaba 1XIIIfZ/F               I000   2.25                 4600     Ilailly aetland                        Coconut.       Semi-l-hanice.l               655          3000      Fertility, Access,  arirets
Cashew
OkbaG  101111/61             7000    2.25                6'45      nalinly Yetilad                        Coconut,       'emi-K!lienicas              615           1(60      Fe'tility. ettess,  mer!etsI
Cashe                                                                                                                          w
Okaba 11l11ING2              2000   2.25                 ;644      Kainly octiand                         Co:onuts.C    Semi-rechan:eal               t1 'o0o                 Fertility, access, rrikets
asheI
Okaba 11111 103             1480   2.00                 8358      orfloetlAnd 4 1.0 Pj tree :roe    Ccon:t              Semi-lQchenlcs!              ;S1          2698       Soil, ory seis^n.  oo'ehe
iat er
Obaba U1lltf/N               2380   2.00                 M525     Orywettland * 1.0 ho tret croo           e:nuct        Se.i-cechen    lt1                        ,:o        fertility, access.  rttlets
Ohaba 11!11l(/               1904   2.00                 "26      Dry/Wetland 4 1.0 ha tee crO0    Co:onqt               Seni-Kechan:jal              .SI          211        Soil, dry setson, potabe
water
Okaba 11l11f/1.2             2000   2.00                  W12    Dry/oet land    1.0 ha tree crop    toconut             Sem9-Se:l nical               5           3013       'ol, dry seasvn, Dotebie
OkAba filhlIff/J-            1030    2.00                6iA8     Orylcetland a 1.0 ha tr!e crop   CoColut               SeiCca.cl151                              2440       Soil, dry season. potable
water
Pantai Tinur AlMAlA           960   3.50                 5542     Wet/orylind * 0.1  ha                  Co:onut         See.:-teeltanilc;             t0          1250       Peetet  access, forestry
t-eecross * 3.S  t.a reserve          coica
Sskeiulusn 11lle/Al          1230   2.0D                 tS2        ry/Ibtlend # 1.0 ha tree crop    Putber              SerI-.e:haA!c1i              t Q'osion. Soil atoDh. High Ai
Sokelulun XhII]e/A2          ie20    2.00                :545      Dry/wetltad 0 1.0 ha tree Croo   Putber               Ier.i-tecnin- j                 Qesicn, Soil ieeth, Vi,g  Li
Stke)lun XIlle//1            200   2.00                  ES"2    Drylwetltr 4   1.0 ha tVee CrcD    Pu                   seri-i'e:atno:eI             "Q0                     trosior, Soil eet-'. H. ih '1
Saktelulvn XIIIte/2          1645    2.00                .°?!    Dry/veUclid +1.0 ho tree creo    6tjter                 ;ewierl-eezo l               gi0                     1osion, Soil deeth. Hi:5h Al
Salelalun IJllelCI          ';'0   2Li                  ;65 '     Mainiy wetland                         C0:M:nt.CA    *-e.Ee:h..  i^.               t i           !C0       ;artil!:y, r-t1e:st olccss 
sFebs          -rcinj   'resSure                                                                               °'  z
toz
Sakelulun 11.111tIC2         1500   2.25                 Et°l      P&ir ly wet±od           :^:fl a                                                   !et.ir e;r..  ; o , S  1600  fertlity,  itmlts, s:cess                m
ce:rCu' t s e'eurt                                                                                lx
Salellutn loxile/DI   iQ00           2.  i                  S.'            aet!a                             Ot^.    v   6ewi-re:f l. Iit t.r         1i010                   Fertility, taries, access
5g3e'Sl¢n Y.).ilte!C2         5t    ?  5         ~       :il-              ..! :! *!!                                       '- *     :.,              *             '.U.      "'-: !:   .        e:!S. ~:.'5!
tiltiulu, 1.I I I t"t3      1!9 Q. 2.                   tt           ''                                      ^'.:          e :h.,                     .           It'Qt      1er:liy ,.nleti, aIC:eSI
talelulom~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ eylec                                                   . ..  -.... 



1IlDONES IA
T§AhSMIGRATION III PROJECT
(LOAN 7248-111D)
Implementation of Settlements Planned under Trans III
Provine             No. of settlements ISKP)         Total capacity IKKI                       SKPs Imslemmnted to I Hard  1989.
planned durina Trans III       of olanned settlements              Nam              Land cleared      fjuslgn    Settled
(KKI          (unit)        (Itt)
Rias                                 19                           31.155
Kota Tengah A               328             328           328
tanqqam A. C & 0          1.264           1.264         1.764
South Sumatera                        6                           6.813                                                                                           1
Huara Oellti 1              350                                            L.
Reninjasuan J               742             742           742               o
Vest Kallmantan                      23                           36.5?l
Nanqa Mau C               1l1SO
Central Kallmantan                   22                          28,129
N4nqabulik [                200             200           200
leweh I*,ur A                        -                    337
East Kalimantan                      IS                           17.797
Irlan Jaya                           69                         121.171
Sumyanggar 0                soo               -            -
sfuul 0                     600               -            -
TotlS                                                            2j1596                                          5 1             2953         Z866
I!>
m
x
wA



- 39 -
ANNEX 4
INDONESIA
TRANSMIGRATION III PROJECT
(LOAN 2248-INO)
Far,, Sizes Pronosed In Trans III PhNse IIlA Recorts
ProvincelModel (ha)  2.00  L.Z2  2_Q  1&Q   3            nixed   Total         iftkg.      Wetland
OcL       PQtential
£tudles Recommnded
Rliu                      1    17      1      -      -      -        22         19            17
South Sumatra             3      -     -      -      3      -         6          6             -
West Kalimantan          12      -     -      I    10       -        28         23            10
Central TMelimantan    17        -     -      -      S      -        22         22             -
East Kalimantan           S      -     3      5      2      -        19         15
Irian Jaya              12    32       4    _       _       4       -74         69 6i
Icit.l                   57    49      8    11    25        4       171        154            92
St   ..       S   ..       Cu   ..    .=              30=            52 =



INDONESI
TRANSMIGRATION [11 PROJECT
(LOAN 2248-INO)
Oaturala Extension
Food Cron Production and Inputs
y..ear 1   /       .  .        .. . .  Year   . ..U. ..           ......  Year I 
1tiQ                          hzea    Veld    Product10n            Area        fl.id    Production          mrea        YJi    Proauctiton
(ha)   (kg/ha)        (kg)           (ha)       (kg/ha)       (kg)            (ha)       (kg/ha)       (kg)
Uetland Rice                                 C.03    1.600          48           0.08          1.500        120           0.16          2.050        328
Upland Rice l/                               1.04       8OO        832           0.91            1so        683           0.45            800        360
maize                                        0.09       450         41           0.10            590         58           0.07            2S0         18
Soya Beans                                   0.02       290          6           0.04            250         1O           0.03            200          6
Groundnut                                    0.05       450         23           0.05            400         20           0.02            3S0          7
Cassava                                      0.06    3,500         210           0.13          3.000        39';          0.19         2.100         400
Mlixed Crops                                   -          -          -          (0.14) _1          -          -          (0.10) 2/         -           -
Homelot Mixed Crops ll                       0.10         -          -           0.30              -          -           0.25             -           -
Total Food Crop Area l/                      1.39         -                      1.61              -          -           1.17
Inputs A/
Upland Rice: Urea (kg)                      Free       ( 80                                       ;S                                       40
TSP (kg)                     Package       80                                      80                                       40
KCI (kg)                                    -                                       25                                      tS
Hired Labour (man-days)                     -                                       10
Other Crops: Urea (kg)                      Free       ( 20                                       20                                       60
TSP (kg)                     Package   ( 20                                        20                                       SS
Family Labour Use (man-days):
Farming 1l                                120                                      130                                      100
Livestock                                  30                                       30                                       30
Off-Farm/Rubber                           120                                      140                                      160
l   Includes double cropping.
2 A lrea occupied by each crop In mix re-allocated to Indirvdual crops listed above.
XJ  Land preparation by oxen.
f41  Plus seeds Rp2.000; pesticides Rp3.000; equipment Rp9.500 In years 6 and 16.
51 1982-93.
Sourc : 198 Aqro-fcono.lc Survey of frans I and III Areas and 1Is-.1on l1.tielda'%



TIN IND*JONESIl   RJC
(LOAN 2248-INS)
Baturata Extenslon
ube    Ilds and Inauts Inormal Tanalnol
kAr._j I1t °UrJ          Yer 7    Year   lir              eI   ea      r 01     YelIarie.2  LS D..2Z -Ter 23-24                     IULJ2
Yield (gltree URCltapping)       nil          6.7       11.7        16.7       20.0      21.7       23.3          2S.0              20.0             16.7           16.1
Yield (kglbe OIC)                nil          400        700       1,000      1.200     1,300      1.400         1,S00             1.200            1.000          1.000
Urea (hg/ba)                     ISO          200        200         200        200       200        200           200               200              200
TSP (kg/ba)                      100          IS0        150         IS0        IS0        1S0       150           1S0               150              IS0             -
POP (kg/ba)                       90          IS0        IS0         150        IS0        1S0       IS0           150               IS0              IS0             -
Kieserite (kg/ha)                 20           S9         S9          S9         S9        S9         59            59                59               59              -
Crop Chemicals (value)         Rp9,000    Rp26,000  Rp26,000   Rp26,000  Rp26.000  Rp26.000  Rp26.000           Rp26.000         1p26,000          *p26.Of0           -
iaterlsis (value)                   -      Rp7S.000  Rp75.000   Rp7S,000  Rp7S,000  Rp75.000  Rp750Go          Rp75,000          Rp75,000         2p75S,r0
{laltenence (aen-days/ha)           -10                   10          10         10         10         10            10               10               10
Tapping (man-days/ha)              -          150        IS0         IS0        150        IS0       1S0            150              IS0              1S0            IS0
A  llubber establishment In Tear 0 * 19SS-1986.
Mur.c:  Mission estimates. Yields based up"o  Trans I recorded deliveries by O05 to PTP X. Inputs recorded In PTP X contract.
a  z
cr z
_Mr
^ x



TRANSNICRATION III PROJECT
(LOAN 2246-110)
flattwala Extension
Rulbber Yields-ago Inputs  ltmleTm1a
.X8KQ:5 11 Yer.  IgaZr  JYear  0    year               Ytoear PL tar 11 Yer  t4 11_               a-ear  15
VPlld (glhree ORC/tappmngp      nil          6.?        it.?      16.7      20.0       21.7      23.3       23.3      21.7        19.3         15.9
Yield (kqflha RC)               offl         too      1,400      2.000     2,400      2,600     2.800      2,600     2.600       2,200        1.900
ItJIMIS
Urpm (kglha)                    ISO          200         200       209        200       200        200       200        200        200           -
VP (th)                         too          150 I15 IS        O  ISO         150        SO        150       1S0       150 ISO                  -
MOP  bghlbm)                     90          150         150       ISII       SO        ISO        ISO       ISO        150        150           -
Klesarite (qk/ha)                20           S9          S9        S9         59        59         S9        59         S9         S9           -
Crop Cheslcal  (value)       lp9.000   *p26.000   2p26,010   p26,000  *p26G000  lp26,000  lp26.000  1p26,000  1p26.000   *p26,000              -
materials (value)                  -      Rp7S,OOo   Rp7YSOWO  Rprs.OOO  *7S,OOO  R"75,000  2p7S,000  1P7S,O0O  Rp75,000   *p?S.OOO              -
RIlateanue (.am-daysihe)          -          tO          10        10         to        10         tO        10         10         tO           -
topping (sma-days/ha)                        300         300       300        200       300        300       300        300        300          300
11  Rubber ertablilsl_t In Yomr 0O * 1935-196.
msa:  Mission estlmates. Ylelds based upo  Trans I tamer fteld date collected by mission.
ob z
v-r
ED X
W un



- 43 -
ANNEX 5
Table 4
INDONESIA
TRANSMIGRATION III PROJECT
(LOAN 2248-IND)
Financial and Economic Prices of Outputs and Inputs
Unit          Financial         Economic
(Rp)             (Rp)
Outputs
Paddy                   kg                292             270 1/
Maize                   kg                150              187
Cassava                 kg                 30              27
Soybean                 kg                600             540
Groundnut               kg                750             675
Rubber                  kg              1,356           1,469
Inputs
Urea                    kg                165             418
TSP                     kg                170             442
KCI                     kg                165             327
Kieserite               kg                450             231
MOP                     kg                165              327
Farm Labour          man-days           2,000           1,600
1/ Average of Export-Import parity price of paddy.



- 44 -
ANNEX 5
Table 5
INDONESIA
TRANSMIGRATION J'I PROJECT
(LOAN 2Z48-IND)
Farm Income at Baturaia
(Constant 1989 Prices - Rp'OOO)
Year 1 1/         Year 6          .    Year 16
SAR    PCR        SAR 2/ PCR        SAR      . .  PCR
Food crop        270    360        890    360       1,400      280       280
Rubber            -      -          -      -        1,600    1,680 1/ 3,310 4/
Off-farm         360    200         70    200          30       200      200
Total            630    560        960    560       3,030    2,160    3,790
1/ Excludes subsistence assistance.
g/ SAR in Year 5.
3/ With normal tapping of rubber.
./ With intensive tapping of rubber.



INDCINES [A
TRANS16RATION 111
PROJECT COMPtETION REPORT
Economic Rate of Return Calculation
lith Norsal tappinq of Rubber
(Conetant 1989 Prices - Rupiah Million)
YEAR                                            VI            Y2            Y3            Y4             YS            Y6            Y7             ye            Y9
02/93         93/84         94/85         85186          86187         87/89         98189         89/90          90191
DENEFITB
I.Fars Intows                                   512           S24         1,046         1,072          1,096         1,119         11277         1,434          1,726
2.Proceu,ing Plants                               0             0             0              0           248           434           620           744            806                     V
3.Sc. N  Rubber                                   0                           0              0             0             0             0              0             0 
6 Ttal                                       512            524         1,048  -      1,072         1,344          1,553         1,897         2,17         2,532
COSTS
1.Fars Costt                                    192           192           354           802           844          k,'06         1,362         1,420         1,448
2.Projecti Costs                              1,157           140           397            65            507        10,475         5,10;             0              0
3.OI  N Costs                                     0             0             0              0             0             0             0           500            500
4,tc. Na Rubbhr                                   0             0             0             0              0             0             0             0              0
S.Total                                    1,349            332           771           967         1,351        1',791          6,46          1,520         1,9U4
NET BENEFITS                                      (9371          192           277            205            171      110,2281       (4,5681           259           584
ERR                  11.342
a) 0) 
m  c-
- m



t10           1t1          Y12           113          Y14           i15          116           V17           v11           119          V20
91/92         92/93        93194         94195        95196         96/197       97/99         98199         "9100         00/01        01/02
2,021        2,596         3,126         3,666        4,206         4,746        5,109         5,212         4,912         4,612        4,312
902        1,026         1,076         1,122        1,14U        1,165         l,13          1,191         l,19l        t1,005        1,005
0        ~ ~0           0            0            0             0             0             0            0             0            59
2,923        3,612         4,204         4,798        5,354        5,911         6,372         6,403         6,103        5,617         5,376
1,476        1,S18         1,546         1,574        1,602        1,630         1,658         1,662         1,642         1,622        1,602
0            0             0             0            0             0            0             0             0             0            0
500          500           500           500          s            500           500           500           500          500           50
O            f             a             0          120           so            30            T0            30            30            0
1,976        2,019         2,046         2,074       2,222         2,160         2,188         2,192         2,172        2,152         2,132
947        1,574         2,159         2,714        3,432        ',751         4,184         4,211         3,3t1         3,465        3,244
......................... ., ......... ,,, ........................ --  -.--------
axotIz
N
I, 



V21           V2&                          Y24           Y2S           Y26            Y27           Y28           Y29            Y30
02/03         03104         04105          05106         06107         0708          08109         09/10          IOIII         11112
4,012         3,712         3,1412         3,112         2,812         2,512          2,212         1,912         1,612          1,303
1,005           882           882            055           209           209            192           175            175            97
103           147           116            191           206           220            220           220           220           220
5,120         4,740         4,470          4,159         3,2,7         2,942          2,624         2,307         2,007          1,611
...... .......... .............. ............................. ,..............................................................   _  ..      ___ .............. _._
1,582         1,562         1,542          1,522         1,502         1,482          1,462         1,442         1,422          1,402
0             0             0              0             0             0              0             0             0             0
500           500           500            S00           S00           S00            500           500 SO0                     500
30            30            30             30            30            30            30             30            30            30
2,112         2,o92         2,072          2,052         2,032         2,012          1,992         1,972         1,952          1,932
3,009         2,649         2,39           2,106         1,195            930           632           335             55          1321l
i> gD  Z
(o  cr z
1      m



- 48                                ANNEX 6
-                     ~~~~~Page  1
INDONESIA
TRANSMIGRATION III PROJECT
(LOAN 2248-IND)
PART I AMPLIFICATIONS
A.   PROJECT OBJECTIVES
a)   Site Selection and Evaluation
- Land Identification: to assist Directorate of City and Regional
Planning (DITADA)/MOT to identify sufficient land for settlement of
about  300,000 families,  and  to  continue  to  improve   planning
procedures;
-Lon   Range Planninq: to assess the long-term settlement potential
of the Outer Islands and evaluate constraints to land availability;
- Manpower  Development:   to  improve  the  capacity  of  Indonesian
consulting firms to undertake project preparation using standard
planning procedures, and to develop the technical skills of
DITADA/MOT staff;
- Institution  Building:   to foster institutional development within
DITADA/MOT and strengthen DITADA/MOT provincial offices; and
- Coordination: to improve inter-agency coordination through the
formation of a steering committee for site selection and evaluation
consi.ting of the main implementing agencies in the transmigration
programme.
b)   Baturaja Extension and Development
- Settlement - to extend the Baturaja project by 2,000 families,
settled on mixed food crop/tree crop units;
- Second Staqe Development - to introduce new agricultural support
services to the existing community, maintain existing rubber trees
planted under the Trans I project, train migrants in rubber
tapping, and construct rubber processing facilities; and
- Monitoring  and  Evaluation  -  to  introduce   and   monitor   new
programmes,   such   as   soil   conservation,   and  assess  their
replicability throughout the transmigration programme; and to
monitor topics of significance to programme development such as the
long-term viability of food cropping on marginal soils.
c)   Programme Development
- Directorate General of Transmigration (DGT) Training. To improve
the quality of transmigration settlements by training DGT staff,
particularly   on-site  staff  and  field  level  coordinators;  by
upgrading staff, curricula and instructor training within the DGT
training centre; and by evaluating career development in the DGT;



- 49 -                             ANNEX 6
Page 2
- Agricultural Research in Support of Transmigration. To enable the
Agency  for  Agricultural  Research   and   Development (AARD)   to
(i) prepare a feasibility study suitable for external assistance
for  a  comprehensive  programme  of   research   in   support   of
transmigration; (ii) support basic farming systems research in
South Sumatra and East Kalimantan; and (iii) undertake special
studies on alang alang control and home gardens in the outer
islands; and
- Technical Assistance to the Ministry of Development Supervision and
Environment (MOSE). To improve the capacity of MDSE staff to
monitor the environmental soundness of transmigrition projects and
to integrate environmental considerations into the selection and
development of transmigration sites.
B. PROJECT SUB-COMPONENTS
a)  Site Selection and Evaluation
- Five land resource evaluation firms would complete reconnaissance
of 50 sites for start-up purposes;
- domestic firms would be contracted to complete aerial photography
for about 345 sites;
- ten expatriate firms and their domestic associates would be engaged
to complete reconnaissance surveys on about 275 sites and detailed
evaluation and planning on about 130 sites;
- the most capable domestic firms working on the Trans II Project
would be engaged to undertake detailed evaluation and planning on
56 sites with advisory group supervision; and
- the advisory group would be extended for a period of two years to
help screen sites, supervise consulting firms, provide technical
advice and strengthen DITADA/MOT's provincial offices.
b) Baturaja Extension and Development
- Undertake reconnaissance of 50,000 ha and detailed village design
for at least 2,000 families; clear 3,000 ha of secondary forest;
- construct 40 km of primary access road and 70 km of village roads
and farm tracks;
- construct houses and vilage facilities for 2,000 families and
construct small dams for village water supply; providp settler
transport, subsistence supplies and agricultural inputs;
- distribute 2,000 heifers from the calf return programme;
- establish 2,000 ha of rubber trees; maintain 7,100 ha of rubber
planted in Baturaja and Way Abung under the Trans I project;
- construct and staff a Farmer's Cooperative Centre (FCC), a Rural
Extension Centre (REC) and a Plant Protection Brigade (PPB);



- 50 -                               ANNEX 6
Page  3
- introduce   soil   conservation  practices  and  provide  technical
assistance, supplies and services to improve soil conservation in
both old and new communities; and
- construct a 30 ton/day crumb rubber factory at Baturaja and a 15
ton/day factory at Way Abung; provide rubber processing machinery
and vehicles; and train migrants and provide rubber tapping
supplies and equipment for latex collection.
c) Programme Development
- DGT  Training.   144  man-months  of technical assistance; 300 man-
months of local scholarships and foreign fellowships; 4,200 man-
months of staff training in courses with improved curricula and
trained  instructors;  and  new  training  facilities   for   three
provinces and staff housing and equipment for 5 training centres;
- Agriculture  Research.   36  man-months  of technical assistance to
prepare a detailed feasibility study for research in the outer
islands; and facilities, equipment and technical support for basic
farming systems research in Sumatra and Kalimantan; and
- Environment.   108  man-months  of  iapecialist  assistance  to  the
Ministry  of  Development Supervision and Environment to assist the
MOSE to improve the environmerital soundness of transmigration
projects.
B.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
a)   Site Selection and Planning Delays
1.       The selection of sites for Phase II and III studies had been  based
on maps with a theoretical division of land into regional units (WPP) and
settlement units (SKP) which were not based on adequate base data and
preliminary surveys. During the complementary site screening carried out by
TAG and the Phase II field surveys carried out by consultants, a large
number of sites had to be rejected due to topography, local people and
forests. The TAG and the consultants experienced great difficulty in f nding
large tracks of flat land suitable for the upland food crop model. Large
tracks of adequate land were rejected because they were located near river
banks or in rubber forest where local people were established, or because
the area was under a forest classification which, according to the  Forestry
Department, was improper for settlement although the field studies indicated
that the forest classification or the boundary were outdated. Large areas of
inland marshes or sloping land which could have led to highly profitable
wetland or tree crop farm models, were systematically discarded during the
complementary site screening. As a result the production of Phase III
studies was severely hampered.
2.       The planning programme had a slow start, not  only  for  the  above
reasons but also because most of the 50 Phase II studies completed under
Trans II which were to be made available to consultants at the beginning  of
contracts were allocated to the national settlement planning programme and
directly utilized by MOT for opening new settlements, thus delaying the
production of Phase III studies. Throughout the planning process the TAG
applied continuous pressure on consultants to have them stay rigorously
within the agreed TOR. This compounded with the fact that reports had to be
produced and reviewed in English and Bahasa Indonesia may have contributed
to slowing the pace of production. There were some additional delays In the
production of Phase IIIA plans due to the change of farm size from 3.5 ha to



- 51 -                             ANNEX 6
Page  4
2.0 ha and also, towards the end of the project, due to the implementation
of 48 Phase IIIA plans by national consultants. In spite of these delays, by
end 1986, 92 Phase IIIA plans (54%) had been finalized and by mid-1988 all
of the 171 Phase IIIA plans had been completed.
b)   Mapping Systems
3.       Topographical  mapping involved the cutting of traverses at regular
intervals, the crossing of marshy lands and numerous gullies and the use of
delicate topographical instruments under hot, humid tropical conditions.
These maps were often carried out by local consultants without adequate
quality control. This drawback had been known for some time and the Bank had
agreed under Trans II to finance some research work on the use of an
airborne radar mapping system devised by Stanford Research Institute. The
testing of this system was continued under Trans III, but it soon became
apparent that the system had a number of drawba.ks, even though it permitted
to trace a good ground profile from the air. The planimetric positioning
system based on the use of transponders was difficult and expensive to
erect, the altimetric positioning system based on barometric measurements
was not sufficiently precise and the use of a fixed wing aeroplane flying at
low altitude did not provide adequate flexibility. Although the final
results were not known and in spite of strong lobbying for continuing the
testing, the Bank insisted on testing another system based on an inertial
positioning system coupled with a laser sensor mounted on a helicopter. The
subsequent testing of the airborne laser profiling system proved to be
superior to the radar system. It demonstrated the possibility for the laser
beam to penetrate thick canopy and showed that the updating of the inertial
positioning system at short intervals was not a drawback. This system was
able to produce accurate topographical maps at scales of 1:20,000 with 5 m
contour lines and 1:10,000 with 0.5 m contour lines, which are particularly
useful for general and detailed planning of upland and wetland forested
areas with minimal fieldwork.
D.   PROJECT RESULTS
a)   Use of Plans
4.       At the time of project  design,  there  was  a  pressing  need  for
settlement  plans  and there was no other alternative than to start planning
as fast as possible. The scaling back of the transmigration programme became
a reality only in 1987, although the Government still maintained its
4              settlement target for Repelita IV at 750,000 families. By  then,  the  major
part of the field activities had been completed and a large number of
reports had recently become available. As a result, it was too late to make
any readjustments to the planning programme and consultants were requested
to complete their work without changes.
5.       One reason why so few Phase IIIA plans were actually used by MOT is
probably the time required between the moment plans become available and the
moment they are actually implemented in the field. This time lag could
easily amount to more than a year, i.e. the time required for passing the
plans to the provincial governments and other implementing agencies, to have
them approved by the Governors and the Heads of other agencies and finally
to have them tendered and implemented. So, if the first plans become
available in 1985, it is only at the end of 1986 or the beginning of 1987
that they could have been implemented. But, at that time the budget crunch
had started to affect implementation.



I
MAP SECTION



IBRD 17019
104~~~30'                     F~~EBRUARY13
INDONESIA
BATURAJA TRANSMIGRATION PROJECT
PROPOSED EXTENSION AREA
EXISTING VILLAGES
4015.                                     VILLAGE NUMBERS                                                                                                                                iS-
MAIN ROADS
VILLAGE ROADS                                                                                                                                /
^  -----  VILLAGE ROADS1198283 Prog,am)
RAILWAYS
RIVERS\ o< )
- - INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                         /        c                                 Keng ungr
Adurnaro
O              5               10              15                                                 e                                           A u al
KlLOMi:TERSI                                                              I1                                    I        
MILES I                                                                                                                                                     Menangabtar
I                                  udala  O.wIOplenI
'000.                                                                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4'000-
BlatungpayT Tng                                                                                               ____'____(________
~2Lbk alang          '                            S         0     ~     , 
3°45'  Thws map has been prepa.e  3y045                                                                                                                        >f18 
The Wod Barhks shtla-cuf  H                                                                                                                     1  
fo, fhe conenernce of the                      \                                                          
neflden;an  8~sxvlf.C orf. to Me                                                                                                                >    p       
anld the hnfemabonat Fmance                                <C5                                                                                        0    -      vtN3PR
C~af,o hn The der omnafons                                   |>J\                                                                                            e   
SHd and fhe bo..da-is shon                                         N                                                           
on fts mHD do nlot ory o ma (h'.S \
pad of ThH W.-Id Banlk ana the                                     \                                                                 
Internal'onal F-- cCorporabon.                                                                                                         
any ldment or Ife egal status                                    _1 MRAUA                                                                                           f.r           X
of any femr ory oe any_r.
endlorsemer* o, acep!Jance of                                   }K Idv   -l                                                                                             p 
SWI, bo-daWre J.e  
11)415'                                                                                 10T4Ta/u30                                         e



...  I. DONEA                                            aIBRD 170201
THAILAND                  100'                                     12s                                   6IT                                       4'.                                     ItO'                                    *S'
Eor 7                                   w.                                                                                                                                               PHILIPPINES                                                    TRANSMIGRATION  PROJECT III
N                     PHILIPPINES                                                      PROPOSED SITES FOR INVESTIGATION
I  MALAYSIA                                                                       BRUNEI!,                                /                                                                                                    0
~~~~~~~C .                                                                                       N ,    ,!  .-.. -V o O  000Rte$e
0'                        -       Kol -  up -                                                                                  |o- - Io%Ooooo00N7RI
-)              00 ' I0                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ,OO..k o
2     (      '                  'MALAYSIA                                                               .)-               -                     0
tS  8   T A        ^  . 41} sAORE                          \      
;   X    SidoX      Re*eBC%fO  oeouoO  Oogo 7 ................................ )23 T23I                                                                                  HA IMAHEL,A
oPodoo              -                                                 0  po              n            liwt ° $0Suc°I '  i  p-b   i   r
~'o   0                                                       200
%ooko6                                              0<4          oo~025            f                          \                                               -     18                Kod
V                                         ~~~~~~~SU IA  ES/~l
N   ~~~~~~~                      0>   0 ~~~~~~~~~~24
1RCOVNCE              7o   6   0°0  -                                                                                                                    22           /'NL                                             CERAM   0 !
2. 000700  0I00                                    /o 210                                                                                                                                                             A0
2"E" UTAA                                                                                                                                                    IN                                                            \                                                        JA YA | 
54 RIZ3nlS_i                                                                                 
007-  00 OOOATOo0,0,0,
7 BENKOLA *UNRi                                          8                                                                                         U-W    0   0C                    *                    NR,
8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     6C-°000  ooo.
~6    90.1 DK  007                                                                                                                                                                         0 JAAT)|e
10000000A-AT                                                             9
120.  RAAAo
14    AT _JAAT .-.                                                                         A                                                                                                                                                                                                           O    o0y
15 - -     -AT ~ ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      00~I                 I~I    . 
16   JAWA   TI-LI                                                                                        o3o  0-
17  -uoA                                                                               y     -to.                                    pcwOOoOo
I           AALOOEOI 0A70                                                                    12                            '714                             I f
2200U6401 OELA700I                                             !                                                            0                S5UAWA                              16                                                                                I I  9  go  900    1oo       'go
2,ou,oo"uo,.oroWA 1o                                                                                                                                                                                  /Mo,  27                                                            MILE$
24KA-lo..oTAN -LAT70                                                                                                                                       SUAlA
2'6KA 'UAL TNs T='                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             j    'o'  _  T-   oK r.2=  4 23 * 290
27TI..0 71000                                                                                                                                                                    /                                                                                        0060=0000L 0
100*                                    Ito'                                     112'                                       110'                                     120                                        90'                                      139
s  e         |                                       l                                          |                                         q                                         '                           N>EI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0564328



