Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3910-IND
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDONESIA
TRANSMIGRATION III PROJECT
February 17, 1983
Projects Department
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00         =    Rupiah (Rp) 700
Rp 100          =    US$0.140
Rp 1 million  =    US$1,400.00
J
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES - METRIC SYSTEM
1 millimeter (mm)             =  0.039 inches (in)
1 meter (m)                   =  39.37 inches
1 kilometer (km)              =  0.62 miles (mi)
1 square kilometer (sq m)  =  0.386 square miles (sq mi)
1 hectare (ha)                =  2.47 acres (ac)
1 cubic meter (cu m)          =  35.31 cubic feet (cu ft)
1 liter (1)                   =  0.264 gallons (USA) (gal)
1 kilogram (kg)               =  2.2 pounds (lb)
1 metric ton (ton)            =  2.205 pounds
ABBREVIATIONS
AARD           -  Agency for Agricultural Research and Development
BAKOPTRANS   -  Badan Koordinasi Transmigrasi - Transmigration Policy Board
BAPPENAS      -  Indonesian National Planning Organization
BIMAS         -  Credit system for agricultural inputs
BRI           -  Bank Rakyat Indonesia - Indonesian People's Bank
BULOG/DOLOG  -  National Logistics Body/Logistical Depot - The rice
procurement agencies
CRIFC          -  Central Research Institute for Food Crops
DGA           -  The Directorate General of Agraria (Land Registration)
DGC            -  The Directorate General of Cooperatives
DGE           -  The Directorate General of Estates
DGF           -  The Directorate General of Forestry
DGFCA         -  The Directorate General of Food Crops Agriculture
DGLS          -  The Directorate General of Livestock
DGT           -  The Directorate General of Transmigration
DITADA         -  Directorate of Urban and Regional Planning
DOH           -  Department of Health
DPW            -  Department of Public Works
FAO           -  Food and Agriculture Organization
FCC           -  Farmer's Cooperative Center
GOI           -  Government of Indonesia
ICB           -  International Competitive Bidding
IPB           -  Institut Pertanian Bogor - The Agricultural Institute
in Bogor
IPEDA         -  Iuran Pembangunan Daerah - Land Development Tax
t^ JMT           -  The Junior Minister for Transmigration



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MDSE          -  Minister for Development Supervision and Environment
NCM           -  National Consultative Meetings - meetings between line
agencies and provincial officials for the purpose of
selecting areas to be settled.
NES           -  Nucleus Estate and Smallholder Projects - Bank-assisted
projects for tree crop development
ODA           -  Overseas Development Authority
PAYP          -  Plan-as-you proceed.  Government's crash-program of
site identification
PLPT          -  Pusat Latihan dan Penataran Transmigrasi - The
Transmigration Training Center
PMU           -  Project Management Unit
PPB           -  Plant Protection Brigade
PPL           -  Village level extension workers
PPM           -  Agricultural extension worker, mid-level
PPS           -  Agricultural extension worker, subject matter specialist
PTP           -  Perseroan Terbatas Perkebunan - State owned enterprise
with limited liability
REC           -  Rural Extension Center
SFSE          -  Screening, feasibility studies and evaluation - the
standard planning program in DITADA
SKP           -  Satuan Kawasaan Pengembangan - A land development unit for
about 2,000 transmigrant families
SOE           -  Statements of Expenditure
TOR           -  Terms of Reference
UNDP          -  United Nations Development Program
GLOSSARY
Alang Alang   -  (Imperata cylindrica) an invasive grass
Hak Pakai      -  Individuals right of use or exploitation of assigned land
Hak Milik      -  Right to full ownership of land
Kabupaten       -  District
Kecamatan       -  Subdistrict
Paddy gabah   -  Unhulled rice.  One ton of paddy gabah equals 630 kg of
milled rice
Puskesmas      -  Community health center
Repelita I    -  First Five-Year Development Plan (1969/70-1973/74)
Repelita II   -  Second Five-Year Development Plan (1974/75-1978/79)
Repelita III  -  Third Five-Year Development Plan (1979/80-1983/84)
Team Khusus   -  Special team within the DGE for Bank-assisted projects
GOVERNMENT OF INDONESIA
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
| This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of |
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



0



INDONESIA
TRANSMIGRATION III PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
1.  BACKGROUND ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   ....  1
General  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  1
Agriculture and Rural Sector..                        .          2
Transmigration   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  2
Project Formulation.    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    5
2. THE PROJECT  ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   ... .      6
Site Selection and Evaluation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     6
Baturaja Extension and Development . . . . . . . . . . . . .    14
Program Development  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . .     16
Implementation Schedule  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    17
Status of Preparation           ...18
Organization and Management  .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    18
Environmental Effects           ...18
3.  COST, FINANCING, PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT  . . . . . . . .    19
Cost Estimates              ...19
Financing  Plan   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  21
Procurement  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  22
Disbursement   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  22
Accounts and Audits  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    24
4.  AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION, MARKET PROSPEC-S AND ECONOMIC
ANALYSIS OF THE BATURAJA COMPONENT . . . . . . . . . . . . .    24
Agricultural Production          ..                 .24
Market  Prospects   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  24
Prices    .   .   .   .   .   .   .    .   .    .   .    .    .   .   .   .    .   .   .    .   .    .   .    .   .   .    .  25
Farm Incomes               ...25
Economic Analysis            ...26
5.  PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    27
Benefits                ...27
Risks                 ...28
6.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS . . . . . . . . . . . .    29
TABLES IN TEXT
2.1  Implementation Schedule for Site Screening and Evaluation .      10
3.1  Project Cost Summary  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    20
3.2  Annual Price Contingencies  .................                    21



- ii -
Page No.
ANNEX 1: TABLES TO THE MAIN REPORT
1.  Project Cost Estimates ... .  .  .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  31
2.  Proposed Allocation of Loan Funds  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        33
3.  Estimated Schedule of Disbursement . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        34
4.  Consulting Services - Man-months Provided
Under Proposed Project ...  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  35
5.  Economic Rate of Return Calculation - Baturaja Extension . . .        36
ANNEX 2: SITE SELECTION AND EVALUATION COMPONENT
Directorate of Urban and Regional Planning . . . . . . . . . . .        37
Manpower Requirements  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        38
Implementation Schedule. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        39
Constraints to Implementation. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        39
Table 1: Consultant Services Required for Phase I and
Phase IIIA Studies . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       39
ANNEX 3: BATURAJA EXTENSION COMPONENT
Project  Area   .  .  .   .  .  .  .   .   .   .  .   .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  42
Project  Works.    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  42
New Settlement Components. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        42
Existing Settlement. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        44
Organization and Management. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        45
Agricultural Production. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        49
Market Prospects ....  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  49
Table 1:  Budget Allocation for Baturaja Extension . . . . . .        46
Table 2:  Implementation Schedule for Baturaja Extension . . .        47
Table 3:  Cropping Patterns and Farm Budgets . . . . . . . . .        48
Table 4:  Assumed Rubber Yields  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        49
Table 5:  Price Structures for Agricultural Outputs  . . . . .        50
Table 6:  Price Structures for Agricultural Inputs . . . . . .        51
ANNEX 4:  PROGRAM DEVELOPMENT COMPONENT
DGT Staff Training . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        52
Agricultural Research in Support of Transmigration . . . . . . .        55
Technical Assistance - Ministry of Development
Supervision and Environment  ... .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  57
ANNEX 5:  SUPPLEMENTARY DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILES .        59
MAPS
I.  Transmigration III - Proposed Sites for Investigation                 60
2.  Baturaja Transmigration Project - Extension Area                      61



INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF THE TRANSMIGRATION III PROJECT
1. BACKGROUND
General
1.01      The Government of Indonesia (GOI) has greatly accelerated its
transmigration program in the third five-year development plan (Repelita III).
During the first three years of this period (April 1979-March 1982), approxi-
mately 180,000 families (800,000 people) were moved from the overpopulated
islands of Java, Bali and Lombok to the less populated Other Islands. This is
more than three times the number moved in the preceeding five years. To
support the transmigration program, and improve its quality, the GOI has
requested World Bank financial assistance for site selection and evaluation,
resettlement and program development.
1.02      The proposed project would provide financial assistance to the GOI
for a second round of studies to identify and evaluate land for settlement
expected to acommodate about 300,000 transmigrant families; it would settle
2,000 families adjacent to the first Bank-assisted project in Baturaja, South
Sumatra and provide needed services and facilities in the existing settlement;
and it would assist program development by: (a) improving staff training in
the Directorate General of Transmigration (DGT); (b) expanding agricultural
research in support of transmigration under the Agency for Agricultural
Research and Development (AARD); and (c) providing technical assistance to the
Minister for Development Supervision and Environment (MDSE) to monitor and
improve the ecological soundness of transmigration areas.
1.03      Nearly 75% of proposed project costs are for the site selection and
evaluation component. These funds would not be required until consultants are
engaged. Therefore, to avoid early commitment of funds and assure prompt
start-up after loan effectiveness, the project was negotiated in August 1982,
but is being presented to the Bank's Executive Directors after at least four of the
main consulting contracts have been approved by the GOI. To avoid delays in
other components, subject to approval by the Bank's Executive Directors, the
Bank would provide retroactive financing for funds expended after
negotiations.
1.04      The component for site selection and evaluation was prepared by the
Directorate of City and Regional Planning (DITADA) in the Department of Public
Works (DPW) with the assistance of an advisory group from Sir M. MacDonald
Partners, Ltd. and the British Overseas Development Administration (ODA). The
South Sumatra settlement component was prepared by the Baturaja Project
Management Unit within the DGT, with assistance from FAO/UNDP. Program
development components were identified as priority investment areas in the
course of World Bank sector work and were prepared mainly by the agencies with
assistance from Bank staff. This report is based on the findings of an
appraisal mission which was in Indonesia in September 1981 and a post



- 2 -
appraisal mission in January 1982. Mission members included G. Davis, C.
Subido and K. Sengupta (Bank), P. Kidane (FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program),
T. Phillips, H. Cooke and J. Morris (consultants). Mr. Jorge Caparas (Bank)
reviewed the final report.
The Agricultural and Rural Sector
1.05      Objectives.  The Government's major objectives for the agricultural
and rural sectors in Indonesia are to: (a) create productive employment to
raise incomes of the rural poor; (b) increase domestic food supply to keep
pace with rising demand; (c) expand agricultural exports, particularly of
smallholder tree crops; and (d) ensure productive, sustainable use of land,
water and other natural resources. The development strategy and the role of
the Bank in this sector have been reviewed in recent appraisal reports
including Irrigation XVI (Loan 2118-IND) and are not repeated here.
Transmigration
1.06      Indonesia, the fifth largest nation in the world, contains 147 mil-
lion people (1980), 92 million of whom reside in Java, an island with about 7%
of the nation's land. Seventy percent of Java's total area is cultivated and
population densities in irrigated areas rise to 2,000 people/sq.km. Mean-
while, vast areas of low fertility soil lie uncultivated in the other islands
and low population densities in some areas impede regional development and
economic growth. These facts have been so striking for so long that programs
to wed the underutilized labor of Java with the underutilized land of the
outer islands have figured in the programs of Indonesian Governments for
three-quarters of a century. By 1978 these programs had resulted in the move-
ment of more than one million poor and landless farmers and it was estimated
that at least two million people were in the outer islands as a direct result
of transmigration programs and associated population growth.
1.07      Government attaches high priority to transmigration to promote
regional development, create employment, reduce population pressures on
critical lands, and increase the production of food and export crops./l
Before the mid-1970s both the size and quality of the transmigration program
were limited by a shortage of funds. In 1978, however, the nation's improved
resource position, coupled with shortfalls in rice production and increasing
landlessness, prompted the Government to call for a renewed effort to open
land through transmigration and to target 500,000 families for movement
in Repelita III (1979-1984). To achieve this target, Government reorganized
the transmigration program, transferring implementation responsibility for
/1 Details are available in the World Bank Report, Indonesia:
Transmigration Program Review, Vols. I & II (Report 3170a-IND).
/2 The Departments of Manpower and Transmigration, Public Works, Agriculture
and Home Affairs have major implementing responsibilities. Many other
agencies have supporting roles.



- 3 -
many activities from the Directorate General of Transmigration (DGT) to the
agencies normally responsible for each sector /1 and establishing the Office
of the Junior Minister for Transmigration (JMT) to effect coordination between
agencies. The Repelita III program began in April 1979 and, despite a slow
start, about 250,000 families (1,000,000 people) have been moved in four
years. These numbers make the Indonesian transmigration program the largest
voluntary resettlement effort in the world.
1.08      Bank Group Lending.  The first Bank-assisted transmigration project
(Loan 1318-IND) was appraised in 1976. It consisted of two test schemes in
southern Sumatra: (a) the rehabilitation of an existing project for 12,000
families in Way Abung; and (b) the settlement of 4,500 families near Baturaja.
Baturaja farmers were provided with 5.0 ha farms (of which 1.0 ha was clean
cleared), cattle for draft power, agricultural inputs for three years, a house
and one year of subsistence supplies. In a departure from past practice, one
hectare of rubber trees was established for each family. The project was
implemented by a Project Management Unit (PMU) established within the DGT.
1.09      In 1979, the  OI and the World Bank agreed to a second Bank-assisted
project (Loan 1707/Credit 919-IND) which was to be a model for the Repelita
III transmigration program. This project was intended to settle 30,000 fami-
lies in an area along the new trans-Sumatra highway in Jambi province and to
rehabilitate a settlement of 4,000 transmigrant families already in the area.
Given high program targets, Government and Bank were interested in promoting
rapid preparation and settlement, and relatively low per family costs. The
project had a number of features to support these objectives: (a) to speed
preparation, the project was appraised on the basis of preliminary mapping,
while detailed surveys and village design were incorporated within the
project; (b) to speed development, mechanical land clearing was planned and
its cost and quality were to be monitored under the project; (c) to keep costs
low and to promote food self-sufficiency, an agricultural support package was
developed for rainfed food crops. The introduction of tree crops was assumed
but deferred. The Transmigration II Project included funds for the selection
of sites and the preparation of feasibility studies for future Bank-assisted
projects. After the start-up of the project, however, it became evident that
site selection and evaluation was also a major constraint to the size of the
GOI program and the quality of its settlements. Therefore, in 1980, about
US$30 million in the Transmigration II Project was allocated to engage 11
expatriate firms with domestic associates to undertake a nine month program of
site selection and evaluation. Under this program reconnaisance and prelimin-
ary evaluation were undertaken on 144 sites /2 and detailed planning on 37.
/1  The Departments of Manpower and Transmigration, Public Works, Agriculture
and Home Affairs have major implementing responsibilities.  Many other
agencies have supporting roles.
/2  Throughout the report a site refers to one development unit for about
2,000 families or one SKP (Satuan Kawasaan Pengembangan).



- 4 -
1.10      In 1980 the Bank also financed a first project in swamp reclamation
for transmigration (Loan 1958-IND). This project, a 9,000 ha pilot project
for 3,200 families, tested the assumption that soil toxification and over-
drainage could be prevented in swampland developments without costly struc-
tures for water control. The project also initiated studies on which future
project preparation would be based. These included an inventory of reclaim-
able swamplands, a reconnaissance of areas which might be upgraded, studies on
potable water supply and studies on the ecological impact of swampland
development.
1.11      Experience in Bank-assisted Projects.  Experience in these projects
has been mixed. After a slow start, the first transmigration project is
nearing completion and in 1981 the new settlement at Baturaja was judged by
the GOI as the best transmigration settlement in Indonesia. After 3 to
4 years on site, farmers have an average of 1.05 ha/family under cultivation
and average annual incomes of up to US$600 (adjusted to mid-1982 prices) from
annual crops and off-farm work. These relatively low incomes, which reflect
both recent settlement and the limited potential of food production on
marginal lands to date, are consistent with those anticipated in the appraisal
report. When rubber comes into full production, family incomes are expected
to rise by around US$1,400 to about US$2,000/year.
1.12      The second transmigration project has had start-up problems compli-
cated by new organizational arrangements. Detailed mapping revealed that
there was sufficient flat land suitable for food crops in the original
project areas for only 20,000 of the proposed 30,000 families; and of this,
land for 10,000 families was rejected because it was within production
forest. Sites for 10,000 additional families were found in South Sumatra
and in June 1982 the project was reduced in size to a total of about 20,000
families. To avoid land problems in the future, settlement components of
Bank-assisted projects would be mapped prior to appraisal and the proposed
project would provide financial assistance to improve site selection and
evaluation for the GOI settlement program. Lessons from the first round of
site selection and evaluation studies financed under the Transmigration II
loan are discussed in para. 2.20 and 2.21 and in Annex 2.
1.13      Coordination problems arising from new organizational arrangements
and staff shortages in the JMT have also slowed project implementation. To
address this problem, the Government intends to strengthen coordination of
the overall transmigration program by mid-1983 and the coordination of Bank
Group-assisted projects, including Transmigration II, III and IV would be
improved by the formation of a special unit for Bank Group-assisted projects.
Bank financial assistance for the special unit is planned under the
proposed Transmigration IV project.
1.14      Settlement in Transmigration II areas commenced in October 1981 and
800 families were settled by December 31, 1982. About 3,000 families are
expected to be settled by mid-1983. Construction of civil works in the swamp
development project has just begun.



- 5 -
1.15      Sector Review.  Shortly after the beginning of Repelita III the
World Bank undertook a review of the Government-s upland and swamp trans-
migration programs. The major conclusions of the review (Report 3170a-IND)
were that while migrants subsistence needs were being met in most new
communities, income prospects should be improved. The report suggested that
better incomes would be possible with mixed farming systems and an increased
role for tree crops in upland schemes. The report also recommended that
increased attention be given to site screening and evaluation, institution
building and staff training, and that a major effort be made to promote better
resource utilization through the development of grasslands and the utilization
of timber from forested areas which are clean cleared.  The report suggested
that Bank lending in the sector should shift from projects concentrating
primarily on resettlement to a more general effort to address key constraints
to program effectiveness. The proposed project is consistent with recommenda-
tions in the sector report.
Project Formulation
1.16      In September 1981, the World Bank appraised a third transmigration
project intended to settle (a) 7,500 families in East Kalimantan; and
(b) 3,000 families in Baturaja, South Sumatra. Components were also included
within the project for site selection and evaluation and for program develop-
ment. As the areas in East Kalimantan were forested, the Bank had requested a
plan for timber utilization. At appraisal, however, it was found that plans
for timber utilization in East Kalimantan were not yet agreed between agencies
and during a post appraisal mission in January 1982 the component was
deferred. The Baturaja component was reformulated to cover 1,000 families,
the number which could be settled in areas already mapped,/l and program
development components, including financial assistance for staff training in
the DGT, agricultural research in support of transmigration and technical
assistance to the MDSE were included within the project.
1.17      By appraisal it was clear that one of the main factors determining
migrant welfare in the transmigration program as a whole was the selection of
accessible land with reasonable agricultural potential. Most of the
underutilized land in Indonesia consists of marginal red-yellow podzolic
soils. Some of this land can be brought into production if steep areas
subject to erosion are avoided, if swamps and toxic soils are excluded from
settlement areas and if sites are identified with reasonable access to
services and markets. As the scale of the program has increased, however, the
task of finding such sites has become more and more difficult. The reasons
for this are several: (a) under the pressure of high targets, accessible sites
have been quickly settled; (b) Government's commitment to a food crop farm
model requires the identification of land under 8% slope, but this may be
claimed by local farmers even if underutilized; and (c) without adequate
forward planning the process of acquiring grasslands for transmigration has
caused many implementation delays, while the use of forested areas to avoid
/1 Based on additional information received during negotiations this number
was subsequently increased to 2,000 families.



- 6-
land alienation problems has been slowed by forestry regulations intended to
protect production forests. These constraints suggested that the
Government's program of site selection and evaluation would have to be
strengthened and the planning process would have to be initiated earlier if
program size were to be increased, or even if current levels of settlement
were to be maintained and migrant welfare were to be ensured.
1.18      Following discussions with Government on these matters, DITADA, the
agency responsible for the identification of large sites, was asked to prepare
a preliminary proposal for site selection and evaluation for Bank considera-
tion. This proposal was reviewed in December 1981 and again in January 1982,
when it was enlarged to include a two year time-slice of DITADA's transmigra-
tion planning program. The base cost of this program would be about US$117
million and the total cost including contingencies, about US$138 million.
Bank assistance for this activity would be a significant contribution to
improving the quality of the GOI transmigration program.
2. THE PROJECT
2.01      The proposed project would include three main components:  (a) site
selection and evaluation; (b) Baturaja extension and development; and
(c) program development. The details of the proposed components are included
in Annexes 2-4 and summarized below.
Site Selection and Evaluation
Background
2.02      When the transmigration program was reorganized in 1978, responsi-
bility for the selection and evaluation of large sites was assigned to the
Directorate of City and Regional Planning (DITADA) within the Department of
Public Works. Although DITADA had no previous experience in agricultural
planning and virtually no lead time before implementation was to begin, DITADA
staff developed reasonable planning procedures and emergency measures to cope
with high targets. Since April 1979, site evaluation studies have been
undertaken in 16 provinces on some 250 sites and detailed engineering studies
have been completed on nearly 400 villages. Background data is available in
Annex II.
2.03      At present, DITADA's transmigration planning is carried out under
two programs:  the standard program of screening, feasibility studies and
engineering design (SFSE) and an emergency procedure intended to accelerate
the rate of settlement, called plan-as-you-proceed (PAYP). In the standard
planning program, which is financed by the World Bank under its second
transmigration project, soil surveys, topographic mapping and related studies
are completed prior to land clearing. In the PAYP program, site investigation
and land development proceed simultaneously. To date the risks of plan-as-
you-proceed have been minimized by assigning PAYP contractors to sites where



- 7-
information was available. As the backlog of available sites is exhausted and
targets are raised, however, the Government wishes to shift to site selection
using standard planning procedures only. This will necessitate institutional
development, an infusion of trained manpower to meet immediate production
targets, and systematic efforts to upgrade domestic consulting firms for
future work.
Objectives
2.04      The proposed project component would increase the quality of future
transmigrant settlements by locating migrants in areas with reasonable agri-
cultural potential and by providing sufficient lead time to permit adequate
planning and coordination among implementing agencies. It would help meet
the following objectives.
(a) Land Identification: to assist DITADA to identify sufficient
land for settlement of about 300,000 families, and to continue
to improve planning procedures;
(b) Long-Range Planning: to assess the long-term settlement
potential of the Other Islands and evaluate constraints to
land availability;
(c) Manpower Development: to improve the capacity of Indonesian
consulting firms to undertake project preparation using standard
planning procedures, and to develop the technical skills of DITADA
staff;
(d) Institution Building: to foster institutional development within
DITADA, and strengthen DITADA provincial offices; and
(e) Coordination: to improve interagency coordination through the
formation of a steering committee for site selection and evaluation
consisting of the main implementing agencies in the transmigration
program.
The Planning Process
2.05      The DITADA planning process is divided into three main phases of
investigation which are intended to improve screening and reduce costs:
(a)  Phase IA - Selection of sites based on regional development
criteria; /l
/1 Proximity to existing or proposed roads and regional growth centers, and
the carrying capacity of the province.



-8 -
(b) Phase IB - Screening of sites using existing aerial photography
and other available data;
(c) Aerial Photography - Production of 1:20,000 air photo mosaics;
(d)  Phase II - Air photo interpretation and preliminary field investi-
gation to determine suitability of areas for investigation;
(e) Phase IIIA - Topographic mapping, soils surveys, and related
studies; tentative indication of roads and villages, and desig-
nation of land clearing blocks;
(f) Land Clearing - Clearing of village and food crop areas; and
(g) Phase IIIB - Supervision of settlement construction, village design
and preparation of as-built drawings.
This planning process takes into account the lessons learned from the Govern-
ment's plan-as-you-proceed program (PAYP) and experience gained from the
standard planning program introduced under Transmigration II (SFSE).
2.06      Under the proposed project site identification would be carried
out under standard planning procedures which include the following steps.
Phase IA and IB studies would be undertaken by DITADA with assistance from an
advisory group; air photos would be produced, and Phase II and Phase IIIA
studies would be done by expatriate and domestic firms engaged with project
funds. Land clearing, which is done by a separate directorate, and detailed
topographic mapping and village design, which are undertaken by provincial
universities and local teams after land clearing is complete, would be carried
out as part of the GOI settlement program. To improve interagency coordi-
nation a steering committee consisting of the major agencies involved in
transmigration would be established by the GOI.
Areas of Investment
2.07      To achieve the objectives of this component, the following actions
would be taken:
(a) five land resource evaluation firms currently working for DITADA
would be extended for six months, to complete reconnaisance of 50
sites for start-up purposes;
(b) domestic firms would be contracted to complete aerial photo-
graphy for about 215 sites in 1982/83 and an additional 130
sites in 1983/84;



-9-
(c)  ten expatriate firms and their domestic associates would be
engaged by about March 1983 to complete reconnaisance surveys on
about 275 sites and detailed evaluation and planning on about
130 sites;
(d)  the most capable domestic firms working on the Transmigration II
Project would be engaged to undertake detailed evaluation and
planning on 56 sites with advisory group supervision; and
(e)  the advisory group would be extended for a period of two years
to help screen sites, supervise consulting firms, provide
technical advice and strengthen DITADA-s provincial offices.
The implementation schedule for this component is given in Table 2.1.
2.08       The manpower requirements for these activities are very large.
About 26,000 man-months are required, for Phase II and Phase IIIA studies. Of
these, 51% would be provided by local technical specialists; 33% by domestic
professionals; and 14% by expatriate professionals. Six hundred man-months,
about 2%, would be for a pool of local and expatriate specialists to supple-
ment the resources of domestic consulting firms. In addition, 780 man-months
of expatriate assistance would be needed for the central advisory group and
five provincial advisory teams to help set technical standards and to
supervise the work of consulting firms.
Project Design and Implementation
2.09       Land Identification.  Under the proposed project, approximately
500 sites would be screened by DITADA and the advisory group, and about
275 Phase II studies and about 185 Phase IIIA studies would be undertaken. Of
these, up to 175 sites are expected to be suitable for settlement. This would
be sufficient to settle approximately 300,000 families or about 100,000 fami-
lies per year for three years.
2.10       Long-Range Planning.  The proposed project would obtain needed
information about the long-range settlement potential of the outer islands by:
(a) requiring expatriate consulting firms to provide a mid-term assessment of
the settlement potential of areas in which they work; and (b) undertaking
special studies to evaluate constraints to land availability and make
recommendations to overcome them. Under a separate Resource Survey and
Mapping Project (Loan 1197-IND), the Bank would promote the development of a
special unit within BAKOSURTANAL to identify and evaluate areas potentially
available for settlement over the next 15-20 years. To improve national



Table 2.1:  IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE FOR SITE SCREENING AND EVALUATION
(Number of sites/a)
1982                  1983                    1984             1985
1    2    3    l    1    2    3    4    1    2    3    4    1    2
JFM  AMJ  JAS  OND  JFI MUIJ  JAS  0)ID  JFM  AMIJ  JAS  OND  JFM   AI4J  Total
Sites screened
(Phase IB)                160  100   50   50   50   50   50                                                 510
Air photos ordered
and flown /b                    100  115                65   65                                             345
Air photos screened /c              32   32   30   60   60   60   40   30                                      345
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~F
Phase II starts /d                       25   25           48   48   72   32   24                              274   CD
Phase II draft reports
available                                    25   25    0   72   43   48   40   16                          274
Areas available for
Phase IIIA /e                                20   20   19   51   38   38   26   26    8                     220
Phase IIIA starts                                          16   24   24   24   32   32   32                    184
Phase IIIA, available
for construction /f                                            8   20   22   25   25   25   ?5   25   175
Surplus phase II areas                                                                                          36
/a One site, or SKP, is a development unit, suitable for around 2,000 families.
/b Assumes 60% of areas screened suitable for further study and air photos.
T7 Assumes 64 sites can he flown and the air photos made available between April and July.
/d  Assumes 80% of areas screened following aerial photography suitable for Phase TI studies.
/e Assumes 80% of area studied at Phase II suitable for Phase III studies.
If  Assumes 95% of Phase III starts suitable for settlement although the nuthber of settlers may be
less than 2,000.



- 11 -
planning, the advisory group would assess the financial and economic impli-
cations of settlement in representative sites in different areas with differ-
ent farm models and submit annual reports on this subject to DITADA with
copies to the JMT.
2.11      Manpower Development.  Under the project, the capacity of domestic
consulting firms would be developed by: (a) awarding contracts for Phase IIIA
work to the most capable domestic firms and supporting their work with tech-
nical advice and supervision from the advisory group; (b) requiring that
expatriate firm proposals be drawn up in association with the domestic
counterparts and indicate proposed training and responsibilities to be trans-
ferred to the domestic associates by the end of year two; (c) requiring each
expatriate firm to field and supervise at least one Phase IIIA team made up
primarily of domestic consultants; and (d) providing regional advisors to give
periodic training and supervision to domestic firms undertaking Phase IIIA and
Phase IIIB work.
2.12      The skills of both DITADA staff and its consultants would be devel-
oped primarily by experience gained under the project. A training and insti-
tutional development specialist would also be provided by the advisory group
to assist DITADA in: (a) formalizing the content of training provided by
expatriate firms and provincial advisors; (b) promoting the transfer of skills
from advisory group to DITADA staff; and (c) establishing training priorities
for critical staff such as project officers.
2.13      Institution Building and Coordination.  Institutional development
and improved coordinating would be promoted by: (a) strengthening regional
offices through the provision of provincial advisors and upgrading DITADA
staff in the provinces; (b) providing technical assistance to DITADA to
analyze management options for staffing, organization and manpower
development; and (c) forming a steering committee of implementing agencies;
and (d) improving the consultative process with the provinces (Annex 2).
Justification of Scale and Cost
2.14      Scale of Proposed Activities.  The scale of the proposed component
is dictated by the desire of Government and Bank to mount the maximum land
identification effort consistent with reasonable quality and cost. Resettle-
ment targets for all programs (including tree crop and swamp reclamation
schemes which are not identified by DITADA) were 100,000 families in 1981/82,
rising to 150,000 families in 1983/84, the last year of the third five-year
development plan. The proposed project would assist DITADA to identify land
for up to 100,000 families/year. This would be sufficient to meet current
targets and maintain them, but it would not permit a significant increase in
targets in the early years of Repelita IV. Given manpower limitations within
the country, at the time of appraisal, however, this was judged to be the
maximum program which could be supported without even greater use of



- 12 -
expatriate manpower and consequent cost increases or a serious deterioration
in the quality of work caused by using less and less experienced firms in
increasingly difficult areas.
2.15      The size of the component has also been determined in light of
recent experiences with similar work. Under the Transmigration II Project,
11 expatriate firms and their domestic associates were engaged to undertake
reconnaisance of 144 sites and detailed planning and evaluation in 37 sites;
this work was completed in 9-12 months. Under the proposed project, consult-
ing firms would be engaged for reconnaisance of around 275 sites and detailed
surveys and evaluation on about 185 sites over a period of two years./l Based
on past experience, no problem is envisaged in completing reconnaisance level
work. However, to complete 185 Phase IIIA studies in two years will require
over 4,000 man-months each year of domestic professional manpower and about
6,700 man-months each year of medium to high level technical manpower (labor-
ers are not included). This is expected to exhaust the professional manpower
available domestically and, for this reason, a specialist pool has been
provided to supplement the resources of domestic consulting firms. As further
expansion would likely prevent the firms engaged under this project from
obtaining necessary domestic support, slow project implementation and jeopar-
dize the work, consultations between Government and the Bank would be
necessary if changes were contemplated in the scope or content of DITADA's
transmigration planning program in order to ensure that the quality
standards of the proposed project could be maintained.
2.16      Cost of Proposed Activities.  There are potentially two ways to
reduce costs under the project: (a) to simplify procedures and reduce the
number of man-months involved; or (b) to reduce the amount of expatriate
manpower used. Both of these options have been considered in project
formulation and the project has been designed to keep planning procedures as
simple as possible and to keep expatriate involvement to a minimum.
2.17      DITADA-s modified three stage planning process is necessary to
minimize work and expense on sites which eventually prove unsuitable. Under
the proposed project, sites would be screened on the basis of existing infor-
mation before aerial photographs are ordered (Phase IB). Air photos, in turn,
would be screened prior to being turned over to firms for reconnaisance work.
This would reduce the rejection rate of Phase II studies from about 50% under
the Transmigration II Project to 20% or less. Following reconnaisance
surveys, DITADA and the advisory group would determine standards of investi-
gation for Phase IIIA, depending on the complexity of soils, topography and
/1 Reconnaisance requires about 10 man-months per site, of which, about
one-third is provided by technical specialists, generally expatriates.
Detailed planning and evaluation for one site is estimated to take about
126 man-months, of which nearly 90% is provided by local professional and
technical staff.



- 13 -
present land use, to further reduce costs. In the past, short-cuts in the
Government program were possible if areas were sufficiently well known that
detailed mapping could be undertaken immediately after air photo mosaics were
produced. As known sites are used, however, thorough reconnaisance will be
necessary to eliminate unsuitable areas prior to Phase IIIA work.
2.18      About 80% of the required man-months are for Phase IIIA.  This
involves topographic mapping at 20:000 scale to eliminate steep and swampy
areas and to define land clearing blocks; soil surveys at 1:50,000 scale to
identify areas where chemical or physical properties preclude food crop
agriculture; and studies to evaluate domestic water supply, forest density and
present land use. Experience gained under Transmigration II has been used to
reduce manpower requirements wherever feasible and the proposed man-months are
judged to be the minimum required to locate settlements in suitable areas and
to provide reasonable assurance of migrant success. Given this judgment an
assurance has been obtained from Government that this component would be
carried out under the planning procedures outlined in this report.
2.19      Expatriate manpower has been limited to about 14% of the man-months
provided by expatriate firms although expatriate billing rates account for
about 40% of estimated costs. Expatriate services are required in technical
specialties in short supply in Indonesia. For example, the program requires
48 full-time soil scientists, 16 water resource engineers, 32 cartographers
and additional specialists and management staff which are not widely available
in domestic consulting firms. Using expatriates in these technical fields,
the cost of site selection and evaluation is about US$500 per family to be
settled. If all services could be provided by domestic professionals, the
cost would decline to about US$330/family. The project is designed to help
meet this objective in future work.
Constraints to Implementation
2.20      In the first round of studies carried out under the Transmigration
II Project, the work of expatriate firms assisting DITADA was delayed by:
(a) forestry issues which caused mapping of some sites to be deferred;
(b) diversion of sites and air photos to programs using emergency
planning procedures to meet high targets;
(c) shortages of air photos due to budget problems and poor screening;
(d) delays in approval, mobilization, and payment; and
(e) the rejection of a large number of sites following Phase II work.
In many cases work was also slowed and costs increased by the fact that firms
could not begin detailed studies (Phase IIIA) until reconnaissance studies
were complete, resulting in an underutilization of available manpower.



- 14 -
2.21      Under the proposed project, steps have been taken to reduce these
constraints. Improved screening and improved coordination under the proposed
steering committee would reduce forestry problems. To circumvent other
constraints the Bank has received an assurance that DITADA would prepare by
June 30, 1983 a list of sites to be investigated under this project, and would
not alter this list or divert to other activities resources needed for the
standard planning program (sites, air photos, consulting firms) without the
review and approval of the Bank. Problems associated with prequalification,
evaluation and contract administration, and difficulties between expatriate
firms and their domestic associates are addressed under the proposed project
(Annex 2, paras. 12-14). The rejection rate of sites at Phase II would be
reduced by improved screening during Phase I.
Baturaja Extension and Development
Objectives
2.22      Under the first Bank-assisted transmigration project, 4,500 families
were settled in Baturaja, South Sumatra.  The proposed extension would have
the following objectives:
(a) Settlement - .to extend the Baturaja project by 2,000 families;
(b)  Second Stage Development - to introduce new agricultural
support services to the existing community, maintain existing
rubber trees planted under the Transmigration I project, train
migrants in rubber tapping, and construct rubber processing
facilities; and
(c)  Monitoring and Evaluation - to introduce and monitor new
programs, such as soil conservation, and assess their
replicability throughout the transmigration program; and to
monitor topics with significance to program development such
as the long-term viability of food cropping on marginal soils.
Investment Subcomponents
2.23      Under this component, GOI agencies would carry out the following
activities:
(a)  undertake reconnaisance of 50,000 ha and detailed village design for
at least 2,000 families;
(b)  clear 3,000 ha of secondary forest;
(c)  construct 40 km of primary access road and 70 km of village
roads and farm tracks;



- 15 -
(d) construct houses and village facilities for 2,000 fanilies
and construct small dams for village water supply;
(e) provide settler transport, subsistence supplies and agricul-
tural inputs for 2,000 families;
(f) distribute 2,000 heifers from the calf return program;
(g) establish 2,000 ha of rubber trees;
(h) maintain 7,100 ha of rubber planted in Baturaja and Way Abung
under the Transmigration I project (PTP X);
(i) construct and staff a Farmer-s Cooperative Center (FCC);
(j) construct and staff a Rural Extension Center (REC) and a Plant
Protection Brigade (PPB);
(k) introduce soil conservation practices and provide technical
assistance, supplies and services to improve soil conservation in
both old and new communities,
(1) construct a 30 ton/day crumb rubber factory at Baturaja and a
15 ton/day factory at Way Abung;
(m) provide rubber processing machinery and vehicles; and
(n) train migrants and provide rubber tapping supplies and equipment
for latex collection.
The details of this subcomponent are summarized in Annex 3.
Constraints to Implementation
2.24      To avoid problems encountered under Transmigration I, an assurance
was obtained that adequate road maintenance equipment would be provided to the
district Public Works office to improve road maintenance and to ensure access
to villages and rubber areas. To promote the timely construction of rubber
processing facilities, the DGE would provide funds and technical assistance to
prepare tender documents similar to those used in existing NES projects, and
funds for the construction of rubber processing facilities would be on-lent to
PTP X, a Government owned estate company, under terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank. To facilitate monitoring, an assurance was received
that the DGT would appoint a full-time staff member to be responsible for
monitoring and evaluation.



- 16 -
Program Development
Objectives
2.25      Three subcomponents in the proposed project are devoted primarily to
institution building and program development. These components are discussed
in detail in Annex 4, and their primary objectives are given below.
(a)  DGT Training.  This component would improve the quality of
transmigration settlements by training DGT staff, particularly
on-site staff and field level coordinators; by upgrading staff,
curricula and instructor training within the DGT training center;
and by evaluating career development in the DGT.
(b)  Agricultural Research in Support of Transmigration.  This compo-
nent would enable AARD to (i) prepare a feasibility study suitable
for external assistance for a comprehensive program of research in
support of transmigration; (ii) support basic farming systems
research in South Sumatra and East Kalimantan; and (iii) undertake
special studies on alang alang control and home gardens in the outer
islands.
(c)  Technical Assistance to the Ministry of Development Supervision
and Environment. This component would improve the capacity of
MDSE staff to monitor the environmental soundness of transmigra-
tion projects and to integrate environmental considerations into
the selection and development of transmigration sites.
Investment Subcomponents
2.26      To accomplish these objectives, the proposed project would provide:
(a)  DGT Training
(i) 144 man-months of technical assistance; of these, it is
estimated that half would be for expatriate specialists
and half would be for domestic consultants;
(ii) 300 man-months of local scholarships and foreign fellowships;
(iii)  4,200 man-months of staff training in courses with improved
curricula and trained instructors; and
(iv) new training facilities for three provinces and staff
housing and equipment for 5 training centers.
(b) Agriculture Research
(i) 36 man-months of technical assistance to prepare a detailed
feasibility study for research in the outer islands; and



-17 -
(ii) facilities, equipment and technical support for basic
farming systems research in Sumatra and Kalimantan.
(c) Environment
(i) 108 man-months of specialist assistance to the Ministry of
Development Supervision and Environment to assist the MDSE
to improve the environmental soundness of transmigration
projects.
Constraints to Implementation
2.27       All program development components face a similar constraint: short-
ages of trained manpower limit the staff time available for preparation of
TORs, inception reports, and project administration; this increases super-
vision and prevents agencies from completing proposed project works on time.
To circumvent these problems, assurances were obtained from Government on
the following points:
(a)  All consultants for PLPT, AARD and MDSE would be engaged by
June 30, 1983;
(b)  the PLPT training specialist would review curricula and instructor
training on all courses on which Bank disbursements are expected
and would review courses and candidates proposed for scholarships
and fellowships financed with Bank assistance;
(c)  AARD would submit inception reports to the Bank for review and
approval; and
(d)  a special unit would be formed to coordinate Bank Group-assisted
projects, within this special unit subunits would be formed to
follow up on each project; each subunit would be adequately
staffed on a full-time basis.
Implementation Schedule
2.28       The proposed project would be implemented over a period of four
years. Prior to April 1, 1983, DITADA would obtain air photos on 215 sites;
the Baturaja PMU would engage land clearing contractors for two villages; and
PTP X would complete tender documents for processing facilities. All other
agencies would complete TORs, and inception reports and prepare budgets for
project works to be initiated in year two. In FY 1983/1984, consulting firms
would be mobilized to undertake site selection and evaluation, the advisory
group would be extended, and provincial advisers would be engaged. Land
clearing would be initiated in the additional Baturaja villages and house
construction and settlement would occur in the first villages. All program



- 18 -
development components would commence in FY1983/1984 and continue under this
project for three years. Rubber processing facilities would be constructed in
1984-85. Detailed implementation schedules for each of the proposed
components are covered in the relevant annexes to this report.
Status of Preparation
2.29       The site selection and evaluation component was prepared by DITADA
and its advisory group. Detailed TORs were reviewed and agreed by the Bank
and four of the main consulting contracts have been approved by the GOI.
Mapping has been completed for the extension of the Baturaja project and
start-up funds were included within the 1982/83 development budget. Terms
of reference are in preparation for consultants to draw up tender documents
for the construction of rubber processing facilities and the procurement of
the necessary vehicles and equipment.
Organization and Management
2.30       The organization and functions of the major implementing agencies
are discussed in the annexes to the main report. Each implementing agency
would receive its own budget and be responsible for execution and supervision
of its own works. The management of individual components is also described
in the relevant annexes to this report.
2.31       Coordination of past transmigration projects has required consider-
able input from Bank staff. To minimize Bank involvement, yet ensure adequate
supervision, DITADA and the PMU which have experience and proven managerial
capacity would undertake day to day follow-up on all activities included
within the site selection and Baturaja extension components, respectively.
They would submit semi-annual progress reports (including financial summaries)
to the special unit for Bank-assisted projects with copies to the Bank. The
special unit would undertake direct follow-up on program development
components and submit semi-annual progress reports to the Bank. The; special
unit would also have the general responsibility for timely implementation of
all components, overall coordination, and liaison with the Bank. Follow-up on
this project would initially be provided by specialists in the Transmigration
II team.
Environmental Effects
2.32       The project would strengthen the capability of MDSE staff to address
environmental issues in transmigration projects. It would also facilitate the
selection of appropriate sites and improve coordination between agencies
interested in sound resource utilization. The Baturaja component includes
steps to improve soil conservation in the extension area and to develop a
replicable soil conservation program.



- 19 -
3.  COST, FINANCING, PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT
Cost Estimates
3.01      Project works implemented within the four year project period
would cost an estimated US$185.8 million of which US$100.1 million (54%)
would be in foreign exchange. The cost of consultant contracts for site
selection and evaluation is based on the cost of six contracts approved by
the GOI in February 1983. All other costs were calculated in mid-1982 prices
and because of the tax exempt status of implementing agencies do not include
local, provincial or national taxes. Project costs are summarized in Table
3.1.
3.02      The cost of technical assistance for the site selection component
is based on negotiated prices for six contracts and preliminary estimates on
the others. Contracts cover man-month rate, mobilization and demobilization
and duty station expenses, which are 78% of the cost of completing proposed
works. Supplies, services and office support provided by the GOI are 22% of
the total cost. The cost of the advisory group and supplementary pool are
derived from a detailed analysis of similar work under the Transmigration II
Project adjusted to mid-1983 prices.  Generally costs are slightly lower than
those in recent Bank-assisted projects such as NES VI and VII.  This
reflects the assumption of a range of technical specialties and a mix of
firms from countries some of which have lower billing rates. The base cost
of individually recruited expatriate advisers for agricultural research,
environment and cooperatives is based on recent contracts and the Bank-s
experience in the Urban IV Project. The cost of local consulting services
is relatively standard across Bank projects.
3.03.     The cost of settling a family in Baturaja is derived from current
contract prices, although on subcomponents where PMU costs exceed program
costs the figure for other projects has been considered.  The cost of items
procured under program development components is based on contracts for
ongoing works.
3.04      Cost estimates include physical contingencies based on the status
of preparation and the degree of uncertainty about contracts. These average
about 15% for civil works; 5% for vehicles, equipment and supplies; and 5-10%
for services. Price contingencies total about 6% of the base costs and
physical contingencies for the site selection and evaluation component (where
the major contract prices are known) and about 20% on other components.
Price contingencies are calculated on the basis of assumptions shown in
Table 3.2.



- 20 -
Table 3.1: PROJECT COST SUMNARY
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total
---- (Rp million) ---- ---- (US$ million) --- (,.
Site Selection & Evaluation
Aerial photography               770   3,430    4,200   1.1         4.9      6.0   82
Consulting firms              24,080  30,730   54,810  34.4        43.9    78.3   56
Advisory group                 1,050   3,920    4,970   1.5         5.6      7.1   79
Supplementary pool               560   2,030    2,590   0.8         2.9      3.7   78
GOI inputs                    10,360   4,970   15,330  14.8         7.1    21.9   32
Subtotal                    36,820  45,080   81,900  52.6        64.4   117.0   57
Baturaja Development
Site preparation                 910   2,730    3,640   1.3         3.9      5.2   75
Community development          1,890   1,610    3,500   2.7         2.3      5.0   46
Agricultural development         630      490    1,120   0.9        0.7      1.6   44
Tree crop establishment,       3,850   5,180    9,030   5.5         7.4    12.9   57
maintenance & processing
Consultant services              140      770       910   0.2       1.1      1.3   85
Subtotal                     7,420  10,780   18,200  10.6        15.4    26.0   59
Program Development
DGT training                   2,310   1,750    4,060   3.3         2.5      5.8   43
Agricultural research          1,330   1,260    2,590   1.9         1.8      3.7   48
MDSE                               56     420       476   0.1       0.6      0.7   88
Subtotal                     3,696   3,430    7,126   5.3         4.9    10.2   48
Base Cost                   47,936  59,290  107,226  68.5        84.7   153.2   55
Physical contingencies          6,020   6,300   12,320   8.6         9.0    17.6   51
Price contingencies             6,020   4,480   10,500   8.6         6.4    15.0   42
Total Project Cost          59,976  70,070  130,046  85.7    100.1   185.8   54
Front-end fee on Bank loan/a        -      882       882   -         1.5      1.5    -
Total Financing Required  59,976  70,952  130,928  85.7    101.6   187.3    -
/a  Assumes Bank loan of US$99.5 million or the foreign exchange component of
the project (US$100.1 million) less the foreign exchange component of
reserve procurement vehicles (US$600,000).



- 21 -
Table 3.2: ANNUAL PRICE CONTINGENCIES
1982     1983    1984    1985       1986
Domestic costs              14       12       10       10       10
Foreign exchange costs  8.0         8.0      7.5      7.0        6
3.05       The cost of site selection and evaluation is estimated at US$500/
family, roughly 8% of investment costs for settlements based on food crops and
5% of investment costs for settlements including tree crops. Project prepar-
ation costs totalling 5-10% of investment are normal and acceptable within the
Bank. The base cost of settling a family in Baturaja would be about $10,000.
If rubber development costs are excluded, baseline costs of US$5,900 in
Baturaja are comparable to Transmigration II costs of US$5,700 (mid-1982
prices). One hectare of tree crops has been added to the farming system to
bring incomes above subsistence levels and to maintain equity with existing
settlers. Since the original settlers received rubber trees without
repayment, cost recovery would not be expected from families in the extension
area. Government and Bank agree, however, that substantial cost recovery
would be required if a second ha of rubber is provided in the project area in
the future. Government already requires cost recovery in all smallholder
projects providing 2 ha of tree crops.
Financing Plan
3.06       The proposed Bank loan of US$101.0 million would cover the
foreign exchange components of the project (US$100.1 million) less the
foreign exchange component of reserved procurement vehicles (US$600,000)
plus the capitalized front end fee (rounded to US$1.5 million). The
Government of Indonesia would provide annual budget appropriations to cover
Rp 60.4 billion (US$86.3 million) in investment capital and operating
expenses. Retroactive financing would be provided for funds expended after
April 1, 1982 on the Baturaja and program development components. The
amount disbursed for these components would not exceed US$1,000,000.
3.07       To speed start-up of the site selection and evaluation component
and ensure the most efficient utilization of technical manpower, five firms
working under the Transmigration II Project were extended utilizing funds
from that project to complete 50 reconnaisance level surveys (Phase II)
prior to the main body of work.  This permitted DITADA to cover 100% of the
cost of technical assistance without the need for supplementary budget
allocations. Funds were also provided from the Transmigration II project
for mapping of the Baturaja extension area.
3.08       Recent Bank-assisted NES projects, assume that processing facilities
will be financed by the PTPs through suppliers credits. Timely implementation



- 22 -
is ensured by the PTP's interest in its own estate production.  Since PTP X
does not have its own plantations in Baturaja, Bank and Government have agreed
that loan funds would be onlent to PTP X to finance the construction of two
crumb rubber factories.  The loan would be for 13 years, including a seven
year grace period to permit the factories to reach adequate production levels
for repayment, and would be repayable in 12 equal semi-annual annuities
starting January 1, 1990. Interest would be 13.5% payable from the date of
signing the subsidiary loan agreement. With projected domestic inflation
rates (Table 3.2), the interest rate would be slightly positive in real terms.
Procurement
3.09       Civil Works and Equipment.  Civil works including land clearing,
house construction and buildings for rubber processing (US$15.2 m) would
involve contracts under US$1.0 million each and therefore would be awarded on
the basis of Government procedures for local competitive bidding. Tree crop
establishment and maintenance (US$12.5 m) would be carried out on force
account by PTP X. Vehicles would be procured locally under GOI regulations
which preclude ICB, and this would be regarded as reserved procurement
(US$900,000). Equipment would be aggregated into contracts over US$150,000,
where possible, and would be procured on the basis of ICB (US$3.2 million).
Qualifying domestic manufacturers would receive a preference in bid evaluation
of 15% of the c.i.f. cost or the import duty whichever is lower. This would
apply to road maintenance equipment, farm machinery and rubber processing
machines and equipment. Contracts for goods over US$150,000 would be subject
to prior review by the Bank. Equipment, spare parts and supplies under
US$150,000 up to an aggregate limit of US$2.5 million would be procured under
GOI regulations which require local competitive bidding for items above
US$29,000 and prudent shopping for items under about US$29,000.
3.10       Services and Aerial Photography.  Consultants employed by DITADA
(US$90.0 m) and all other agencies (US$4.3 m) would be selected in accordance
with the Bank Guidelines on the use of consultants and would be employed under
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. GOI inputs in support of
consultant services (US$40.0 m) would be provided on the basis of Government
procedures. Aerial photography (US$8.0 million) would be contracted to a
consortium which includes all prequalified aerial photography firms within the
country. Firms within the consortium operate in separate geographical
regions.  Per hectare prices are fixed by Government but are judged to be
reasonable. Foreign firms would be excluded from participation because the
time required to obtain security clearances for aerial photography would
significantly delay project implementation.  All other services including
scholarships and fellowships, settler transport and support, agrarian
services, agricultural research and DGT training (US$9.2 m) would be carried
out under Government procedures which have been reviewed and found acceptable
to the Bank.
Disbursement
3.11       The proposed allocation of loan proceeds is shown in Annex 1,
Table 2 and summarized below:



- 23 -
(a)  60% of the cost of land clearing and road construction,
housing and village facilities, and tree crop development and
maintenance, research facilities, and DGT training facilities;
(b)  100% of the foreign expenditures for equipment for road main-
tenance and land and pasture improvement in Baturaja; and for
rubber processing vehicles, machinery and equipment; 100% of
the ex-factory cost (less any identifiable taxes) of equip-
ment manufactured locally; and 60% of imported equipment purchased
locally;
(c)  100% of the cost of small demonstration components in Baturaja /1
including the soil conservation package, Rural Extension Center
and Plant Protection Brigade, and Farmer's Cooperative Center;
(d)  100% of the cost of consulting services other than those provided
to DITADA and of scholarships and fellowships under the DGT
training component;
(e)  100% of the cost of expatriate and domestic consulting firms engaged
by DITADA during the first year and 50% of the cost thereafter 12; and
(f)  35% of the cost of PLPT training undertaken with approved
curricula and instructors.
3.12      The Bank would not disburse against aerial photography; nor would
it disburse against routine transmigration activities such as the provision
of transport, subsistence supplies and agricultural inputs. To simplify
disbursement under the small Baturaja component, tree crop establishment and
maintenance would be reimbursed upon the receipt of statements of expendi-
ture (SOE). SOE would be prepared by PTP X and forwarded to the Team Khusus
(a special unit within the DGE for Bank-assisted projects) to ensure
standards and costs comparable with the Bank-assisted NES projects. Both
PTP X and the Team Khusus have the capacity to maintain adequate records.
A subsidiary loan agreement satisfactory to the Bank would be signed between
PTP X and the Ministry of Finance as a condition of disbursement against
rubber processing facilities and equipment.
3.13      Project works would be completed by December 1986 and disbursements
would be finished six months thereafter. The estimated schedule of
disbursement is in Annex 1, Table 3. Since no comparable technical
assistance projects were identified within the region, nor were there
sufficient loans which extended on-going agricultural projects, generalized
disbursement profiles could not be used to determine disbursement schedules.
/1 Including components for civil works and equipment as well as services and
supplies.
/2 Excluding aerial photography and Government inputs.



- 24 -
Accounts and Audits
3.14      Assurances were received from the GOI that:
(a)  all implementing agencies involved in the project would
maintain separate accounts for the project;
(b)  agency accounts would be audited annually by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank; and
(c)  these audit reports and copies of the SOE would be forwarded to
the JMT where they would be summarized by the Transmigration III
sub-unit in a report which would be transmitted to the Bank
within six months of the close of each fiscal year.
4. AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION, MARKET PROSPECTS AND
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS OF THE BATURAJA COMPONENT /1
Agricultural Production
4.01      Although site selection and program development components would
have a long-term impact on agricultural production only the Baturaja component
has an immediately quantifiable effect.  The project would result in food crop
production on 2,400 ha of new land in Baturaja and it would bring 2,000 ha
into rubber production. In addition, the project would provide processing
facilities to handle rubber production from Transmigration I areas. Total
agricultural production from the extension area at full development would be
about 2,900 tons of rubber, 4,000 tons of paddy gabah, 3,000 tons of corn,
12,000 tons of cassava and 1,000 tons of groundnuts.  Cowpeas, mungbeans and
vegetables would be produced in small quantities.
Market Prospects
4.02      Food Crops.  As the total incremental production is very small in
relation to demand, local markets established under Transmigration I, and
outlets in the towns surrounding Baturaja would readily absorb food produced
within the extension area. Transmigrants would have access to the Government
price support system for paddy, corn, and groundnuts. The village coopera-
tives (KUDs) would act as purchasing agents for the Government's food
/1 The financial and economic analyses presented in this chapter are based
on an exchange rate of Rp 625 = US$1.00 which prevailed at the time of
appraisal and negotiation. The impact of rupiah depreciation on the
economic rate of return is discussed in para. 4.10.



- 25 -
procurement authority, BULOG/DOLOG, which maintains a nationwide floor price
for rice. When surpluses arise, BULOG's subsidiary in the province, DOLOG,
would make the necessary arrangements for transporting rice, corn and
groundnuts from KUD warehouses to its own storage facilities.
4.03      Rubber.  During the 1960s and 1970s, synthetic rubber made large
inroads into natural rubber-s share of the world market (from 33 to 70%), but
technological advances in natural rubber production and the higher cost of
producing synthetic rubber since the 1973 and 1978 oil price increases have
improved natural rubber's competitive position. Recently Indonesian estates
have experienced difficulties in marketing rubber owing to the worldwide
economic recession; however, available data on existing rubber areas,
replantings and new plantings, point to a decline in total rubber production
in both Indonesia and Malaysia and suggest a strong future market for rubber
produced under this project and under the Transmigration I Project.
Prices
4.04      Farm inputs and outputs have been valued in terms of constant
mid-1982 prices for both the farm budgets and economic analyses. Economic
prices for most commodities were based on world market price forecasts for
1990 produced by the Bank's Commodity Division and adjusted for transporta-
tion, processing and handling costs to the farm-gate level. Prices used in
this analysis are shown in Annex 3, Tables 4 and 5.
Farm Incomes
4.05      Farm models have been prepared for Baturaja and are summarized in
Annex 3 and staff working papers. The proposed land use and cropping
patterns are based on existing cropping practices, upland cropping research,
and potential markets. Farm budgets are based on cash flows and farm family
labor has not been costed. A family would have sufficient labor to farm, the
1.25 ha food crop and home garden areas without hiring labor. The income
earned from employment in land clearing and rubber establishment is included
in the family off-farm income. Cost recovery from IPEDA land tax and the
return of two calves would amount to about 10% of project costs. No other
cost recovery is expected (para. 3.05).
4.06      In Baturaja, reasonable family incomes would be realized in the
first year because of substantial off-farm employment and GOI assistance to
settlers. In the second year, income would be around Rp 430,000 because of
the withdrawal of the subsistence subsidy; thereafter, it would grow to
Rp 625,000 in year five. Rubber income would begin in the sixth year and
would constitute the major part of total income in year 16. Family income at
full development is estimated at Rp 2.0 million (expressed in constant
mid-1982 prices) based on projected 1990 commodity prices; and the per capita
income at full development is estimated to be US$453. These incomes compare
favorably with the existing per capita income level of US$420 in Indonesia.



- 26 -
Economic Analysis
4.07      Labor Pricing.  The monthly labor requirements per crop and the
family labor supply are given in the Staff Working Papers.  The opportunity
cost of settler labor has been assumed to be equal to the subsistence income
in their point of origin. The agricultural wage rate has been shadow priced
at Rp 500 per working day considering the over-abundant labor supplies and low
productivity employment in Java and Bali. For valuing off-farm labor in the
project areas, the existing market wage rate in Baturaja of Rp 1,000/day was
used.
4.08      Investment Costs.  The total investment costs calculated for the
economic analysis amount to US$10.65 million for the settlement subcomponent
and US$4.4 million for rubber processing facilities in Baturaja and Way Abung.
All are in mid-1982 prices.  Foreign exchange costs were converted to Rupiah
at Rp 625 = US$1.00, assuming a standard conversion factor of 1.0. Investment
costs have been adjusted to remove the cost of national programs which the
Government would normally provide to any community, and which would have been
provided to the families involved in this project in the without project
situation. These include administrative, educational and health services.
However, investment costs include the cost of agricultural extension and other
agricultural support services.
4.09      Development Period.  The families would be settled in 1983 and 1984.
They would develop their food crop and home garden plots in their first year
and work primarily on their rubber holdings in the second year. They would
achieve full production in food crops in year ten and in rubber in year
sixteen.
4.10      Economic Rate of Return.  Using the foregoing assumptions and
discounting costs and benefits over 30 years, the overall economic rate of
return is 14% for the settlement subcomponent. The cost and benefits of
processing facilities are taken into account in this analysis. Sensitivity
analysis was used to determine which variable would be most crucial to the
success of the project.  To that end, crossover values for 10% discount rate
were calculated for a number of factors. Crossover values reveal that the
viability of the project is relatively insensitive to substantial departures
from appraisal assumptions.  A 10% rate of return would still be achieved if
(a) the settlement component investment costs increased by 85% over the
estimated base costs and physical contingencies; or (b) the total benefit
stream declined by 60%.  It would take a delay of three years in the benefit
stream to make the project economically non-viable.  If the analysis were
based on the current exchange rate of Rp 700 = US$1.00, the ERR would improve
slightly because almost all outputs (such as rubber and rice) are tradables,
for which the Rp value would increase, while a significant parts of inputs,
especially labor, are non-tradables for which the Rp value would remain
unchanged.



- 27 -
5. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
Benefits
5.01      Site Selection and Evaluation.  The proposed project represencs a
a US$138 million investment in a settlement program that would eventually cost
the GOI over US$2 billion. Although the benefits of this component are noL
easily quantified this investment in site selection and evaluation would be
economically justified if only 5-6% of settlers who might otherwise have  ef-,
inaccessible or inappropriate sites are enabled to succeed. All migranits
would benefit from increased productivity, better markets, and improved tenure
in appropriately selected sites. Proper site evaluation would have additional
benefits to the nation by reducing soil erosion and protecting watershed and
forest resources. Greater lead time and improved planning would reduce costly
delays in implementation and lessen the hardships faced by migrants as a
result of poor interagency coordination.
5.02      Although initially expensive because of improved planning procedures
and the infusion of expatriate manpower, the project would lead to increased
cost efficiency by supporting training and by formalizing the transfer of
responsibility to local firms. It would also reduce waste associated with
delays, duplication and selection of unsatisfactory sites.
5.03      Baturaja Extension.  Using the assumptions about income, labcr price
and investment costs given in Chapter 4 and discounting costs and benefits
over 30 years, the economic rate of return of this component is over 14%.
5.04      This component would improve agricultural productivity in the
existing settlement area by introducing improved extension (REC), marketing
(FCC), pest control (PBB) and soil conservation practices, and by constructing
processing facilities to maximize the return from rubber planted under the
Transmigration I project. The component would also create employment
opportunities for transmigrant and local populations. Land clearing, road
construction, the building of village facilities and rubber development, would
contribute significantly to the local economy. For field clearing and tree
crop establishment alone, nearly 1.5 million workdays or more than 4,000 work
years of unskilled labor would be needed. Most of the jobs created by the
project would be incremental since many transmigrants and local people would
be otherwise underemployed.
5.05      Program Development.  It is not possible to quantify the benefits
from this component of the project. However, DGT 'training would improve the
quality of transmigrant communities by upgrading on-site staff, and it would
improve implementation by facilitating staff training and manpower development
within the DGT. The agricultural research component would lead in the long
run to improved agricultural productivity and to the increased utilization o-



- 28 -
marginal lands. In the short run, the component would undertake studies
needed to recommend appropriate farming systems for transmigrants.
Consulting services provided to the Ministry of Development Supervision and
Environment would help that agency to improve the environmental soundness of
the transmigration program.
Risks
5.06      Site Selection and Evaluation.  The major risks are two.  The
first and most serious is that GOI will expand settlement targets beyond
those indicated in the proposed program and that pressures to clear land
will then lead to utilization of resources from this project (sites, air
photos, domestic firms, agency capacity) for programs using emergency
procedures. As this would seriously impede the work of consulting firms
engaged under this project, an assurance would be obtained from Government
that DITADA would not divert resources allocated to the proposed project
without the review and approval of the Bank. Should the project or agency
performance be jeopardized by increased targets the proposed project would
be reviewed.
5.07      A related but lesser risk is that the scale of the proposed project
is so large that sites, air photos, domestic capacity or agency capability
might be inadequate. Safeguards being provided under the project to circum-
vent these constraints are summarized in Annex 2. The likelihood of encoun-
tering this problem is also judged to be small as the program is currently
identifying and preparing sites for 75,000 families/year. Finally in the
event that sites or air photos were limited in some areas, firms could be
shifted or cancelled, and should any expatriate or domestic firm fail to
function effectively, sufficient time is being allowed to engage additional
firms.
5.08      Baturaja.  The major risks are that dissected land and poor soil
quality may lead to erosion and declining agricultural productivity over the
years. To reduce these risks the proposed project would intensify soil
conservation measures, extend research on farming systems, improve extension,
and provide draught power and tree crops to improve land utilization.
Organizational problems would be minimized by using an existing and successful
PMU.
5.09      Program Development.  The major risk with these subcomponents is
that implementing agencies may fail to complete the proposed works in time.
To minimize this problem the components have been kept small and the disburse-
ment periods short; follow-up is provided by the JMT who could reduce or
reallocate loan proceeds if funds could not be spent within the four-year
project period.
5.10      With the precautions mentioned, the risks are judged to be
acceptable.



- 29 -
6. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
Conditions of Disbursement
6.01      Government and Bank have agreed that funds for rubber processing
facilities would be onlent to PTP X and that a subsidiary loan agreement,
satisfactory to the Bank would be signed between PTP X and the Ministry of
Finance as a condition of disbursement for rubber processing faciliites
and equipment (para. 3.12).
Assurances
6.02      To ensure that reasonable standards can be maintained in the site
identification and evaluation component, assurances were obtained that:
(a) DITADA would provide to the Bank a list of sites to be inves-
tigated under this project by June 30, 1983 and would not alter
this list or divert resources needed for the standard planning
program (sites, air photos, firms) without the review and
approval of the Bank (para. 2.21); and
(b) site selection and evaluation would be carried out under the
procedures outlined in this report and in effect at the time
of this agreement (para. 2.18).
6.03      Assurances were also obtained from Government that:
(a) adequate road maintenance equipment would be provided to the
district Public Works office in Baturaja to permit upkeep
of the roads in both old and new settlements (para. 2.24);
(b) a full-time DGT staff member in Baturaja would be appointed
by the DGT for monitoring and evaluation (para. 2.24);
(c) all consultants for PLPT, AARD and MDSE would be engaged by
June 30, 1983 (para. 2.27);
(d) the PLPT training development specialist would review and approve
curricula and instructor training on all courses against which
Bank disbursement is expected, and would review and approve the
courses and candidates for scholarships and fellowships financed
with Bank assistance (para. 2.27);
(e) AARD would submit inception reports for proposed research to the
Bank for review and approval (2.27);



- 30 -
(f) a special unit would be formed to promote the coordination of Bank
Group-assisted transmigration projects (paras. 2.27 and 2.31);
(g) within the special unit, subunits would be formed to assist in the
coordination of Bank-assisted projects, each subunit to be
adequately staffed on a full time basis (para. 2.27);
(h) all accounts and audits would be undertaken in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 3.14); and
(i) all consultants would be hired under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 3.10).
Recommendations
6.04      With the above assurances the project would be suitable for a Bank
loan of US$101.0 million with a 20 year maturity and a grace period of five
years. The borrower would be the Republic of Indonesia.



AtMEX 1
- 31 -                                  Table 1
Page 1
INDONESIA
TRANSMIGRATION III PROJECT
Project Cost Summary
For-
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  eign  Total   FE
---  (Rp million) ----  -- (US$ million) --  (x)
Site Selection & Evaluation
Aerial photography                          770   3,430    4,200   1.1    4.9   6.0          '2
Consulting firms                        24,080  30,730   54,810  34.4   43.9  78.3           56
Advisory group                           1,050   3,920    4,970   1.5    5.6   7.1           79
Supplementary Pool & assistance
for PAYP                                  560   2,030    2,590   0.3    2.9   3.7           78
GOI inputs                              10,360   4,970   15,330  14.8    7.1  21.9           32
Base Cost                         36,820  45,080   81,900  52.6   64.4 117.0           57
Physical contingencies                   4,970   4,900    9,870   7.1    7.0  14.1           50
Price contingencies                      2,800   2,030    4,830   4.0    2.9   6.9           42
Subtotal                            7,770   6,930   14,700  11.1    9.9  21.0          47
Component Cost                    44,590  52,010   96,600  63.7   74.3 138.0            55
Baturaja Extension
Site Preparation
Land clearing & road construction         700   2,380    3,080   1.0    3.4   4.4           77
Road maintenance equipment                   -     210        210   0       0.3   0.3    100
Agrarian services                         210       140       350   0.3    n.2   0.5        40
Subtotal                              910   2,730    3,640   1.3    3.9   5.2          75
Community Development &
Settler Relocation
Settler housing & village
facilities                             1,330      700    2,030   1.9    1.0   2.9          34
Vehicles & equipmient                        -       70        70   -       0.1   0.1    100
Settler relocation & support              560      840    1,400   0.8    1.2   2.0          60
Subtotal                            1,890   1,610    3,500   2.7    2.3   5.0          46
Food Crop & Livestock Development
Farmers  cooperative center                28       14         42   0.04   0.02  0.06    33
REC & PBB facilities                        28      21         49   0.04   0.03  0.07    43
Vehicles & equipment (REC, PBB &            63     105        168   0.09   0.15  0.24    62
veterinary equipment)
Agricultural supplies                     210      210        420   0.3      0.3  0.6       50
Soil conservation package                 280      140        420   0.4      0.2  0.6       33
Subtotal                              609      490    1,099   0.87    0.7  1.57    44



ANNEX 1
- 32 -                              Table 1
Page 2
For-
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  eign  Total   FE
---- (Rp million) ---- -- (US$ million) -- (%)
Tree Crop Establishment &
Processing Facilities
Tree crop establishment                1,330   1,470    2,800   1.9    2.1    4.0    52
Tree crop maintenance                  1,610   1,820    3,430   2.3    2.6    4.9    53
Rubber processing facilities              770     420    1,190   1.1    0.6    1.6    35
Rubber processing vehicles &
equipment                               140   1,470    1,610   0.2    2.1    2.3    91
Subtotal                           3,850   5,180    9,030   5.5    7.4   12.8    57
Consultant services                        140      770      910   0.2    1.1    1.3    85
Base Cost                          7,400  10,780   18,180  10.6   15.4   26.0    59
Physical contingencies                    840   1,190    2,030   1.2    1.7    2.9    59
Price contingencies                     2,100   1,750    3,850   3.0    2.5    5.5    45
Subtotal                           2,940   2,940    5,880   4.2    4.2    8.4    50
Component Cost                    10,340  13,720   24,060  14.8   19.6   34.4    57
Program Development
DGT Training
Training centers & housing               420      210       630   0.6    0.3    0.9    33
Vehicles & equipment                      140     280       420   0.2    0.4    0.6    66
Consultants, fellowships &
training                              1,750   1,260    3,010   2.5    1.8    4.3    42
Subtotal                           2,310   1,750    4,060   3.3    2.5    5.8    43
Agricultural Research
Facilities                               210      140       140   0.3    0.2    0.5   100
Vehicles & equipment                      140     490       840   0.2    0.7    0.9    58
Operating expenses (research, per
diem, overheads)                        910      140    1,050   1.3    0.2    1.5    13
Consultant services                        70     490       560   0.1    0.7    0.8    87
Subtotal                           1,330   1,260    2,590   1.9    1.8    3.7    48
Technical Assistance to the MDSE
Consultant services                        56     420       476   0.1    0.6    0.7    88
Base Cost                          3,696   3,430    7,126   5.3    4.9   10.2    48
Physical contingencies                     210     210       420   0.3    0.3    0.6    50
Price contingencies                     1,120      770    1,890   1.6    1.0    2.6    41
Subtotal                           1,330      910    2,240   1.9    1.3    3.2    40
Component Cost                     5,026   4,410    9,436   7.2    6.2   13.4    46
Total Base Cost                   47,915  59,290  107,205  68.5   84.7  153.2    55
Total physical contingencies              6,020   6,300   12,320   8.6    9.0   17.6    51
Total price contingencies                 6,020   4,550   10,570   8.6    6.4   15.0    42
Total Project Cost                59,955  70,140  130,095  85.7  100.1  185.8    54



ANNEX 1
- 33 -                                  Table 2
INDONESIA
TRANSMIGRATION III PROJECT
Proposed Allocation of Loan Funds
Total   For-      Loan   % total
/a     eign      amt.      cost
Civil Works
Land clearing & road construction (PMU)              5.0      3.4       3.0       60
Housing & village facilities (PMU)                   4.1      1.4       2.4       60
Rubber processing facilities (PTP X)                 2.5      0.7       1.5       60
Tree crop development (PTP X)                        5.1      2.8       3.0       60
Tree crop maintenance (PTP X)                        6.6      3.3       4.0       60
Training facilities (DGT)                            1.0      0.3       0.6       60
Research facilities (AARD)                           0.9      0.3       0.5       60
REC, PPB and FCC facilities and soil
conservation works (DGFCA and DGC)                 1.0     0.3       1.0      100
Subtotal                                      26.2    12.5       16.0
Vehicles & Equipment
Equipment for road maintenance & pasture
development (PMU)                                  0.6     0.6       0.6      100
Rubber processing vehicles (PTP X)                   0.6      0.5       0.6      100
Rubber processing machinery (PTP X)                  2.0      1.9       2.0      100
Research equipment (AARD)                            0.9      0.9       0.9      100
REC, PBB, FCC and veterinary equipment
(DGFCA, DOC, PMU)                                 0.4      0.4       0.4      100
Subtotal                                       4.5      4.4       4.5
Services
Fellowships & scholarships (DGT)                     0.7      0.6       0.7     100
Training (DGT)                                       4.1      1.3       1.5       35
Consulting services other than DITADA                4.3      4.3       4.3     100
Consultant firms for site selection (DITADA)   78.3    43.9           58.7        75
Advisory group (PITADA)                              7.7      6.9       5.8       75
Supplementary pool (DITADA)                          4.0      3.0       3.0      75
Subtotal                                      99.1    60.0       74.0
Total                                          -        -        94.5
Unallocated                                            -        -         5.0
Total Disbursed                                -        -        99.5
Capitalized front-end fee                              -        -         1.5
Total Loan Amount                              -        -       101.0
/a Inc,ludes base cost plus price contingencies on base cost.



- 34 -                              ANNEX 1
Table 3
INDONESIA
TRANSMIGRATION III PROJECT
Proposed Schedule of Disbursements /a
Cumulative             Cumulative
IBRD fiscal year          disbursements           disbursements
and semester             (US$ million)               (%)
FY83
Second                    5/b                      5
FY84
First                    16                       16
Second                   35                       35
FY85
First                    50                       50
Second                   70                       70
FY86
First                    86                       86
Second                   93                       93
FY87
First                    97                       97
Second                  101                      100
/a  Insufficient technical assistance projects were iden-
tified within the region to develop generalized
disbursement profiles for comparative purposes.
/b  Includes US$1.5 million capitalized front end fee.



- 35-
ANNEX 1
Table 4
INDONESIA
TRANSMIGRATION III PROJECT
Consultant Services Provided under the Proposed Project
(months)
Expatriate
Expatriate    individually        Local          Local
in firm        recruited    professional    Technical
DITADA /a                  4,380              -             8,544         13,320
PMU                                          60                36              -
Cooperatives                   -             36                 -
DGT training                  72              -                72
Agricultural research          -             72
Environment                    -            108
DGFCA (Soil Conservation)                    36
/a Includes expatriate firms and domestic associates, local firms and
advisory group. Does not include local professionals involved in aerial
photography or detailed village design. Excludes 600 man-months for
specialist pool drawn from qualified expatriate and domestic consultants.



ANNEX 1
-36-                                 Table 5
INDONESIA
TRANSMIGRATION III PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return Calculation - Baturaja Extension
(Mid-1982 US$ million)
Agricultural
production benefits       Net value
Food crops &                   of settler  Project    O&M    project
Year      houselot /a Rubber /a Total    labor /a    costs    costs   benefits
1982/83       -          -        -         -           0.06     -        -0.06
1983/84       0.01       -        0.01     -0.08        4.90     -        -4.99
1984/85       0.04       -        0.04       0.28       5.20      0.02    -4.90
1985/86       0.20       -        0.20       0.12       0         0.10     0.22
1986/87       0.40       -        0.40       0.00       0         0.10     0.30
1987/88       0.60      -         0.60       2.06       0.49      0.10    -0.05
1988/89       0.80       0.26     1.06     -0.09        0         0.12     0.85
1989/90       0.90       0.78     1.68     -0.09        0         0.15     1.44
1990/91       1.10       1.15     2.25     -0.11        0         0.17     1.97
1991/92       1.20       1.30     2.50     -0.13        0         0.18     1.98
1992/93       1.20       1.53     2.73     -0.13        0         0.19     2.41
1993/94       1.30       1.76     3.06     -0.13        0         0.20     2.73
1994/95       1.30       1.96     3.26     -0.13        0         0.20     2.93
1995/96       1.30       2.08     3.38     -0.13        0         0.20     3.05
1996/97       1.30       2.08     3.38     -0.13        0         0.20     3.05
1997/98       1.30       2.08     3.38     -0.13        0         0.20     3.05
1998/99       1.30       2.08     3.38     -0.13        0         0.20     3.05
1999/2000      1.30       2.08     3.38     -0.13        0         0.20     3.05
2000/01       1.30       2.08     3.38     -0.13        0         0.20     3.05
2001/02       1.30       2.08     3.38     -0.13        0         0.20     3.05
2002/03       1.30       1.90     3.20     -0.13        0         0.20     2.87
2003/04       1.30       1.71     3.01      -0.13       0         0.20     2.68
2004/05       1.30       1.71     3.01     -0.13        0         0.20     2.68
2005/06       1.30       1.64     2.94     -0.13        0         0.20     2.61
2006/07       1.30       1.56     2.86     -0.13        0         0.20     2.53
2007/08       1.30       1.48     2.78     -0.13        0         0.20     2.45
2008/09       1.30       1.33     2.63      -0.13       0         0.18     2.32
2009/10       1.30       1.18     2.48      -0.13       0         0.18     2.17
2010/11       1.30       1.10     2.40     -0.13        0         0.17     2.10
2011/12       1.30       1.10     2.40      -0.13       0         0.17     2.10
/a Based on tables found in Staff Working Papers.



- 37 -                             ANNEX 2
Page 1
INDONESIA
TRANSMIGRATION III PROJECT
Site Selection and Evaluation Component
Directorate of Urban and Regional Planning
1.         Organization.  DITADA is a Directorate within the Directorate
General of Housing, Building, Planning and Urban Development (Cipta Karya),
itself part of the Department of Public Works. Responsibility for the
transmigration planning process is assigned to four subdirectorates within
DITADA: (a) Regional Planning which undertakes preliminary site identifi-
cation (Phase I); (b) the Sub-Directorate of Rural Planning which does
reconnaissance level surveys (Phase II); (c) the Sub-Directorate of Develop-
ment Programming and Implementation which does detailed planning (Phase III);
and (d) the Sub-Directorate of Planning Information which provides basic
data, training support and cartographic services. No senior staff work
exclusively on transmigration, but staff of various subdirectorates are
mobilized for transmigration-related work under the Subdirectorate for
Regional Planning.
2.         Staff.  DITADA technical staff totals 427 of whom approximately 75%
work on transmigration. Of these, 161 people are university trained (138
technical, 23 nontechnical). Most senior staff are stationed in Jakarta but
the Directorate intends to build up its provincial organization. At present,
11 of the 22 provincial offices are operating effectively and have a
productive involvement in transmigration planning. All subdirectorates report
difficulties in recruiting well-qualified senior technical staff and most
production work is contracted to consulting companies.
3.         Budget.  DITADA-s 1981/82 budget was approximately Rp 10.4 billion
(US$16.6 million)/l of which Rp 7.6 billion (73%) was for transmigration
planning. The 1982/83 budget calls for resources totaling Rp 19.4 billion
(US$30 million) of which 16.4 million or 85% is for transmigration.
4.         Assessment of DITADA Performance.  Despite their limited experience
in rural settlement planning, DITADA staff responded commendably to the chal-
lenge set by the Government's Repelita III transmigration targets. However,
maintaining high target levels and improving the quality of settlements will
require DITADA to: (a) effectively engage and supervise expatriate and
domestic consultants; (b) develop appropriate organizational arrangements and
provide adequate full-time staff; (c) devise appropriate planning methodolo-
gies; and (d) develop linkages with other agencies which will speed produc-
tion, improve quality, reduce duplication and facilitate implementation.
/1  At the time of report:  Rp 625 = US$1.00.



- 38 -                           ANNEX 2
Page 2
5.        Bank Group Support.  In 1980/81, as Indonesia began to demonstrate
its capacity to move very large numbers of people, the World Bank agreed to a
GOI request to allocate US$30 million from the Transmigration II Project to
engage 11 expatriate firms and their domestic associates for nine months to
undertake a short-term program of site selection and village design. An
expatriate advisory group was also formed within DITADA to supervise these
consulting firms and provide DITADA with technical advice. This advisory
group consisted of technical specialists from the British Overseas Development
Administration (ODA) and Sir M. McDonald Partners, Ltd. The advisory group
was engaged through April 1983 at which time the reconnaisance and mapping
firms would also have completed their work.
6.        Under Transmigration II, 144 Phase II studies and 37 Phase III
studies were undertaken and generally high quality was maintained. Among the
most important problems were poor performance of some consulting firms and the
rejection of a large number of poorly screened sites. Problems affecting the
performance of firms included weak staff and difficulties between expatriate
firms and their domestic counterparts; shortages of sites and air photos and
problems of contract administration. A large number of sites were rejected
due to poor initial screening and limited organizational arrangements for
developing nonstandard sites (those on which food crop cultivation is not
appropriate). The proposed project would initiate actions to circumvent these
constaints.
Manpower Requirements
7.        The personnel required to undertake Phase II and Phase IIIA studies
for a program to settle 100,000 families/year for three years is summarized in
Table 1. As the table indicates, a program of the scale proposed would
require over 26,000 man-months of consulting services for Phase II and Phase
IIIA studies. Of these, 51% would be provided by local technical specialists;
33% by domestic professionals; and 14% by expatriate professionals. Six hun-
dred man-months (about 2%) would be allocated to a pool of specialists avail-
able to supplement the resources of domestic consulting firms. Expatriate
services are in technical specialities in short supply in Indonesia.



- 39 -                           ANNEX 2
Page 3
Table 1: CONSULTANT SERVICES REQUIRED FOR PHASE II AND PHASE IIIA
(man-months)
One    One              One firm
Phase  Phase      28       23
II    IIIA    Phase   Phase                 Eight
study  study      II      IIIA    Total      firms
Expatriate specialist       3.3    15.5      93       357       450      3,600
Local professional          3.4    42.3      95       973    1,068       8,544
Local technical             2.8    69.0       78    1,587    1,665    13,320
Supplementary pool          -        -        -         -         -        600/a
9.5   126.8    266    2,917    3,183    26,064
/a Funds for short-term technical assistance to aid domestic consulting
firms.
Implementation Schedule
8.        The implementation schedule for the proposed project is summarized
in Table 2.1 in the main report. Air photos have been obtained for 115 sites
for this program and 100 additional sites are to be flown prior to April 1983.
At least 130 additional sites would be budgeted and flown between April and
June of 1983. To provide needed Phase II studies before the main body of
work begins, the contracts of five of the best firms working on the first
round of studies were extended, and each will complete 10 Phase II studies
prior to June 1983. Ten expatriate firms with domestic associates would be
mobilized by about April 1983. In addition, the best of the associated
domestic firms from the first round of studies would be asked to submit
proposals for completing 3 Phase IIIA studies in the first year of the
project. If these were completed successfully the firms would be extended
for four additional Phase IIIA studies in year two. These domestic firms
would be supervised by a team of advisors in the provinces who would be
mobilized by April 1983. Finally, the project would provide financial
assistance to extend the services of the existing advisory group from April
1983-March 1985.
Constraints to Implementation
9.         Program Scale.  The size of this component has been determined by
the size of transmigration targets and the need to mount the maximum possible
effort to improve the quality of site selection for the entire program.
Under the proposed project the following actions have been taken to ensure
success:



- 40 -                           ANNEX 2
Page 4
(a) Availability of Areas. Prior to negotiations, DITADA and the
advisory group reviewed available areas to ensure that 345 sites
were available for aerial photography.
(b) Air Photos. DITADA provided sufficient funds in the 1982/83 DIP
for air photos for 215 sites for the SFSE program and 45 sites for
a backlog in PAYP, and funds have been requested in the 1983/84
DIP for the remaining sites.
(c) Domestic Consultants. Domestic manpower required for these
studies is judged to be adequate with the addition of a
600 man-month specialist pool.
(d) Expatriate Capacity. Nearly 45 firms have been prequalified so
no shortage of qualified firms is anticipated.
10.       Institutional Constraints.  Actions to strengthen DITADA with
technical support (advisory group), training and upgrading of provincial
offices have been incorporated into the project. To circumvent other
constraints, one person from the advisory group would be engaged to work with
senior officials in DITADA on training and institutional development. The
task of this consultant in addition to training functions described in
para. 2.12 of the main report would be to describe and analyze the functions
and staffing of DITADA and recommend improvements. Tie would also examine
the role of technical specialists within DITADA, evaluate options for
strengthening provincial offices and for improving interagency coordination.
11.       Lessons from Transmigration II.  Constraints faced in the past would
be circumvented as follows.
(a) Relations Between Expatriate Firms and Domestic Consortia.
Problems in this area would be reduced by: extending firms
which performed best; improving prequalification of new firms;
requiring that alliances between expatriate and domestic firms
are freely formed; and requiring that a mutually agreed
workplan is presented which discusses proposed training and the
transfer of authority and responsibility to the domestic
consultants.
(b) Problems of Contract Administration. These problems would be
reduced by:  strengthening the team administering the SFSE
program; providing intensive and periodic training to project
managers provided as supervisors to the consulting teams; and
improving communication between DITADA and consulting firms
(circulating monthly newsletters, distributing significant studies
and arranging periodic meetings between team leaders and senior
DITADA officials).



- 41 -                           ANNEX 2
Page 5
(c) Insufficient Sites. To reduce this problem, a steering
committee would be formed to agree on areas to be investigated,
and DITADA and the advisory group would screen all areas before
presentation to the National Consultative Meetings (NCM) between
transmigration agencies and provincial officials. The effec-
tiveness of the NCM itself would be improved by: (i) providing
location maps of sites proposed for investigation to the
provinces and implementing agencies at least 30 days before the
meeting; and (ii) evaluating sites proposed for at least two or
three years to permit questionable sites to be deferred.
(d) Insufficient Air Photos. Sufficient air photos would be ensured
by allowing 20% rejects of sites flown, assuming a 10% loss
for prolonged cloud cover, and assuming a further 20% attrition
among sites investigated at the Phase II level. Also the loss
of air photos to programs like PAYP would be reduced by seeking
an assurance from Government that any supplementary studies
undertaken by DITADA would be done on sites not identified and
photographed under the standard planning program.
(e) Rejection of Sites. Rejected sites would be reduced by measures
mentioned above and land utilization would be improved by:
requiring Phase II studies to propose and evaluate alternative
farming systems and procedures for Phase IIIA investigation;
evaluating methods of land development under differing
conditions of land utilization, forest cover, slope variation and
soil complexity; and formalizing procedures for transfer of non-
standard sites.



- 42 -                            ANNEX 3
Page 1
INDONESIA
TRANSMIGRATION III PROJECT
Baturaja Extension Component
Project Area
1.        The general features of location, climate, topography and soils,
population and land use for the Baturaja project area have been described in
the World Bank Appraisal Report (Loan 1318-IND) dated June 10, 1976
(Chapter III, C, and Annex 5). As the extension area has generally similar
characteristics this material is not repeated here.
Project Works
New Settlement Components
2.        Physical Planning.  Funds would be provided from the Transmigra-
tion II Project to map approximately 50,000 ha north of the existing
settlement area. Detailed village designs have been completed for an
estimated six villages (3,000 families) and 2,000 families would be settled
under the proposed project. A linear settlement pattern, used in the
original settlement to maximize access to agricultural land, would be used.
3.        Site Preparation.  Under the project about 3,000 ha of secondary
forest would be cleared. Where possible the land clearing contractor would
recover timber for construction of houses and village facilities using
portable sawmills on site. Since the forest has little commercial value,
further timber recovery would not be required. Land clearing would be
undertaken mainly with chainsaws. Road areas and houselots would be
destumped. Trees on agricultural land would be felled and burned and small
logs and branches resawn and manually stacked and burned. In the course of
site development, approximately 40 km of access roads, 40 km of main village
and collection roads and 30 km of secondary village roads and farm tracks
would be constructed.
4.        Housing and Village Facilities.  The project would construct
2,000 houses using locally procured materials wherever possible. In addition,
the project would provide public facilities for four villages each of about
500 families. Facilities would include an office and hall, a dispensary, a
place of worship, storehouses and two primary schools. One health center
(PUSKESMAS) and a rural credit bank (BRI) would be constructed in the new
settlement. Staff housing would be provided for resident personnel.



- 43                              ANNEX 3
Page 2
5.        Selection, Relocation and Subsistence Support.  About two thirds of
the transmigrants would be recruited among the landless agricultural laborers
of Java, Bali and Lombok. Settlers would be volunteers, in reasonable health,
between 25 and 40, married, and with previous agricultural experience. Most
would be transported to Palembang (the provincial capital) by air and to the
site by bus. About one-third of the settlers would be drawn from the spontan-
eous migrants on site. About 10% of those settled would be local people.
Spontaneous migrants and local settlers would meet the same eligibility
requirements as sponsored migrants and all farmers would be provided with
subsistence supplies for one year.
6.        Water Supply.  As in the existing settlement of Baturaja, earth dams
would be constructed on small water courses, and shallow wells would be
constructed around their perimeters. Each household would also be provided
with containers for storing rainwater.
7.        Site Communications.  The single side band radio which links the
existing Baturaja-Martapura project with headquarters offices in Palembang
and Jakarta is adequate for the extension area.
8.        Agricultural Development, Food Crops.  To conform to current settle-
ment standards and maximize land use, each transmigrant family would be
provided with 3.5 ha of land, of which 0.25 ha would be cleared for a houselot
and home garden, 1.0 ha would be cleared for food crops, and 1.0 ha would be
planted to rubber under the project. The cropping pattern on the food crop
area would consist of interplanting paddy, corn and cassava in the wet season,
followed by groundnuts and cowpeas in the dry season. To support this agri-
cultural system, each transmigrant family would receive a standard package of
seeds, fertilizers, and pesticides. Funds for soil conservation supplies and
services would be calculated on a per family basis but used on critical land.
Most seed would be grown on a seed farm in the existing project. This seed
farm would be staffed and equipped with funds from the first transmigration
project. Other seed would be supplied through regular channels by the DGFCA.
9.        The project would provide funds for the construction of transit
fertilizer warehouses and small warehouses in each village. These would be
used initially by the DGT and DGFCA for the distribution of supplies and they
would be operated by the KUDs in year two. The DGFCA would also establish and
staff one plant protection brigade (PPB) to forecast and monitor crop pest and
disease problems and to advise farmers on crop protection methods.
10.       Livestock.  The PMU would distribute one heifer to each new
transmigrant family in the proposed extension area. For this purpose the PMU
would use an existing cattle reception and distribution center which has a
pastured holding ground and cattle yards. As the Transmigration I project
provides for the purchase of one head of cattle for each of 4,500 families and
as these families are required to return two calves to the PMU for one heifer



- 44               ~              ANNEX 3
Page 3
received, there should be no difficulty in acquiring and distributing
2,000 heifers from the calf return program which would continue under the
new project.
Tree Crop Development.  PTP X, a Government owned estate, would
plant 1 ha of rubber trees for each transmigrant family. They would arrange
for land clearing, development of farm tracks and nurseries, rubber establish-
ment and maintenance until year 6. Planting would be done to standards
established under Bank-assisted NES projects. Settlers would be used as
laborers for tree crop establishment and maintenance, as this would increase
their incomes in the early years of the project.
12.       Soil Conservation.  The Baturaja extension area has a rolling
topography and much of the area requires soil conservation measures to prevent
erosion and to sustain high productivity. The project would provide funds for
(a) grass seeds to prevent soil erosion in critical areas; (b) seedlings for
planting on roadsides and contours; (c) construction of terraces, waterways,
dikes and gully plugging; and (d) soil conservation demonstration plots. As
these are new activities within the DGFCA and have important implications for
program development, the project would also provide a soil conservation
advisor to identify, plan and assist in implementing soil conservation program
in the project area and to assess the replicability of the program.
Existing Settlement
13.       Farmer's Cooperative Center.  The proposed project would construct
and staff a Farmer's Cooperative Center (FCC) to promote cooperatives
development by training farmers in managerial and accounting skills,
assisting them in bulking and selling agricultural products, and stimulating
and supervising capital formation. Technical assistance would be provided
to the Directorate General of Cooperatives for a cooperatives development
specialist who would work part-time in Baturaja.
14.       Rural Extension Center.  The DGFCA would be responsible for estab-
lishing, equipping and staffing a Rural Extension Center (REC) in the Baturaja
extension area. DGFCA would staff the REC with two field extension
workers (PPLs); two mid-level extension workers (PPMs) and a subject matter
specialist (PPS) would be added to the Provincial Agricultural Service in
South Sumatra. While PPLs and PPMs would be housed in the villages they
serve, the PPS would be provided housing in the Kabupaten headquarters.
Audio-visual aids and extension literature would be provided and the training
and visit system of agricultural extension would be used.
15.       Supplementary Village Facilities.  Under the proposed project,
Government would provide four additional banking facilities, and one
additional health center (PUSKESMAS) would be constructed in the northern part
of the existing settlement to serve both old and new transmigrants. To
improve road maintenance, a small amount of equipment would be provided to the
PMU.



- 45 -                            ANNEX 3
Page 4
16.       Rubber Processing Facilities.  To process the rubber from Trans-
migration I rubber plantings, PTP X would construct, own and operate two
1.2 ton dry/hour crumb rubber factories, one at Baturaja and one at Way
Abung./l At both sites factory throughput would be expanded by increasing the
number of shifts worked per day until Baturaja capacity would be about 30
tons/day and Way Abung about 15 tons/day./2   PTP X would also establish and
operate latex collection services. Before transmigrants begin tapping their
trees, PTP X would train at least two members from each family in tapping
procedures at tapping schools which it would establish and operate in Baturaja
and Way Abung.
Organization and Management
17.       General.  This component would be executed by a number of agencies
including, but not restricted to the DGT-s PMU. Agreed arrangements for
budgeting and project execution are given in Table 1. The Project Management
Unit would follow up on all components to ensure timely implementation. To
facilitate this task, the project provides funds for monitoring implementation
and impact, and for technical assistance in the fields of monitoring and
financial analysis.
18.       Operation and Maintenance.  Under the proposed project the PMU would
be responsible for most operation and maintenance activities within the new
settlement for a period of five years and other agencies would assume their
routine responsibilities in the old settlement. As road maintenance has been
an area of special concern under Transmigration I, an assurance would be
sought from Government that the District Public Works office would maintain
all roads in satisfactory condition and provide sufficient vehicles and
equipment to do this. In addition, the PMU would be given a small amount of
equipment to undertake emergency road repairs. PTP X would be responsible for
the maintenance of field tracks for rubber collection.
19.       Monitoring and Evaluation.  Under Transmigration I, funds were
provided to engage a university team to undertake long-term studies of the
economic and social development of Baturaja. This team has collected a great
deal of data, but little analysis has been done and for this reason the work
has had limited utility to those interested in site development. Under the
project, responsibility for monitoring would be given directly to the PMU.
The PMU would appoint one full-time person (probably a DGT staff member) to
/1 Consideration was given to sheet rubber factories instead of crumb fac-
tories. However, crumb factories were considered more appropriate since
capital costs are lower, less quality control is needed in latex collec-
tion, and the largest user of rubber, the tire industry (60-70% of all
rubber), is expected to continue relying mainly on crumb or block rubber.
/2 To move to three shifts per day, the Baturaja factory would require
additional vehicles, machinery and equipment in 1987. However, to facili-
tate development and keep these expenditures under the project, they would
be procured in the last year of the project 1986/87.



Table 1: BUDGET ALLOCATION FOR BATURAJA EXTENSION
Activity                   Executing Agency           Budgeted to           Reasons
New Settlement - Unless otherwise indicated PMU system would be retained.
1. Detailed village design       PMU and DITADA          None               No further budget required.
2. Land clearing, 3,000 ha       PMU                     DGT                Regular arrangement for small sites
3. House construction            PMU                     DGT               Regular function
4. Settler relocation, provi-   PMU                      DGT                Regular function
sion of subsistence supplies
5. Livestock development         PMU                     DGT               Livestock will be distributed from
existing calf return program under
the PMU.
6. Agricultural inputs           DGFCA                   DGFCA              Regular function                           ON
7. Tree crop establishment       PTP X                   DGE                To reduce costs and maintain
quality control
Existing Settlements (to be turned over to the province) - Line agencies would assume regular functions
1. Farmer's cooperative center  DGC                      DGC                Regular function
2. Rural Extension Centers       DGFCA                   DGFCA              Regular function
and Plant Protection
Brigades
3. Agricultural research         AARD                    AARD               Regular function
4. Soil conservation measures   DGFCA                    DGFCA              Regular function
5. Seed Farm                     DGFCA                   DGFCA              Regular function
6. Construction and management  PTP X                    DGE                Construction and management most
of rubber processing                                                      efficiently undertaken by an expe-
facilities                                                                rienced PTP.
LflS



- 47 -                            ANNEX 3
Page 6
undertake periodic monitoring using available staff and transmigrant support.
This person would be appointed by September 30, 1982 to permit overlap with
the existing monitoring and evaluation team, and to assist with the project
completion report for Transmigration I. To provide comparable data between
Transmigration I and II, standard monitoring procedures would be developed in
conjunction with technical specialists currently working on Transmigration II.
Funds have been provided to cover monitoring expenditures (transport, research
personnel and report writing) and for special studies using local and
expatriate consultants on a part-time basis. Housing and vehicles have
already been procurred with funds from Transmigration I.
20.       Status of Preparation and Proposed Implementation Schedule.  Land
suitable for 500 families was mapped during the preparation of Transmigra-
tion I. Detailed village designs were completed in this area in 1982 and a
small contract for land clearing and house construction was tendered by the
PMU in early 1983. Village design for 1,500 additional families would be
available in early 1983 and at that time additional contracts for manual
land clearing and house construction would be issued. Standard designs for
roads and dams are available and agricultural services are already in place.
All project works for 2,000 families would be completed within the four year
tranche of the proposed project (Table 2).
Table 2: IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE FOR BATURAJA EXTENSION
Hectares   (Proposed                 Families   Hectares
Year                  cleared      families)   Houses        moved      of rubber
1982  April-June   Preparation
(1)   July-Sept    Tendering
Oct-Dec       Mobilization
Jan-Mar       300             (200)
1983  April-June   300              (200)
(2)   July-Sept    300              (200)          200
Oct-Dec       300             (200)          200/a       200
Jan-Mar       300             (200)          200         200        500
1984  April-June   300              (200)          200/a       200
(3)   July-Sept    300              (200)          200         200
Oct-Dec       300             (200)          200         200
Jan-Mar       300             (200)          200/a       200     1,000
1985  April-June   300              (200)          200         200
July-Sept                                    200/a       200
Oct-Dec                                      200         200
Jan-Mar                                                  200        500
Total      3,000             2,000         2,000       2,000     2,000
/a  Village Centers.



ANNEX 3
-48                                             Page 7
Table 3.  CROPPING PATTERNS AND FARM BUDGETS FOR 1.25 HA FARIM PLUS 1.0 HA RUBBER
At full
Year                    agricultural
Unit       1      2       3       4      5    development /a
Yields                                 ton/ha
Paddy                                            0.5   0.75    1.0   1.25    1.5            2.0
Corn                                             0.5    0.6    0.8    1.0   1.25            1.5
Cassava                                          6.0    7.0    8.0   10.0   12.0           15.0
Groundnut                                        0.4    0.5    0.6   0.75    0.9            1.0
Cowpea                                           0.4    0.4    0.5    0.5    0.6            0.6
Harvested Area                         ha
Wet season
paddy                                          0.5    1.0    1.0    1.0    1.0            1.0
Corn                                           0.5    1.0    1.0    1.0    1.0           1.0
Dry season
Cassava                                        0.4    0.4    0.4    0.4    0.4           0.4
Groundnut                                      0.3    0.5    0.5    0.5    0.5           0.5
Cowpea                                         0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1           0.1
Crop Production                        kg
Paddy                                            250    750  1,000  1 250  1,500         2,000
Corn                                             250    600    800  1,000  1,250          1,500
Cassava                                        2.400  2,800  3,200  4,000  4,800         6,000
Groundnut                                        120    250    300    375    450            500
Cowpea                                            40      40     50      50      60          60
Farm Income /b                         Rp'000
Gross value of production                        157    322    408    506    611            819
Production costs, excluding
labor                                            -      51     51      72     72         110
Net value of production                          157    271    357    434    539            727
Net value garden production                       10      37     39      41      41         203
Taxes /c                                           0       0      0       0       0          23
Net crop income                                  167    308    396    475    580            912
GOI assistance to settlers                       369       -      -       -       -           -
Off-farm income /d                               235    121      82       5      45          20
Net value of rubber production                     -       -      -       -       -       1,052
Total family income                              771    429    478    480    625          1,984
Total labor requirements for food
and garden cropping                            181    340    340    340    340            340
/a  In year 10 of settlement for food crop production and year 16 for rubber production.
/b  Supporting tables in Staff Working Papers.
/c  Land tax (IPEDA) at Rp 9,000/ha of food cropland.
/d  Based on man-days required in first 6 years of rubber development and a wage rate of
Rp 1,000 per man-day.



- 49 -                            ANNEX 3
Page 8
21.       Environmental Impact.  Since the area is in secondary forest there
is no problem of timber utilization. However, erosion is a problem and the
project would take steps to minimize erosion in both existing and new
settlement areas.
Agricultural Production
22.       The project would make food crop production possible on 2,400 ha
of new land in Baturaja and it would bring 2,000 ha under rubber production.
In addition, the project would maximize returns from 7,100 ha of rubber in
Baturaja and Way Abang by providing ongoing maintenance and introducing
processing facilities. Table 3 summarizes farm production at full agricul-
tural development. Projected yields are contingent upon transmigrants
receiving and using good seed, adequate fertilizer, pesticides and good
extension. The average rubber yield over a 25-year period is assumed to be
1,126 kg/ha. Per ha rubber yields.by year of production are summarized in
Table 4.
Table 4: ASSUMED RUBBER YIELDS - KG/HA
Year    6    7    8      9      10      11  12-19  20-22  23-24   25    26  27-30
kg/ha  450  800  900   1000  1200   1300  1450   1200   1100  1000   900  800
Market Prospects
23.       Market prospects for food crops and rubber are summarized in the
main report. As incremental production in the extension area is very small
in relation to demand and as markets already exist in the original settlement,
no problems would arise in disposing of agricultural surpluses in the project
area.



ANNEX 3
-50 -                                  Page 9
Table 5: PRICE STRUCTURES FOR AGRICLtTLTAL OLUTPUTS
(Rp & USS'000/eon in constant mid-1982 prices)
Baturaja
Opera-            1982                     ;990
tion   Rp'QOO/ton  USS/ton   Rp'000/con  USS/ton
Rice (ton)
Export price, Thai 5% brokens,
f.o.b., aangkok /a                                  312         500          370         592
Quality adjustment /b                       90%       281          450         333          533
Freight and insurance                        +         16           25          16           25
C.i.f. price, project area                   -        297          475         349          558
Port handling, storage & losses /c           +         16           25           16          25
Transport co wholesaler /d                   +         10           16           10          16
Mill to wholesaler                           -           2           3            2           3
Exmill price, project area                   -        321          513         373          596
Conversion to paddy                         63%       202          323         235          376
Milling and cleaning costs less
value of products                          -          2            3           2            3
Handling transport ,arm to mill              -          2            3            2 -         3
Economic farmgate price                      -        198          317         231          370
(Financial Farmgate Price)             -         135                      158
Corn
Export price, f.o.b. US Gulf port                      88          140         132          211
Freight and insurance                        +         28           45          28           45
Port handling                                +          6           10           6           k0
Transport, wharf to wholesaler               +         10           16           10          16
Transport, village co wholesaler             -          2            3            2           3
Transport, .arm to village                   -          2            3           2            3
Economic farmgate price                      -        128          205         172          276
(Financial Farmgate Price)             -         105                      132
Peanut
Peanut shelled, f.o.b. Nigeria                        350          560         438          701
Freight and insurance                        +         23           37          23           37
Port handling                                +          4            6           4            6
Transport, wharf to whoiesaler               +           6          10           6           10
Transport, subdistrict to wholesaler         -          3            5           3            5
Transport, farm to subdistrict
market                                     -          2            3           2            3
Farmgace price peanut shelled                -        378          605         466          746
Farmgate price peanut unLshelled            80%       302          484         373          512
(Financial Farmgate Price)             .        425                      370
Rubber
RSSI, c.i.f. New York                                 874        1,398       1,118        1,789
SIR 20, c.i.f. New York                     95%       830       1,328        1,062        1,700
Freight, insurance, broKerage and
commission                                 -         87          139          87          139
Fob Indonesia                                -        743       1,189          975        1,561
Transport to wharf, port handling
and JMO markecing coscs                    -         18           29          18           29
Taxes/e                                      -         56           89          56           89
Financial price ex-factory                   -        669       1,071          901        1,443
Economic price ex-factory                    -        725        1,160         957       1,532
Farmer price                                 *        554                      770
/a Thai White 5% f.o.b. Bangkok. IBRD Projection, December 1981.
/b  90% of world price based on soot checks ana regressions.   See paper 'BRD/AEPIA 1979.
/c  Source.  PULOC.  The breakdown of these coats is as follows (Rp/ton)
Port costs                -  2,800
Transport to warehouse -  2,900
Spraying & fumigation  -    "00
Unloading                 -  3,700
Warehouse rent            -  1,000
Total                !0,800 (USS;1)-
Losses at unloading 0.75% and 1.0% at warehouse - 5.000 ('JSS8).
/d  Transportation coats aS gxven below.  For Baturaja, costs are Rlp 50/ton 'kilometer.
7h  7% of f.o.t). Indonesia grice.



-51  -                                ANNEX 3
page 10
Table 6:  PRICE STRUCTURES FOR AGRICULTURAL INPUTS
(Rp & US$'000/ton in constant mid-1982 prices)
Baturaja
1982                   1990
Rp'O00/ton  US$/ton   Rp'OOO/ton  US$/ton
Urea /a
World export price,
f.o.b. Europe                           148        236         181         290
Ex-factory price                          144         230         187        299
Handling and distributing to
retail level /b                          20          32          20         32
Transport to farm                           2           3           2           3
Economic farmgate price                   166         265         209        330
(Financial Farmgate Price)/c           (70)                   (93)
TSP /d
World export price, f.o.b.,
US Gulf Port                            125         200         148        236
Freight and insurance                      31          50          31         50
Randling and distributing to
retail level                             21          34         21          34
Transport to farm                           1           2           1           2
Economic farmgate price                   178         286         201        322
(Financial Farmgate Price)             (70)                   (93)
/a  Indonesia has been an exporter of urea from the PUSRI plant in Palembang,
mainly to ASEAN countries. In 1978 domestic demand caught up with produc-
tion and Indonesia has imported urea. However the exporter position is
expected to be restored in 1982 when the Bontang factory becomes opera-
tional. The 1982 price is used in the report to approximate prices in
1980-90 and is therefore based on an exporting situation and on supply to
the project from Bontang.  For Baturaja, the ex-factory price is at
Palembang. Ex-factory prices are based on projections for bagged urea
f.o.b. Europe and a transport premium to ASEAN markets of US$15/ton.
/b  Palembang to Baturaja (Rp 20,000/ton).
/c  Financial price based on Government subsidized price; 1990 projection based
on increases in world price.
/d  Indonesia is and will remain an importer of TSP mainly from Europe and North
Africa. Nearly all imports and distribution of fertilizer is handled by PT
PUSRI who has three main port facilities/bagging plants from which be
imported in bulk to Palembang.



- 52 -                                ANNEX 4
Page 1
INDONESIA
TRANSMIGRATION III PROJECT
Program Development Component
1.         Three subcomponents in the proposed project are devoted primarily
to institution building and program development: (a) a component to improve
staff training in the DGT; (b) a component to develop a program of agricul-
tural research in support of transmigration; and (c) a technical
assistance component to monitor and improve the environmental soundness of
transmigration projects.
A. DGT Staff Training
Background
2.         The Directorate General of Transmigration.  The DGT is the largest
agency within the Ministry of Manpower and Transmigration, and until 1978 it
was responsible for all transmigration activities. With Presidential
Decree 26/78, the major tasks of site selection and agricultural development
were transferred to the Department of Public Works and the Department of
Agriculture, respectively, but this did not reduce the DGT-s task as targets
were greatly increased and many new agencies were brought into the program.
The DGT now moves nearly 5 times as many families per month as it did 4 years
ago, and it coordinates the work of some 20 agencies in the field.
3.         To cope with a program on this scale, DGT personnel were doubled
between 1978/79 and 1981/82 and staff now number about 9,000. These staff
members have responsibility for:
(a) Recruitment and Selection. The DGT recruits, registers and
selects about 75,000-100,000 families/year and 10% of these
transmigrants receive some training prior to their departure.
(b) Relocation and Subsistence Support. DGT staff currently
coordinate the inter-island movement of up to 9,000 families
(40,000 people) per month and provide monthly subsistence supplies
to nearly 100,000 families in 16 provinces.
(c) Community Development and Coordination. The DGT provides adminis-
trative personnel to oversee on-site development for five years
and to coordinate implementation at the project and provincial
level.



- 53 -                              ANNEX 4
Page 2
4.        PLPT.  The agency charged with training of both staff and transmi-
grants is PLPT (Pusat Latihan dan Penataran Transmigrasi), the DGT Training
Center. PLPT is located in Jakarta and most permanent staff are stationed
there, however, it has branches in major sending and receiving provinces where
local consultants provide training mainly to transmigrants. At present PLPT
has 54 staff members of whom 15 are university-trained. Most instructors are
consultants.
5.        While there is much good in PLPT training, serious problems also
exist. Among the most important are:
(a) implementing subdirectorates within the DGT have only minor roles
in determining training priorities and the content of curricula and
for this reason staff training is only loosely related to staff
work;
(b) standard training programs are lengthy (average, 3 months) and
provide little opportunity for interaction or application of what
is learned; and
(c) most courses are taught by locally engaged consultants who have
limited familiarity with conditions in the field.
For these reasons a major function of the proposed component would be to
incorporate functional directorates into curriculum development, make courses
focussed and relevant to staff needs, and upgrade instructors and courses.
The Proposed Subcomponent
6.        The project would provide assistance for the first three years of a
five year program to improve staff training in the DGT. This would include
financial assistance for consulting services, staff training, internal
scholarships and overseas fellowships, civil works and equipment.
7.        Technical Assistance.  The project would provide 144 months of
technical assistance. Of this, half would be for expatriate, and half for
domestic advisers. Expatriate advisers would include a training development
specialist for three years who would assist PLPT to design, execute and
evaluate its training activities and assist the DGT to assess the general
conditions for manpower development. In addition, a curriculum development
specialist would be hired for three years to assist in the design of
appropriate courses for trainers and staff. Consultants would also be
engaged to assist PLPT with instructor training.



- 54 -                              ANNEX 4
Page 3
8.        Staff Training, Scholarships and Fellowships.  The component
provides for about 4,000 months of staff training in Jakarta and five provin-
cial offices over three years. This would permit training for 510 senior
staff, 720 mid-level and 2,910 junior and support staff. Financial assistance
for 300 months of local scholarships and overseas fellowships is included in
the proposed project.
9.        Civil Works and Equipment.  Under the proposed project three new
training centers would be constructed for 60 trainees each. These would be
located in Yogyakarta, South Kalimantan and Jambi provinces. Existing
training facilities in Lampung and South Sulawesi have a maximum capacity of
75 and 80 trainees and are currently underutilized, so no additional training
capacity would be added in these areas. Staff housing would be provided in
all five sites. Funds have also been provided for the construction of two new
classrooms in Jakarta. Equipment to be used exclusively for training would be
procured under the proposed project.
10.       Status of Preparation and Proposed Implementation.  This component
has been prepared by PLPT with assistance from JMT consultants, UNDP/FAO and
BAPPENAS. Terms of reference for consultants have been submitted to the Bank
for review and consultants are expected to be mobilized by March 1983. The
first year of the program would be devoted primarily to an analysis and
evaluation of job content and curricula and upgrading of instructors. Staff
training in courses prepared under the proposed program is expected to be
underway by March 1984.
Disbursement
11.       The budget for this component would be provided to PLPT through the
DGT. Disbursement of World Bank funds would be made on about 50% of project
expenditures. To obtain maximum impact on the training program, disbursements
would be on:
(a)  100% of total expenditures for fellowships and technical
assistance;
(b) 60% of expenditures for civil works; and
(c)  35% of training expenditures.
Disbursements against staff training would be made upon certification by the
training development specialist that courses were carried out on approved



- 55                                ANNEX 4
Page 4
curricula and by trained instructors. Progress reports and withdrawal
requests would be submitted semi-annually to the Office of the JMT where they
would be aggregated with those from agencies involved in other program
development components.
B. Agricultural Research in Support of Transmigration
12.       This component would provide financial assistance to AARD for
(a) preparing a comprehensive proposal for research in support of transmigra-
tion; and (b) undertaking research contributing to the development of future
transmigration sites.
Background
13.       Institutional Context.  The Agency for Agricultural Research and
Development (AARD) was established in 1974 as the research arm of the Ministry
of Agriculture. It received its own budget in 1976, and in 1979 all research
carried out by the implementing Directorates General (Food Crops, Estate
Crops, Forestry, Fisheries and Livestock) was brought under the umbrella of
AARD. Beginning with only 211 active scientists in 1976, AARD personnel now
exceeds 7,000, of whom 1,500 are university-trained. Nevertheless, shortages
of professional manpower and overlapping staff responsibilities are still the
major constraints to both the quantity and quality of work undertaken by AARD.
14.       In 1976 the World Bank provided US$21.5 million for a joint exten-
sion and research project (Loan 1179-IND) to strengthen agricultural research
by building four new national research centers and nine regional agricultural
information centers and providing technical assistance and fellowships. In
1980, a second agricultural research project (Loan 1840/Credit 1014-IND)
of US$65 million was approved. This project emphasized manpower training,
technical assistance and upgrading of selected facilities in 22 existing
research centers and institutes. No major research stations were located in
transmigration areas.
15.       Research in Support of Transmigration.  Over the past eight years
farming systems trials have been carried out in 20 sites in Indonesia. Of
these 12 are transmigration sites and 8 of these are 'n Sumatra. AARD has no
farming systems trials in West, Central or East Kalimantan nor in Irian Jaya:
provinces containing 75% of the sites to be investigated by DITADA in the
second round of site selection studies.
16.       In 1979 the responsibility for coordinating agricultural research in
transmigration areas was given to the Soils Research Institute (LPT) within
the AARD. LPT has since developed two proposals for transmigration research,
but the scale of the proposed work required by transmigration has been
difficult to reconcile with the need for trained manpower in areas with more
people and the greater agricultural productivity. No action has therefore,
been taken on their implementation.



- 56 -                              ANNEX 4
Page 5
The Proposed Subcomponent
17.       Program Development.  The project would provide financial assistance
for 72 months of consulting services to AARD and LPT. Of this about 36 mm
would be used to draw up a comprehensive proposal for outer island research
including transmigration. The Bank has recommended that a team of three
specialists work for 6-8 months to prepare options for Goverment considera-
tion. These options would focus on manpower constraints and evaluate
alternatives for the size, location and staging of development and for
supplementing manpower through technical assistance and subcontracting. The
AARD/LPT consultant team would work closely with DITADA to assess the
location of transmigration sites in order to determine research priorities.
Of the consultant time allotted, 12-15 months would be reserved to prepare a
detailed financial proposal which would potentially be suitable for external
assistance.
18.       Research Support.  The proposed project would support basic farming
systems research in Baturaja and East Kalimantan and undertake special studies
on alang alang control and home gardens in the outer islands.
(a) Farming Systems Research in Baturaja. This component would
continue work begun in Baturaja under the Transmigration I project.
The main objectives of this work were to develop farming systems to
maintain soil fertility and improve farmers' incomes. The proposed
component would focus on reducing labor constraints (through
animal and tractor power, minimum tillage and improved methods of
alang alang control), reducing risk (through the introduction of
mixed farming systems, lower input requirements and improved pest
control); and improving land management practices (erosion
control). Trials would also be conducted to explore the
agricultural potential of areas which are seasonally flooded.
(b) Farming Systems Research in East Kalimantan. The proposed project
would establish and staff one main research station and two
substations in East Kalimantan to build on the cropping systems
research conducted elsewhere and to determine the appropriate
combination of foodcrops and tree crops for transmigrant farms.
A main station of 10 ha would be established at Teluk Dalam which
is an existing transmigrant community on low fertility soils
outside Samarinda. One substation would be located in Muara
Wahau./l  Because of the size and importance of this component and
the difficulty of finding Indonesian research staff, the services
of one expatriate specialist have been provided for three years.
/1 A 40 ha tree crop research station, which was established in Muara Wahau
with financial assistance from the Federal Republic of Germany, would,
if the principals agree, be drawn into the research undertaken in
the area by AARD.



- 57 -                              ANNEX 4
Page 6
(c) Alang Alang Control. This study would evaluate in farmer's fields
both the technical and economic aspects of existing methods of
alang alang control. Combinations of control measures (manual,
mechanical, chemical and biological) and different methods of
spraying would be tested on alang alang areas and followed by
cropping systems based on rubber and coconut, food crops and
legume cover crops for cattle. The economic, social and
ecological aspects of control methods would be observed and their
effect on the growth and productivity of crops, soil fertility,
the physical property of soils, erosion and run-off would be
measured.
(d) Home Garden Study. Home gardens are an important source of
nutrition and cash income to migrants, but the choice of cultivars
by farmers in new areas is largely on a trial and error basis.
The proposed study would consist of observation and interviews in
transmigrant areas of East Kalimantan and Jambi province to
determine the composition of home gardens and factors affecting
the choice of cultivars (ethnic preference, seasonality, marketing
requirements, labor constraints). The object of the study would
be to work out guidelines for home gardens adapted to local
conditions and capable of protecting the soil and increasing farm
incomes.
19.       Status of Preparation and Proposed Implementation Schedule.  AARD
has submitted brief proposals to the Bank for each of these studies and it
has nominated senior staff to execute and supervise work. Prior to actual
start-up, AARD would submit an inception report for each subcomponent giving
the details of research methodology and research instruments (questionnaires,
etc.) which are to be used. These reports would be reviewed and approved by
the Bank. Implementation is expected to begin in FY1983/84.
C. Technical Assistance - Ministry of Development
Supervision and Environment
Background
21.       The Ministry of Development Supervision and Environment was
established in 1978 to monitor the impact of Indonesian development programs
4         on the country's human and natural resources.  Because of the scale and impact
of the transmigration program, the Ministry attaches high priority to its role
in monitoring transmigration and mitigating potentially harmful effects.
However, the Ministry is limited in carrying out its objectives by a shortage
of trained people who can integrate the Ministry's concerns into the
programs of the implementing agencies.



-    - 9 ~                           ANIMEY 4
Page 7
The Subcomponent
22.       Under the proposed project, funds would be provided to engage two
full-tine experts with experience in human ecology and/or land resource
manager.ent, each for a period of three years.  Funds are also provided for
36 months of short-term technical assistance in specialized fields.
23.       The M!inistry has proposed that one person be stationed in Jakarta
working primarily on data collection and evaluation and the second he
stationed in a province, probably Fast Kalimantan, to assess the impact of
developi.ient and mobilize provincial resources to promote environmentally sound
development. While this strategy will be beneficial in the short run, it is
not likely to be replicable with the limited manpower resources available to
the Ministry. For this reason the appraisal rission recommends that the
eriphasis in technical assistance be on integrating environmental considera-
tions into the policies and procedures of the main imrplementing agencies.
This would mean, interalia, working with the:
(a) JMT - to promote interagency agreement on policies affecting the
environment and to develop a single system for monitoring
implementation and impact;
(b)  PPW - to improve site selection procedures within PITAPA and
ensure environmentally sound land clearing practices within the
the land clearing subdirectorate;
(c)  EOA - to promote soil conservation among farmers and encourage the
development of fuelwood lots in areas where timber is scarce; and
(d)  PGT - to train farmers and monitor environmental impact on site.
24.        Status of Preparation.  Terms of reference have been received from
the MDSE and consultants are expected to be mobilized by April 1983.
25.       risbursement, Organization and Management.  As with other program
development comrponents, the agency would submit semi-annual progress reports
to the JMT where they would be aggregated and forwarded to the Bank. The
Transmigration III team would be responsible for follow-up.



- 59 -
- 59                              ANNEX 5
INDONESIA
TRANSMIGRATION III PROJECT
Related Documents Available in the Project File
1. Transmigration III Cost Tables
2. Site Screening and Evaluation Component
(a) Project Proposal - January 1982
(b) Detailed Cost Breakdown
(c) Terms-of-Reference for Phase II, Phase IIIA and
Phase IIIB.
(d) Summary of Proposed Advisory Services
3. Baturaja Extension Component
(a) Project Proposal - August 1981
(b) Detailed Agricultural Tables
(c) Detailed Economic Tables
4. Program Development Component
(a) Note on DGT training (Description of component
including a breakdown of costs)
(b) Inception Report - AARD
(c) Terms of Reference, MDSE



0



IBRD 17019
I N DO N E S I A                                                       ?104830'                         FEBRUARY 1983
BATURAJA TRANSMIGRATION PROJECT                                                                                    I
PROPOSED EXTENSION AREA
EXISTING VILLAGES
4015'                     VII    VILLAGE NUMBERS                                                                                                    41
MAIN ROADS
VILLAGE ROADS
VILLAGE ROADS(1982-83 Progran,)
-     RAILWAYS
RIVERS \io~4
-    -  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES              \                 />r)                              Kangkungf
Bungi iAdu man is
MILES                                                                                                                          enMangabesar
Betun
+     <\t>/                                                       ts J            /  i\_              1 Fr f S~~~~~~~~~~~~P.6.1A.
rhe World Eank's staff exclusLubukruhan                                    x           F.t- D3Wp.-t
4'00'                                                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4'000.
andthelnternabonalFmance~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~- \   59\Y     SINGAPORE
atun~~~~~~~~~~T  ~jnge-~
pat oh.  Worfd fnk nk ataf   the -t,I, _
Internatnl Fmane Cofrporabon. B-                                                                                                         SINGAPR
any/d the nto'ntho1 -etgltus1IATPR                                                                                                  Plmbn
endtofsemen Wor   Bankepance  th,f*nOr?n                                                                                           t  Aerfvr;
.Uh boundiare                                         S     \Sa 
104'15'                                                                1 O[nU?krn  04'30   _L



4,
0



' -c-         THAILAND                1002                                                                                                                                                                                     i6                             fRU  IEt
04,200220                           <2-i    --                                             h                                                                                              >  Ni                                                     I \ NDONESIA
Sac/h  > China                               ,                               N           *           0 A Rll4 t8rPHILIPPINES   /                            TRANSMIGRATION  PRQOJECT III
\00000                                                                  Sea                              BRUNe/                                                                                                                P OPOSED SITESFORINVESTIGrATION
1                        Ma WsesLIxivt                                               ;|                                                                                           J,/ 61'  e7ebes)ea-ITRAINLBUDRE  
IA \< I
-J                                            I   2 f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~>S~~~~~~~~~~-'    - ~ ~    ~          ~         ~         ~        ~        ~       ~       P       l
2  ) s   v -   8  jSk    *;SInGA6eRE   ,g \<M ALAYS IA                                           ,                0t           Cel                                0                                                    -   - \
/ _/W00<D   1223 'S) :SS, 4 0  t <t 4 <   20                                                                                   7
0'                              0                                            -6U 2-2'           *65  TaIL.e  ........*2 ,5   ,un   ,-  1     y         i                 S                 t!  /   Oo(   * IMA6B
.,                                                        2~                > SULAWESI TEWGGARA : / n d X a n C) e a n 200 WE                                            /00
23 KALIMAIITAN TIMUB   : "   ,                                                                      SUBAWS   .'        ,             16 /C SUtAWES  <NLN
4   27TIMGs TIMU6                                                                                                                                                   W LhalslSs:So/sh-W~~zoM__R@|>  o'24  o  ,,    it
I221
2 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                                                      210022- .                                                                                     0JA YA
2 0200  000020. 
_00   T'oo *-                                                                                                                                                                                                                           -TI 
110800-00  A                                                           -c A 
1201 0000000 
22                                                           a n02212  
25 'AL _TA. T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2'20
26-0L 0000   -                                                                                                    oRl!    0<00020,O   3 OO  400o    0                                                                    6
00/27T0.. T000-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SO2O~-.. 
2000000000I    <00000                                     0.>/4/00O4O O6S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2 M~~~.~~~000~~~~/&1S   27M                                                          M E ER
7300I00i0600ML                                                                                                                       00000                   -             0<00



