Document of                            F
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3463-IND
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONA,. BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$101 MILLION
TO THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR THE
TRANSMIGRATION III PROJECT
March 2, 1983
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Worlo
1



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00       =    Rupiah (Rp) 700
Rp 100        =    US$0.140
Rp 1 million  =    US$1,400.00
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilometer (km)           =  0.62 miles (mi)
1 hectare (ha)             =  2.47 acres (ac)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AARD         -  Agency for Agricultural Research and Development
BAPPENAS     -  Indonesian National Planning Organization
DGE          -  The Directorate General of Estates
DGT          -  The Directorate General of Transmigration
DITADA       -  Directorate of City and Regional Planning
DPW          -  Department of Public Works
GOI          -  Government of Indonesia
ICB          -  International Competitive Bidding
JMT          -  The Junior Minister for Transmigration
MDSE         - Minister for Development Supervision and Environment
NES          -  Nucleus Estate and Smallholder Projects - Bank-assisted
projects for tree crop development
PMU          -  Project Management Unit
PTP          -  Perseroan Terbatas Perkebunan - State owned enterprise
with limited liability
Repelita I   -  First Five-Year Development Plan (1969/70-1973/74)
Repelita II  -  Second Five-Year Development Plan (1974/75-1978/79)
Repelita III -  Third Five-Year Development Plan (1979/80-1983/84)
Team Khusus  -  Special team within the DGE for Bank-assisted projects
TORs         -  Terms of Reference
GOVERNMENT OF INDONESIA
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
TRANSMIGRATION III PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:          Republic of Indonesia
Amount:            $101 million (including capitalized front-end fee)
Terms:             20 years, including 5 years of grace, with interest at
11.6% per annum.
Relending:         Approximately $5.5 million in Bank funds would be onlent
to PTP X, a Government-owned tree crop estate company,
through Bank Indonesia, for a term of 13 years, including
7 years of grace, with interest at 13.5% per annum. The
Government of Indonesia (GOI) would bear the foreign
exchange risk.
Project
Description:    The proposed project includes:  (a) a site screening and
evaluation component amounting to about 75% of project
costs which would increase the quality of future
transmigration settlements by locating migrants in
suitable areas and by ensuring sufficient lead time to
permit adequate planning and coordination among
implementing agencies; (b) a 2,000 families settlement
component adjacent to the first Bank-assisted project site
in Baturaja, South Sumatra, and needed services and
facilities in the existing settlement, and (c) a component
to assist the transmigration program development. The
latter component will focus on (i) improving staff
training in the Directorate General of Transmigration
(DGT); (ii) expanding agricultural research in support of
transmigration under the Agency for Agricultural Research
and Development (AARD); and (iii) providing technical
assistance to the Minister for Development Supervision and
Environment (MDSE) to monitor and improve the ecological
soundness of transmigration projects. The major risk
associated with the project is that pressure to expand
settlement targets will lead to diversion of resources
needed for the project to lower quality planning
procedures; appropriate assurances have been obtained that
such diversion will not take place.
I This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their otficial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Costs:/l                                  Local   Foreign   Total
----- ($ million) --
Site Selection & Evaluation
Aerial photography                               1.1     4.9        6.0
Consulting firms                               34.4    43.9        78.3
Advisory group                                   1.5     5.6        7.1
Supplementary pool                               0.8     2.9        3.7
GOI inputs                                     14.8      7.1       21.9
Subtotal                                    52.6    64.4       117.0
Baturaja Development
Site preparation                                 1.3     3.9        5.2
Community development                            2.7     2.3        5.0
Agricultural development                         0.9     0.7        1.6
Tree crop establishment,
maintenance & processing                       5.5     7.4       12.8
Consultant services                              0.2     1.1        1.3
Subtotal                                    10.6    15.4        26.0
Program development
DGT training                                    3.3      2.5        5.8
Agricultural research
and development                               1.9      1.8        3.7
MDSE                                             0.8     0.6        0.7
Subtotal                                     5.3      4.9       10.2
Base Costs                                  68.5    87.7       153.2
Physical contingencies                             8.6     9.0       17.6
Price contingencies                                8.6     6.4       15.0
Total Project Cost                          85.7   100.1       185.8
Front-end fee on Bank loan                         -       1.5        1.5
Total Financing Required                    85.7   101.6       187.3
Financing Plan:                                     Local    Foreign  Total
…---- ($ million)
IBRD                            -        101.0   101.0
Government                     85.7        0.6    86.3
Total                 85.7      101.6   187.3
/1 Project costs are exempt from direct taxes and duties.



Estimated           Bank FY              1983    1984    1985   1986   1987
Disbursements:
Annual                5.0/a  30.0    35.0   23.0    8.0
Cumulative            5.0    35.0    70.0   93.0  101.0
Rate of Return:    The rate of return for the Baturaja Extension (18% of
project costs) is 14%. A rate of return is not applicable
to other components.
Staff Appraisal
Report:           No. 3910-IND, dated February 17, 1983.
/a Includes capitalized front-end fee of $1.5 million.



I



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF
INDONESIA FOR THE TRANSMIGRATION III PROJECT
1.         I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Indonesia for the equivalent of $101.0 million (including
the capitalized front-end fee) to help finance the Transmigration III Project.
The loan would have a term of 20 years, including five years of grace, with
interest at 11.6% per annum. Approximately $5.5 million in Bank funds would
be onlent to PTP X, a Government-owned tree crop estate company, through Bank
Indonesia, for a term of 13 years, including 7 years of grace with interest
at 13.5% per annum. The Government of Indonesia would bear the foreign
exchange risk.
PART I - THE ECONOMY /1
2.         A basic economic report, "Indonesia:  Growth Patterns, Social
Progress and Development Prospects" (No. 2093-IND dated February 20, 1979),
was distributed to the Executive Directors on February 26, 1979, and a country
economic memorandum has been prepared in each subsequent year. The latest of
these, titled "Indonesia: Financial Resources and Human Development in the
Eighties" (No. 3795-IND dated May 3, 1982) was distributed to the Executive
Directors on May 6, 1982. Annex I gives selected social and economic
indicators for the country.
Background
3.         The Republic of Indonesia is a highly diverse country spread across
an archipelago of more than 13,000 islands with a land area of about two mil-
lion sq km. It now has a population of over 150 million, growing at about
2.3% p.a., and is the world's fifth most populous nation. The country has
a highly diversified resource base, with plentiful primary energy resources,
significant mineral deposits, large timber potential and a developed system
of agricultural commodity production and export. A high proportion of these
primary resources are located on the sparsely populated islands of Sumatra
and Kalimantan, while two-thirds of the population live on Java which has
areas with some of the highest rural population densities in the world.
About 20% of the population live in urban areas in both Java and the Outer
Islands, and the current rate of urban population growth is over 4% p.a.
The 1981 estimate of GNP per capita is $520, which places Indonesia for the
first time amongst middle income countries./2
/1 Substantially unchanged from the President's Report on the Provincial
Health Project (No. P-3402-IND), circulated under cover of R83-13, dated
January 20, 1983, and approved by the Executive Directors on February 8,
1983.
/2 On the basis of the World Bank's system of country classification and
Atlas methodology for calculation of GNP.



-2-
Macroeconomic Developments and Resource Management
4.        Until 1981, the economy had been growing at almost 8% p.a. for
over a decade. This was associated with rapid increases in public
expenditures, total investment and savings. The initial impetus for this
occurred in the period of recovery from the turbulence of the mid-60s. The
Government took effective action to restore macroeconomic stability,
liberalize the economy, rehabilitate infrastructure, and provide incentives
for domestic and foreign private investment. However for the last decade
the dominant external influence has been the huge expansion, and significant
variability, in foreign exchange earnings from oil. Net exports from the
oil and gas sector rose from $0.6 billion in 1973/74 to $10.8 billion in
1980/81, when the current account enjoyed a surplus of $2.5 billion. Oil
receipts also provide about 70% of Central Government receipts and have
helped finance the sustained increase in demand via the budget. The pattern
of expenditures has also helped foster diversified growth: of particular
note has been the support for agriculture, through investment in
infrastructure, support services and effective use of subsidies to maintain
producer incentives. This bore fruit in two successive record rice harvests
in 1980 and 1981. During 1971 to 1980 manufacturing has also enjoyed a high
growth rate (of about 14% p.a.) from a very low base, but here sectoral
growth has been in spite of a more restrictive policy environment and
distorted incentives.
5.        In 1981-82 the macroeconomic resource position changed
dramatically. Depressed international markets and a weak oil price have led
to a turnaround in the current account of about $9 billion in two years,
with a deficit of the order of $7 billion likely for 1982/83. Owing to
historically prudent debt and reserve management, Indonesia does not face
problems of the magnitude of other oil exporters. However, barring a major
recovery in oil prices, there will be a need for adjustment in the economy.
The burden of adjustment will have to fall on import-intensive public
expenditures, leading to some rephasing of existing expenditure plans. This
will lead to some reduction in the growth rate in the short and medium run.
Increased domestic resource mobilization will also be necessary - the
significant reduction in the oil subsidy in January 1983 was an important
step in this direction. At a more fundamental level the change in external
prospects have emphasized the need for substantial structural change in the
eighties. The development of a strong and diversified nonoil production and
export base is essential to realize sustained high growth.
Incomes, Employment and Human Development
6.        Despite the high concentration of the resource windfalls, the
available evidence, from household expenditures surveys, indicates a fairly
wide distribution of the benefits of growth and a reduction in poverty
incidence over the past ten years. This is also borne out in the basic health



-3-
indicators, with a 25% reduction in the infant mortality rate and an increase
in life expectancy from 47 to 53./l These improveme4ts should not, however,
mask the continued existence of widespread poverty.  Almost 50% of the
population are estimated to have been in this condition in 1978. The core of
the poverty problem continues to be in rural Java, where landless laborers
form a large, and possibly rising, fraction of the population, and where, for
most of the 1970s, there is little evidence of any rise in real agricultural
wages. However, in the last two years of good rice harvests it is likely that
significant improvements occurred on Java, while agricultural incomes on parts
of the Other Islands dependent on export crops have declined in the face of
the international recession.
7.        In the future the availability of productive employment will be a
key determinant of the distribution of income. The labor force will grow at
about 3% p.a., equivalent to around 2 million people p.a., in the next decade.
In 1980 agriculture still accounted for 55% of employment, and industry only
13%; the growth of services employment, from 24% of the total in 1971 to 32%
in 1980, was the main mechanism for providing incremental employment in the
1970s. The growth in service incomes was partly sustained by rising oil
incomes in the 1970s; if services are to continue to be a major source of
labor income there is again a strong case for diversifying the pattern of
productive growth. The key issue is one of widespread underemployment in the
traditional sectors. To tackle this a sustained rise in labor demand is
crucial - through the maintenance of overall growth and the encouragement of
labor-intensive processes in both the traditional and the industrial sectors.
8.        In the 1970s there was substantial progress in extending the pro-
vision of social services throughout the population. Universal enrollment in
primary education has been virtually achieved and the enrollment rate in
junior secondary schools is now 35%. However, the weak educational base of
the population continues to be a major obstacle to rapid economic development
and a substantial further expansion of secondary and tertiary education will
be necessary as well as a major effort to raise the quality of the whole
system. The situation is similar in the health sector. There has been a
large expansion in facilities, notably at the sub-district level, but
continued expansion and an improvement in quality will be necessary to
increase effectiveness. This will have to be complemented by a major
expansion in water supply and sanitation if the improvement in indices of
mortality and morbidity in the 1970s is to be maintained. Currently only 18%
of the rural and 40% of the urban population have access to safe water /2
compared with Government targets of 60% and 75%, respectively, for 1990.
/1 On the basis of the 1971 and 1980 population censuses.
/2 Government estimates for 1981.



- 4-
Policy for Structural Change
9.        Indonesia's past growth performance has been good, but the country
is now faced with the need both to put the nonoil economy on to a viable
long-run growth path and to effectively improve the basic needs situation of
the poor. The re-emergence of a significant foreign exchange constraint has
reduced the capacity of the economy to carry a high level of investment.
Policies that promote appropriate investment choices in the public and
private sector will be critical if the structural adjustment process is to
be sustained.
10.       In industry, the Government of Indonesia (GOI) is planning a
program of large-scale natural resource-based investments, in refineries,
LNG, petrochemicals, fertilizer, cement, pulp and paper, basic metals and
mining.  This will broaden the industrial base, but will have very limited
employment implications and is very foreign-exchange intensive in the
construction phase. Of greater importance for both employment and exports
is the encouragement of agriculture and the small- and medium-scale private
manufacturing through an improvement in the economic environment. Over the
last year the GOI has allowed the rupiah to depreciate about 10% against the
US dollar, thereby increasing incentives for the production of traded goods.
Furthermore, the GOI has initiated a general review of the trade regime, with
a view to removing the distortions caused by the wide variations in rates of
effective protection.  It has also embarked on a program designed to promote
the expansion of nonoil exports, including export financing arrangements,
export insurance, improved ports procedures, export processing zones and a
system of export certificates (duty rebates). However, the private sector
suffers from significant domestic constraints to its expansion, including a
heavy regulatory burden, especially in the area of investment licensing, and a
distorted and poorly developed financial system. Further policy reforms to
alleviate these constraints are needed to create an environment conducive to
private investment.
11.       The energy sector is at the core of the structural adjustment
problem. Oil and gas now account for 98% of domestic consumption of commer-
cial energy and demand has been growing rapidly. If Indonesia is to avoid
a serious reduction in foreign exchange earnings from the oil sector in the
1990s, it is essential to diversify energy usage and improve the efficiency
of energy consumption. This will require both price and investment measures.
In January 1983 domestic oil prices were increased by about 60%, and this
followed a similar increase in January 1982. This was a decisive step that
substantially reduced the differential between domestic prices and the average
opportunity cost; however, price relativities between products diverge widely
from those prevailing on the international market. In addition a major
program of investment is planned, with public and private participation, in
coal exploration and development, exploitation of hydro and geothermal
resources, and a sixfold increase in electric power generation in the coming
decade.
12.       Agriculture will continue to be of great importance for export
revenue (accounting for almost 75% of 1980 nonoil exports), food production
and employment. Rice production has been steadily rising to an estimated
total in 1982 of 23.2 million tons, compared with 13 million a decade earlier.



- 5 -
This achievement is largely a result of the provision of new, and the
rehabilitation of existing, irrigation systems, and the dissemination of new
agricultural technology particularly with respect to the timely delivery of
seeds and fertilizers. Future investment in physical infrastructure,
especially in irrigation and rural roads, combined with a favorable market
environment and good support services will be the main determinants of further
expansion in food production. In the past tree crops have suffered from
relative neglect, and the age structure of the trees is now very old, but GOI
has a highly ambitious program of rehabilitation and replanting, necessitating
substantial investment in manpower and improved organization of distribution
and marketing. Transmigration remains a high priority program for promoting
development in underpopulated regions, providing opportunities for landless
families on Java, Bali, and Lombok, and relieving economic and environmental
pressures on those densely populated islands.
Financing Development - Domestic Resources and External Capital Flows
13.       With a relative decline in oil incomes, alternative sources of
domestic finance for investment will have to be found. This will require a
major increase in resource mobilization through the public sector, through a
combination of reduced subsidies on petroleum products and increased nonoil
taxes. In 1980 it is estimated that taxes on the domestic economy were only
6% of GDP, if the domestic oil subsidy is netted out, compared with well over
10% for comparable countries. The 1982/83 budget represented a significant
effort to improve the situation, with a halving in the annual level of the oil
subsidy and a 15% budgeted increase in nonoil taxes, but this will have to be
sustained in following years. In addition to public resource mobilization it
is becoming increasingly important to encourage the growth and improve the
efficiency of distribution of financialized savings, through an improved
financial regime and the development of a domestic capital market.
14.       Even with effective measures to mobilize domestic resources there
will be a substantial need for foreign savings in the 1980s, especially in the
short-run adjustment to loss in oil income. The most important component of
this will be in the form of medium- and long-term debt flows. Total disbursed
and outstanding external public debt was almost $16 billion at the end of 1981
and undisbursed debt amounted to an additional $11 billion. The Inter-
Governmental Group on Indonesia remains a principal source of external
capital, including Official Development Assistance, to the country. During
the 1970s, however, Indonesia experienced an unusually rapid transformation in
its public debt structure from a situation of heavy reliance on official
concessional loans to increasing use of private, nonconcessional and variable
interest loans in the second half of the decade. In 1981 private source debt
accounted for 52% of new commitments of public debt.  The fact that Indonesia
remains highly creditworthy at the beginning of the 1980s, and the efficiency
with which GOI has managed debt, are clear indicators of how far the country
has progressed. However, the debt servicing capacity depends on commodity
production rather than a broad industrial base, and this makes Indonesia
somewhat more vulnerable to developments in international markets. The
implication is that debt utilization should remain very prudent, and that
there will be a continued justification for official debt of long maturities
in the 1980s. Present projections indicate that Indonesia's financing
requirements can be met with the debt service ratio remaining close to 20%
throughout the decade.



-6-
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA f1
15.       As of September 30, 1982, Indonesia had received 48 IDA credits
totalling $931.8 million, and 75 Bank loans amounting to $4,938.6 million.
IFC investments totalled $136.8 million. The share of the Bank Group in
Indonesia's total (disbursed) external debt outstanding at the end of 1980 was
about 10.7%, and the share of debt service about 7.1%. By the end of 1981,
these ratios increased to around 11.2% and 7.4%, respectively. Annex II
contains a summary of IDA credits, Bank loans and IFC investments as of
September 30, 1982, as well as notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
Given the critical importance of agriculture (including transmigration) for
employment, food security and exports, over one-third of Bank Group
supported projects have been in this sector. In addition, loans and credits
have been extended to virtually all other sectors of the economy, including
transportation, education, urban development, water supply, rural
development, nutrition, industrial development financing (including
small-scale industry), power, telecommunications, population and technical
assistance.
16.       During Repelitas I and II, and in line with the objectives of these
first two Five-Year Plans, a high proportion of Bank Group lending was
directed initially toward the rehabilitation and then the expansion of
infrastructure and production facilities. Special attention was also given
to meet the shortage of skilled manpower and technical assistance needed for
preinvestment studies and project execution. Repelita III, published in
early 1979, stressed the need for continued high growth and stability, but
departed from previous plans by placing special emphasis on more equitable
income distribution and poverty alleviation. This focus, which was fully in
line with the conclusions of the basic economic report, required greater
attention to employment generation (particularly in the industrial sector)
and to improvements in basic public services. While Bank lending was already
consistent with these objectives, increased emphasis has been given to
these priorities.
17.       Because the country has moved from a position of resource surplus
to deficit, as discussed in Part I, the development momentum will in all
likelihood decelerate in the short run. To minimize this adverse impact
will require effective policy reform to improve the environment for private
investment and to mobilize additional domestic resources so that investments
/1 Substantially unchanged from the President's Report on the Provincial
Health Project (No. P-3402-IND), circulated under cover of R83-13, dated
January 20, 1983, and approved by the Executive Directors on February 8,
1983.



- 7 -
in industry, infrastructure, tree crop development and human resources
development can continue. The Bank-s program of lending and economic work
is being geared to support the required measures. The primary emphasis of
Bank involvement will be on policy and institutional development and
technical assistance in the key sectors. This will involve a close
integration between sector work and lending and the gradual broadening of
lending to the subsector and sector level in order to assist with policy
issues at this level. The only significant shift in the composition of
lending involves a rapid expansion planned in the education sector, a direct
response to the severe shortage of skilled manpower. In the industrial
sector, in-depth sector work is focused on a policy to promote
industrialization which will build on Indonesia's comparative advantage in
labor and resource intensive industries. This analysis may lead to a series
of industrial projects which would facilitate subsectoral reform. In
energy, sector work and continued lending is concentrating on policies to
diversify Indonesia's energy base, rationalize pricing and improve sectoral
planning. Irrigation and tree crops will continue to absorb a substantial
portion of lending in view of the importance of these sectors, and continued
support for transport is anticipated. Continued lending in the areas of
provision of social services, in population, health and nutrition, urban
development and water supply will increasingly emphasize institutional
support and the development of innovative low-cost solutions.
18.       The last two years have seen major improvements in the disbursement
ratio /1 from a low of 13% in FY80, compared to a Bank-wide average of
21.31%, in Thailand of 21.2% and in Nigeria of 17.31% in that year, to
18% in FY82. The poor FY80 ratio was in large part merely a result of the
rapid increase in commitments during the FY77-79 period when total Bank/IDA
commitments to Indonesia increased by 122% compared to a Bank wide increase
of 83%. However, it also reflected implementation difficulties arising out
of GOI-s budgetary, procurement and payment procedures, including issuance
of tender documents and opening of letters of credit. The severe shortage
of managerial and technical manpower of course compounds the problem. A
number of steps have been taken by GOI and the Bank to address these issues.
Several special Bank missions have visited Indonesia to analyze the problems
and make recommendations for simplifying budgetary and financial procedures.
The GOI and the Bank have also instituted formal and regular joint review
procedures to identify general and project specific problems and work out
corrective measures. In addition, procurement seminars were held in Jakarta
in September 1979 and November 1981.  As a consequence of these joint
initiatives, GOI has taken measures to streamline some of the complex
budgetary and financial procedures affecting project implementation. In
addition, the Bank is helping the GOI in a special effort to identify
problems in the construction industry with a view to developing appropriate
remedial actions and policies. Weaknesses in the domestic contracting
/1 The ratio of actual disbursements during the fiscal year to the cumula-
tive undisbursed amount at the beginning of the fiscal year.



- 8 -
industry have been identified as one of the major causes of implementation
problems in Indonesia. Finally, to reduce initial project implementation
difficulties, many operations are now being presented for Board consideration
at a later stage in the project cycle. As a result of these efforts,
improvements are taking place. This was reflected in an increase in
disbursements from $204.0 million in FY79 to $501.3 million in FY82, and
$301.2 million for the first six months of FY83. It is nevertheless important
that the Bank and GOI maintain their efforts.
19.        From 1968 until 1974, all lending to Indonesia was made through
IDA.  Due to the country's improved creditworthiness following the commodity
and oil price boom in 1973/74, the bulk of the Bank Group's subsequent
lending has been through IBRD loans, with a modest amount of IDA lending
being justified primarily on poverty grounds, as the per capita GNP was well
below the IDA cutoff of $625. Given Indonesia's much improved creditworthi-
ness, IDA lending was discontinued in FY80.
20.        The proposed project constitutes the sixth lending operation
presented to the Executive Directors this fiscal year. Projects under
advanced stage of processing include the Fourth Transmigration, Second
Polytechnic Education and Fifth BAPINDO projects.
PART III - THE TRANSMIGRATION PROGRAM
21.        Of Indonesia's population of 150 million people, almost 92 million
reside in Java, an island with about 7% of the nation's land. Seventy percent
of Java-s total area is cultivated and population densities in irrigated areas
rise to 2,000 people/sq. km. Meanwhile, vast areas of low fertility soil lie
uncultivated in the Other Islands and low population densities in some areas
impede regional development and economic growth. These facts have been so
striking for so long that programs to wed the underutilized labor of Java with
the underutilized land of the Other Islands have figured in the programs of
the GOI for three-quarters of a century. Together these programs have
resulted in the movement of more than one million poor and landless farmers
and it is estimated that at least two million people are in the Other Islands
as a direct result of transmigration programs and associated population
growth.
22.        The major purposes of the transmigration program have been to:
(a) create employment opportunities for and improve the incomes of the
impoverished and landless laborers of Java, Bali, and Lombok; (b) alleviate
population pressures on these islands, especially pressures in ecologically
vulnerable areas; (c) promote balanced regional development; and (d) increase
food and tree crop production. During the long history of the transmigration
program, the relative importance attached to these purposes has varied, and
the issues faced in designing and implementing the program have changed.



_9_
Past T'ransmigration Efforts
23.       Prior to the mid-1970s both the size and quality of the transmigra-
tion program were limited by shortages of funds; presettlement preparation
was poor, sites were often located in remote and inaccessible areas and
agricultural services were unavailable. As a result, transmigrant communities
dependent on rainfed agriculture otten remained at subsistence levels. By
the mid-1970s, however, with political stability and economic growth, the
GOI became increasingly interested in developing a technical package which
would improve the incomes of farmers and permit large-scale settlement on
the marginal yellow-red podzolic soils which predominate in the Other Islands.
24.       In preparing Repelita III in 1978, the GOI, prompted by its improved
resource position and increased concern about shortfalls in rice production,
decided to increase its target for settlement to 500,000 families over five
years. To achieve this target, GOI reorganized the transmigration program,
transferring many implementation responsibilities from the Directorate General
of Transmigration (DGT) to the agencies normally responsible for each sector
and establishing the Office of the Junior Minister for Transmigration (JMT) to
effect coordination between agencies. Responsibility for the selection and
evaluation of large sites (suitable for over 2,000 families) was assigned to
the Directorate of the City and Regional Planning (DITADA) within the Depart-
ment of Public Works (DPW). The Repelita III program began in April 1979 and,
despite a slow start, about 250,000 families (1,000,000 people) have been
moved in the first four years. These numbers make the Indonesian transmi-
gration program the largest voluntary resettlement effort in the world.
Bank Group Involvement
25.       Since 19.74, the Bank has been involved in the evolution of this
program through the Transmigration and Rural Development I, Transmigration II,
and Swamp Reclamation Projects, the Transmigration Sector Review, and the
preparation of this project and future projects. The nature of the Bank's
involvement has evolved as the issues and problems of the program have
changed. In the mid-70s, the Bank participated in the effort to develop
viable communities on the marginal soils of the Other Islands through the
Transmigration and Rural Development I Project (Loan 1318-IND), which was a
pilot project in South Sumatra intended to upgrade 12,000 settler families and
establish a new community for 4,500 more. Migrants were provided with five ha
of land of which one ha was clean-cleared and one ha was planted in rubber.
After a slow start, the project is nearing completion and was judged by GOI in
1981 as the best transmigration settlement in Indonesia. After 3 to 4 years
on site, tarmers have an average of 1.05 ha/family under cultivation and
average annual incomes of $600 from annual crops and off-farm work. These
relatively low incomes, which reflect the limited potential of food production
on marginal lands to date, are consistent with those anticipated in the
appraisal report. When rubber comes into production, family incomes are
expected to rise to $2,000/family/year.



- 10 -
26.       In 1979, a second Bank Group-assisted project, Transmigration II
(Loan 1707/Credit 919-IND), was approved which was to be a model for the
Repelita III transmigration program.  This project was intended to settle5
30,000 families in an area along the new trans-Sumatra highway in Jambi
province and to rehabilitate a settlement of 4,000 transmigrant families
already in the area. Given high program targets, GOI and Bank were
interested in promoting rapid preparation and settlement at relatively low
costs per family. The project had a number of features to support these
objectives: (a) to speed preparation, the project was appraised on the basis
of preliminary mapping, while detailed surveys and village design were
incorporated within the project; (b) to speed development, mechanical lanU
clearing was planned and its cost and quality were to be monitored under the
project; and (c) to keep costs Low and to promote food self-sufficiency, an
agricultural support package was developed for rainfed food crops. The
introduction of tree crops was planned for a later phase.
27.       The settlement component of the Transmigration II project has had
start-up problems due to land shortages in the original sites and coordina-
tion problems arising from the new organizational arrangements (para. 24).
Detailed mapping revealed that flat land suitable for food crops in the
original project area in Jambi province could accommodate only about 10,000
of the proposed 30,000 families. Therefore, the project has been reformu-
lated to include 20,000 families in Jambi and South Sumatra and to provide
increased funds for site screening and evaluation (para. 28). To address the
coordination problems, which have been aggravated by a shortage of staff in
the Office of the JMT, GOI has established a special unit in the Office of
the JMT to coordinate Bank-assisted projects. Despite the problems
encountered, settlement in the Transmigration II areas commenced in October
1981 and about 3,000 families are expected to be settled by mid-1983.
28.       The Transmigration II project also included funds (about $6 mil-
lion) for the selection of sites and the preparation of feasibility studies
for future Bank-assisted projects.   After start-up of the project, however,
it became evident that site selection and evaluation was a major constraint
to the size of the GOI program and the quality of its settlements. For this
reason, an additional $30 million from the Transmigration II project was
allocated to engage 11 expatriate firms with domestic associates to under-
take a program of site screening, feasibility studies and evaluation using
standard planning procedures. Under this program a reconnaissance was
undertaken on 144 sites and detailed surveys, topographic mapping and
related studies were completed on 37. At the same time, DITADA adopted
an emergency procedure called plan-as-you-proceed intended to cope with
high settlement targets, and under this program planning and development
were undertaken simultaneously. To date, the risks of plan-as-you-proceed
have been minimized by assigning the contractors involved to sites which
were relatively well known. But, taking into account the decreasing
number of such sites and the experience to date with this approach, GOI



- 11 -
wishes to shift to standard planning procedures alone. This will require an
infusion of trained manpower to meet targets, systemmatic efforts to upgrade
domestic consulting firms for future work, and GOI institutional development.
These are the major elements of the proposed project.
29.       The site screening and evaluation program financed under
Transmigration II has been completed and a generally high quality of work has
been maintained. However, specific problems arising in the course of
implementation have been identified:
(a)  delays in GOI approval of contracts, mobilization, and
payment;
(b)  shortage of air photos due to budget problems and poor
screening;
(c)  diversion of sites and air photos to programs using planr-
as-you-proceed procedures in order to meet settlement targets;
(d)  deferral of mapping on some sites while GOI resolved issues
on use of production forests for transmigration; and
(e)  failure to reject inadequate sites at an early phase of screening.
The lessons learned from this first round of site screening and evaluation
have been taken into account in designing the proposed project.
30.       In order to explore the development potential of swampland areas
for transmigration, in 1981 the Bank approved a Swamp Reclamation Project
(Loan 1958-IND) which would develop 9,000 ha for about 3,200 families and
would test the assumption that soil toxification and overdrainage could be
prevented in swampland development without costly structures for water
control. Construction of civil works for this project has just begun.
31.       In addition to its support for projects, in 1981 the Bank comple-
ted a review of the GOI upland and swamp transmigration programs
(Transmigration Program Review, 3170-IND, dated April 2, 1981). The major
conclusion of the review was that income prospects for migrants should be
improved through greater attention to mixed farming systems and an increased
role for tree crops in upland schemes. The report also recommended that
increased attention be given to site selection and evaluation, institution
building, and staff training and that a major effort be made to promote
better resource utilization through the development of grasslands and the
utilization of timber from forested areas which are clean cleared. It also
suggested that Bank lending for transmigration should shift from projects
concentrating primarily on resettlement to a more general effort to address
key constraints to program effectiveness.



- 12 -
Current and Future Program
32.       The GOI remains strongly committed to a large transmigration
program, but it faces a number of problems in implementation, including:
(a) identification of suitable land; (b) improving incomes from food crop
production on marginal soils; and (c) overcoming institutional limitations.
Bank projects, consistent with the recommendations of the Transmigration
Program Review, have been developed to help GOI address these problems.
33.       Identification of suitable land has become an increasing problem as
flat land without existing ownership claims is used up. Accessible sites
are often found to be too steep, too swampy, under alang-alang (an invasive
grass) or in production forests. The proposed project would therefore support
GOI's program of site screening and evaluation in order to eliminate steep and
swampy areas from settlement. Agricultural research components in previous
projects (Transmigration II and Swamp Reclamation), and the proposed project,
would address problems of developing freshwater and tidal swamps and improving
alang-alang control. A proposed future transmigration project in East
Kalimantan would help resolve the problems of developing production forests by
(a) instituting procedures for designating areas not suited to agricultural
development as forest reserves in exchange for the right to develop some
production forests for transmigration; and (b) introducing arrangements for
utilization of commercially valuable timber in transmigration sites. Improved
planning instituted under the proposed project would give GOI longer lead
times to arrange compensation of existing farmers for underutilized land to be
used for transmigrants.
34.       To help improve farm incomes on marginal soils, the proposed project
would include a component to accelerate farming systems research in transmi-
gration areas, including research on food crop farming systems, mixed farming
systems, and home gardens. In addition, by helping locate settlement on land
with less than 8% slope, the project would reduce erosion and minimize the
associated loss of soil fertility in sites selected for food crop production.
The proposed future project in East Kalimantan would use public sector estates
to develop tree crops for new migrants, and it is intended to use the provin-
cial agricultural services to provide tree crops to existing transmigrants and
local farmers in a future project in South Sumatra.
35.       Finally, to help overcome institutional constraints, the proposed
project would support staff training in the Directorate General of
Transmigration (DGT); strengthen staff working on site selection and
evaluation in DITADA's Jakarta and provincial offices; strengthen the office
of the Minister for Development Supervision and Environment; and improve the
capabilities of domestic consultants working on site selection and evaluation.
The proposed Bank-assisted project in East Kalimantan would address problems
arising from the structure and staffing of the JMT and improve its capacity to
perform its coordinating function.



- 13 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project Description
36.       The proposed project would provide financial assistance to the GOI
for: (a) a second round of studies to identify and evaluate suitable land for
about 300,000 transmigrant families; (b) settlement of 2,000 families adjacent
to the first Bank Group-assisted project in Baturaja, South Sumatra, including
needed services and facilities in the existing settlement; (c) assisting
transmigration program development by: improving staff training in the DGT;
expanding agricultural research in support of transmigration under the Agency
for Agricultural Research and Development (AARD); and providing technical
assistance to the Minister for Development Supervision and Environment (MDSE)
to monitor and improve the ecological soundness of transmigration projects.
The site selection and evaluation component covers 75% of project costs; the
Baturaja extension and second stage development, 18%; and program development,
7%.
37.       The component for site selection and evaluation was prepared by
DITADA with the assistance of an advisory group from Sir M. MacDonald
Partners, Ltd. and the British Overseas Development Administration. The South
Sumatra settlement component was prepared by the Baturaja Project Management
Unit within the DGT, with assistance from FAO/UNDP. Program development
components were identified as priority investment areas during Bank review of
the overall transmigration program and were prepared mainly by the agencies
with assistance from Bank staff. This project was appraised in September 1981
and reformulated during a post appraisal mission in January 1982. The Staff
Appraisal Report has been distributed separately. Supplementary project data
are provided in Annex III. Negotiations were held in Washington, D.C. from
August 23 to August 27, 1982. The Indonesian delegation was led by Dr. Saleb
Afiff, Deputy Chairman for Economic Affairs, National Planning Board
(BAPPENAS). To avoid premature commitment of funds and ensure prompt start-up
of major components soon after loan effectiveness, the project is being
presented to the Executive Directors after at least four of the major
consulting contracts have been approved by GOI.
Site Screening and Evaluation
38.       This project component would have the following objectives:
(a) Land Identification to help DITADA: (i) identify sufficient
land to settle about 300,000 families, or about 100,000
families/year for three years, and (ii) improve current planning
procedures;
(b)  Long-Range Planning:  to assess the long-term settlement
potential of the Other Islands and evaluate constraints to
land availability;



- 14 -
(c) Manpower Development: to improve the capacity of Indonesian
consulting firms to undertake site selection and evaluation using
standard planning procedures, and to develop the technical skI'-l,
of DITADA staff;
(d)  Institution Building:  to foster institutional development wil.ili,'
DITADA, and strengthen DITADA provincial offices; and
(e)  Coordination:  to improve interagency coordination through the
formation of a steering committee for site selection and
evaluation.
39.       Under this project, DITADA would screen approximately 500 sites;
produce air photos on about 345 sites; undertake reconnaisance level survevs
in about 285 areas and detailed topographic and soils surveys on about 180e
An assurance was obtained that site screening and evaluation would be carrie-d
out in accordance with procedures agreed between GOI and the Bank (Section
3.08(a) of the draft Loan Agreement). As Indonesia has a shortage of
specialists capable of undertaking site selection and evaluation, the project
would provide expatriate manpower where needed to meet immediate production
targets and it would help prepare domestic consultant firms for future work.
Total manpower requirements would be about 26,000 man-months. Of these, 51%
would be provided by local technical specialists, 33% by domestic
professionals, and 14% by expatriate professionals. About 2%, 600
man-months, would be for a pool of local and expatriate specialists to
supplement the resources of domestic consulting firms. In addition, 780
man-months of expatriate assistance would be provided for the central
advisory group and five provincial advisory teams.
40.       The scale of the proposed component is dictated by the desire of GOI
and Bank to mount the maximum land identification effort consistent with
reasonable quality and cost. This project would assist DITADA to identify
land for up to 100,000 families/year. This would be sufficient to meet
current targets and maintain them, but it would not permit a significant
increase in targets in the early years of Repelita IV. Given manpower
limitations within the country, this is judged to be the maximum program
which can be supported without even greater use of expatriate manpower and
consequent cost increases or a serious deterioration in the quality of work
as GOI uses less experienced firms.
41.       Under this project, steps have been taken to reduce the
constraints experienced under Transmigration II (para. 29). The Bank
obtained an assurance from GOI that DITADA would submit to the Bank by June
30, 1983 a list of sites to be investigated under this project and would not
alter this list or divert resources needed for the standard planning program
(sites, air photos, consulting firms) without the review and approval of the
Bank (Section 3.08(b) of the draft Loan Agreement). Problems associated
with prequalification, evaluation and contract administration, and
difficulties between expatriate firms and their domestic associates are
addressed under this project. Improved screening will reduce the rate of
rejection of sites at late stages of evaluation and reduce problems associated
with forested sites.



- 15 -
Baturaja Extension and Development
42.       Under the Transmigration and Rural Development I project,
4,500 families were settled in Baturaja, South Sumatra. The proposed
extension would have the following objectives:
(a) Settlement - to extend the Baturaja project by 2,000 families;
(b) Second Stage Development - to introduce new agricultural support
services to the existing community, maintain existing rubber
trees planted under the first project, train migrants in rubber
tapping, and construct rubber processing facilities; and
(c) Monitoring and Evaluation - to introduce and monitor new programs,
such as soil conservation, and assess their replicability through-
out the transmigration program; and to monitor topics with sig-
nificance to program development such as the long-term viability
of food cropping on marginal soils.
43.       Under this component, GOI agencies would undertake reconnaisance
of 50,000 ha and detailed village design for at least 2,000 families; clear
3,000 ha of secondary forest; construct 40 km of primary access road and
70 km of village roads and farm tracks; construct houses and village facili-
ties, and provide settler transport, subsistence supplies and agricultural
inputs for 2,000 families; distribute 2,000 heifers from the calf return
program; establish 2,000 ha of rubber trees; construct and staff a Farmer's
Cooperative Center; construct and staff a Rural Extension Center and a Plant
Protection Brigade; introduce soil conservation practices and provide
technical assistance, supplies and services to improve soil conservation;
maintain 7,100 ha of rubber established under Transmigration I until bear-
ing; construct a 30 ton/day crumb rubber factory at Baturaja and a 15 ton/day
factory at Way Abung; provide rubber processing machinery and vehicles; and
train migrants and provide rubber tapping supplies and equipment for latex
collection.
44.       To avoid problems encountered under the investment component of
Transmigration I, an assurance was obtained that adequate road maintenance
equipment would be provided to the district Public Works office to improve
road maintenance and to ensure access to villages and rubber areas (Section
3.06(b) of the draft Loan Agreement). To promote the timely construction of
rubber processing facilities, the Directorate General of Estates (DGE) would
provide funds and technical assistance to prepare tender documents; and an
assurance was obtained that sufficient funds for the construction of rubber
processing facilities would be on-lent to PTP X, a Government-owned tree
crop estate company, under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank
(Section 3.01(b) of the draft Loan Agreement). To facilitate monitoring, an
assurance was obtained that the DGT would appoint a full-time staff member
to be responsible for monitoring and evaluation (Section 3.06(a) of the
draft Loan Agreement).



- 16 -
Program Development
45.       Three subcomponents in the proposed project are devoted primarily
to institution-building and program development.
(a)  DGT Training.  This component would improve the quality of
transmigration settlements by training DGT staff, particularly
on-site staff and field level coordinators; by upgrading staff,
curricula and instructor training within the DGT training center;
and by evaluating career development in the DGT.
(b)  Agricultural Research in Support of Transmigration.  This compo-
nent would enable AARD to (i) prepare a feasibility study suitable
for external assistance for a comprehensive program of research in
support of transmigration; (ii) support basic farming systems
research in South Sumatra and East Kalimantan; and (iii) undertake
special studies on alang alang control and home gardens in the
Other Islands.
(c)  Technical Assistance to the Ministry of Development Supervision
and Environment. This component would improve the capacity of MDSE
staff to monitor the environmental soundness of transmigration
projects and to integrate environmental considerations into the
selection and development of transmigration sites.
46.       To accomplish these objectives, the proposed project would
provide:
(a)  DGT Training
(i) 144 man-months of technical assistance; of which, half
would be for expatriate specialists to assist with
manpower planning and curriculum development and half would
be for domestic consultants to improve instructor
training;
(ii) 300 man-months of local scholarships and foreign fellowships;
(iii) 4,200 man-months of staff training in courses with improved
curricula and trained instructors; and
(iv) new training facilities for three provinces and staff
housing and equipment for 5 training centers.
(b) Agriculture Research
(i) 36 man-months of technical assistance to prepare a detailed
feasibility study for research in the Other Islands; and



- 17 -
(ii) facilities, equipment, and technical support for basic
farming systems research in Sumatra and Kalimantan.
(c) Environment
(i) 108 man-months of specialist assistance to the Ministry of
Development Supervision and Environment to assist the MDSE
to improve the environmental soundness of transmigration
projects.
47.       All program development components face a similar problem:
shortages of trained manpower. To circumvent these problems the Bank has
obtained terms of reference (TORs) from all agencies for their proposed
programs and has received assurances from GOI on the following points: (a)
all consultants would be engaged by June 30, 1983; (b) responsibility would
be delegated to the DGT training specialist for reviewing courses, curricula
and instructor training on all courses on which Bank disbursements are
expected and for reviewing courses and candidates proposed for scholarships
and fellowships financed with Bank assistance; (c) AARD would submit
inception reports to the Bank for review and approval; and (d) a special
unit would be formed to coordinate Bank-assisted projects in general and to
follow-up on program development components in particular (Sections 3.02(b),
3.09 and 3.07 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Project Implementation
48.       Organization and Management.  As in the GOI transmigration program,
each implementing agency would receive its own budget and be responsible for
execution and supervision of its own works. To ensure adequate supervision,
DITADA and the existing Project Management Unit (PMU) in Baturaja which have
experience and proven managerial capacity would undertake day-to-day follow-up
on activities included within the site selection and Baturaja extension
components respectively-. They would submit semi-annual progress reports
(including financial summaries) to the Bank and to the JMT. The JMT would
undertake direct follow-up on program development components and submit
semi-annual progress reports to the Bank. The JMT would also be responsible
for overall coordination and liaison with the Bank.
49.       Implementation Plan.  In 1982/83 DITADA has obtained air photos on
215 sites and has extended contracts for five firms to complete 50
reconnaissance level studies for start-up purposes; the Baturaja PMU has
engaged land clearing contractors for one village; and PTP X is completing
tender documents for rubber processing facilities. All other agencies would
complete TORs and inception reports and prepare budgets for project works.
In 1983/84 the land resource evaluation firms would be mobilized to
undertake site selection and evaluation, the advisory group would be
extended, and provincial advisers would be engaged. Land clearing would be
initiated in the second Baturaja village and house construction and
settlement would occur in the first village. All program development



- 18 -
components would commence in 1983 and continue under this project for three
years. Rubber processing facilities would be constructed in years 1984 and
1985. All project activities would be completed by the end of 1986.
50.       Status of Preparation.  Proposals have been received from
consulting firms for most of the contracts under the site screening and
evaluation component, and contracts will shortly be concluded with aL- J
four firms. All necessary preparation has been completed for the Baturalja
component, and the land clearing has begun. TORs have been prepared for
consultants to be engaged under program development components.
Cost Estimates
51.       Total project cost is estimated to be $185.8 million (excluding
capitalized front-end fee of $1.5 million), of which $100.1 million (54%)
would be in foreign exchange. The cost of consultant contracts for site
screening and evaluation are based on negotiated contract prices. Other
costs are calculated in mid-1982 prices and because of the tax exempt status
of implementing agencies do not include local, provincial or national taxes.
Physical contingencies based on the status of preparation and the degree of
uncertainty about contracts average about 15% for civil works, 5% for
vehicles, equipment and supplies, and 5-10% for services. Price contingen-
cies total 6% of base costs and physical contingencies for the site screening
and evaluation component and 20% for the other components. Local price
increases are forecasted to be 14% for 1982, 12% for 1983, and 10% in
subsequent years; foreign price increases are forecasted to be 8.0% for
FY82-83, 7.5% for FY84, 7.0% for FY85 and 6% for FY86.
52.       The cost of technical assistance for the site selection component
is about $10,500 per man-month for expatriate consultants (totalling 4,380
man-months).  This includes the man-month rate, mobilization and demobiliza-
tion and duty station expenses, which are 78% of the cost of completing
proposed works. Supplies, services and office support provided by the GOI
are 22% of the total cost. The base cost of individually recruited
expatriate advisers for agricultural research, environment and cooperatives,
$6,200 per month, is based on recent contracts and the Bank's experience
(312 man-months). The large difference between the two charges is due
mainly to the elimination of overheads, and to the technical specialties and
experience of the experts involved.  The cost of local consulting services
($1,100-$2,500/man-month) is relatively standard across Bank projects
(8,652 man-months). The cost of settling a family in Baturaja is derived
from current contract prices at that site. The cost of items procured under
program development components is based on current contracts.
53.       The cost of site selection and evaluation is estimated at $500/
family, r6ughly 8% of investment costs for settlements based on food crops and
5% of investment costs for settlements including tree crops. Every effort has
been made to reduce costs to the minimum - primarily through simplifying
procedures and reducing expatriate involvement to the minimum. Any further
economies would jeopardize the quality of the work proposed; in any case



- 19 -
project preparation costs totalling 5-10% of investment are normal and
acceptable within the Bank. The base cost of settling a family in Baturaja
would be about $10,000, however, if rubber development costs are excluded,
baseline costs of $5,900 in Baturaja are comparable to the Transmigration II
costs of $5,700 (mid-1982 prices). One ha of tree crops has been added to the
farming system to bring incomes above subsistence levels and to maintain
equity with existing settlers. Since the original settlers received rubber
trees without repayment, cost recovery would not be expected from families in
the extension area. GOI has indicated that substantial-cost recovery would be
required if a second ha of rubber is provided in the project area in the
future. GOI policy already requires cost recovery in all smallholder projects
providing 2 ha of tree crops.
Financing Plan
54.       The proposed Bank loan of $101.0 million would cover the foreign
exchange component of the project ($100.1 million) less the foreign exchange
cost of reserved procurement vehicles ($600,000) plus the capitalized front
end fee ($1.5 million). GOI would provide annual budget appropriations to
cover Rp 60.4 billion ($86.3 million) in investment capital and operating
expenses.
55.       To ensure timely implementation, Bank and GOI have agreed that loan
funds to finance the construction of two crumb rubber factories would be
onlent to PTP X. That loan would be at 13.5% for 13 years, including a seven
year grace period to permit the factories to reach adequate production levels
for repayment (Section 3.01(b) of the draft Loan Agreement). With projected
domestic inflation rates, the interest rate would be slightly positive in real
terms. The foreign exchange risk would be borne by GOI.
Procurement
56.       Civil Works and Equipment.  Civil works (totalling $15.2 million),
which include land clearing, house construction, and buildings for the rubber
processing facilities, will involve contracts under $1 million each and would
be awarded on the basis of GOI procedures for local competitive bidding. Tree
crop establishment and maintenance ($12.5 million) would be carried out on
force account by PTP X. Vehicles would be procured locally under GOI regula-
tions which preclude ICB and this would be regarded as reserved procurement
($900,000). Equipment costing over $150,000 would be procured on the basis of
ICB and these contracts would be subject to prior review by the Bank ($3.2
million). Qualifying domestic manufacturers would receive a preference in bid
evaluation of 15% of the c.i.f. cost or the import duty whichever is lower.
Equipment, spare parts and supplies under $150,000 up to an aggregate limit of
$2.5 million would be procured under GOI regulations which require local
competitive bidding for items above about $29,000 and prudent shopping for
items under about $29,000.
57.       Consulting Services and Aerial Photography.  An assurance was
obtained that all consultants (total cost of $94.3 million) would be hired



- 20 -
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank and would be selected in
accordance with the Bank Group's guidelines on the use of consultants (Section
3.02(a) of the draft Loan Agreement). GOI inputs in support of consultant
services ($40.0 million) would be provided on the basis of GOI procedures.
Aerial photography ($8 million) would be contracted to a consortium which
includes all prequalified aerial photography firms within the country. Firms
within the consortium operate in separate geographical regions. Per hectare
prices are fixed by GOI but are judged to be reasonable. Foreign firms would
be excluded from participation because the time required to obtain security
clearances for aerial photography would significantly delay project
implementation. All other services ($9.2 million), including scholarships,
settler transport and support, agrarian services, agricultural research, and
DGT training, would be provided under C-01 procedures which have been reviewed
and found acceptable by the Bank.
Disbursement
58.       The proposed allocation of loan proceeds would be as follows:
(a) 60% of the cost of civil works except for the demonstration
components (land clearing and road construction, housing and
village facilities and tree crop development and maintenance
in Baturaja and Way Abung, research facilities, and DGT
training facilities);
(b) 100% of the foreign expenditures for equipment except for the
demonstration components (road maintenance and land and pasture
improvement in Baturaja and for rubber processing vehicles,
machinery and equipment); 100% of the ex-factory cost (less any
identifiable taxes) of equipment manufactured locally; and 60% of
imported equipment purchased locally;
(c) 100% of the cost of small demonstration components in Baturaja
(soil conservation package, Rural Extension Center and Plant
Protection Brigade, and Farmer's Cooperative Center);
(d) 100% of the cost of consulting services other than those provided
to DITADA and of scholarships and fellowships under the DGT training
component;
(e) 100% of the cost of expatriate and domestic consulting firms engaged
by DITADA during the first year and 50% of the cost thereafter; and
(f) 35% of the cost of approved DGT training.
59.       Retroactive financing of funds of up to $1.0 million expended after
April 1, 1982, on the Baturaja and program development components would be
provided (para. 4 of Schedule 1 to the draft Loan Agreement). The Bank would
not disburse against aerial photography; nor would it disburse against routine
transmigration activities such as the provision of transport, subsistence



- 21 -
supplies and agricultural inputs. To simplify disbursement under this small
component, tree crop establishment and maintenance would be reimbursed upon
the receipt of statements of expenditure (SOE). SOB would be prepared by
PTP X and forwarded to the Team Khusus (a special unit within the DGE for
Bank-assisted projects) to ensure standards and costs comparable with the
Bank-assisted NES projects. Both PTP X and the Team Khusus have the
capacity to maintain adequate records. Execution of a satisfactory
Subsidiary Loan Agreement would be a condition of disbursement against the
rubber processing facilities (Schedule 1, para. 4(b) of the draft Loan
Agreement). All necessary facilities, equipment, vehicles and supplies for
program development components, other than those financed by this project,
would be provided by the GOI.
Accounts and Audits
60.       Assurances were obtained from the GOI that: (a)  all implementing
agencies involved in the project would maintain separate accounts for the
project; (b) these accounts would be consolidated and subjected to an annual
audit by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; and (c) these audited
accounts would be sent to the Special Unit within the JMT, which would
prepare a summary to be submitted to the Bank (Section 4.02 of the draft
Loan Agreement).
Benefits
61.       Site Selection and Evaluation.  This project component represents
a $138 million investment in a settlement program that would cost the GOI
over $2 billion. Although the benefits of this component are not easily
quantified this investment would be economically justified if only 5-6% of
settlers who might otherwise have left inaccessible or inappropriate sites
are enabled to succeed. All migrants would benefit from increased
productivity, better markets, and improved tenure in appropriately selected
sites. Proper site evaluation would have additional benefits to the nation
by reducing soil erosion and protecting watershed and forest resources.
Greater lead time and improved planning would reduce costly delays in
implementation and lessen the hardships faced by migrants. It would also
help achieve national development objectives by promoting large scale
movement and laying the groundwork for possible future expansion.
62.       The cost of site selection and evaluation studies is estimated at
roughly 8% of investment costs for settlements based on food crops and 5% of
investment costs for settlements including tree crops. Project preparation
costs totalling 5-10% of investment are normal and acceptable within the
Bank. As benefits are not quantifiable, no economic rate of return has been
calculated for this component. Although initially expensive because of
improved planning procedures and the infusion of expatriate manpower, the
project would lead to increased cost efficiency by supporting training and by
ensuring the transfer of responsibility to local firms. It would also reduce
waste associated with delays, duplication and selection of unsatisfactory
sites.



- 22 -
63.       Baturaja Extension.  The project would establish 2,000 new farms
and associated settlements with 2,000 ha of tree crops and 2,400 ha of food
crops and gardens. At full agricultural production the project would
annually produce 2,900 tons of rubber, 4,000 tons of paddy gabah, 3,000 tons
of corn, 12,000 tons of cassava and 1,000 tons of groundnuts. Cowpeas,
mungbeans and vegetables would be produced in small quantities. Total
family income is estimated at $3,200 per family at full agricultural
production, a level that compares favorably with the existing per capita
income. The economic rate of return of this component is over 14%.
Crossover values suggest that the viability of the settlement component is
relatively insensitive to departures from appraisal assumptions. The
project would also improve agricultural productivity of existing farmers by
introducing improved extension, marketing, pest control and soil
conservation practices, and by constructing processing facilities to
maximize the return from rubber planted under Transmigration I. Finally,
the project would create employment opportunities for transmigrant and local
populations. Land clearing, road construction, the building of village
facilities and rubber development would contribute significantly to the
local economy; for field clearing and tree crop establishment alone 4,000
years of unskilled labor would be needed. Most of the jobs created by the
project would be incremental since many transmigrants and local people would
be otherwise underemployed.
64.       Program Development.  The training component would improve the
quality of transmigrant communities by upgrading on-site and coordinating
staff and it would improve implementation by improving staff training and
manpower development within the DGT. The agricultural research component
would lead in the long run to improved agricultural productivity in transmi-
grant settlements and to the increased utilization of marginal lands.  In the
short run, the component would undertake studies needed to recommend appro-
priate farming systems for transmigrants. The consulting services component
would enable the MDSE to improve the environmental soundness of the
transmigration program.
Risks
65.       Site Selection and Evaluation.  There are two major risks.  The
first and most serious is that GOI would expand targets beyond what is
indicated in the proposed program and that pressures to clear land would
lead to utilization of resources from the Bank-assisted program (sites, air
photos, domestic firms, agency capacity) for programs using emergency
procedures to speed settlement. As noted above, to address this issue,
an assurance was obtained from GOI that any supplementary studies undertaken
by DITADA would not utilize resources allocated to this program without the
explicit concurrence of the Bank (para. 41 above). Should the project or
agency performance be jeopardized by increased targets, this project would
be reviewed and appropriate measures taken to curtail or terminate the work.



- 23 -
66.       A related but lesser risk is that the scale of this project is so
large that sites, air photos, domestic capacity or agency capability might be
inadequate. To circumvent these constraints, the advisory group has screened
500 sites and indicated that sufficient sites are available; funds would be
provided for sufficient air photos; and a pool of technical specialists has
been provided to supplement the capacity of domestic consulting firms.
DITADA's capacity is judged to be acceptable as the program is currently
identifying and preparing sites for 75,000 families/year.
67.       Baturaja.  Major risks are that dissected land and poor soil quality
may lead to erosion and declining agricultural productivity over the years.
To reduce these risks this project would intensify soil conservation measures,
extend research on farming systems, improve extension, and provide draught
power and tree crops to improve land utilization. Organizational problems
would be minimized by using an existing and successful PMU.
68.       Program Development.  The major risk with these subcomponents is
that implementing agencies may fail to complete the proposed works in time.
To minimize this problem these components have been kept small and the
disbursement periods short.
69.       With the assurances provided under the project, these risks are
judged to be acceptable.
Environmental Effects
70.       The project would improve the environmental soundness of trans-
migration projects in general by supporting institutional development in the
Office of the MDSE, and it would improve the process of site selection and
evaluation, leading to the selection of suitable sites and improving
coordination between agencies interested in sound resource utilization. The
Baturaja component includes steps to improve soil conservation in the
extension area and to develop a replicable soil conservation program.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
71.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Indonesia and
the Bank and the report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately. Signing of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement
between PTP X and Bank Indonesia would be a condition of disbursement
against the rubber processing facilities. Special conditions of the project
are listed in Section III of Annex III.
72.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.



- 24 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
73.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
March 2, 1983
Washington, D.C.



ANNEX I
-25-                                       Page 1 of 5 pages
INDONZSIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEeT
INDONESIA                      REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AV9eRAGES
AREA (THOUSAND  SQ. M.)- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)L a
TOTAL          1919.3                                        MOST RECENT     LOW INCOME         MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL    316.5                 1960  /b   1970 /b    ESTIMATE /b  ASIA & PACIFIC         ASIA & PACIFIC
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                    80.0       140.0           430.0           261.4                 890.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       124.7       121.9           225.4           448.7                 701.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)    94680.0   116143.0        146557.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)    14.6       17.1            20.2            17.3                  32.4
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                             216.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                               376.3
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                         2110
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                         49.3        60.5            74.6           158.1                 255.9
PER SQ. K1. AGRICULTURAL LAND      355.9       378.8           452.4           355.9                1748.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                           40.7        44.0            40.1            36.8                  39.9
15-64 YRS.                           56.2        53.4            56.9            59.7                  56.8
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                     3.1         2.5             3.1            '3.5                   3.3
POPUIATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                2.1         2.0             2.3             2.0                   2.3
URBAN                                3.7         3.6             4.0             3.3                   3.9
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       46.8        40.7            35.3            29.3                  31.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       24.5        17.2            13.3            11.0                   9.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                2.8         2.7             2.2             2.0                   2.0
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)          ..      181.1          2216.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)       ..        0.2            27.1            19.3                  36.3
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)            93.0       102.0           113.0           108.1                 115.6
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                     86.3        93.9           101.7/c          97.3                 106.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)            38.2        42.4            44.87W          56.9                  54.4
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE           5.6        6.2             6.671          20.0                  13.9
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       22.9        16.8            11.3            10.9                   6.7
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)      41.2        47.3            53.1            57.8                  59.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            149.9       120.9            92.7            89.1                  63.7
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..         3.0            12.0/d          32.9                  32.0
URBAN                                 ..        10.0            35.071          70.7                  51.9
RURAL                                 ..         1.0             6.07o          22.2                  20.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..        12.0            15.0/e          18.1                  37.7
URBAN                                 ..        50.0            60.07e          72.7                  65.7
RURAL                                 ..         4.0             5.07e           4.7                  24.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            46778.7    26498.5         13674.6          3297.8                8540.4
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON       4517.0      7672.8          8871.6          4929.3                4829.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                              1360.3     1644.6          1609.9/d        1100.4                1047.5
URBAN                              251.8          ..           699.071         301.3                 651.6
RURAL                                  *-         *-          3166.8/d        5815.7                2597.6
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED              ..         ..            22.4/e            ..                  27.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                 4.4        4.8
URBAN                                 4.9        5.3
RURAL                                4.3         4.7
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                 ..         1.5
URBAN                                  ..        1.6
RURAL                                 ..         1.5
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                                        ..              ..
URBAN                                  ..         ..
RURAL                                  ..         ..              ..               ..



ANNEX I
-26 -                                       Page 2 of 5 pages
INDONESIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDONESIA                           REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) a
MOST RECENT      LOW INCOME          MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b      ESTIMATE lb   ASIA 6 PACIFIC        ASIA & PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                     71.0         78.0             94.0             97.4                    96.2
MALE                      86.0        83.0            100.0             101.0                   99.8
FEMALE                    58.0        73.0             89.0              87.8                   92.1
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                      6.0         16.0            22.0              53.0                    37.6
MALE                      10.0        21.0             27.0              63.8                   41.1
FEMALE                     3.0        11.0             18.0              41.3                   34.1
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (Z OF SECONDARY)       20.4         22.1             19.8               1.7                   20.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                                38.8         28.9             37.2             37.7                   35.5
SECONDARY                              14.0         13.1             17.0             20.2                    25.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)            39.0         56.6             62.0              52.1                   73.1
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                              1.1          2.1              3.5/c             1.5                    9.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                              7.2         22.0            41.9              35.4                   116.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                              0.1          0.8              8.6              3.2                    37.6
NEWSPAPER (-DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST-) CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                      11.0           ..             17.7/d            16.4                   53.7
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA       2.8           ..              0.871            3.6                     2.8
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)         34791.4      41069.9          52582.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                       27.8         30.9            29.3              29.5                   33.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                  75.0         66.0             58.0              70.0                   52.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                      8.0         10.0            12.0              15.0                   17.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                    36.7         35.4             35.9              40.0                   38.5
MALE                                     54.2         49.5             51.0              51.8                   50.5
FEM4ALE                                  20.0         21.6             20.9             23.8                    26.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                    1.2         1.3              1.2               1.0                    1.1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS          ..           ..             23.5/d
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS          ..          ..             49.47.
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS           ..          ..              6.67.                     
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS           ..          ..             14.47..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                    ..           ..           136.0             133.8                  194.7
RURAL                                     ..          ..            112.0            111.5                   155.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                     ..          ..            119.0               ..                   178.2
RURAL                                     ..          ..             98.0               ..                   164.9
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                    ..           ..             28.0             43.8                    24.4
RURAL                                     ..          ..             51.0             51.7                    41.1
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averageS for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/aa  China included in total only.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   1977; /d 1976; /e 1975.
May, 1982



ANNX I
-27-                                                               Page 3of 5pagt~-
DEFINITIONS OP SactL. INDlICATORlS
NaIve.:  Although the data ate dies from  source  generally judged the  -as  authoritative and reliable, it should alao he noted that they may tar be inter
_atinaliyoa..paeable hb-ant  Of the lack Of etan dordied defiitnittt.t.                 oet   edb  dfenIt countrie  in collecting tbe data.  The data are, none-
thIsts.... usful to descibe ordersa  mgnitude. indicate  trends, an   hatateis  cetain major diftOrennee  .et .ear.ranttites
The  eeec   grus  r  (11cIha               -Iaott"  gruI    f  h   ujetcutry and (2) acaun.try grasp sith    esu  high- enavrge income thee the cuntry getup
af the  ub) ec  county  (eacpt for "high  aroma    i    ptyt.ter" group ebere "Middle Into-  Nthni  Afeita aud Middl:e Oss" is chosen becuefstager
acoultural afinitirs).  1o the  reec  grou.p dni  tie avrges er  population elighied arithmetic meansbr eo   oiao   adsutsi   hen
-aJo,riy of the  -utinie  icagroup  has dte for that indicatr.   Sincethec.                  ne   f  onre  ththe n'llafere depends-1 on theaaiabliy ofdt
an   tntsifora, cutioteons- be  .n.r.tee "In rltn    --eare af One indienitarenir. TreuergsuNel   stl in cspaingbevleo
see  Ivdictor- etinniber asog the c.outy  md raf-rtr   gro..aptEbe.                                                                                                          O
Totai -Totalsriat  urea  -prisiug lud aret and iuluvd asen.                    99daa.ra,ad.ua)dvdd.yia.rsecienme   f  opeibd
Aoricultu... I   lelsae Of  urclcnlseauned treporarily ar peeorty                                      vilable  in pai  ad.priviet  g.erera  ai             urealirdbeia   n   a
iNP PER CAPITA (IS$) -tPprcpt                                                   1979ei  tcren    akt  rrs  cal..-h d 1'inmc   r  tc locnda.trnihsitl,        loevr   hurluie health --   t.t-    it..Rd.  O   .lef.1;O
ENOiI1td byaitTl   t   aIT       uu csnpl                 fcrtrileeg .c.ni                              tcIm.. prpose urban benpial Etbinclude Ot-cipincipal/gnera  hopitls
an   int,ptolu,mrritnan    pr-   ulo  acdgroberulled                                                  ndil     .. rurl .os itals,loalcvrn hR-       ilnan  medica   hn             l htrnt
riItydi  b      tonnu   fcoleuoetbe_a is  1h.190   c   1979                                        n        ~_ cenera.    paIahe   hosPitals Y are  ildIdtl ndrttl
ENERYi COSTi IONdt   PERal STATISTICSA   _
focal Pris,     n  Mi-Tar(irusand..) -ydi of July d1;-19hOf 1910, andilOtAI                      fO,S-tO
data.il                                                                                           inevageSier ofd hdr-   SA  Hause:.bclh  (paact  pen h-ousehod -N    noeI rbh.adrrl
intPplta   perto   oa)-Rtoo   rbnt   oa    osaiv                                                    oshl   esasa  agapn   oiiul   b   hr   iigqatr
differart deitoitiont n8 unbar evens map affect co~~~anability  of data           and ibeir main meals.  0 boarder cr lcdgrr any ur any sri beh included  iv
PUAIONg liD  V ITeALnSyAnISbIrtC     nraigbSotytprcpt   nra                                       Acs inE ietricty(prco  o  dLlias  - tOnal, udrhs aid rurl
maT      sfo   etltpti  as   ua  he1lvl   ssmn    enioI                                            ofR- hospp ron   n  rus    Taitugi.. resect fdively.             .O  d.-
Mabcuiy isdthen assigce ndson  n  lb Oe  illv  cambi960ts97of ecrnd ity            iODdlOCAedbyOI3N                                     ed
nodil    Tniity trndhfrldjrsln   upPes--jstdPsrI,et  ato
titram   ouutc-usninn                    ouaintaei   rgov   rcePiavrcl-ttl   eeadfml       mnisl   aeadfml
hate-9          00   ndtomno   eln   o   eclt   oen  relae-.cod.y  coo -ial mleed  emle-Copue n_s nve;sndaeyr
T.em  stat. isay  uuatr  i   ertd-  h   ea   hi    ct nar    oslt                                      provides , gAerl   bucionel Or reacher           y - icie Y incutires innld  puils
Papiair  Densl.ity    byncthudedr.                                                                                                   O
ensal nra;   ihI, 1900 ad 1979  -acs.                                                     ieriude , tecunal rilsdncnil, on oche  pingenshrspntidpe-
only; 1960, iPD  ad  90  data                                                                  Pui-eabeetr     riayeedscdapTcnhtsvc  erildh
laninn;        liif  e,e  -" 1960,1970, and 1900edata..Adsl liElsop ratet Irocrlesl- Ofent  adults (able Irb.. reed sod meee
la,tion   fo  .9.-6. 19-7.  and111 197-8d                                                        as...r si    (ertunar  ccfniov -Iinenarcas cmgI eato
popsitirn   1960  197. ard1980dais     1-1l -liscy-  vehIcles.t.9
ynueco;t960  190S     end 190daa                                                             bOad_! casts ccgnral public perng thusn cp-i-pplnc;                  lde   n
hiiyrcs   silyfv-eraerae  enin   i  1960, 1970,Ead18.ms Ad o- strisi abolishd- coig
'h'vPancaAretn.aonlitnad)   oulnmeoeocprt                                                        Tioivn   peooundohlils-VPeevesfibadcst
Pe IyPanlgIs            ih(acenc    aeidmmn)-Precaeo    aridi'unne    ndl   er  Ale endrgnaiou fIf sGce  -ensi   fet
teeno  chid-b  TrIg age  b1i-49~ ceery  fb ra:ii-uir:evcst                                  esue    Irtlsr   prccsn   uusln        benecngr
nIl mrried - nome         If sema   " age group.t          cYlaciac of ldatly gnrlInt                                                  ptssppr,dfie  eoe   ni
i I                                    r~~~~~~~pbiosyiro  devoted primril  ccncodc  gcnn   me.i  i   seiee
00001fIT TIte                                                 ,                                cc_e 0dely,lif isuptpersYa leatfrcieerk
produnine ofnli fod onsedinie.  Preduiineoldrnedndfedan                                    bcet .sl  do.tig  the year. turaigdiee                    ta l   ,   idnivt-irris6e11
is     -d calnda  year bahi.   CsadOvftnrprmr  gutds le.hg.aeno    aisuis
iceced of  ugar  shic  areedible and conain-usrie-t        f log, cofferd cod.; f
tea  h err  r 2000ded)  grgtepoucino  eacOon-Ir iibae  u                                      .hd  PCOne                I.. " "n "ln"-                           -     0pr
Per rants surly ci calo iesfeeoofnuiauc)-Cmrd fromdarmed.    -h-ce  so  uveployrd but fcoo                                                l -uiu   Cunsecedn, studens  et...  dy
energ  -qivlenb.   of netd ru  suplie  evalur In- country              y pe ~ jtn caoc             ruorh    popluiu  of al   noes.fefi Pccccn  h  varinu   ccn                  r
esctn   ndoare ti   n scoPPlht.tn  sple eemqa aklud er anima  fed,ned,feal.re.c.       Peale  labor mccc us  trtpecentg   o  toallaor_frce
Pnner adlvl   916,17   n 1               97PP data.9i960, 1970 and t 1960                                                       el darn.     n.
Pm   apln srel  ofrreeh  Cera -s err dr         b- frsi   otnso   e   aiareicoic  Rote (ptncloc  -                                   r  thini  male  - sdfemle   Psotto ipnian on
se   npyo  fo6 e   a.Se   upyo  foVsdfnd  saoe    etatvt   aesaec.pcdtntti.al,adfml  lbrftes
q  I-mnnfr  l   ciro   erbihdb  70   rvd   frsceeprcoaeI                                                        ftta,minc   iml   cnaio    folae,rsetlry
aloscsa   0gaao   oalpascp    e   o   0gae  iuiu   i                                             90   90   n  1990 data.  These ar   hosed on                . LfearIipt    rae
g lyd Pond , ISury  09165n      97d  n 1  9777atatto  heOrilabrfte
Pe   ait   rnlsepi fProm. sti h1iadt pu 0s-14                                                     PPilt-oh -nuppiy- of ford de-                       -  Or
rived~ inns anim lsad pulse  in- ram    e           ;1916,17  and 1977 data.                 yOItCOt0d0id dby0f00r0Ted0i
1tries data0 derive   fr lfad       bes   90  17   nd18  dt,o  hunhlds.                                                 ,                                   ft:hri   h
Glllt~~~~~~h R t,j(,er-nt      ~poiiy  ao~IROP
Infat ec    lty  ut fpe thousand) -                 . Anua  deahth of e inet  nudr  vltra         Is lmted      t Abslute  (poercent Inom Level- dPSO perunrn    - d un da undrurl
cfaepr   Orsadlv    its 906_ 1960-1,  90an 1 980S~    fdtta.            ldoln-ebpocer Ofstutr loon  is chat. tuoedlvlhlnshr      il
Aces ot te Waer perac of pourbail An_)- intel u           _ac acOelf         Rt                urcsclyaei                itpa    seeio   0cc-foo   rqieend-ts  v  o
maden  upy (haPner   se-aced surface meters p. on          - ...ucdbiu  scardOfIidyimrai.ed  etic  PorhyIou.                           lee lh ;otsOd percapta)-O urban an  rurl.
fountain   t sr    t -tops  A-ceted Octmare iRa  20eeenfo      os   a   elee   ihajamn   a   ihr  otu   iigi   raurn
onasunahe arres  could  mply tht the busemifeor nembrs of to heuseold          andrural -Percereofhp.p...ic                  d ofhen ai  rural)rho n      fa_bso dit
fer  i'ly'sae   ame1:do.i;p   .  i   I                                  1ba                           f                 ,IPb
Acces soincrca Onoosl fercen of orulilor - ttal,urba,  ectAi rural -.ner
roster6of psogo  (dc19l0 urbn, ned rural)  erved bytacunte disposalia
pecetge    i  herrepccv   poulsius                     inrtadsolnaicue
andinasce-earer b drte-burn.e  sy_terl O an th  use of pit         - prde   end. simi-iOdli   .  gtY                                                 - 
nusn rta   etng.  e1-4ibctl                                         :I.i                                         e,T



- 28 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5 pages
Population     :  147.4 million (mid-1980)
GNP per Capita:  US$520 (1981 estimate)
INDONESIA - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Annual growth rate (7C)
Amount                                  (at constant 1973 prices)
(million US$ at
current prices)                       Actual                         Estimate           Projected
Indicator                            1980            1975   1976   1977   1978  1979    1980   19 81         T 18 1983       T 1984    1985
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product /a         70,024            5.0    6.9    8.8    6.9    5.3    9.7    7.5    2.1    4.8    5.0    5.0
Agriculture                     18,003           0.0    4.7    1.3    5.2    4.0    5.5    3.5    3.1    1.7    1.6    2.2
Industry                        29,227           5.6   11.1   14.2    5.9    5.5    9.0    8.7   -5.5    7.0   10.0    6.0
Services                       22,794           10.1    5.9   12.0    8.9    6.9    8.5    9.0    7.0    5.0    5.0    5.0
Consumption                       48,976           6.9    6.4    7.9    8.5    9.9   11.6    6.6   10.3    2.3    2.4    3.6
Gross investment                  15,176          14.6    6.0   16.0   15.0    4.4   17.8   23.0    6.3    1.0   -1.0    4.3
Exports of GNFS                   21,365          -9.7   12.5   22.4    1.9   -1.0   -4.2  -10.5  -11.5    1.9   15.0    6.7
Imports of GNFS                   15,494           7.9    8.1   22.2   15.6   13.9   13.6    6.0    8.0   -2.0    2.0    2.0
Gross national savings            17,576         -19.7   12.0   33.3   -2.1   37.1   -2.1    8.0    3.0    2.0    4.0    5.0
PRICES
GDP deflator (1973 - 100)                          166    190    214    237    311    400    440    493    542    591    638
Exchange rate                                       415    415    415    442    623    625    625    625    625    625    625
Share of GDP at market prices (%)                          Average annual increase (1)
(at current prices)                                   (at constant 1973 prices)
1960   1970   1975   1980   1985   1990         1960-70    1970-75    1975-80    1980-85    1985-90
Gross domestic product       100    100    100    100    100    100             3.9          8.4         7.5          5.0         5.0
Agriculture                 54      47      32     26      22      17         2.7          4.1         4.1         2.5         3.5
Industry                    14      18      34     42      44      46         5.2         12.0         9.7         5.5         6.5
Services                    32      35      35     33      36      36         4.8          9.7         9.0         6.5         5.0
Consumption                 91      89      79     70      74      74         4.1         .8.4         8.9         5.0         5.0
Gross investment             8      14      20     22      26      27         4.8         18.3        11.7         6.0         4.5
Exports of GNFS             13      13      23     31      23      18         3.6          9.2         8.7        -2.4         1.8
Imports of GNFS            -13    -16    -22    -22    -23    -19             3.2         22.1        14.0         2.5         3.5
Gross national savings       8       9      17     25      25      22         6.1         23.1        14.4         4.8          5.3
As % of GDP
1960           1970           1975            1980
PUBLIC FINANCE /b
Current revenues                                                           11.7           10.1           10.5            23.4
Current expenditures                                                       14.0            8.4            9.3            13 3
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                                                -2.3            +1.6           +7.1          +10.1
Capital expenditure                                                         n.a.           5.0           10.7            13.5
Foreign financing                                                           0.2            3.5             3.7            3.4
1960-70         1970-75             1975-8Q         1980-85          1985-90
OTHER INDICATORS
Annual GNP growth rate (%)                               4.5              7.6                6.9              4.9              4.8
Annual GNP per capita growth rate (x)                    2.4              5.1                4.5              2.5              2.4
Annual energy consumption growth rate (2)                2.9             16.0               15.0              7.0              6.0
ICOR                                                     2.2              2.2                 3.1             4.5              4.3
Marginal savings rate                                    0.30             0.48                0.30            0.2              0.3
Import elasticity                                        1.2              2.8                 1.9             1.2             0.7
/a At market prices.
/b Central Government only, on an April-to-March fiscal year basis.
East Asia and Pacific Programs
January 3, 1983



- 29 -
Population    :  147.4 million (mid-1980)                                                                          ANNEX I
GNP per Capita:  US$520 (1981 estimate)                                                                            Page 5 of 5 pages
INDONESIA - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(Millions US$ at current prices)
Actual                     Estimate                 Projected
Indicator                  1977      1978     1979      1980     1981      1982       1983     1984      1985     1990
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS /a
1.  Exports                            10,861   11,353   17,494   22,245   20,295    20,698   24,125   27,829   42,761   50,179
(a)  Oil & LNG (gross)             7,354    7,374   11,323   16,661   16,541    16,550   19,033   21,772   32,824   38,308
(b)  Nonoil                        3,507    3,979    6,171    5,584    3,754        4,148    5,092    6,057    9,937   11,871
2.  Imports (including net NFS)      -10,686  -11,493  -14,035  -18,649  -23,541   -22,683  -23,507  -25,358  -34,514  -41,856
(a)  Oil sector                   -2,909   -3,364   -4,348   -5,884   -5,572    -5,053   -4,682   -4,706   -6,591   -7,164
(b)  Nonoil imports               -7,241   -7,543   -9,028  -11,790  -15,340  -15,340  -16,466  -18,561  -25,521  -32,022
(c)  NFS (net)                      -536      -586      -659     -975   -2, 629    -2,290   -2,359   -2, 091   -2,402   -2, 670
3.  Resource balance                      175     -140    3,459    3,596   -3,246    -1,985         618    2,470    8,248    7,816
A               4.  Factor services                      -865   -1,015   -1,261   -1,205   -3,852    -4,482   -5,210  -6,267   -9,141  -10,719
(a)  Interest public debt           -441      -514      -772     -819   -1,118    -1,319   -1,617  -1,953   -2,605   -2,836
(b)  Other (net)                    -424      -501      -489     -386   -2,734    -3,163   -3,593   -4,314   -6,536   -7,883
5.  Capital grants                         66       46        52        76      100        100      100       100      100       100
6.  Balance on current account           -624   -1,109    2,250    2,467   -7,000    -6,357   -4,491   -3,698         -794   -2,804
7.  Direct foreign investment             285       271      217       140      276        350      450       600      800    1,000
8.  Public M & LT loans
(a)  Disbursement                   1,956    2,205    1,865    2,536    5,180       5,922    6,384    6,473    6,234    7,091
(b)  Amortization                   -825   -1,548   -1,329       -953   -1,376    -1,720   -2,042   -2,440   -4,052   -5,120
(c)  Net disbursements              1,131      657       536    1,583    3,803      4,202    4,342    4,033    2,182    1,971
9.  Other capital (net)                  -140       891   -1,261   -1,454    1,274       1,897       456     -202     -210       -22
10.  Change in reserves (- increase)    -651       -708   -1,690   -2,736    1,645          -82     -757      -733    1,977       -45
11.  Net official reserves               2,208    2,916    4,606    7,342    4,709        4,791    5,548    6,282   11,180   12,148
Reserves in months of nonoil
imports + NFS                       3.4      4.3       5.6      6.9       3.7       3.8       4.0      4.1       5.3       4.6
Memorandum Item
Net foreign assets of the banking
system /d                                -        -    6,906   10,787    8,509        7,091    7,348    8,082   12,980   13,948
Total reserves in months of nonoil
imports + NFS                          3.4      4.3       8.6     10.1       6.7        5.6      5.3       5.3      6.2       5.3
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT /b
Gross Disbursements                    1,956    2,205    1,865    2,536    2,356
Concessional Loans                       442       484      433       679      802
Bilateral                              381       448      399       631      729
IDA                                     49        29       30        42       68
Other                                   12         6        5         6        5
Nonconcessional Loans                  1,514    1,721    1,432    1,858    1,552
Official export credits                218       271       61        25      154
IBRD                                   191       168      199       331      106
Other multilateral                      16        12       46        52       86
Private - source                     1,089    1,270    1,126    1,450    1,206
External Debt (fixed-term)
Debt outstanding & disbursed /d   11,658   13,107   13,233   14,882   15,529
Official - source                  7,077    8,390    8,434    9,400    9,746
Private  - source                  4,583    4,717    4,799    5,482    5,783
Undisbursed debt                     4,475    5,839    7,932    9,454   11,288
Debt Service
Total service payments               1,262    2,062    2,101    1,772    1,974
Interest                             441      514       771      819       973
Payments as % exports /e              11.6      18.2     12.0       8.0      9.0
Average Interest Rate on New Loans
(%)                                    6.3      7.6       6.6      8.4       9.1
Official - source                      5.4       4.6      5.0       5.0      7.8
Private  - source                      8.6      10.2      8.6      12.8     10.4
Average Maturity of New Loans
6   (Years)                           20.5     18.7      19.1      19.0     15.6
Official - source                     23.9      30.1     25.8      24.8     20.8
Private  - source                     10.4       8.6     11.1      10.0     10.7
As x of debt outstanding at end of 1981
Maturity structure of debt outstanding
Maturities due within 5 years                                                                             30.9
Maturities due within 10 years                                                                            60.2
Interest structure of debt outstanding
Interest due within first year                                                                             4.1
/a  On an April-to-March fiscal year basis.
Th  Excludes private nonguaranteed loans.
/c  Includes foreign assets of deposit money banks in 'addition to official reserves.
7i At end of period.                                                                                  East Asia and Pacific Programs
7e  Oil exports treated on gross basis.                                                                       February 3, 1983



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 29 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of September 30, 1982)
US$ million
Loan/                                                                Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                               (less cancellations)
Number   Year               Purpose                       Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
Twelve Loans and thirty-four Credits fully disbursed  559.3   491.5
400     1973   Smallholder and Private Estate Tea          -       7.8          1.4
428     1974   Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate               -       16.5        7.5
479     1974   Bali Tourism                                -       16.0        1.9
514     1975   Jatiluhur Irrigation Extension              -       30.0         1.6
1100     1975   Sixth Irrigation                           65.0     -           7.6
1179     1976   Agricultural Research & Extension          21.5     -            1.3
1197     1976   National Resource Survey & Mapping         13.0     -           4.0
1236     1976   Fourth Highway                            130.0     -          19.8
1237     1976   Fourth Education                           37.0     -           6.2
1250     1976   Second Shipping                            54.0     -           4.7
1267     1976   National Food Crops Extension              22.0     -           2.2
1268     1976   Seventh Irrigation                         33.0     -           8.0
1318     1977   Transmigration and Rural Development   30.0         -           3.5
1336     1977   Second Urban Development                   52.5     -           7.0
1337     1977   Tanjung Priok Port                         32.0     -           9.3
1365     1977   Sixth Power                               116.0     -          31.5
1373     1977   Nutrition Development                      13.0     -           4.5
1433     1977   Teacher Training-Fifth Education           19.0     -            7.7
1434     1977   Eighth Irrigation                          63.0      -         36.3
1435     1977   Ninth Irrigation                           35.0     -           6.7
1472     1977   Second Population                          24.5     -          12.8
1486     1978   Non-Formal Education                       15.0     -           4.9
1499     1978   Nucleus Estates and Smallholders I         65.0     -          25.4
1513     1978   Seventh Power                              94.0     -          33.9
785     1978   Small Enterprise Development                -      40.0         9.2
1578     1978   Tenth Irrigation                          140.0     -         115.2
1579     1978   Eleventh Irrigation                        31.0      -         17.5
827     1978   Rural Credit                                -       30.0        3.7
1604     1978   Nucleus Estates & Smallholders II          65.0     -          51.8
869     1979   Polytechnic                                 -       49.0       36.9



- 31 -                         ANNEX II
Page 2 of 29 pages
US$ million
Loan/                                                                 Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                                 (less cancellations)
Number   Year               Purpose                        Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
1645    1979   Twelfth Irrigation                          77.0      -          52.0
1653    1979   Third Urban Development                     54.0      -          28.5
898    1979   Fifth Technical Assistance                   -       10.0         9.2
1691    1979   Lower Cimanuk Basin Flood Control           50.0      -          35.8
1692    1979   Second Agricultural Training                42.0      -          22.7
1696    1979   Fifth Highway                              123.2      -          83.5
1703    1979   Fourth BAPINDO                              50.0      -          10.9
919    1979   Transmigration II                            -       67.0        30.0
1707    1979   Transmigration II                           90.0      -          89.5
1708    1979   Eighth Power                               175.0      -         104.1
1709    1979   Second Water Supply                         36.0      -          28.9
946    1980   Yogyakarta Rural Development                 -       12.0        10.3
1751    1980   Nucleus Estates & Smallholders III          99.0      -          69.9
984    1980   Smallholder Rubber Development               -       45.0        36.3
995    1980   Fifteenth Irrigation                         -       45.0        33.2
996    1980   National Agriculture Extension II            -       42.0        40.9
1811    1980   Fourteenth Irrigation                      116.0      -          95.0
1835    1980   Nucleus Estates & Smallholders IV           42.0      -          35.8
1840    1980   National Agricultural Research              35.0      -          35.0
1014    1980   National Agricultural Research               -       30.0        28.1
1869    1980   Third Population                            35.0      -          34.5
1872    1980   Ninth Power                                253.0      -         224.9
1898    1981   Smallholder Coconut Development             46.0      -          43.9
1904    1981   University Development                      45.0      -          44.1
1950    1981   Tenth Power                                250.0      -         205.5
1958    1981   Swamp Reclamation                           22.0      -          19.6
1972    1981   Fourth Urban Development                    43.0      -          41.3
2007    1981   Nucleus Estate and Smallholder V           161.0      -         155.7
2011    1981   Second Small Enterprise Development   106.0           -          53.3
2049    1982   Jakarta-Cikampek Highway                    85.0      -          85.0
2056    1982   Eleventh Power                             170.0      -         170.0
2066    1982   Second Seeds                                 15.0     -          15.0
2079    1982   Bukit Asam Coal Mining
Development & Transport                 185.0     -         167.7
2083    1982   Rural Roads Development                    100.0      -         100.0
2101    1982   Second Teacher Training                     80.0      -          80.0
2102    1982   Second Textbook                             25.0      -          25.0
2118    1982   Sixteenth Irrigation                        37.0      -          37.0
2119    1982   Seventeenth Irrigation                      70.0      -          70.0
2120    1982.  National Fertilizer Distribution /1    66.0           -          66.0
2126    1982   Nucleus Est. & Smallholders VI              68.1      -          67.1
2153    1982   Coal Exploration Engineering /1             25.0      -          25.0
2199    1982   Central Java Paper and Pul. /1                5.5     -           5.5
/1  Not yet effective.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 29 pages
US$ million
Loan/                                                               Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                               (less cancellations)
Number   Year               Purpose                       Bank     IDA   Undisbursed
Total Bank loans and IDA credits              4,611.60  931.80
Of which has been repaid                    -162.60   -5.93
Total now outstanding                         4,449.00  925.87
Amount sold to third party            28.24
Amount repaid by third party         -27.21      -1.03
Total now held by Bank and IDA /a             4,447.97  925.87
Total undisbursed                             2,813.9   250.20   3,064.10
/a Prior to exchange adjustment.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 29 pages
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of September 30, 1982)
Fiscal                               Type of            Loan    Equity    Total
year          Obligor               business           ---- (US$ million) ----
1971   P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement             10.6       2.5      13.1
1971   P.T. Unitex                  Textiles            2.5       0.8       3.3
1971   P.T. Primatexco Indonesia  Textiles              2.0       0.5       2.5
1971   P.T. Kabel Indonesia         Cable               2.8       0.4       3.2
1972   P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.         Textiles            4.5       1.5        6.0
1973   P.T. Jakarta Int. Hotel    Tourism              11.0         -      11.0
1973   P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement              5.4       0.7       6.1
1974   P.T. Primatexco Indonesia  Textiles              2.0       0.3       2.3
1974   P.T. Monsanto Pan            Electronics         0.9         -       0.9
1974   P.T. PDFCI                   Devel. Fin. Co.       -       0.5       0.5
1974   P.T. Kamaltex                Textiles            2.4       0.6       3.0
1976   P.T. Semen Cibinong.         Cement              5.0       1.5       6.5
1976   P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement                -       1.1        1.1
1977   P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.         Textiles            0.4         -        0.4
1977   P.T. Kamaltex                Textiles            1.3       0.2        1.5
1979   P.T. Daralon                 Textiles            0.9         -       0.9
1980   P.T. Papan Sejahtera         Capital Market      4.0       1.2       5.2
1980   P.T. Indo American
Industries           Glass Dinnerware  11.1        0.9      12.0
1980   P,T. Semen Andalas           Cement and
Indonesia            Construction
Material           48.0       5.0      53.0
1982   P.T. Saseka Gelora Leasing Capital Market        4.0       0.3       4.3
Total gross commitments                           118.8      18.0     136.8
Less:  sold or repaid and cancelled                78.6       5.7      84.3
Total held by IFC                                  40.2      12.3      52.5
Undisbursed (including participant's portion)   30.82         0.3      31.12



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 29 pages
C. STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
As of September 30, 1982
These notes are arranged by sectors in the following order:
Page No.
Agriculture
Irrigation (514, 1100, 1268, 1434, 1435, 1578,                             6-10
1579, 1645, 1691, 1811, 995, 1958, 2118 and 2119)
Other Agricultural Projects   (400, 1318, 1707/919, 1499,                 10-14
1604, 1751, 1835, 984, 1898 and
2007, 2126)
Agriculture Support Services (1179, 1267, 996, 1840/1014 and 2066)   14-16
Rural Development (946)                                                       16
Agro-Business and Credit (785, 827 and 2011)                                 16-17
Education (869, 1237, 1433, 1486, 1692, 1904, 2101 and 2102)                 17-20
Energy (1365, 1513, 1708, 1872, 1950, 2056, 2079 and 2153)                   20-22
Industrial Development and Finance
Industrial Estates (428)                                                     22
Development Finance Companies (1703)                                      22-23
Population and Nutrition
Population (1472 and 1869)                                                23-24
Nutrition (1373)                                                              24
Technical Assistance (898 and 1197)                                         24-25
Transportation
Fertilizer Distribution (2120)                                                25
Highways (1236, 1696, 2049 and 2083)                                      25-26
Marine Transport (1250)                                                   26-27
Ports (1337)                                                                  27
Tourism (479)                                                                   27
Urban Development (1336,. 1653 and 1972)                                     28-29
Water Supply (1709)                                                             29
/1 These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 29 pages
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
AGRICULTURE
Irrigation
Credit No. 514 Jatiluhur Irrigation Extension: $30 Million Credit of
October 3, 1974; Effective Date:  January 10, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Initial organizational difficulties, extensive changes in the design
of project works and delays in awarding civil works contracts are expected to
substantially delay project completion by four years. All major contracts
for civil works have been awarded, and the last of these is expected to
be completed by mid-1984. The total project cost is currently estimated
to be about 90% over the appraisal estimate, mostly because of delays. Dis-
bursements at the end of June 1982 were about 94% of appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1100   Sixth Irrigation:  $65 Million Loan of April 10, 1975;
Effective Date: June 20, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The project is currently expected to be completed by March 1985,
about four years behind the original completion date. This is mainly due to a
delay of more than one year in the completion of bidding documents, followed
by a delay of about two years due to delayed land acquisition, delayed
payments to contractors and the effects of the 1978 Rupiah devaluation.
Another year's delay has been added lately by the postponement of drainage
works in both Rentang and Cirebon subprojects due to budget constraints.
Disbursements at the end of June 1982 were about 88% of the appraisal
estimate. Because of the continuing delays the Closing Date has been
postponed by two years.
Loan No. 1268   Seventh Irrigation:  $33 Million Loan of June 4, 1976;
Effective Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
The main components of the project are tertiary development on an
area of 100,000 ha served by irrigation systems rehabilitated under previous
projects and the construction of 6,000 ha of a new irrigation system in the
Sadang area of South Sulawesi.  The construction of tertiaries has progressed
well and gained such a momentum that the scope of work was increased to
115,000 ha. About 111,000 ha have been completed and the balance was
expected to-be completed by March 1982. The construction of North Sadang
has suffered a delay of about four years due to design revisions and late
award of contracts. Completion of the project is expected by March 1984.
Disbursements at the end of June 1982 were about 75% of appraisal estimate.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 29 pages
Loan No. 1434   Eighth Irrigation:  $63 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
The main components of the project are rehabilitation of the Madiun
Irrigation System (Stage I) serving an area of about 75,000 ha, including
30,000 ha of tertiary development, a pilot ground water scheme for 2,800 ha in
the Madiun-Solo area and the improvement of flood control, drainage and road
networks on 5,700 ha of coastal land in Ciujung. Only the drainage works and
road improvement in both the Ciujung and Madiun subprojects are expected to be
delayed due to budget constraints and lack of experienced staffing.  GOI has
mobilized additional engineers and foreign consultants for construction
supervision at Ciujung and has tapped additional sources of funds to keep the
Madiun works on schedule. Disbursements at the end of June 1982 were 40% of
the appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1435   Ninth Irrigation:  $35 Million Loan of June 6, 1977; Effective
Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
The project includes (a) rehabilitation of 8,000 ha of irrigation
system, drainage rehabilitation on 19,000 ha of the Sedeku area in Central
Java; (b) new irrigation pumping system on 3,280 ha at Sungai Dareh-Sitiung
(Stage I) in West Sumatra for transmigrants; and (c) feasibility studies of
ten small to medium irrigation projects and of the Sungai Dareh-Sitiung
(Stage II), with detailed designs. Delay in completion of the Sedeku
irrigation drainage rehabilitation by about three years continues, compared
to appraisal estimate. The Sungai Dareh-Sitiung (Stage I) construction has
progressed well, with pumps commissioned and trial runs made. The main and
secondary canals are completed, the tertiary network is 80% completed, but
land development is lagging. Feasibility studies of the ten small to medium
irrigation systems have been completed. The Situing Stage II system studies
and designs are completed, and construction was financed under Ln. 2118-IND
(Irrigation XVI). Disbursements at the end of June 1982 were about 78% of
appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1578   Tenth Irrigation:  $140 Million Loan of June 6, 1978;
Effective Date:  August 16, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984.
The project includes: (a) rehabilitation and itprovements of about
34,700 ha of Kali Progo irrigation system; (b) improvements of about 19,900 ha
of Way Seputih; (c) improvements and expansion of about 63,100 ha of Way
Sekampung irrigation projects; (d) studies and detailed designs of two dams
associated with (b) and (c) above; (e) studies of Dumoga and Gumbasa irriga-
tion projects; and (f) consulting services for the above and also studies of
two dams in the Kali Progo project area and extension of irrigation to Bekri,
West Rumbia, Way Kandis and Way Ketibung in Lampung Province. Due to initial
delays in survey and mapping of the irrigation service areas, delay in decid-
ing canal capacities till completion of the dam studies and staff shortage
during the years 1979 and 1980, the implementation of Way Seputih and Way
Sekampung components are behind schedule by about two years. However, the
field surveys and the dam studies have now been completed and the staffing
situation has improved. The construction tempo and standard of construction
in the Kali Progo area has also improved. The GOI has decided to delay



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 29 pages
construction of the Batutegi Dam to serve the Way Sekamping system since other
dams on Java appear of higher priority. Downstream works will therefore be
restricted until dam construction starts to ensure an adequate rate of return.
The Dumoga irrigation project studies were completed and construction
financed in Irrigation XV (Credit 995-IND). Disbursements at the end of June
1982 were 35% appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1579   Eleventh Irrigation:  $31 Million Loan of June 6, 1978;
Effective Date: August 16, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
The Cipamingkis irrigation subproject, to serve an area of about
7,600 ha is progressing well, the headworks with intake structure were com-
pleted by end 1981. The main and secondary canals to serve 3,820 ha are pro-
gressing on schedule, but there is a setback of nine months in the rest.
A delay of 9-12 months is expected in assigning consultants for tertiary
design, with a consequent delay in tertiary construction. The project is
currently estimated to be completed by mid 1984, a delay of 18 months compared
to appraisal estimate. The hydrological measurement program is expected to be
completed by March 1984, with a delay of about 2 1/2 years. It is expected
that there will be $4 million savings which will be used to finance the
tertiaries for the Jatiluhur Irrigation Extension Project (Credit 514-IND)
which did not cater for the higher intensity of canals now adopted in all
systems. Disbursements at the end of June 1982 were about 53% of appraisal
estimate.
Loan No. 1645   Twelfth Irrigation:  $77 Million Loan of December 29, 1978.
Effective Date: May 10, 1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1984.
The project includes: tertiary development on about 186,000 ha of
the Jatiluhur Irrigation System, W. Java; drainage improvement in the Cisedane
irrigation area including upgrading of roads in W. Java; and studies of
drainage and flood control in Pemali-Comal and Sadang irrigation areas; tidal
and swamp lands development for about 350,000 ha in the Lalang and Mesuji
areas of S. Sumatra, and the Sebangau area in Kalimantan; and detailed
designs for reclamation of about 110,000 ha of swamp land in Karang Agung of
S. Sumatra. The area of tertiary development has been increased to 205,800
ha. All the civil works contracts of Cisedane drainage and roads improvement
are awarded, currently estimated to be completed by March 1985; a delay of
over two years over appraisal estimate. Studies are mostly completed; the
remaining are expected to be finalized by 1982. Disbursements at the end of
June 1982 were about 40% of the appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1691   Lower Cimanuk Basin Flood Control:  $50 Million Loan of
May 7, 1979; Effective Date: October 16, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984.
The main components of the project are flood protection levees,
bank stabilization and river training works on the lower Cimanuk river,
widening of the Rambatan Channel and construction of a hydraulic control



-38 -                      ANNEX II
Page 9 of 29 p
structure at Bangkir, the Cimanuk river estuary study and the flood control
operating and flood forecasting study. Good progress has been made on the
civil works and various studies. Civil works are expected to be completed
by mid-1984. The latest supervision mission recommended that the
implementing agency should consider using the savings for procurement of
additional operation and maintenance equipment such as dredgers, dozers,
draglines, dump trucks and loaders. The equipment will be useful for
emergency repairs of other rivers such as Cisanggarung which causes damage
during the wet season. The latest project cost estimates indicate that $6-8
million loan funds will remain unused by the completion of the project. The
list of equipment to be procured using the savings under the Loan is being
reviewed. Disbursements at the end of June 1982 were about 59% of appraisal
estimate.
Loans No. 1811 Fourteenth Irrigation: $116 Million Loan of April 3, 1980;
Effective Date: July 3, 1980; Closing Date: January 31, 1986
The main components of the project are construction and rehabilita-
tion of drainage and flood protection works on the Serang River to reduce
flooding of some 61,000 ha of farm land, rehabilitation of the Madiun
Irrigation System (Stage II) serving about a 65,000 ha area and tertiary
development serving a 120,000 ha area in the Pemali-Comal and Pekalen Sampean
subprojects. The project contracts for flood mitigation works for the Serang
River have been awarded after one year's delay. Works in the Madiun area
and the tertiary development are progressing well ahead of schedule. Dis-
bursements at the end of June 1982 were about 72% of appraisal estimate.
Credit No. 995 Fifteenth Irrigation: $45 Million Credit of April 3, 1980
Effective Date: July 3, 1980; Closing Date: January 31, 1985
The project includes (a) completion of Kosinggolan Irrigation
System on about 5,000 ha and construction of the new Toraut Irrigation system
for 6,600 ha; catchment'protection and nature reserve on an area of about
100,000 ha; institutional support through consultancy services and training;
and studies and investigations of four irrigation systems. Construction of
the Toraut headworks and the first 2 Km of the main canal which commenced in
January 1981 were greatly delayed but the contractor has now agreed to work
to a revised program to be completed by May/June 1983. Award of two ICB
contracts is behind appraisal schedule by 15-18 months. This subproject is
currently estimated to be completed by June 1985 compared to March 1984 in
the appraisal estimate. GOI has commenced implementing the "Dumoga-Bone
National Park" master plan covering an area of about 270,000 ha.  The Bank
will review progress in late 1982 before finally agreeing with the GOI
proposal to finance US$1.1 million from the credit for the expanded National
Park as against US$0.7 million provided for the Nature Reserve. Four
studies included in the project should be completed by early 1983, present
progress is about 50%. Institutional support program will continue up to
June 1984. Disbursements at the end of June 1982 were about 60% of
appraisal estimate.



- 39 -                     ANNEX II
Page 10 of 29 pages
Loan No. 1958 Swamp Reclamation: $22 Million Loan of March 31, 1981;
Effective Date: July 9, 1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1986
The project assists GOI's effort to reclaim and settle swamps by
implementing a 9,000 ha swamp reclamation and settlement project at Karang
Agung, South Sumatra. In addition to physical works, the project comprises
the preparation of future swamp investments, an ecological impact study, an
investigation of groundwater for drinking, and project monitoring. The major
works contract for construction of canals was awarded end-1981 and consultants
for construction supervision were assigned in March 1982. Consultants for
studies are being recruited. The project completion is likely to be delayed
due to the eight months' delay in the start of construction. Disbursements
at the end of June 1982 were about 75% of appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 2118 Sixteenth Irrigation: $37 Million Loan of April 5,
1982; Effective Date: August 9, 1982; Closing Date:
December 31, 1987.
The project will complete construction of the Sitiung Irrigation
System (Stage II) in Sumatra to serve about 7,600 ha of transmigrant and
local farmer lands; improvement of management systems of the Directorate
General of Water Resources Development (DGWRD); training and support for
water users and their associations; expansion of DG4RD's basic hydrological
data network; and studies for development of the Cisanggarung River Basin
and detailed design of the Jatigede Dam.
Loan No. 2119 Seventeenth Irrigation (East Java Province): $70 Million Loan
of April 5, 1982; Effective Date: Not yet effective; Closing
Date: December 31, 1988.
This is the first irrigation project to be concentrated in a
single province and implemented through a provincial irrigation service. It
will rehabilitate existing surface irrigation systems serving about 50,000
ha; develop groundwater irrigation systems to serve about 13,000 ha; upgrade
operation and maintenance for about 140,000 ha of irrigation systems already
rehabilitated; and strengthen the East Java Provincial Irrigation Service.
Other Agricultural Projects
Credit No. 400 Smallholder and Private Estate Tea: $7.8 Million Credit
of June 22, 1973; Effective Date: November 30, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project provides for credit through Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI)
to improve productivity on 10,000 ha smallholder tea and 3,200 ha private
estates (PTPs) tea, rehabilitation of five private estate tea factories,
construction of two new factories for smallholder leaf; training of extension
staff and tea growers, studies for marketing, diversification and BRI



- 40 -                 ANNEX II
Page 11 of 29 pages
management. The project is making a substantial contribution to smallholder
tea industry with 8,500 participants against the appraisal estimate of
7,000. Of the five private tea estates participating, two are excellent,
two are fair and one is poor. Progress on construction of the PTP XII
factory, to process smallholder and estate tea, is satisfactory. Extension
and training has helped about 16,000 smallholders. The project still
suffers from weak management, loan collection is deteriorating and many
scattered borrowers make loan servicing difficult.  Disbursement at the end
of June 1982 were about 70% of appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1318   Transmigration and Rural Development:  $30 Million
Loan of July 21, 1976; Effective Date: March 30, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
After a slow start which resulted in extension of the Closing Date
to December 31, 1982, the project has shown continuous progress since
mid-1980 and is expected to be completely disbursed by end-1982. In
Baturaja, 4,400 families (98% of target) have been settled and 1,300 shallow
wells (91% of revised target) have been established. The pasture develop-
ment program is well established in Baturaja and Way Abung and 8,800 cattle
(93% of target) have been distributed in both sites. Rubber development is
almost completed with only 400 ha (6% of target) to be planted in 1982.
Disbursements at the end of June 1982 were about 88% of appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1707   Transmigration II:  $90 Million Loan and $67 Million Credit of
(Cr. No. 919)   June 1, 1979; Effective Date:  October 4, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
An estimated 3,000 families will be settled by mid-1983.
Sufficient land has been mapped in Jambi province for 20,000 families
but half of these sites have been excluded from the project because they lie
in production forests.   No other areas in Jambi province are likely to be
suitable for large scale settlement and land has been identified in South
Sumatra for 10,000 families. Because of the importance of land identifica-
tion, about $50 million has been allocated from the Transmigration II
project for site selection and evaluation for the GOI program. Delays in
settlement and rehabilitation components have led to slow disbursement and
cost overruns and much remains to be done to ensure sustainable food crop
production. Disbursements at the end of June 1982 were about 1.7% of
appraisal estimate. Agencies are better informed about the project than
they were previously and are working conscientiously. To circumvent
problems of land shortage and increasing implementation delays: (a)
settlement targets should be reduced to 20,000 families, (b) about
one-fourth of project funds should be allocated to mapping and consultancy
services; and (c) current disbursement rates should be maintained. To speed
implementation, the size of land clearing contracts should be reduced and
contracts should be tendered for each site as it is prepared.
Recommendations have also been made which



- 41 -                 ANNEX II
Page 12 of 29 pages
would permit action on Singkut rehabilitation and simplify procurement. To
improve incomes, actions should be taken to reinforce agricultural services
and introduce tree crops into existing and new communities. To accomplish
these objectives appropriate amendments to the loan documents have been agreed
with GOI.
Loan No. 1499   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders I:  $65 Million Loan
of November 18, 1977; Effective Date: January 12, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The nucleus estates have planted about 60% of the 11,500 ha of
rubber to be established for smallholders and will complete about 72% by the
end of the current planting season; have constructed about 3,400 settler
houses and settled about 1,035 families. In their own estates, the nucleus
estates have rehabilitated 18,400 ha of rubber, planted 7,200 ha of rubber,
3,700 ha of coconuts, and 5,600 ha of oil palm, exceeding project targets
for rubber planting and rehabilitation. Three rubber factories and one palm
oil mill have been constructed. However, as there were start-up delays in
some smallholder planting, and some civil works construction will not be
completed on schedule, the Closing Date has been extended to June 30, 1984.
Disbursements at the end of June 1982 were about 58% of appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1604   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders II:  $65 Million Loan of
July 12, 1978; Effective Date:  September 13, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Progress with rubber and infrastructure development has slowed
but construction of settler houses, preparation of food crop areas and the
enrollment of settlers are on target. Action has been taken to speed up the
lagging operations and the project is expected to be mostly completed by
June 1985, except for the rubber replanting component in Jambi Province
where farmer response has been poor. Particular efforts are being made to
encourage farmer participation but the 4,500 ha replanting target is
unlikely to be achieved by that date. The project Closing Date will
probably have to be extended to June 30, 1985. Disbursements at the end of
June 1982 were about 30% of appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1751   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders III:  $99 Million Loan of
August 13, 1979; Effective Date: November 12, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
All implementing agencies have made good progress. Although some
components are slightly behind schedule, the overall project is on or slightly
ahead of schedule. About 7,500 ha of rubber have been planted, half of which
is for smallholders. About 420 settler houses are occupied and garden lots
established. In 1982, one of the estates, PTP I, was upgraded to take over
responsibility for completing the Alue Iemerah smallholder component under
NES I (1499-IND). Disbursements at the end of June 1982 were about 55% of
appraisal estimate.



-42 -                  ANNEX II
Page 13 of 29 pag.¢s
Loan No. 1835   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders IV:  $42 Million
Loan of May 16, 1980: Effective Date: August 11, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
Smallholder oil palm planting is on schedule and of excellent
quality.  Village layout, settler house construction, and road development
are a little behind schedule due to problems of land availability. However,
these problems are being actively addressed by the implementing estate
(PTP X) and the Project Coordinating Committee, and project completion is
likely by target date. Disbursements at the end of June 1982 were about 66%
of appraisal estimate.
Credit No. 984 Smallholder Rubber Development: $45 Million Credit
of April 3, 1980; Effective Date: May 23, 1980;
Closing Date: March 31, 1986
The project continues to progress satisfactorily, by early 1982 over
9,700 ha rubber or 85% of plan was planted. Delays in road construction are
affecting project implementation and supervision, and measures to speed up
progress are under review. Training of field staff and smallholders will be
kept strictly practical; visual aids are being prepared. Creation of a
trainer/coordinator position at provincial level but working at the Project
Management Unit level is being considered. The creation of an internal audit
unit and timely recruitment of staff to deal with financial matters is
urgently required. Four studies, including a feasibility study, for an
eventual second project are nearing completion and after review by GOI will
be submitted to the Bank for review and comment. There are no major problems
with this project, apart from the requirement to strengthen management and
the seriously delayed procurement of vehicles. Disbursements at the end of
June 1982 were about 101% of appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1898   Smallholder Coconut Development:  $46 Million Loan of August
25, 1980; Effective Date: November 25, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986
Although the planting programs of tall and hybrid coconuts under
the project seem reasonably on target, the results being achieved are gener-
ally not satisfactory. Problems relate to lack of control of project manage-
ment in Head Office, Provincial Offices (PO) and Coconut Working Centers
(CWC) regarding the selection of suitable planting areas and participating
smallholders, technical control and supervision of planting and maintenance
standards, timely supply of seednuts and of essential inputs, and slow
release of project funds, and thus a slow rate of withdrawal application
and disbursements. To improve control of field operations some restructur-
ing of the project in its scope and management structure is needed, by
reducing the project area and reorganizing the PO/CWC management system.
GOI agrees in principle with this recommendation and proposes to take
necessary action. Disbursements at the end of June 1982 were about 19% of
appraisal estimate.



- 43 -                 ANNEX II
Page 14 of 29 pages
Loan No. 2007   Nucleus Estate and Smallholder V:  $161 Million Loan of
June 26, 1981; Effective Date: October 21, 1981;
Closing date: June 30, 1988
The project would develop about 53,000 ha of tree crops (rubber, oil
palm, coconuts), food crops and house gardens in West Java, West Kalimantan
and Bengkulu provinces with public sector estates as implementing agents. The
project has made a good start including the nurseries establishment, initial
planting for the smallholders in West Java, construction of some roads,
estates offices and smallholders' houses. Disbursements at the end of June
1982 were about 115% of appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 2126   Nucleus Estate and Smallholder VI:  $68.1 Million Loan of
April 23, 1982; Effective Date: July 23, 1982;
Closing Date: June 30, 1988
This loan was declared effective on July 23, 1982. The project
will assist the GOI's nucleus estates and smallholders development program
by establishing 28,200 ha of tree crops (rubber and coconuts), food crops and
house gardens in West Java, Bengkulu and Maluku provinces with public sector
estates as implementing agents.
Agriculture Support Services
Loan No. 1179   Agricultural Research and Extension I:  $21.5 Million
Loan of December 19, 1975; Effective Date: February 23,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project will close on December 31, 1982. Civil works in Sungai
Putih and Sembawa (rubber) and Sukamandi (rice and palawija) were behind
schedule and are now almost complete. Most of of the field and workshop
equipment, furniture and vehicles have been received and contracts for
laboratory equipment and chemicals for Margahayu (highland vegetables) and for
Sungai Putih and Sembawa have been awarded. Ten agricultural information
centers (AICs) under the Agency for Agricultural Education, Training and
Extension have been constructed, furnished and equipped. Two additional
centers at Aceh and Ambon are under construction and will have to be financed
from another project after closing of this project.  Extension materials are
being produced and distributed from the completed AICs. Loan proceeds are
expected to be almost fully disbursed at the closing of the project.
Loan No. 1267   National Food Crops Extension; $22 Million Loan of
June 4, 1976; Effective Date: September 21, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The targetted programs for construction, equipment procurement and
training have been achieved. Some additional activities in these fields
which are included in the follow-up project, the Second National Agricultural
Extension Project (Cr. 996-IND) are currently being undertaken. These are
expected to be completed within the revised closing date for the Loan of
December 31, 1982. Overall the project continues to make satisfactory
progress.



ANNEX II
Page 15 of 29 pages
Credit No. 996 Second National Agricultural Extension: $42 Million
Credit of April 3, 1980; Effective Date: July 3, 1980;
Closing Date: March 31, 1986
Substantial progess has been made with the construction and reha-
bilitation program for the Rural Extension Centers and the Training and
Visits System is progressively gaining more strength. Contact farmers and
their associated farmers groups are responding to the two-weekly meetings
with the field extension workers. Staff shortages in the field extension
workers and extension subject matter specialists cadres and shortages of
motor cycles for field staff are continuing problems; also, the strengthen-
ing of training in extension packages in nonrice crops needs early actions.
The project unit is aware of these deficiencies and steps are expected to be
taken to address the problems; although the staff shortfall may continue
into the next fiscal year. A unified extension system embracing other
subsectors has not yet begun to function although keen interest in this
approach is evident in some Provinces and could form the basis for
developing a workable system. Overall, the project is making satisfactory
progress.
Loan No. 1840   National Agricultural Research:  $35 Million Loan and $30
(Cr. No. 1014) Million Credit of May 16, 1980; Effective Date: July 16,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1990
The project is the second phase in the strengthening of the overall
institutional framework of the Agency for Agricultural Research and Develop-
ment (AARD)
for agricultural research in fruits, lowland vegetables, livestock,
fisheries, forestry and estate crops other than rubber and industrial crops,
Directors for the Central Research Institutes and for Research Institutes
and Centers already approved by the Minister of Agriculture have been
appointed. Civil works for the six locations planned for 1980/81 are going
ahead and contracts for most of the civil works planned for 1981/82 have been
awarded. More than fifty candidates for long-term local fellowships have been
selected. A contract for consultancy services has been executed between AARD
and the International Agricultural Development service.
Loan No. 2066   Second Seeds : $15 Million Loan of January 15, 1982;
Effective Date:  March 11, 1982; Closing Date:  June 30,
1989
This project provides for: establishment of 18 medium Seed
Processing Centers (SPCs) for the National Seed Corporation, P. T. Pertani
and Cooperatives; six small SPCs for Cooperatives; additional equipment and
facilities for five Food Crops Research Institutes (FCRIs), Provincial Seed
Farms and Seed Control and Certification Services; establishment of a
diploma course on seed technology at the Bogor Agricultural Institute; and
in-service training, technical assistance and studies for strengthening the
institutions operating in the seed subsector. Locations for the five medium
SPCs to be constructed in the first year have been decided on and land



- 45 -                 ANNEX II
Page 16 of 29 pages
acquisition is in progress. Tender documents for the SPCs are being
finalized for issue of tender shortly. Long-term consultants are also
expected to be appointed shortly. The first supervision mission has been
recently fielded.
Rural Development
Credit No. 946 Yogyakarta Rural Development: $12 Million Credit of
August 13, 1979; Effective Date: December 5, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1987
The improving trend in overall project performance discerned
during the October 1981 supervision has continued. Activity targets are now
being substantially met with the exception of the Small Scale Industries (SSI)
and Village Health Components. Firm recommendations have been given to
improve performance of these two components which should yield early,
positive results. If, however, results are not forthcoming, firm steps should
be taken either to terminate them or simplify their objectives and scope.
Project performance rating has been upgraded to 2.2.
AGRO-BUSINESS AND CREDIT
Credit No. 785 Small Enterprise Development: $40 Million Credit
of April 7, 1978; Effective Date: August 17, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
This project provides technical assistance to strengthen GOI's small
credit programs, KIK/KMKP, and credit assistance to small-scale enterprises
(SSEs) in West Sumatra and East and Central Java which account for about a
third of countrywide KIK/KMKP loan approvals. Satisfactory experience with
this first Bank-assisted pilot project has led to a nationwide SSE develop-
ment project which is supported by the Second Small Enterprise Development
Project (Loan 2011-IND). The credit component is fully disbursed.
Credit No. 827 Rural Credit: $30 Million Credit of June 23, 1978;
Effective Date: November 3, 1978; Closing Date: March 31,
1985
This project provides long-term credit to about 40,000 smallholders,
primarily for fisheries, perennial crops and livestock, and technical assis-
tance to Bank Rakyat Indonesia for program development, training in term
lending, credit procedures and accounting and management information
systems. Due primarily to delays in obtaining consultancy services, the
project is about nine months behind schedule. Following extension of the
project to cover additional provinces and commodities, it is rapidly
catching up.



46 -                     ANNEX II
Page 17 of 29 pages
Loan No. 2011   Second Small Enterprise Development:  $106 Million Loan of
June 26, 1981; Effective Date: October 16, 1981; Closing
Date: December 31,1984
From the three regions covered under SEDP I the project has expanded
to cover all 27 regions in Indonesia where the Small Investment (KIK)/Small
Permanent Working Capital Credit (KMKP) program is being implemented. Small
credit lending financed under the project continues to expand rapidly. Annual
loan approvals of over $1 billion in 1981 reached about 12-14% of known
small-scale enterprises throughout the country. In addition to technical
assistance designed to strengthen banks' small credit operations, the project
also provides for industrial extension services under the Directorate General
of Small-Scale Industries (Ministry of Industry). The loan became effective
on October 16, 1981 and disbursements are on schedule.
EDUCATION
Credit No. 869 Polytechnic: $49 Million Credit of December 29, 1978;
Effective Date:  May 11, 1979; Closing Date:  June 30, 1985
The project objectives are to establish a new system for training
engineering technicians, improve the quality of accountancy training and
practices, and assist in strengthening education planning and management. The
project would establish a Technician Education Development Center (TEDC), six
polytechnics and four accountancy development centers and include technical
assistance and associated studies. The project is making good progress and
implementation is on schedule without a cost overrun. The TEDC building has
been completed and construction of the six polytechnics is near completion.
Equipment contracts for the TEDC and the six polytechnics have been awarded.
The first batch of students was enrolled in the six polytechnics in 1982.
The expert services and fellowship program are progressing satisfactorily.
The accountancy component after initial delays, is now making good progress.
Three study contracts have been awarded and two are being awarded.
Disbursements are on schedule.
Loan No. 1237   Fourth Education:  $37 Million Loan of April 15, 1976;
Effective Date: June 17, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The loan is helping to finance physical facilities and related
technical assistance for: (a) two faculties of technology at existing
teacher training colleges and four new centralized workshops for technical
training for the Ministry of Education and Culture (MEC); (b) 17 new
vocational training centers, an existing instructor training center and
25 mobile training units for the Ministry of Manpower (MOM); and (c) new
premises for the National Institute of Administration (LAN), the country's
principal civil service training institution.  The completed MEC subproject
is problem-free and facilities are operating satisfactorily. The MOM
subproject has made some progress but is about two and a half years behind



47 -                     ANNEX II
Page 18 of 29 pages
schedule with a 16% cost overrun. Problems faced include poor equipment
procurement management, shortage of funds, low utilization of completed
facilities, poor quality of training (less than 50% of trainees placed in
employment), and partial compliance on covenants.  The LAN component has
made no progress for three years and is now about three and a half years
behind schedule, mainly due to the default of the civil works contractor for
price escalation disputes with GOI.  Af ter retendering, a new contract has
been approved recently and construction of the remaining- unfinished portion
of the building is expected to be completed by mid-1984. A second extension
of the Closing Date to June 30, 1984 has been approved. Disbursements at
the end of June 1982 were about 81% of appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1433   Teacher Training:  $19 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project is now progressing satisfactorily. Approximately 88%
of the civil works program has been completed.  Phase I is complete and 90%
of the construction in Phase II is finished. Overall, 50% of furniture and
equipment has been procured and delivered. The first cycle of teacher
training has been completed and the second cycle is in process with all
training expected to be concluded by October 1982. Disbursements at the end
of June 1982 were about 52% of appraisal estimate due principally to lags
in disbursement for civil works and delays in procurement of books,
equipment, and furniture.  It is expected that disbursements will accelerate
during the coming months. Despite delays and the current low disbursement
level, it is expected that the project will be completed on time.
Loan No. 1486   Non-Formal Education:  $15 Million Loan of
September 142 1977; Effective Date: November 4, 1977;
Closing Date:  June 30, 1983
The project aims at strengthening the Department of Education's
nonformal education programs in seven provinces.  Financing would cover:
civil works to renovate two existing and establish four new provincial
centers, instructional equipment and vehicles, in-service training, materials
development, a basic learning fund, and related technical assistance.
Construction of the six Balai PENMAS (directorates for out-of-school
education) centers, has been completed. All furniture and equipment are
already on site. About 90% of the staff training program is meeting
appraisal targets and production and distribution of pretested learning
materials is accelerating. The technical assistance program is on schedule;
local staff have replaced foreign consultants.  Disbursements at the end of
June 1982 were about 57% of appraisal estimate and are expected to contirne
to accelerate in the next few months.



ANNEX II
- 48 -                  Page 19 of 29 pages
Loan No. 1692   Second Agricultural Training:  $42 Million Loan of May 7,
1979; Effective Date: July 31, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985
The project constitutes the second phase of GOI's long-term strategy
to improve the quality and supply of middle level agricultural manpower. Good
progress continues to be made. Disbursements at the end of June 1982 were
540% of the appraisal estimate. The FAO technical assistance team is now
in place and fellowship utilization remains up to schedule. Implementation
of a tracer study of agricultural secondary school graduates was planned to
begin in June/July 1982.
Loan No. 1904   University Development:  $45 Million Loan of
November 13, 1980; Effective Date: January 22, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
The project is the first phase of a long-term university development
program. Its main objectives are to increase the output of high level man-
power and improve the quality of university education in the fields of
engineering, science, agriculture, and economics (including business admin-
istration and accountancy), as well as strengthen the management of the
overall university system. The additional land required for the University
of Gadjah Mada and the new site for the University of Andalas have been
acquired. The campus master plan for the University of Indonesia has been
completed, and the Universities of Gadjah Mada and Andalas are expected to
be completed by early 1983. The initiation of technical assistance
provisions are about eighteen months behind schedule. A contract is being
negotiated with an external agency to administer the program of fellowships
and visiting professors. Two contracts were signed with the British Council
for the training of university administrators and textbook editors. Work is
in progress to establish a Management Information System and a Monitoring
Evaluation System in the Directorate General of Higher Education and in each
project university. There have been no indications to suggest that project
costs will be other than estimated at appraisal. Disbursements at the end
of June 1982 were about 27% of appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 2101   Second Teacher Training:  $80 Million Loan of April 5,
1982; Effective Date: May 24, 1982; Closing Date:
June 30, 1988
The project seeks to improve the skills, competence and
effectiveness of the education staff involved in primary and secondary
education and educational administration.
Loan No. 2102   Second Textbook:  $25 Million Loan of April 5,
1982; Effective Date: June 14, 1982; Closing Date:
June 30, 1987
The project will support the establishment of the Integrated Text-
book Project, a permanent organization to plan and manage textbook development



ANNEX II
- 49 -                  Page 20 of 29 pages
activities; a Center for Curriculum Development, which would develop improved
curricula for primary and secondary schools, and an improved national
distribution system for all textbooks for primary and secondary schools.
ENERGY
Loan No. 1365   Sixth Power:  $116 Million Loan of February 4, 1977;
Effective Date:  June 6, 1977; Closing Date:  June 30, 1983
Construction work on the project has reached its final stage.  The
200 MW Unit No. 4 was synchronized on November 26, 1981 and has been in com-
mercial operation since March 1982. Unit NQ. 5 went into commercial operation
in August 1982. The associated studies have been completed.
Loan No. 1513   Seventh Power:  $109 Million Loan of February 3, 1978
($15 million cancelled November 30, 1980); Effective Date:
June 30, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
All contracts were awarded at highly competitive costs with a sub-
stantial reduction in foreign costs and, therefore, $15 million of the origi-
nal loan of $109 million has been cancelled. The Bank also agreed to the
inclusion of the following additional studies in the scope of the project:
(a) Sunda Strait submarine cable feasibility; (b) optimization of location of
future thermal plants: (c) power sector management information system design.
Construction work at the site has been delayed by about 21 months. Commercial
operation of the 200 MW generating unit is expected early in 1984. Construc-
tion of the associated transmission lines is progressing satisfactorily. The
feasibility study of the East Java coal-fired thermal power station site has
progressed to the point of selection of a suitable site. Contracts for the
studies (a), (b) and (c) mentioned above have been signed, and work is
progressing satisfactorily. Disbursements at the end of June, 1982 were about
60% of appraisal estimate.,
Loan No. 1708   Eighth Power:  $175 Million Loan of June 1, 1979; Effective
Date:  November 5, 1979; Closing Date:  December 31, 1984
The project encountered a number of problems and slipped nearly
eleven months behind schedule by September 1981. However, progress since then
has improved and the estimated delay has not increased. The main causes of
the delay of one year were: (a) late finalization of contracts, and (b) tardy
performance of the local contractor for piling work. Most contract awards
have now been made and the commissioning date for Unit No. 1 at Suralaya is
expected to be October 1984. Disbursements, though much lower than the
appraisal estimates, are in line with the revised projections prepared in July
1981. The project cost is expected to remain within the appraisal estimate.



50 -                    ANNEX II
Page 2      M
Loan No. 1872   Ninth Power:  $253 Million Loan of June 13, 1980; Effective
Date: October 24, 1980; Closing Date: September 30, 1985
This project is experiencing delays. However, the commissioning
date of the second unit of Suralaya is now expected to be June 1985, i.e 5
months behind schedule. The EHV project is delayed by almost one year due to
delay in finalizing contract awards. All major contracts, are expected to be
finalized. Progress of land acquisition for the substation and the
transmission lines is satisfactory.  Disbursement at the end of June were
about 24% of appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1950   Tenth Power:  $250 Million Loan of March 6, 1981;
Effective Date: April 23, 1981; Closing Date: June 30,
1987
All major contracts for construction and installation of generating
equi'pment required for the Saguling hydroelectric project have been placed
with an estimated saving in total project costs of about $99 million. Con-
struction work started at the main dam site in August 1981, and encountered
problems in regard to timely completion of diversion tunnels. River diver-
sion planned for end-May 1982 was not achieved. However, steps have been
taken to divert the river in December 1982 and so modify the later
construction program as to ensure that original dam construction targets are
met. Other project subcomponents are progressing with 3-6 months delays,
some of which are expected to be recovered. No cost overruns are expected.
Disbursements at the end of June 1982 were about 42% of appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 2056   Eleventh Power:  $170  Million Loan of
November 16, 1981; Effective Date: April 15, 1982;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986
Implementation of the project is proceeding on schedule. Contracts
worth about $50 million have already been evaluated and approved by the Bank.
Contracts valued at $100 million have been evaluated by PLN and are presently
under review by GOI. PLN is planning to issue, in December 1982, another
invitation to bid for the balance of the distribution equipment estimated
at $20 million.                                                                               *
Loan No. 2079   Bukit Asam Coal Mining Development and Transportation:
$185 Million Loan of January 22, 1982; Effective Date:
May 25, 1982; Closing Date: September 30, 1987
Project implementation has commenced. Thus far no delays have
occurred which would affect the project completion date. The consultants are
now fully mobilized. Soil investigation and geological work is ongoing at
the mine site. The bids for the main mining equipment have been received.
The turnkey contract for the Tarahan terminal were signed and procurement of
the ship is in progress. During the initial startup moderate problems have
been noted in respect to project management and concerns have arisen with



ANNEX II
- 51 -                     Page 22 of 29 pages
respect to the procedure for procurement of packages not financed by the
Bank. These matters received close attention from the first supervision
mission and they will remain a focus of subsequent supervision missions.
Loan No. 2153   Coal Exploration Engineering:  $25 Million Loan of June 14,
1982; Effective Date: Not Yet Effective; Closing Date:
June 30, 1987
The project will evaluate coal reserves and assess the viability
of specific coal deposits in South Sumatra and other promising areas in
Indonesia. The project will be aimed at providing GOI and its agencies with
a coal reserve inventory of its major coal bearing areas and feasibility/
prefeasibility studies of attractive deposits, thus enabling it to establish
investment priorities and define policies for its short, medium and
long-term strategy for coal production and coal use.
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AND FINANCE
Industrial Estates
Credit No. 428 Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate: $16.5 Million Credit of
September 14, 1973; Effective Date: November 13, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The Credit was for the development of an industrial estate at the
eastern border of Jakarta. Land acquisition difficulties have persisted
since project inception and have eventually resulted in a substantial project
delay. Consequently, disbursement of the Credit has been slow, and the
Closing Date of the Credit has been extended to December 31, 1982 to enable
the remaining funds to be used for the development of an export processing
zone and related studies. As of September 15, 1982, a total of $8.9 million
has been disbursed. Full disbursement of the Credit is expected by the new
closing date.
Development Finance Companies
Loan No. 1703   Fourth BAPINDO:  $50 Million Loan of June 1, 1979;
Effective Date: September 25, 1979; Closing Date:
September 30, 1983
BAPINDO continues to make significant progress in both operations
and institutional developments: its operations in terms of new loan and
equity investment approvals more than doubled compared to 1979; its financial
position and performance recorded a marked improvement; and the portfolio
quality showed signs of reduced loan arrears in relation to the portfolio.
Moreover, BAPINDO continued to make progress in implementing the agreed
Action Program of 1977 and other programs for further strengthening its



- 52 -                     ANNEX II
Page 23 of 29 pages
organization and increasing its project promotion activities as agreed during
the last loan negotiations in April 1979. BAPINDO put into effect on April 1,
1981 a General Improvement Program involving a number of organizational
reforms and staff training and deployment. This was done in order to enable
BAPINDO to play a larger role in promoting the country's industrial develop-
ment as well as increasing its operational capabilities. Commitments and
disbursements under the loan, which were slow at the beginning have
accelerated during the past year and the loan may be disbursed on schedule.
POPULATION AND NUTRITION
Population
Loan No. 1472 Second Population: $24.5 Million Loan of July 6, 1977;
Effective Date: August 4, 1977; Closing Date: April 30,
1983
All civil works are completed and the buildings are occupied and
operational. The mobile service units provided under the project are making a
significant contribution to the recruitment of contraceptive acceptors.
Training and population education are scheduled to be completed by the end
of 1982. The research components -- the contraceptive raw materials study
and the community incentive scheme -- will not be completed before the loan
closing date and an extension is likely to be requested by the Government.
A loan saving of $7.0 million has been reallocated for the purchase of
equipment in support of project activities and procurement is expected to be
completed by December 1982. A further savings of $3.3 million is antici-
pated and the Government intends to request Bank approval for reallocation.
Only about $11.2 million, or 48%, has been disbursed out of the loan. A
sizeable proportion of the balance will be disbursed by the Closing Date,
but not the full loan amount.
Loan No. 1869 Third Population: $35 Million Loan of June 13, 1980;
Effective Date: September 10, 1980; Closing Date:
March 31, 1985
Progress on the health components of this project, particularly
training, has been very good. Training is ahead of the appraisal schedule
and the construction of health center annexes is underway. Population
components have, however, made less than satisfactory progress. While the
procurement of vehicles and audio-visual equipment for mobile information
units is in process, the implementation of civil works has been delayed
considerably. As a result of recent GOI's efforts, this component is
beginning to make some progress. A sizeable number of contracts are
expected to be awarded by December 1982 and construction should start in
early 1983. Population education has also been delayed pending decisions on
the recommendations of an evaluation which was completed in July; a report
on this was submitted to the Government in August. A detailed program for



- 53 -                   ANNEX II
Page 24 of 29 pages
training teachers was also required before funds could be released. A
recent Bank mission has reveiwed these issues with the concerned agencies
and it is expected that implementation will start soon. Because of delays
in physical implementation, disbursement is lagging behind appraisal
estimates.
Nutrition
Loan No. 1373   Nutrition Development:  $13 Million Loan of March 14,
1977; Effective Date:  March 31, 1977; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
The pace of project implementation has increased considerably,
with the construction of the laboratory at the Nutrition Academy now completed
and the construction of the Nutrition Training Center currently underway
and is expected to be completed by end of 1982. Contracts for unprocured
equipment have been awarded and deiivery is expected to be completed in early
1983. More than 80% of project fellowships and over 60% of consultancy months
have either been utilized or committed. The project was evaluated by an
independent team in July/August, the findings of which are quite positive.
Bank staff have reviewed the findings with Government and made pertinent
observations. Physical progress during the past twelve months has been faster
than ever before. This rapid progress is reflected in a sharp increase in the
level of cumulative disbursement from $4.3 million as of August 31, 1981 to
$8.3 million by August 31, 1982. A further saving of $800,000 has been
reallocated from the category vehicles and equipment to consultants services,
fellowships and salaries of local experts for the staff of the Project
Director. The project is expected to be completed by December 1982 and no
further extension in closing date date will be required.
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Credit No. 898 Fifth Technical Assistance: $10 Million Credit of May 7,
1979; Effective Date: September 5, 1979; Closing Date:
March 31, 1984
Progress under this project is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1197   National Resource Survey and Mapping:  $13 Million Loan
of February 5, 1976; Effective Date: April 2, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The National Coordinating Agency for Surveys and Mapping
(BAKOSURTANAL) complex at Cibinong is completed, and most of the cartographic
photographic processing, including color photo processing equipment and
printing equipment required to produce maps, are installed. Computer
equipment for resource analysis including a topographic data bank and flatbed



- 54 -                   ANNEX II
Page 25 of 29 pages
plotter has been installed. Various resource evaluation activities have been
undertaken using these facilities. Recruitment and training of new staff,
particularly at junior and middle level has recently been accelerated. The
new photography operation financed under the parallel Canadian Project was
delayed as a result of which the Bank agreed to extend the Closing Date
until December 31, 1983. The photography operation started in July
1981 and is expected to be completed by the new Closing Date.
TRANSPORTATION
Fertilizer Distribution
Loan No. 2120 National Fertilizer Distribution: $66 Million Loan of April 5,
1982; Effective Date: September 27, 1982; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986
This project will increase agricultural production in Indonesia by
substantially expanding the capacity to distribute fertilizer to farmers.
Funds are also provided for preparation of future maritime transport projects,
including master plans and detailed engineering for several ports.
Highways
Loan No. 1236   Fourth Highway:  $130 Million Loan of April 15, 1976;
Effective Date: August 13, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The project although now substantially completed has been under
implementation for nearly six years. Because of slow execution, the Closing
Date was postponed by two years to December 31, 1982. The only component
still ongoing is the road betterment program and the related consultancies for
works supervision. Other consultancies have been completed satisfactorily,
sometimes with substantial delays. Four road sections have been transferred
from the Fifth to the Fourth Highway Project. Bank participation in
expenditures to be incurred in 1982 on these contracts would fully utilize the
surplus.
Loan No. 1696   Fifth Highway:  $130 Million Loan of June 1, 1979 ($6.8 Mil-
lion cancelled June 30, 1981); Effective Date: August 28,
1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Project implementation, which started nearly three years ago, is
substantially behind schedule. The project is about 25% completed compared
to 70% scheduled. The causes for delay are: (a) the ambitious project
objectives, which translate into program-type components and numerous
consultancies; (b) overcentralization of the Directorate General of Highways
(DGH); (c) a shift of senior staff within DGH; and (d) new development
guidelines of the GOI under Repelita III emphasizing the spread of investments



ANNEX II
-55 -                   Page 26 of 29 pages
over a larger number of projects with reduced standards.   However, work is
now underway on nearly all project components, and there is still a reasonable
chance of completing the project with a total delay of only one year. The
Provincial Departments of Public Works programs of support works were just
started in January 1982 with mobilization of consultants and after road
maintenance equipment had been ordered. $6.8 million of the loan has been
cancelled due to misprocurement of road maintenance equipment.
Loan No. 2049   Jakarta-Cikampek Highway: $85 million Loan of October 9, 1981;
Effective Date: February 9, 1982; Closing Date:
December 31, 1987
The project will increase road capacity between Jakarta and
Cikampek (about 70 km to the east) by construction of a new toll road and by
improvements to the existing highway. Consultants have been selected for
construction supervision, and contract negotiations have been concluded.
Bid opening for the four sections of road works took place in late May 1982,
somewhat behind schedule. The bid evaluation report is being reviewed by
the Government. Land acquisition has been completed up to and including
negotiations with property owners, and payment of compensation is underway.
Negotiations are about to begin with consultants to provide technical assist-
ance to the Indonesia toll road corporation, P. T. Jasa Marga.
Loan No. 2083 Rural Roads Development: $100 Million Loan of January 22,
1982; Effective Date: August 11, 1982. Closing Date:
December 31, 1986
The project will improve rural road infrastructure in selected
provinces by strengthening the capacity of the district public works agencies
and implementing an expanded program of rural roads works; and supporting
a rural road development program for a three-year period in five Indonesian
provinces. The project also contains components for training and technical
assistance. Implementation of the various project components is still at an
early stage. Bids were received in March 1982 for road construction and
maintenance equipment and bid evaluation has been completed for about half of
the items. Consultants are now being mobilized to provide technical
assistance to the district public works agencies and to assist the Directorate
General of Highways in preparing further rural roads programs.
Marine Transport
Loan No. 1250   Second Shipping:  $54 Million Loan of May 20, 1976;
Effective Date: October 8, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The project is part of the first phase of the Government's Inter-
Island Fleet Development Program and is designed to modernize, expand and
improve the efficiency of the inter-island fleet. All funds for ship
procurement ($48.0 million) have been disbursed and the balance of



-56-                  ANNEX II
Page 27 of 29 pages
funds for technical assistance ($6.0 million) have been disbursed or allo-
cated. It is expected that all funds will be disbursed by loan closing date.
All of the operations under the loan appear to have been carried out satis-
factorily.
Ports
Loan No. 1337   Tanjung Priok Port:  $32 Million Loan of
November 4, 1976; Effective Date: March 3, 1977;
Closing Date:   June 30, 1983
The Government-financed works in Basin III, delayed due to the
impact of the 1978 Rupiah devaluation, the Basin III civil works financed by
the Bank loan, also delayed due to the devaluation, and civil works financed
by the Bank loan in the Regional Harbor, are completed. Several Bank-financed
studies which are proposed or have been completed, will enable the GOI to
identify components of a further ports project suitable for Bank financing
probably in FY84. Overall estimated project costs remain approximately at
appraisal levels despite an increase in civil works costs.
TOURISM
Credit No. 479 Bali Tourism: $16 Million Credit of June 14, 1974;
Effective Date: December 4, 1974; Closing Date: December 31,
1983
All works on the infrastructures and the amenity core at Nusa Dua
were completed in June 1982. The access road to Nusa Dua from the airport
and the Denpasar bypass road were completed and opened for traffic in
December 1980. The hotel training school was completed in July 1979 and has
been in operation since then. The preparation of possible participation by
the Bali Tourism Development Corporation in hotel investment utilizing the
uncommitted portion of the credit is expected to be finalized by the end of
September 1982. The market for tourism to Bali has been good and in-
ternational standard hotels in Bali have been achieving high occupancies. The
construction of a first hotel (450 rooms) by Garuda at Nusa Dua is progressing
well for completion in March 1983. The construction of a second hotel (250
rooms) by Anchol Group at Nusa Dua has just started.  Disbursements at the end
of June 1982 were about 81% of appraisal estimate.



ANNEX II
- 5  -                   Page 28 of 29 pages
URBAN DEVELOPMENT
Loan No. 1336   Second Urban Development:  $52.5 Million Loan of
November 4, 1976; Effective Date: March 28, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project aims at providing basic infrastructural facilities
including footpaths, drainage, water supply and human waste disposal to
about 3,000 ha of densely populated slum areas (kampungs) in Jakarta and
374 ha in Surabaya. The physical program is now complete with a coverage
of about 3,434 ha kampungs in Jakarta and 441 ha in Surabaya. Supplementary
technical assistance studies related to future projects preparation and
utilizing the accrued loan residual have been recently agreed upon. To
facilitate the financing of these studies, the Bank, in December 1981,
extended the loan Closing Date from December 31, 1981 to June 30, 1983.
Disbursements at the end of June 1982 were about 85% of appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1653. Third Urban Development: $54 Million loan of January 31,
1979; Effective Date:  September 26, 1979;  Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
The project extends the slum (kampung) improvement programs (KIP)
under the Second Urban Development Project (Loan 1336-IND) in the cities of
Jakarta (750 ha) and Surabaya (580 ha), and also provides for similar basic
infrastructural facilities in three additional cities -- Ujung Pandang (375
ha), Semarang (310 ha) and Surakarta (170 ha) -- with the KIP coverage in each
city ranging between 15 to 37% of total kampung areas to be upgraded.  Also
included in the project is a comprehensive solid waste management program
(SWIP) in Jakarta, and Surabaya and macro-drainage improvements in Surabaya.
The KIP component is nearing completion in all cities with its actual coverage
exceeding the target levels in Jakarta and Surabaya. SWIP implementation is
progressing well in Surabaya but has just started in Jakarta due to earlier
start-up delays in pilot testing. The Surabaya drainage component is in the
construction stage which is somewhat beset with land acquisition problems (for
canal dredging schemes) warranting local government's more intensive
participation and an increased allocation of funds for the program. The
overall project is expected to be implemented within the appraisal projected
dated of December 31, 1984. Disbursements at the end of June 1982 were about
59% of appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1972 Fourth Urban Development: $43 Million Loan of
May 8, 1981; Effective Date: September 9, 1981;
Closing Date: September 30, 1986.
The project further expands Bank's assistance to GOI's slum impro-
vement programs (KIP) under the earlier urban projects to six nationwide pro-
vincial capital cities with a total target KIP area of 2,000 ha and with a
coverage in each city representing about 15 to 33% of total KIP area to be up-
graded. Sites and sevices schemes, aimed at providing affordable core housing



-58-                     ANNEX II
Page 29 of 29 pages
units to the low-income population, will be developed for a total of about
11,000 plots in some six to seven cities. Sectoral programs comprising of
solid waste improvement, and improved water supply are also included in one
of the project cities. A national urban mapping program covering 125 cities
will be undertaken providing base data for future city planning, land regis-
tration and valuation programs. The developoment of the housing and mortgage
financing institutions is a prominent feature of the project. Technical
assistance for project management, training and feasibility studies to various
urban authorities and agencies will be provided. The sites and services pro-
gram is proceeding satifactorily. The start-up delays in the implementation
of the KIP programs have been overcome and the progress of these programs
should significantly improve with the consultants currently being appointed.
The first phase of the urban mapping contracts covering some 45 cities will
commence in October 1982. Technical assistance programs are proceeding
satisfactorily. Disbursements at the end of June 1982 were about 35% of
appraisal estimate.
WATER SUPPLY
Loan No. 1709   Second Water Supply:  $36 Million Loan of June 1, 1979;
Effective Date: February 29, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
The project expands and improves existing water supply and distri-
bution systems in the cities of Tangerang and Surabaya (both in Java),
Jember (Sumatra), Pare-Pare (Sulawesi) and Ambon (Moluku), and provides for
the construction of new systems in Klaten and Purwakarta (both in Java).
The total increase in raw water yield in the cities as a result of the
project is projected at 1,770 lit/sec and the total installation of trans-
mission and distribution mains will amount to about 375 kms with house
connections targetted at a total of 40,000 in the project cities. The
project is also aimed at establishing water enterprises (WEs) in the project
cities and strengthening the skills of WE's staff, as well as the Cipta
Karya (Housing and Urban Development) staff, in the areas of administration,
financial and operational performance of the enterprises. After consider-
able delays (up to 18 months) the award of most of the International
Competitive Bidding procurement contracts for the supply of pipes and
materials is now complete and procurement is in progress. The construction
of the civil works in the project cities is currently underway. The
organizational and management training for the WEs has been underway since
September 1981 and is proceeding satisfactorily. Disbursements at the end
of June 1982 were about 28% of appraisal estimate.



- 59 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
INDONESIA
TRANSMIGRATION III PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare the project:
Site screening and evaluation:        One year
Other components:                     Two years
(b) Project prepared by
Site screening and evaluation:        Directorate of City and
Regional Planning; with
assistance of consultants
Baturaja extension                      Directorate General of
Transmigration and FAO/UNDP;
Program development:                    Concerned GOI agencies and
Bank staff
c) First presented to the Bank:
Site screening and evaluation:        July 1981
Other components:                     1980
(d)  Departure of Appraisal Mission:          September 1981
(e)  Completion of Negotiations:             August 1982
(f)  Planned effectiveness:                  May 1983
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) site screening and evaluation would be carried out in
accordance with procedures agreed between GOI and the Bank
(para. 39);
(b) DITADA would provide a list of sites to be investigated under this
project and would not alter this list or divert to other
activities resources needed for the standard planning program
(sites, air photos, firms) without review and approval of the Bank
(para. 41);



- 60 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
(c) all consultants for DGT, AARD and MDSE would be engaged no
later than June 30, 1983 (para. 47);
(d) the DGT training development specialist would review and approve
curricula and instructor training on all courses against which
Bank disbursement is expected, and would review and approve the
courses and candidates for scholarships and fellowships financed
with Bank assistance (para. 47);
(e) AARD would submit inception reports for proposed research to the
Bank for review and approval (para. 47); and
(f) a special unit would be formed within the JMT to promote the
coordination of the Bank-assisted transmigration projects;
(para. 47).



IBRD 17019
104°3O'                                   FEBRUARY 1983
;                                                   INDONESIA
BATURAJA TRANSMIGRATION PROJECT                                                                                                                 / ;-
PROPOSED EXTENSION AREA
EXISTING  VILLAGES
40195'                           VII      VILLAGE NUMBERS                                                                                                (Z15'-
MAIN ROADS
VILLAGE ROADS                                                                                                                                  /
VILLAGE ROADS(1982-83 Program)
RAILWAYS
-s~- RIVERS                                                                                                                              Kangko    I g //
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                    \k g 7
°               5               10              15        f\Ke\/jgAuai
KILOMETERS                                                                                                                                                            Aduman s
M    I                                                                                                                                                     MESenaPnngnjabesa j )  r
Peninjauan                    '    '77
4'end,0J                                      -b                                        t
3045'~ ~  ~ ih,                                                                                                                     Arep 90 benpOpm
Bl.t.   ~Lu uku9 epayangil;                                                           XFuue  elpmn/               ,f  
ubk g4 ,;                                                                     '-^',X ,
unca   a   u =                                     A    0 i
Th X Wend Bank's staff s0;l lT                                       a
t~~~~~~o th   -a'n   (  thekba
ea   W or l d  Ba n k 's  s t f   .cl u s i v e ly f o ,   t h<S                                                                                    
Intern.1 use or The  ol B.,i                                                                                                                                  7A Ii      a < oNwAPOREw
and the Internabonal Fmance                                                                                                                              LI~ >    
Corporabon The de,,o.,rtmalln                                                            
used and the boundanes sh-w,                                                        t                                     
onth,s mep do -tr 'p/y. on thc   ' 
part of The World Bank and the\.  . 
Internabonal Fmn-e Corpoabo. -A 
any j,dgmnt n the legalsau fW.                                           j6lRAPURA                                                                           -) ,      Pale-b-ng9
otf_yternt  or,o,ny                                              \a tIda  Wa                                                                                              raotr
endofsement or accptance ot                                                                                                                                               Z  Z\ sfMai 
104°15                     f<'                                                            104'30'kra:\. 



A
t



1124                                                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~[BR) 17n02
K>   K  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~> ~~~INDIONESIA
4-  N                                                                                      2%   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~PHILPINŽI'      K                                         TRANSMIGRATION   PROJECT  III
Sa h  Ch na                                     ,                                                                                                   PROPOSeD SITES FOR INVESTIGATION4
>1   I                                         %a                             8M<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RN5 IE
St   -  I                                       <CS               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ V                   <.~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~.1.  E
2OAI                                                                           AI  /,  A
54;,          2                                                                                                                  St                                                 -- -- PRUONC04 BOUNDARIES~~~~~~~~~ A A'Et P
2T-                               I                                               22<12<0417 YA
10~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~NI                                                                                               450AR
22-`-   -Ar- ~ ~ ~ ~  ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    -N r, Kdi  >0                        O          K5                                             o»> a                     -
I                                                                                                                                        I  1  1  rn-  I  aN                                             0< '0 ->                               I
14 I'L~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~S 
'05 N-fTl.                                                                                                                                                                                                    .1                          2
022                                                                                                12~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1o1'



