Report No. PID11300
Project Name                     Bosnia and Herzegovina-Business
Environment Adjustment Credit
Region                           Europe and Central Asia Region
Sector                           Private Sector
Project ID                       BAPE71001
Borrower(s)                      Bosnia and Herzegovina (Ministry of
Foreign Trade and Economic Relations)
Implementing Agencies            Ministry of Finance, Federation of
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Mehmed Spahe 5, Sarajevo
Tel: 033/203-147
Fax:   033/203-152
Email: NA
Ministry of Finance, Republika Srpska
Vuka Karadzica 4, Banja Luka
Tel: 051/331-350
Fax:   051/331-361
Email: NA
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                June 16, 2002
Appraisal Date                   February 27, 2002
Board Date                       May 30, 2002
1. Country and Sector Background
The Business Environment Adjustment Credit (BAC) is one of a series of
adjustment operations which IDA has extended to Bosnia and Herzegovina (BiH)
following the Dayton Accords. Previously approved SACs include a Social
Sector Adjustment Credit (SOSAC), two Public Finance Structural Adjustment
Credit (PFSACs), and an Enterprise and Bank Privatization Adjustment Credit.
A second SOSAC (SOSAC II) is under preparation. An IMF Stand by Arrangement
was successfully completed in May 2001, and a Letter of Intent for a new SBA
was signed by the Government on March 27, 2002, and is being finalized now.
2. Objectives
The credit will support the Government's reform program to improve the
investment climate and strengthen a single economic space to promote domestic
and foreign investment and private sector growth. Objectives of the reform
program are to reduce those administrative and regulatory barriers that will
have the most critical near-term impact on the three phases of business
development: business entry, business operations, and business exit.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The credit is an integral part of the Government's Interim Poverty Reduction
Strategy Paper submitted to the Bank and the IMF in December 2001 and to be
followed by a full PRSP in 2002. The I-PRSP envisions acceleration of
privatization, strengthening of the financial sector, and establishment of an
enabling environment for domestic and foreign investment, and further
recognizes that a key element of a good enabling environment for business is



establishment of a single economic space in BH, following the EU example. The
BAC also is consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) dated May
18, 2000 and the CAS Progress Report, dated September 24, 2001, which lays
out a graduated assistance strategy aimed at helping BH to formulate and
implement a comprehensive reform program that would accelerate the country's
transition away from dependency on aid toward self-sustaining growth.
4. Description
Despite positive developments in market-based reforms, a substantial reform
agenda lies ahead and further economic development depends on acceleration of
reforms. In support of this process, State and Entity governments in 2000
started drafting their first countrywide economic strategy since Dayton
entitled Economic Development Strategy: A Global Framework for Bosnia and
Herzegovina. The framework was prepared with the support of local academics
and in consultation with a wide range of stakeholders from government,
productive sectors, civil society and donor community, and was approved by
Parliament in 2001. The strategy's main focus is on private sector growth to
reduce unemployment and poverty, while restructuring the social safety net to
protect the poorest in a cost-effective way. The strategy recognizes that
the sustainability and efficiency of the economy and strengthened
competitiveness is predicated on attracting long-term investors, and that
attracting such investors requires a predictable and coherent policy
environment countrywide.
The reforms supported by the BAC will: (i) facilitate business entry through
creation of a simplified and transparent countrywide approach to business
registration and licensing and a strengthened legal framework and capacity
for attracting foreign investment; (ii) streamline the environment for
business operation by reducing companies' administrative and regulatory
compliance costs through rationalization of inspections and regulations,
building judicial and extra-judicial capacity to resolve commercial disputes;
improving enforcement of secured transactions; and ensuring equal access to
public procurement, and (iii)ease business exit through strengthened
bankruptcy and liquidation systems. Underlying these objectives is the need
to strengthen the consultative capacity between the public and private
sectors to promote policies and legislation that are business-friendly. The
reform program supported by the BAC combine legislative and administrative
measures for enhancing the investment climate in the near term with specific
measurable and verifiable results. The increased focus on implementation and
outcomes will lend support to behavior modification that will help promote
further deepening of the reforms well into the future.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
IDA                              44
Total Project Cost               44
The credit will be lent to the State (Bosnia and Herzegovina) for a period of
35 years, including a 10-year grace period, on standard IDA terms. The State
will on-lend, through subsidiary agreements, the credit proceeds to the two
Entities in agreed proportions on the same terms as the IDA credit. Of the
$19 million first tranche disbursement, an aggregate of $4 million will be
transferred by the Entities to the State budget. This is the first
adjustment operation in Bosnia and Herzegovina for which a significant
portion of the proceeds will go to the benefit of the State.
-2 -



Implementation
The State's Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations would be
responsible for overall administration of the Credit on behalf of BH, the
Borrower. Each Entity's Ministry of Finance will be responsible for
administering the pre-allocated funds from the Credit.
The reforms supported by the BAC are part of a larger program to reduce the
impediments to investment in BH embodied in a countrywide time-bound action
plan adopted by State and Entity Governments. Overall responsibility for
implementation matters resides with the State Ministry of Foreign Trade and
Economic Relations and, more specifically, each of the Entity Prime Ministers
offices, which have named "champions" to lead the team of technical experts
implementing the cross-ministerial reform program. The action plan noted
above was developed by a cross-Governmental team from both Entities and the
State and was based on recommendations from the Foreign Investment Advisory
Service (FIAS) study on Commercial Legal Framework and Administrative
Barriers to Investment. The action plan is the Government's key instrument
for monitoring progress against the business environment reforms.
A high-level cross-Governmental Coordination Board for Economic Transition
and European Integration that is providing leadership to the country's
overall economic reform agenda, will have overall responsibility for assuring
progress under the BAC. A bilateral donor has indicated its intention to
provide financial and technical assistance to State and Entities to assure
access to local and international experts as needed to move the agenda
forward, and to fund activities of FIAS in supporting the Government's
implementation of surveys and self-assessment tools to monitor progress
against results and to help build capacity for public-private sector
dialogue.
Baseline surveys have been completed which assess administrative and
regulatory costs of doing business in BH, in each Entity and in a cross-
section of municipalities. The full survey will be conducted at least twice
in a three-year period and targeted surveys to measure progress against
agreed indicators will be carried out every six months during that time. The
Government is expected to continue the surveys with its own resources.
Results will be widely publicized both to increase transparency and
accountability and to encourage continued progress under the reform program.
7. Sustainability
The reform program builds upon previous and ongoing efforts to reform the BH
economy.   Sustainability of these reforms is a key objective underlying the
BAC.   The operation is key to reducing the barriers that will encourage
private sector growth and the operation's emphasis on results-on-the-ground
will lend support to behavior modification that will help promote further
deepening of the reforms over time.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The operation builds on the Enterprise and Bank Privatization Adjustment
Credit and the Privatization Technical Assistance Credit and the policy
dialogue initiated there.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
-3 -



Issues:    None.
11. Contact Point:
Task Team Leader
Cornelius J. Murphy
c/o The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone:   (387) 33-251-500
(Bosnia and Herzegovina)
Fax:   (387) 33-440-108
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
-4 -



