Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P 7530 BIH
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ONA
rKurOSED BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT ADJUSTMENT CRF,DIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 35.3 MILLION
(US$44.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
April-24, 2002
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents'xiay not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



BOSNIIA AND [ERZEGOVIINA- BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT ADJUSTMENT CRIZDIT
Currencv Equivalents
(As of April 14, 2002)
Currency Unit = Konvertible Marka (KM)
I KM = US$0.44457
Weights and Measures
Metric System
Abbreviations and Acronyms
BAC         Business Environment Adjustment Credit  JCT           Joint Coordination Team
BH          Bosnia and Herzegovina                  KM            Konvertible Marka
CAFAO       Customs and Financial Assistance Office  NGO          Non Government Organization
CAS         Cotntry Assistance Strategy             OED           Operations Evaluation Departmet
DM          Deutsche Mark                           OHR            Office of the High Representative
DFID        Department for International Development  PFSAC        Public Finance Structural Adjustment
Credit
EBPAC       Enterprise and Bank Privatization       PRSP          Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
Adjustment Credit
EBRD        European Bank for Reconstruction and    QER            Quality Enhancement Review
Development
EU/EC       European Union/European Comnmission     RS            Republika Srpska
Federation  Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina    SBA            Stand-by Arrangement
FIAS        Foreign Investment Advisory Service     SEED           South East Europe Enterprise
Development Program
SFRY          Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
GDP         Gross Domestic Product
IC          Intemational Community                  SIDA           Swedish International Development
Agency
IDA         International Development Association   SME            Small and Medium Enterprises
IFC         International Finance Corporation       SOSAC          Social Sector Adjustment Credit
IFI         International Financial Institution     TA            Technical Assistance
IJC         Independent Judicial Commission         US             United States
IMF         International Monetary Fund             USAID          United States Agency for International
Development
l-PRSP      Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper  FRY          Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
Government Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
Vice President: Johannes F. Linn
Country Director: Christiaan J. Poortman
Sector Director:   Paul J. Siegelbaumr
Task Team Leader:     Vicki Krecic Peterson



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Business Environment Adjustment Credit
CREDIT SUMMARY
Borrower:             Bosnia and Herzegovina (Ministry of Treasury Institutions) with
subsidiary credit agreements with the Federation of Bosnia and
Herzegovina and Republika Srpska (the Entities)
Amount:               SDR 35.3 million (US$44.0 million equivalent)
Terms:                Standard IDA (35-years'matumyy,-iu years grace)
Commitment Fee:       Standard IDA
Credit Objectives:    The proposed Credit would support the Government's reform program to
improve the investment climate and further development of a single
economic space to promote domestic and foreign investment and private
sector growth. Objectives of the reform program are to reduce those
'administrative and regulatory barriers that would have the most critical
near-term impact on the three phases of business development: (i)
improving  business  entry through  streamlined  and  transparent
countrywide approach to business registration and licensing and
strengthened legal framework and capacity for attracting foreign
investment; (ii) streamlining the environment for business operation by
reducing companies' administrative and regulatory compliance costs
through rationalization of inspections and regulations, strengthening of
judicial and extra-judicial capacity to resolve commercial disputes;
improving enforcement of secured transactions; and leveling the playing
field for private sector participation in public procurement, and (iii)
facilitating business exit through improved bankruptcy and liquidation
systems.  Underlying these objectives is the need to strengthen the
consultative capacity between the public and private sectors to promote
policies and legislation that are business-friendly.
While the proposed Credit woulc. iavv; W61UIL%,,CU1L UllULL-MiU1j ,ssults in
improving the business enabling environment and promoting increased
private sector activity, sustained efforts to ensure the effective
implementation of the reforms will be required to build up long-term
investor confidence in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The key is to initiate
critical changes that lead to strong momentum toward a self-sustaining
process of improving the investment climate.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



Credit Description:   The Credit will be lent to the State of Bosnia and Herzegovina (the State),
which will in turn on-lend in the amount of US$26.4 million equivalent to
the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina (the Federation) and US$17.6
million equivalent to Republika Srpska (RS), on the same terms as the
IDA Credit. The Entities will transfer US$4 million equivalent of the first
tranche to the State budget through the normal transfer mechanism. The
Credit will be disbursed in two tranches for budgetary and balance of
payments support to Bosnia and Herzegovina. Releases of the tranches
will be linked to policy conditionality as agreed upon during the
negotiation of the Credit.
Benefits:             The main benefits of the proposed Credit include: (i) contributing to the
building an investment climate attractive for new entrants and for
increased productivity of existing private businesses to promote economic
growth and absorb labor and other resources released by the privatization
and downsizing of state-owned enterprises; (ii) strengthening the concept
of a single economic space in BH through greater harmonization of
administrative and regulatory frameworks, thereby moving the country
closer to its goal of integrating more fully into the regional economy and
the European Union; and (iii) a more dynamic private sector that will
create much needed new jobs - this in turn will spur a shift away from
informal sector activity toward formal sector activity and to the payment
of taxes that will help fund vital social services and transfers, which are
now often unavailable or only partially available to the poor.
Risks:                Main risks associated with the proposed Credit are: (i) complex and
fragmented govemance arrangements in Bosnia and Herzegovina-
Entities, Cantons, municipalities and cities-may prove challenging for
implementation of reforms at lower levels of Government; (ii) momentum
or Govemrnment commitment could be lost in the lead-up to and aftermath
of fall 2002 elections; and (iii) rooted mindsets of the system of the
former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (SFRY) as well as in
vested interests the current system may result in resistance to change and
delays as many continue to view the private sector with suspicion and
others stand to lose opportunities for rent-seeking.
Schedule of           Two tranche disbursements: first tranche of USD$19 million equivalent
Disbursements:        upon effectiveness (Board conditions now having been met); second
tranche of USD$25 million equivalent to be released separately upon
achievement of each Entity's specific actions associated with second
tranche conditions, expected by December 2003.
iv



Poverty Category:     Not Applicable
Rate of Return:       Not Applicable
Project ID Number:    P071001
Map                   BH map IBRD 28578R
The BAC core preparation team comprised Vicki Krecic Peterson (ECSPF), Task Team Leader,
Senada Havic (CFABB), Nermina Sljivo (ECCBA) and consultants Ian Newport, Boris Divjak, and
Zlatko Hurtic.  The starting point for preparation was the FIAS report "Commercial Legal
Framework and Administrative Barriers to Investment," managed by Margo Thomas (PSAFI). The
team wishes to thank the Japanese Government for its generous support of project preparation
through a PHRD grant.
v






REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF TIRE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
TO BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
Table of Contenti
Page
PART I:    THE ECONOMY                                                                   1
PART 11: THE BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM                                     5
A. Core Issues                                                             5
B. Business Entry                                                          8
C. Business Operations                                                     10
D. Business Exit                                                           13
PART m: THE PROPOSED CREDIT                                                              14
A. Rationale for Bank Involvement                                          14
B. Monitoring and Evaluation                                               14
C. Benefits and Risks                                                      15
D. Coordination with the IMF                                               16
E. Board and Second Tranche Conditions                                     17
F. Implementation                                                          19
G. Financial Arrangements                                                  20
H. Poverty Implications                                                    20
I. Environmental Impact                                                    21
PART IV: RECOMMENDATION                                                                  21
ANNEXES:
Annex 1         Key Economic Indicators                                                  22
Annex 2         Timetable of Key Processing Events                                       24
Annex 3         Letter of Development Policy                                             25
Annex 4         Policy Reforms Program Matrix                                            33
Annex 5         Key Component Flows                                                      37
Annex 6         Sampling Methodology                                                     38
Annex 7         Status of Bank Group Operations in Bosnia and Herzegovina                45
Annex 7A        Status of IFC Operations in Bosnia and Herzegovina                       47
Annex 8         Country at a Glance                                                      48
MAP             BH map IBRD 28578R
vi






REPORT AND RECOMMEDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
TO BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
1. I submit for your approval the following Report and Recommendation on a proposed Business
Environment Adjustment Credit (BAC) to Bosnia and Herzegovina (BH) in the amount of SDR
35.3 million (US$44 million equivalent) to support the Government's structural reform program.
The Credit would be provided on standard IDA terms of 35 years maturity with 10 years grace
period.
2. This Report should be read in conjunction with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) of the
World Bank Group for Bosnia and Herzegovina, Report No. IDA/R2000-0060, dated May 18,
2000 and the CAS Progress Report No. 22863, dated September 24, 2001, which lays out a
graduated assistance strategy aimed at helping BH to formulate and implement a comprehensive
reform program that would accelerate the country's transition away from dependency on aid toward
self-sustaining growth.
I. THE ECONOMY
3. BH has been facing the dual challenge of recovering from war and transforming from a
centrally planned to a market economy. The extent of the post-war economic revival in many
respects has been impressive. Nearly all the pre-war infrastructure has been rebuilt and BH has
managed to achieve this without compromising macroeconomic stability.   Prudent fiscal
management and a strict currency board arrangement have been the main pillars of the
Govermnent's macroeconomic policy framework, supported largely by an IMF Stand by
Arrangement. Successive BH governments have embarked on policy and structural reforms,
ranging from trade and price liberalization to tax reforms, institution building, social sector and
financial market reforms, as well as privatization. The implementation of these structural reforms,
supported by substantial assistance from the International Community (IC), has initiated the
transition from economic recovery to growth, though the process has been slower than anticipated.
Table 1: Key Economic Indicators, 1990-2001
.________________ _ 1 1990  1998:  1999 T. 2000 '2e 001ne
GDP (US$ rilion)                 10,633  4,74    4,537  4,413   4,587
Real GDP growth                            9.9     9.9    5.9    5.6
Per capita GDP in current US$     2,429   1,042   1,135  1,103   1,146
Price Inflation (average, in %)             1      3      5.5     3
Trade Balance (US$ mnillion)       290    -1,959  -1,852  -1,617  1,442
Exports (US$ million)              1,990   697     649    732    857
ffnports (US$ rnillion)           1,700   2,656  2,502   2,348  2,299
FDI (US$ rnillion)                      I 100      90     150    130
FDI (% of GDP)                             2.3     2.0    3.4    2.8
Current Account Balance (% of GDP)        -23.0   -24.6  -21.8   -18.0
ource: Oficial data, World Bank and IMF estimates.



4. Recent Economic Developments. The prevailing macroeconomic situation is satisfactory. An
IMF Stand by Arrangement (SBA) was successfully concluded in May 2001, and a letter of intent
for a new IMF program was signed by the authorities on March 27, 2002. While annual economic
growth averaged over 29 percent in real terms during the post-war period 1996 to 2000, the rate of
growth declined from 10 percent in 1999 to 6 percent for 2000 and about 5.5 percent in 2001.
This slowdown is largely explained by diminishing aid flows reflecting both the end of the post-
war reconstruction period and the slower than anticipated pace of structural reform in BH. While
measured GDP has more than doubled since the end of the war (i.e., US$4,587 in 2001 compared
to US$1,867 in 1995), it still is only about half its pre-war (1990) level. In 2000, the slowdown
was partly due to the economic effects of a severe drought that affected hydroelectricity generation
and agricultural output, which revived in 2001 despite slowed growth overall. According to
official statistics, unemployment has halved from its high of nearly 80 percent at the end of the war,
although anecdotal information suggests that employment and production data are substantially
understated, owing to strong incentives (i.e., high social contributions and taxes) for employers to
under-report employment and wages. Real per capita consumption has increased significantly for
most households. Inflation has fallen progressively, and is currently running at an annual rate of 3
percent, undoubtedly reflecting the stabilizing effect of the currency board. However, factors such
as war destruction, external setbacks and a loss of momentum of the reform agenda during
Government transition in 2000-01, have kept BH the second poorest country in Central and Eastern
Europe/Southeast Europe (CEE/SEE) on a per capita basis.
5. BH's external accounts remain fragile. The steep growth in imports experienced in the early
post-Dayton years, due to reconstruction efforts and the slow recovery of exports explain this
fragility. Some decline in the rate of growth of imports is expected in the coming years as the
reconstruction phase winds down.  For example, sharp reduction in aid-financed imports
contributed to a gradual decrease in the external current account deficit to 18 percent of GDP in
2001. The State continues its efforts to liberalize trade and open up regional markets to promote
export-led growth in BH. BH is recognized as one of the more open economies in the region.
Trade agreements have been concluded with Slovenia, Croatia, Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
(FRY), and Forrner Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia; similar agreements are being negotiated
with Albania, Bulgaria and Romania; the EU has granted trade concessions to SEE countries,
including BH, as part of the Stability Pact, and the country has initiated the process for World
Trade Organization accession. The export base has slowly expanded to 17 percent of GDP.
However, the pace of structural reform needs to be accelerated to promote private sector-led
domestic production and exports and ensure a smooth transition to a sustainable external position.
6. External Financing Needs and Debt-Servicing Capacity.  Exceptional levels of external
financial assistance have been crucial to sustaining BH's balance of payments. In addition to
generous humnanitarian assistance, the international community made commitments of around
US$5.2 billion--mainly grant funds--between 1996 and 1999, in order to meet the external
financing requirement of US$5.1 billion outlined in the Priority Reconstruction Program. By
yearend 2000, an estimated US$4.0 billion of external support had been disbursed. The highly
concessional terms of donor assistance, as well as sizeable post-war reduction in the country's debt
burden brought about by rescheduling and reduction of arrears, have helped ensure a relatively
2



comfortable external public debt servicing profile. The external public debt ratio, estimated at 56
percent of GDP, declined in 2001, owing to debt cancellation. External debt service, which is
almost all on concessional terms, remains manageable, but is projected to rise in the next few years
as BH's rescheduled debt, inherited from the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
(SFRY) starts amortizing.
7. The key challenge facing BH in the near- to medium-term is the need to stimulate private sector
activity and investment as a source of new growth, while ensuring fiscal sustainability and
prioritized public spending in the face of declining aid flows.
8.  Progress on Reforms. The prospect for entering a phase of self-sustained growth is contingent
on the successful and accelerated implementation of economic and institutional reforms. In this
respect, some important steps have already been taken. The proposed Credit will complement
other ongoing Government activities that are assisted by donors to restructure the economy,
including:
* Accelerating privatization to eliminate the unfair competition of privileged state-owned firms.
Several donors, including the Association through the Privatization Technical Assistance
Credit, are assisting with international tenders of selected companies. The Association's
Enterprise and Bank Privatization Adjustment Credit (EBPAC) supported the Government's
initial phase of privatization.
* Strengthening the banking sector to build capacity of financial intermediaries to support
private sector growth. Bilateral donors and IFIs are providing technical assistance (TA) to
strengthen the banking agencies, deposit insurance agencies and private banks.  The
Association has two operations that support the banking sector: EBPAC and the RS Private
Sector Credit Program that provides a line of credit for commercial bank lending to private
SMEs with companion TA for participating banks and the banking agency.
* Lightening a burdensome tax regime to motivate companies to return from the informal to the
formal sector. An International Advisory Group on Tax Reform coordinates donors' efforts to
help the Government to rationalize and harmonize the tax system across BH. The IMF leads
the reform. The Association's Public Finance Structural Adjustment Credit II also supports the
Government's tax reform program.
* Liberalizing trade, modernizing customs administration and strengthening competition policy
to improve the competitive environment for the private sector. Customs and trade liberalization
are supported as part of the EU Roadmap, associated with the Stabilization and Association
(SAA) process, and Stability Pact. The IMIF supports harmonization of tariffs and customs
revenues. The Association's Trade and Transport Facilitation in Southeast Europe project
helps build border crossings. Competition policy is supported as part of the EU Roadmap and
Stability Pact.
3



* Improving property rights and access to land create the foundation for an active land market
and productive use of land. As a critical first step, a bilateral donor has worked with Entities to
draft harmonized Laws on Land Registry and is committed to assisting the Entities to create
new land registry books as a pre-requisite to building an automated countrywide land registry
system.
* Reducing corruption. Several measures under the proposed Credit will reduce rent-seeking
opportunities, as will EC-supported modernization of customs administration. The Association
recently conducted an Anti-Corruption Diagnostic that served as the foundation for the
Government's draft Anti-Corruption Action Plan. Fighting corruption is also a key element of
the Government's Interim-Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper.
* Increasing the independence and capacity of the judiciary. In Spring 2001, an Independent
Judicial Commission was established as an arm of the Office of the High Representative to lead
reform of the judiciary. In February 2002, the Peace Implementation Council decided to
implement sweeping reforms of the judicial system. Several donors support the work of the
IJC in implementing its mandate.
9. As well, many of the basic political and economic institutions required for the country's
effective functioning have been established, including the establishment of the central bank, State
and Entity treasuries, and issuance of the national currency. Significant progress has been achieved
in removing barriers to the movements of goods and people within the country, and a common,
countrywide customs tariff regime and trade policy were introduced.
10. Reform of the public finance system has begun, with a focus on strengthening accountability
and control over management of public resources. Both Entities have made significant progress in
reforming and harmonizing tax policies and in establishing intra-Entity revenue and expenditure
mechanisms and in introducing external audit functions. The legal and institutional frameworks for
privatization and restitution have been adopted.  Although with considerable delay due to
difficulties of achieving consensus on privatization methodology and institutional framework
among constituent groups, privatization of small-scale enterprises is well advanced, public offering
of shares nearly completed, and the privatization of large enterprises is underway.
11. Key elements of the legal and regulatory frameworks for the banking sector have been
introduced and supervisory capacity has been strengthened, with several banks now under control
of the banking agencies. In 2001, BH became the first country in the region to close its payments
bureaus inherited from the system of the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and
transfer clearing functions to commercial banks. Banking reform has taken a dramatic, positive turn
in recent months, with 80 percent of assets now in private banks, and more than 60 percent in
foreign-owned banks, including international banks and regional investors. Dramatic increase in
citizen savings from KM650 million at end-September 2001 to more than KM1.3 billion at end-
December 2001 has been spurred by the arrival of foreign international banks, introduction of
deposit insurance, and the need for currency conversion at commercial banks as the Euro replaced
the DM, which previously had been used interchangeably with the local currency. With increased
4



liquidity and competition, banks are beginning to increase lending to retail and business customers
and interest rates are dropping (e.g., from low 20s to about 13 percent, and some banks offering
rates as low as 10 percent). Still, bankable projects are few in this high-risk environment where
lenders' rights are not easily enforced.
II.   THE BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
A.   Core Issues
12. Despite these positive developments in market-based economic reforms, a substantial reform
agenda lies ahead and further economic development depends on the acceleration of reforms. In
support of this process, State and Entity governments in 2000 started drafting their first
countrywide economic strategy since Dayton entitled Economic Development Strategy: A Global
Framework for Bosnia and Herzegovina. The framework was prepared with the support of local
academics and in consultation with a wide range of stakeholders from government, productive
sectors, civil society and the donor community, and was approved by Parliament in June 2001. The
strategy's main focus is on private sector growth to reduce unemployment and poverty, while
restructuring the social safety net to protect the poorest in a cost-effective way. The strategy
recognizes that the sustainability and efficiency of the economy and strengthened competitiveness
is predicated on attracting long-term investors, and that attracting such investors requires a
predictable and coherent policy environment countrywide. The strategy, combined with a full
PRSP preparation and participation plan and a more detailed poverty profile, formed the basis of an
Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (I-PRSP). The I-PRSP was submitted to the Bank and
JIMF in December 2001 for information, not linked to any Bank or IMF operation. The I-PRSP
specifically envisions acceleration of privatization, strengthening of the financial sector, and
establishment of an enabling environment for domestic and foreign investment, and further
recognizes that a key element of a good enabling environment for business is establishment of a
single economic space in BH. The I-PRSP is expected to be followed in 2002 by a full PRSP,
currently under active preparation (see Paragraph 13 below).
13. An inter-Government Coordination Board for Economic Transition and European Integration
(Coordination Board), comprised of State and Entity Prime Ministers and key members of their
cabinets, was established in late 2001 to strengthen ownership of economic reforms and to move
toward more cohesive and concerted policy action at the State and Entity levels. Among its
primary responsibilities, the Coordination Board oversees implementation of the I-PRSP,
preparation of the PRSP and anti-corruption action plan, and implementation of business
environment reforms, which is an integral component of the PRSP. A special task force to
facilitate the economic transition and improve the trade and investment climate has been set up
under the PRSP preparation process. Under the leadership of this task force, an action plan to
eliminate barriers to investment was developed and is the foundation for actions supported by the
BAC. The plan was accepted by the Coordination Board in January 2002 and subsequently
adopted by both Entity Governments and the State Council of Ministers.
14. The progress and impetus of structural reforms has to be maintained to create an environrment
conducive to private sector activity. The low share of the private sector in the economy reflects
5



slow progress in privatization and the still weak investment climate. FDI inflows have remained
fairly low, albeit with some encouraging signs of increased interest from neighboring countries,
such as Croatia, FRY, and Slovenia, and a resurgence of traditional ties with Italy, Germany and
Austria. Bosnia and Herzegovina, with FDI at an estimated 2.8 percent of GDP in 2001, is a poor
performer in comparison to other countries of similar per capita income.
15. Several studies agree that overly complex and costly government structures and regulations,
coupled with a lack of transparency, unpredictability and high costs have led many prospective
investors to consider the risk of doing business in BH as too high'. A 1999 Wall Street Journal
survey of leading economists ranked BH's investment climate 19th among 27 countries; l8th for
business ethics; 21st for integration into the world economy; and 21St for rule of law. BH's own
assessmene ranked the country lowest among 59 countries on most measures of competitiveness,
such as openness, government, finance, infrastructure, technology, management, labor and civil
institutions. The study ranks BH at the bottom on nearly 80 percent of the 184 indicators
measured.
16. Committed to reducing regulatory and administrative barriers in order to attract private
domestic and foreign investment, the authorities commissioned a Foreign Investment Advisory
Services   (FIAS)    study, "Bosnia     and   Herzegovina:      Commercial Legal Framework            and
Administrative Barriers to Investment." Despite previous attempts at reducing obstacles to
business entry, operations and exit, the 2001 report confirmed that an unfriendly and complex
business environment continues to impede investment (see Box 1).
The World Bank and European Commission's Bosnia and Herzegovina: Review of the Priority Reconstruction Program and Looking Ahead
Toward Sustainable Economic Development, May 1999; The Wall Street Joumal's Central European Economic Review, November 1999;
The World Bank Group's World Business Environment Survey, Spring 2000; Foreign Investment Advisory Service (FIAS) report Bosnia and
Herzegovina: Commercial Legal Framework and Administrative Barriers to Investment, March 2001; Intemational Crisis Group's (ICG)
report Why No One Will Invest in Bosnia and Herzegovina, 1999; ICG's draft report Still Not Open /or Business: Bosnia's Precarious
Economy, July 2001.
2Bosnia and Herzegovina Competitive Report, May 2001, a study by a team of local economic experts on the basis of the methodology of the
World Economic Forum for 1999, was the first of its kind since the country proclaimed independence from the former Socialist Federal
Republic of Yugoslavia in 1992.
6



Box 1: Administrative Barriers to Investment - FIAS Report Highlights
* Absence of a seamless, transparent and predictable legal and regulatory framework is a major impediment to
setting up and operating businesses in BH's relatively small market
*   Lack of consistent and transparent business and administrative regulations and procedures opens the door to abuse
of power at various levels of government - compounded by the absence of effective and independent appeals
mechanisms, significantly raises the cost of doing business
* Lack of effective, efficient and adequately resourced judicial systems negatively affects the cost of doing business
*   The study goes on to detail business barriers in the commercial legal and institutional framework, business
registration, land titling, employment generation and business operation. Some notable findings:
= The lack of effective laws, regulations and mechanisms for securing and enforcing collateral severely restricts
access to much needed working capital from banks
=' Courts are weak, deficient and, in many instances, subject to political direction and corruption causing long
delays in the resolution of commercial disputes
=> The 14-step business registration process is overloaded with unnecessary but mandatory approvals resulting in
a process that can take months to complete and is yet another reason for the perpetuation of the gray economy
=> Once registered, businesses faces a multitude of inspections from numerous inspectorates with unclear and
often overlapping mandates, leading to excessive administrative costs for compliance
17. Based on the report's findings, the authorities have adopted a countrywide action plan to
implement recommendations to address impediments to private investment in BH. The plan
constitutes a key element in the country's Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) process and is
the foundation for the Government's business environment reform program to be supported by the
proposed Business Environment Adjustment Credit (BAC).
18. This reform program complements a number of ongoing Government programs (noted in
Paragraph 8) to help accelerate the transition to a self-sustaining economy. The Credit, itself,
supporting the business environment reform program focuses on administrative and regulatory
reforms that would have the most critical, near-term           impact on the three phases of business
development:
* Inproving business entry through a streamlined and transparent countrywide
approach to business registration and licensing and strengthened legal framework
and capacity for attracting foreign investment;
*   Streamlining    the environment for business operations by reducing companies'
administrative and regulatory compliance costs through rationalization of
inspections and regulations, strengthening of judicial and extra-judicial capacity to
resolve commercial disputes; improving the system for secured transactions; and
leveling the playing field for private sector participation in public procurement, and
* Facilitating business exit through improved bankruptcy and liquidation system.
19. Underlying these objectives is the need to strengthen the consultative capacity between the
public and private sectors to ensure that policies and legislation are business-friendly.
7



20. It will be the relatively small regulatory and administrative improvements, such as
rationalizing costly inspections that will be immediately helpful to business development. Such
improvements are vital not only to expedite the whole investment process but also to denote a
change of direction and pro-business attitude in the Government and bureaucracy. Unless some
immediate impact is felt at the ground level, many well-intentioned legal reforms that have already
been undertaken will not be fully appreciated by the investor community. In the absence of
significant reforrms, the common problems, perceptions and anecdotes of existing investors will
continue to be some of the most potent deterrents to incoming investors.
B.   Business Entry
21. Current Situation.  Investors view the
process for establishing and registering a        Average Company Registration (Days)
business as one of the top barriers to investment
in BH. Each of the 14-15 formal steps can take  Poland  I    2  L 
days or weeks. Furthermore, the process is not  Li0iuania =  =  =
clear and is loaded with sequential approvals  Hungary  ___  _
and unnecessary or redundant steps resulting in  U"in
a time-consuming, costly process from  the     LaWia
preparatory phase until the business can legally  US/L=K
begin operations. During this time, valuable  Aua
resources are idle, business plans become          0  10 20       4 I 50 60 70
obsolete, business partners and contacts turn
away -- opportunities are lost.
22. Efficiency of the business registration process in BH falls behind most transition countries in
the region3. A baseline survey of administrative and regulatory costs of doing business conducted
as part of preparation of the BAC in 2002 showed that the process for registering a business in BH
in 2000-2001 took an average of 64 days (i.e., 80 days in the Federation; 31 days in RS), but ranged
from one to 730 days. Although certain courts have taken steps to streamline the procedures
connected with the registration of a company and to make the process more transparent, this type of
piecemeal reform is insufficient and courts remain the main bottleneck in the process.
23. The entire system needs to be re-examined and overhauled. An inter-Entity working group
has completed an assessment and adopted an action plan to streamline business registration on the
basis of FIAS' recommendations. Their efforts are supported by donor-funded technical assistance
to help re-engineer the process and to build the countrywide registry. The Entities' have committed
to common procedures for registration and a single database.
24. Historically ineffective and overly influenced by political structures, the Foreign Investment
Promotion Agency (FIPA) has made significant progress over the past year in re-asserting its
Source: FIAS data.
8



mission, sharpening its vision and initiating investment promotion activities. In order to function
as an effective investment promotion agency representing the interests of the entire country, the
Government has undertaken efforts to increase the capacity and professionalism of the FIPA
through amending the decree on the foundation of FIPA and its statute to abolish the ethnically
based system for the rotation of General Managers; to formalize a Steering Board comprised of a
majority of private sector representatives, and to establish a financing base to carry out its
activities.
25. In fulfilling its mandate as the State investment promotion agency, FIPA will need to expand
its operations and collaborate closely with State, Entity, Canton and local governments to provide
investors with the best information about investment opportunities and to promote further
investment across BH. This will enhance the credibility of FIPA, while enabling it to leverage its
limited resources through local partners and representative offices within both Entities for greater
impact.
26. The State Law on Policy of Foreign Direct Investment, drafted with assistance from FIAS and
adopted by the State Parliament in 1998, obligates the Entities to adopt imnplementing legislation
aligned with the Policy law. The Entities together have drafted and each has adopted such
legislation harmonized with the State law.
27. Reform Agenda. The Government will reduce barriers to business entry by:
* Creating common streamlined business registration and licensing procedures and a single
registry countrywide. Changes will include introducing a single business registration form
and eliminating superfluous forms, contact points and approvals; simplifying and increasing
the transparency of the process; reducing the number of events that require re-registration;
enforcing the "deemed approved" system, as allowed in existing laws, when a
Governmental body does not meet a required deadline; and using private sector
professionals and lower level court personnel to assist judges in the administrative tasks of
business registration. Both Entities will reduce the number of steps to register a business
from the current 14-15 for foreign firms, for example, to 7 or less. The FIAS Report on the
Administrative Barriers to Investment and the Government's action plan lays out a robust
proposal for improving the registration of business in BH, including elimination of separate
approvals for foreign investment.
*  Harmonizing Entitv-level laws, such as the company laws that define the allowed forms of
company registration and the Laws on Entry into the Court Register that define registration
requirements; strengthening the capacity of the courts, especially clerks whose
administrative role will increase as the judicial role in registration is reduced; and
rationalizing the requirements and process for permits and licensing. In order to assess
impact of the reforms, the Entities will carry out independent surveys to measure progress
against key results indicators, such as reduction in the average elapsed time to register a
business from 80 to 30 days or less in the Federation and from 31 to 23 days or less in the
RS.
9



C.    Business Operations
28. Current Situation.     In addition to the obstacles investors face to successfully begin
operations, they are then faced with complying with a large number of regulations that are often
inconsistent and outdated, with very considerable reporting requirements, and with inspections by
numerous inspectorates with unclear and often overlapping mandates. This provides a fertile
ground for rent-seeking behavior by Entity- and local-level inspectors and is noted by virtually all
businesses as a top complaint and cost of doing business in BH. Anecdotally, domestic investors
estimated that as much as 20 percent of administrative time is spent on compliance issues; one
foreign investor reported that the ratio of administrative costs to production costs was an alarming
1:1. The 2002 baseline survey of administrative and regulatory costs of doing business showed that
during 2001 the four inspectorates with mandates across all businesses (i.e., Market, Labor,
Financial Police and Revenue (Tax) Administration) together spent an average of 28 on-site
inspector days per business inspected in the RS and 18 days in the Federation. The authorities have
initiated actions to reduce the burden on business by: eliminating the overlap between Financial
Police and Revenue Administration; setting up cross-inspectorate working groups to resolve issues
of overlapping inspectorates and obsolete regulations, and setting targets to reduce the on-site
inspector days for the four mentioned inspectorates from 28 to 15 days or less per year in the RS
and from 18 to 12 days or less in the Federation. The European Commission, recognizing that a
difficult regulatory environment can discourage business activity, has recommended that the EU
Member States review their regulatory environments with a view toward streamlining4.
29. Limited access to working and investment capital from banks is, in part, a reflection of a weak
system of secured transactions on movables: a commercial legal framework that does not grant
non-possessory proprietary security; weak enforcement mechanisms, and lack of a central registry,
all contributing to the possibility of duplicate pledges of collateral without proper establishment of
priority of lien and, therefore, difficulty in enforcing creditors' rights. Both Entities have adopted
laws on Pledges on Movables, drafted with international assistance, and a bilateral donor is
assisting in the design and implementation of a countrywide registry.
30. Resolution of commercial disputes through the courts is slow. The courts are known to be
weak, deficient and, in many instances, subject to political direction and corruption.5 Enforcement
of laws, contracts and court decisions is exceptionally poor and reflect the inadequacies of the
whole legal system. Both Entities recently introduced new laws (the Law on Judicial and
Prosecutorial Service (Federation), the Law on Prosecutors (RS) and the Law on Courts and Court
Services (RS)) that are designed to de-politicize the judiciary.     These laws also establish
independent judicial commissions to conduct a review of the judiciary and prosecutors-an effort
overseen by the Office of the High Representative's (OHR) Independent Judicial Commission
(UJC), which oversees all judicial reform activities for BH. Judicial reform is being accelerated
under a February 2002 decision by the Steering Board of the Peace Implementation Council to
'European Commission Recommendation on Improving and Simplifying the Business Environmentfor Business Start-Ups, article 11, C(97) 1161
(April 22, 1997).
Intemational Crisis Group reports. Denied Justice: Individuals Lost in a Legal Maze, February 2000; Rule of Law in Public Administration:
Confusion and Discrimination in a Post-Communist Bureaucracy, December 1999; and Rule Over Law: Obstacles to the Development of
an Independent Judiciary in Bosnia and Herzegovina, July 1999; and World Bank's Anti-Corruption Diagnostic, March 2001.
10



remove all judges and prosecutors and replace them by the end of 2003 on the basis of
qualifications and merit, rather than political appointment.
31. Weak and disparate public procurement legislation and practice limits the opportunity for
private sector participation in public tenders, impedes competition and creates rent-seeking
opportunities. While the RS recently enacted a Law on Public Procurement, both the law and its
implementation need to be strengthened to eliminate abuses (e.g., reducing procurements in small-
value lots to avoid open bidding; short bidding periods to favor preferred bidders; excessive public
official discretion to award contracts; inadequate advertising requirements that limit competition).
In the Federation, the enforceability of public procurement rules is severely weakened by the facts
that rules are mandated by decree rather than law and that there is little awareness of the decree.
No public procurement legislation exists at the State level. The Government recognizes that
harmonized procurement legislation is important to promoting competition and strengthening of a
single economic space in BH, and it is included in the Government's draft anti-corruption action
plan that is in the process of public consultation. A Bank-led Country Procurement Assessment
Report is nearing finalization.
32. Regular consultation between the public and private sector in the formnulation of laws,
regulations and policies affecting business, essential to creating an effective business environment,
is lacking in BH. Discussions between Government and the private sector occur irregularly and
infrequently. Furthermore, meetings often have been one-on-one with Government officials and
managers and/or owners of the largest and most influential firms, which commonly are the loss-
making state-owned enterprises. This has resulted in the perception that mostly "connected"
persons have a voice with Government and that this voice rarely and poorly represents the interests
of the broader business community. The authorities have established a forum for formal
consultation with stakeholders as a part of the PRSP process. This is a first step toward regular
consultations on business environment issues.
33. Mandatory membership in Chambers of Commerce and laws that prevent businesses from
forming alternative associations effectively create a Government-sanctioned monopoly for the
Chambers and crowd out viable alternatives that may better serve the needs and represent the views
of the emerging private sector.  Although some Chambers have begun to restructure their
operations to better serve the needs of the private sector, most new private businesses express
dissatisfaction with what is effectively a "tax," as they perceive little value from the Chambers in
return. As a result, many private businesses do not interact with the Chambers and see them as
relics of the past.
34. In response, some private business owners in both Entities have established organizations
under laws allowing creation of citizens' associations; others have affiliated with the Chambers in
order to associate as businesses rather than individuals. Private business associations that have
been established, however, are struggling. Fees derived from membership and services are limited
by a small membership base and make it difficult to compete with the monolithic, monopolistic
Chambers. Although still developing their capacity for effective public-private sector dialogue,
these new private business associations are now beginning to lobby the Government on behalf of
11



their constituents. As a first step, the RS recently adopted legislation that sets the stage for
elimination of mandatory membership by establishing a new basis for fee generation and retaining
the mandatory structure as an interim measure only. The Federation is drafting legislation to
eliminate mandatory fees in 2002. This will provide incentive for the Chambers to reform into
service-oriented organizations that will compete with private associations for their membership.
The State has adopted legislation to allow individuals and businesses to associate across the
country.
35. Reform Agenda. The Government will reduce impediments to business operations by:
* Preparing an inventory of legal and extra-legal inspectorates at all levels of government as a
first step toward minimizing redundancies that are costly to both government and
businesses. The activities of the inspectorates will be coordinated, eliminating duplication
and overlap, and initiatives for joint training and information sharing will be implemented;
the mandate of each inspectorate, authority of inspectors and the process for appealing
inspectors' decisions will be clarified and publicized; rational, planned inspection schedules
with appropriate notification to the business will be initiated; standard inspection forms and
guidelines for, and review of, penalties imposed by inspectors will be established; a Code of
Conduct for inspectors will be developed; time limits for different inspection activities and
performance standards for inspectors will be set, against which performance will be
monitored; and regulations will be reviewed and rationalized and those that are deemed
outdated or unnecessary will be repealed.  In order to assess impact of the reforms,
independent surveys will be conducted periodically to measure progress against key results
indicators, such as reduction in the average amount of time inspectors spend on-site per
inspected business per year in aggregate for Market, Labor, Financial Police and Revenue
(Tax) Administration inspectorates (i.e., from 28 to 15 days or less in the RS and from 18
days to 12 days or less in the Federation).
*  Improving access to capital by protecting creditors' collateral rights in secured transactions
through creation of a countrywide registry of pledges on movables and increasing capacity
of judges, clerks, lawyers and banks to implement the new system.
*  Improving enforcement and commercial dispute resolution by supporting the further
development of alternative dispute resolution mechanisms and utilizing progressive courts
to formally pilot specialized commercial sections of the court with jurisdiction over
business registration, collateral registration and enforcement of secured transactions, and
bankruptcy and liquidation proceedings. Such specialization would be combined with
selection, qualification and training programs for commercial judges and expert associates.
*  Adopting and implementing strong, harmonized public procurement legislation at State and
Entity levels to promote a fair, transparent and competitive environment for private sector
growth.
12



* Strengthening capacity for regular consultations between the Government and the business
communitv to promote business-friendly reforms.
* Ending the mandatory membership fees for businesses to join the Chambers of Commerce
and encouraging them to compete on a commercial basis with other business associations.
D.   Business Exit
36. Current Situation. A well-functioning system of bankruptcy and liquidation is an essential
element of a market economy. Bankruptcy serves many important functions: it relieves debtors of
the burden of debts; it frees up non- or under-performing assets to be channeled into more efficient
uses; it encourages entrepreneurial activity by facilitating risk-taking behavior and it promotes
lending by preventing debtors from delaying and squandering resources and allowing creditors to
recover some portion of debts owed. As a transition economy, the bankruptcy and liquidation
system is extremely important for BH. It will facilitate exit of numerous loss-making state-owned
enterprises that will not find buyers in the privatization process and which must make way for new,
private businesses.
37. In 1998, the Federation adopted a modem bankruptcy law, while former SFRY bankruptcy
legislation is still in effect in the RS. An inter-Entity working group, comprised of local and
international experts, is finalizing its draft of this important legislation to ensure that it is
coordinated with other core business legislation (i.e., the Law on Enterprises and the Law on Entry
into the Court Register) and is in line with relevant EU directives.
38. Reform Agenda. The Government will facilitate business exit by:
*  Modernizing bkrupitc and liquidation laws and procedures so they are consistent with
EU standards; reducing high up-front fees needed to initiate bankruptcy proceedings; and
initiating the creation of a better system through which capable trustees, liquidators and
specialized judges are trained, certified and engaged to implement modem exit procedures
for enterprises.
13



III. THE PROPOSED CREDIT
A. Rationale for Bank Involvement
39. The Business Environment Adjustment Credit (BAC) is proposed as the next in a series of
adjustment operations that IDA has extended to Bosnia and Herzegovina following the Dayton
Accord. Previously approved adjustment operations include the Enterprise and Bank Privatization
Adjustment Credit (EBPAC), Public Finance Structural Adjustment Credits I and 1I (PFSAC), and
a Social Sector Adjustment Credit (SOSAC). A second Social Sector Adjustment Credit (SOSAC
II) is under preparation. An IMF Stand-by Arrangement (SBA) was successfully concluded in May
2001; a letter of intent for a new Stand-by Arrangement was signed by the BH authorities on March
27, 2002.
40. The proposed Credit is an integral part of the Government's Interim Poverty Reduction
Strategy Paper submitted to the Bank and the IMF in December 2001, to be followed by a full
PRSP in 2002. The I-PRSP envisions acceleration of privatization, strengthening of the financial
sector, and establishment of an enabling environment for domestic and foreign investment. The I-
PRSP further recognizes that a key element of a good enabling environment for business is
strengthening of a single economic space in BH, following the EU example. The BAC also is
consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) dated May 18, 2000 and the CAS Progress
Report, dated September 24, 2001, which lays out a graduated assistance strategy aimed at helping
BH to formulate and implement a comprehensive reform program that would accelerate the
country's transition away from dependency on aid toward self-sustaining growth.
B. Monitoring and Evaluation
41. Recognizing that previous experience in BH has shown that changes to laws and regulations
alone are not always effective in achieving results on the ground, the Credit incorporates
performance-based results indicators as second tranche conditions. These performance-based
actions will help ensure that key reforms are effectively implemented and result in tangible
improvements in the business environment. In particular, the authorities have agreed to specific
results to decrease the amount of time and number of steps to register a business and to reduce the
compliance burden on businesses as measured by the on-site inspector time spent by those
inspectorates common to all businesses. An independent system for monitoring results and
determining compliance for tranche release has been established.
42. A baseline survey of administrative and regulatory costs of doing business in BH was
conducted by a local NGO, and overseen by the Association and FIAS, among 302 randomly
selected majority private companies representative of the country's economic activity. The survey
instrument, sample size and methodology for the baseline survey were established in cooperation
with FIAS to allow comparison with other countries that have undertaken similar surveys. The
resulting baseline indicators set the starting point for each Entity. Every six months throughout the
14



term of the reform program, an abbreviated survey to assess progress against the baseline indicators
will be carried out according to specific methodology described in Annex 6. The method for
calculating results of the surveys and determining compliance with the conditions are also detailed
in the annex.
43. The surveys will be carried out under the auspices of the Ministry of Foreign Trade and
Economic Relations, in conjunction with FIAS and the Association. Each of the Entities, the State
and the Association may appoint a monitor to observe that the sample selection and survey process
are being carried out according to agreed terms to ensure independence and reliable results. The
names of the firms, however, will remain anonymous to the monitors in order to maintain integrity
of the sample.
44. In addition to the semi-annual surveys, a full survey will be carried out with donor assistance
every 18 months for at least three years and results widely publicized to increase transparency and
accountability for the reform program and to encourage continued progress of BH's efforts to
improve the business environment.
45. In addition to results of the surveys, regular monitoring of the program will be carried out by a
field-based Task Team Leader (TTL) supported by periodic supervision missions. The TTL will
coordinate closely with other donors, particularly those providing critical technical assistance
necessary for the implementation of the reform program. The Government's implementation and
monitoring arrangements are further described in Section F, "Implementation," Paragraphs 55-58.
C. Benefits and Risks
46. The main benefits of the proposed Credit include: (i) contributing to the building an
investment climate attractive for new entrants and for increased productivity of existing private
businesses to promote economic growth and absorb labor and other resources released by the
privatization and downsizing of the state-owned enterprises; (ii) strengthening the concept of a
single economic space through greater harmonization of administrative and regulatory frameworks,
thereby moving the country closer to its goal of integrating more fully into the regional economy
and the European Union; and (iii) building a more dynamic private sector that will create much
needed new jobs-this in turn will spur a shift away from informal sector activity toward formal
sector activity and to the payment of taxes resulting in more funds for vital social services and
transfers, which are now often unavailable or only partially available to the poor
47. Main risks associated with the proposed Credit are: (i) complex and fragmented govemance
arrangements in Bosnia and Herzegovina-Entities, Cantons, municipalities and cities-may prove
challenging for implementation of reforms at lower levels of Government; (ii) momentum or
commitment could be lost in the lead-up to and aftermath of fall 2002 elections; and (iii) rooted
mindsets of the system of the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia as well as in vested
interests the current system may result in resistance to change and delays as many continue to view
the private sector with suspicion and others stand to lose opportunities for rent-seeking.
15



48. In order to mitigate the risk of complex and fragmented governance arrangements in Bosnia
and Herzegovina, the task team consulted with local governments, NGOs and donors to seek
alternatives to minimize this risk. For registration of businesses and pledges, the risk is minimal as
the Cantonal and regional courts, where this activity takes place, are involved in the design of the
new system and will receive equipment and training to facilitate implementation of the registries.
Most local level administrative functions, such as certain inspections and registration of sole
proprietorships, are delegated by the Entities or, in the Federation, by the Cantons. While this
limits the risk by giving some accountability to the Entities, it does not eliminate it. As part of the
monitoring arrangements, surveys will be conducted periodically to measure administrative and
regulatory costs of doing business. As previously noted (see Paragraphs 42-44), progress will be
measured against selected baseline indicators that will be linked to release of the second tranche.
This is expected to help motivate the Entities to impact change at sub-Entity levels. In addition, the
task team has identified a number of donor-funded local economic development (LED) programs
that are expected to form the basis of a partnership to coordinate reforms under the BAC at the
local level. In particular, implementation of the BAC is closely coordinated with IFC's Southeast
Europe Enterprise Development (SEED), which is working with selected municipalities to design
LED.
49. While current State and Entity Governments together have demonstrated commitment to and
ownership of reforms, this is a relatively recent development; previous Governments, especially in
the RS, have been resistant to collaborate toward the strengthening of a single economic space.
The recently established Coordination Board for Economic Transition and European Integration to
move the Government's reform agenda forward on a cohesive and accelerated basis is expected to
transcend the elections and provide continued support for the reform program. This will help
mitigate, but cannot eliminate, the risk that momentum or commitment could be lost in the lead-up
to and aftermath offall 2002 elections. It will be important that key actions aimed at strengthening
the single economic space establish strong momentum before the fall elections.
50. The Govermments' anti-corruption programs, supported by the Bank, and many of the laws,
regulations and structures subject to the BAC reform program, will significantly reduce
opportunities for rent-seeking behavior and will help mitigate the risk that vested interests the
current system may result in resistance to change and delays. Changing mindsets will be a long-
term process, which poses a risk that cannot be fully eliminated.
D. Coordination with the IMF
51. There has been close coordination with the IMF to assure the BAC supports and complements
the IMF program. As well, the IMF participated in Government workshops sponsored by FIAS to
solicit feedback on the recommendations on which the BAC is based. Consultations on the new
IMF Stand by Arrangement have emphasized the need to remove structural barriers to SME growth
and employment as an important factor contributing to poverty reduction.
16



E. Board and Second Tranche Conditions
52. The overall program to be supported by the proposed Credit is outlined in the Letter of
Development Policy (Annex 3) and the Policy Reform Matrix (Annex 4).
(i)  Board Conditions
53. Conditions of Board presentation demonstrate Government actions taken to date to improve
the business environment, including the adoption of a single time-bound action plan for
implementation of business environment reforms by State (Bosnia and Herzegovina) and Entity
(Federation and Republika Srpska) Governments.
*  State Council of Ministers adopted amendments to the Decision on Foundation of Foreign
Investment Promotion Agency, satisfactory to the Association, and allocated funding for its
operations.
* Entities adopted Foreign Investment Laws, satisfactory to the Association and fully
harmonized with the State Law on Policy of Foreign Direct Investment.
*  State and Entities established a formal mechanism, satisfactory to the Association, for regular
consultation with the private sector to consider their views in the formulation of policies and
legislation affecting business.
* Entities formally adopted the concept of common procedures and single database for each of
business registration and registration of pledges on movables (i.e., collateral registry).
*  Entities adopted Laws on Registered Pledges on Movables, satisfactory to the Association.
* Entities conducted an independent baseline survey of administrative and regulatory costs of
business.
*  State and Entities drafted an anti-corruption action plan, incorporating public procurement,
and initiated the public consultation process.
* Entities eliminated the overlapping authorities of the Financial Police and the Revenue (Tax)
Administration.
*  State adopted the Law on Associations and Foundations of BH, satisfactory to the Association,
allowing associations to cooperate across BH.
* Entities established a working group to draft new harmonized bankruptcy laws. The working
group has already produced a draft that is in the process of being finalized.
17



(ii) Second Tranche Conditions
54. Second tranche conditions continue the process of reform not only through: (a) prescriptive
legal and regulatory reform measures to be taken by both Entities, requiring harmonized actions to
promote strengthening of a single economic space; but also by: (b) performance-based actions,
which ensure that reforms are effectively implemented and result in tangible improvements in the
business environment, as measured by selected results indicators. While the substance of the
results indicators is the same for both Entities, the targets established take into account the different
starting points in each Entity and, consequently distinct sets of achievable goals. As the onus is on
each Entity to achieve these goals, disbursement of the second tranche will be made independently
to each Entity upon fulfillment of its second tranche conditions.
* FIPA representative offices are staffed and operating in both Entities.
*  Pilot of the business registry system embodying common procedures, common forms, and
single database has been tested in selected courts across both Entities, and a plan for full
implementation, satisfactory to the Association, has been adopted.
* Entities reduce the average number of days to register a business from 80 to 30 days or less in
the Federation and from 31 to 23 days or less in the RS, as measured by independent surveys
on a semi-annual basis.
* Entities reduce the number of steps required to register an enterprise to 7 or less.
* Pilot of the collateral registry system embodying common procedures, common forms, single
database and trained participants (judges, clerks, banks) has been tested in selected courts
across both Entities, and a plan for full implementation, satisfactory to the Association, has
been adopted.
* Entities have established a business inspection system, satisfactory to the Association, that
provides for: the review and rationalization of the mandates of inspectorates operating at Entity
and sub-Entity levels; clarification and publication of the mandates of the inspectorates and the
inspectors; rational, planned inspection schedules, standard forms and guidelines; amendments
to legislation as necessary to implement rationalization of the inspectorates, and regulatory
assessment with the goal of appealing obsolete or unnecessary regulations.
* The average number of aggregate on-site inspector days per inspected business per annum for
the Market, Labor, Financial Police and Revenue Administration combined will be reduced
from 28 days to 15 days or less in the RS and from 18 days to 12 days or less in the
Federation.
* Entities adopt amendments to the Laws on Chambers of Commerce, satisfactory to the
Association, to eliminate mandatory membership.
18



* Entities adopt strengthened and harmonized Laws on Bankruptcy and Liquidation, satisfactory
to the Association.
F. Implementation
55. As previously noted, the Council of Ministers and Entity Governments have adopted a
countrywide action plan to implement recommendations of the FIAS study on Commercial Legal
Frarnework and Administrative Barriers to Investment. A working group, or secretariat, comprised
of State and Entity technical experts across relevant ministries were appointed by Entity Prime
Ministers and the State Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations (MFTER) to draft the
time-bound action plan based on the FIAS study and in consultation with the private sector, and
will continue to act as the technical monitoring group for implementation of the reforms. The plan
also notes parties responsible for the actions. The action plan will be the Government's key
instrument for monitoring progress against the business environment reforms.
56. The high-level cross-Governmental Coordination Board for Economic Transition and
European Integration, that is providing leadership to the country's economic reform agenda, will
have overall responsibility for ensuring progress under the BAC. More specific responsibility for
implementation matters has been delegated to MFTER in coordination with the Entity Prime
Ministers. Each Entity and the State has appointed a "champion" in the Prime Minister's cabinet
(in METER at the State level) to oversee implementation of the business environment reforms at
the Entity level, and serve as the Association's primary counterpart for the BAC. The BAC task
team has worked effectively with each "champion". A bilateral donor has committed financial and
technical assistance to State and Entities to assure access to local and international experts as
needed to move the agenda forward, and to fund activities of FIAS in supporting the Government's
implementation of surveys and self-assessment tools to monitor progress against results and to
help build capacity for public-private sector dialogue.
57. As noted earlier (Paragraphs 41-44), baseline surveys to assess administrative and regulatory
costs of doing business in BH, in each Entity and in a cross-section of municipalities, have been
completed. Bilateral funding is available to conduct the full survey twice in a three-year period and
targeted surveys to measure progress against agreed indicators every six months during that time,
after which point the Government is expected to continue the surveys with its own resources.
Methodology for the surveys is included in Annex 6. Results will be widely publicized both to
increase transparency and accountability and to encourage continued progress under the reform
program.
58. Another important factor for successful implementation of the reform program is availability
of technical assistance. Bilateral technical assistance has been arranged for implementation of most
of the reform areas supported by the BAC. Those that are not yet committed, such as support for
rationalizing inspections and regulations, are under discussion with interested donors and the task
19



team is confident that grant funding will be secured for all remaining areas. A "map" of
administrative responsibilities in the Government and technical assistance in place is included in
Annex 5.
G. Financial Arrangements
59. The Credit would be disbursed in two tranches, with the second tranche disbursed separately
to the Entities. In terms of financial monitoring, the Bank will complement its increased emphasis
on borrower public financial management in its analytic work and lending program with stronger
reporting and auditing arrangements over the disbursements of adjustment credit proceeds. These
controls are not intended to restrict or prescribe the uses to which adjustment credit proceeds funds
may be applied by the Borrower. They are rather intended to provide assurance that Bank funds
have arrived at their intended destination, have been used in the first instance for their intended
purpose of providing balance of payments and fiscal support, and will be subject to the Borrower
processes for managing public resources which are known to and can be reviewed by both the Bank
and the IMEF.
60. Fiduciary arrangements have been agreed with authorities at the State (Borrower) and Entity
levels. Disbursement would be made in SDR's and sold to the Central Bank in exchange for KMs.
The KMs will be deposited into a dedicated Deposit Account of the State at the Central Bank of
BH. The entire amount of all disbursements would be transferred from the State Deposit Account
to the budgetary accounts of the Entities in the Central Bank and then transferred to budgetary
accounts of the Entities in commercial banks. The Entities have agreed that they will transfer $4
million equivalent of the first tranche to the State budget through the normal transfer mechanism.
Tranche release would be contingent upon satisfactory review by IDA of the implementation of the
adjustment program as a whole and the fulfillment of specific actions required for each tranche.
Proceeds of the Credit will be used for approved uses, such as foreign debt service. The Borrower
will comply with standard reporting requirements of adjustment credits. The Association will
exercise its right to receive audit reports on the Deposit Account after each disbursement.
61. In recognition that studies continue to indicate weak financial accountability and controls, the
upcoming PRSP will include measures to strengthen accountability. The country recognizes that
corruption is a critical impediment and has drafted an anti-corruption action plan for which public
comments are being sought. The anti-corruption action plan, together with many of the measures
carried out under the BAC and related reforms, will further help reduce the corruption in BH and
improve accountability.
H. Poverty Implications
62. The reform program supported by the proposed Credit is an integral component of the
Government's Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (see Paragraphs 12-13). Strong private
sector growth, a key objective of the BAC, is seen as the principal vehicle for poverty reduction
through employment creation in an environment of high unemployment.
20



I. Environmental Impact
63. The proposed Credit will have no direct impact on the environment. For the purposes of
Operational Directive 4.01, it has been rated Category C, and therefore does not require an
environmental assessment.
IV. RECOMMENDATION
64. I am satisfied that the proposed Credit complies with the Articles of Agreement of the
Association and I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the Credit.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
by Shengman Zhang
Washington D.C.
April 24, 2002
21



ANNEX 1: KEY ECONOMIC INDICATORS
TABLE 1
Bosnia and Herzegovina - Key Economic Indicators
Actual                 Estimate              Projected
Indicator                1996    1997     1998     1999     2000     2001    2002     2003     2004
National accounts (as % of GDP)
Gross domestic product'                    100     100      100      100      100      100      100     100      100
Agriculture                             20.5     16.9     15.3     13.8     12.4      ..
Industry                                25.7     25.3     26.7     25.2     26.3      ..
Services                                53.8     57.8     58.0     61.0     61.3      ..
Total Consumption                        117.2    104.2    100.9    113.0   110.1    106.7    102.9    100.6     97.9
Gross domestic fixed investment           34.6     35.6    32.2     20.6     20.7     20.5     20.6     19.7     19.5
Government investment                      ..      ..       ..     17.6     15.9     14.0     12.0    1 1.8    11.0
Private investment                         ..      ..       ..      3.0      4.8     6.5      8.6      7.9      8.5
Exports (GNFS)b                           24.0     28.4    30.2     26.5     27.1     26.6     26.5     26.6     27.2
Imports (GNFS)                            83.1    73.9     6S.1     60.1     57.9     53.3     49.9     46.9     44.6
Gross domestic savings                   -17.2     -4.2     -0.9    -13.0    -10.1    -6.7     -2.9      -.6      2.1
Gross national savings'                   14.6     11.2     18.0    -0.8      0.1      2.3      5.2      6.6      7.8
Memorandum items
Grossdomesticproduct                     2741     3527     4169     4540     4394     4808     5232    5749     6303
(USS mrillion at current prices)
GNPPpcrcapita(USS, AtlasmethOa)             ..    1010     1140     1200     1310     1310     1330     1450     1600
Real annual growth rates (%. calculated from 19.. prices)
Gross domestic product at market prices  79.2    36.6     10.2     10.0      5.9      6.0      6.0     6.0      6.0
Gross Domestic [ncome                                   ..      ..       ..       ..       ..       ..
Real annual per capita growth rates (%, calculated from 19.. prices)
Gross domestic product at market prices  73.1    32.3      6.8      6.8      4.8      5.0      5.0      5.1     7.5
Total consumption                       56.1     17.7      3.5      6.8      3.5      1.4      1.2     2.5      4.3
Private consumption                        ..      ..       ..       ..       ..      ..
Balance of Payments (USS millions)
Exports(GNFS)                            658     1002     1260     1201     1192     1278     1386     1532     1712
Merchandise FOB                        336      575      697      649      732     834      968     1123     1303
Imports (GNFS)b                         2278    2606     2840     2728     2543     2588     2612     2696     2813
Merchandise FOB                       1882     2333     2656     2502     2348    2346     2378     2457     2561
Resourccbalance                        -1620    *1604    -1580    -1527    -1351    -1310    -1227    -1164    -1101
Netcurrenttransfers                     1094      772      461      284      217      172      169      176      178
Current account balance                 -748    -1060     -789     -971     -909     -875     -804     -750     -738
Net private foreign direct investment      0        0      100       90      150     200       200     200      250
Long-term loans (net)                    514       19      251      -55      227     236       199      83       101
Official                                 ..       ..       ..       ..      247     203       181      143      90
Private                                  ..       ..       ..       ..      -19      33        IS      -60       11
Othercapital(net.u nl.enoms&ounissions)  477     1132      499     1198      575     498      452      516      408
Change in reserVesd                     -243      -91      -61     -262      -43      -60      -47      -48      -21
Memorandum items
Resource balance (% of GDP)             -59.1    -45.5    -37.9    -33.6    -30.7    -30.5    -26.9    -23.2    -20.0
Real annual growth rates ( .. prices)
Merchandise exports (FOB)                 ..       ..       ..       ..       ..       ..
Primary                                  ..       ..       ..       ..       ..
Manufactures                             ..       ..       ..                ..       ..
Merchandise imports (CIF)                 ..       ..       ..       ..       ..       ..
Continued
22



TABLE 2
Bosnia and Herzegovina - Key Economic Indicators
(Continued)
Actual                 Etsimale              Pro"acted
hInicator                1996      1997     199S    IM99     2000     2001     2002     2003      2004
PubUc ftinance (as % of CDP at market prices)
Currentr te                               37.2     28.2     30.5     31.7     31.0     31.6     30.      30.2      29.8
Curren expenditurcs                       41.0     26.9     31.0     32.6     32.2     31.4     30.0     28.6      27.4
Cunt account splus (+) or deficit(.)      -3.9      1.3     40.5     -0.9     -1.2      0.2      0.6      1.6       2.4
Capital cxpenditure                        0.6     18.2     16.2     16.5     14.7     14.0     12.0      I 1.8    11.6
Foreign financing                          0.0     16.9     16.S     17A      16.1     13.8     ll.4     10.2       9.2
Meontary Indicators
M2IGDP                                    18.8     19.3     21.1     26.0     27.3     28.2     29.2     30.1      31.1
GrowthofM2( )                             96.2     52.0     31.3     39.9     16.1     14.2     12.3      13.4     13.2
Privacesectorcreditgrmwthl               191.6    119A     102.3   -229.6    198.6    312.1     77.2    103.2      10.5
total cedit growth (%)
Price Indees( - -100)
Merchandise export price ine                 ..      ..        _        .        ..       .        .        .
Merchandise import price index               ..      ..        _        ..      ..
Mac     di tmnm of trade index              ..                ..       ..       ..       ..
Real exchag rate (USSILCU)t.                          .        _        .        .        .         .       .
Real interm  ates
Cauusmrprke Index (%change)                7.7     13.6      1.0      3.2      5A       5.0       3.6      3.6      3.3
GDP dator (% change)                     -14.0      8.5      S8       3.1      4.6      5.3      2.7      3.7       3.7
a. GDP at
b. IGNFS, denotes goods and non1ctor services."
c. nCludes net unrequited tnfas excilding official capital grants.
d. Includes use of lMF resourcs
*. Consolidated cetal govenmict.
t. LCUI drenotes loal currency units." An increase in USS1LCU denote appreciation.
23



ANNEX 2
TIMETABLE OF KEY PROCESSING EVENTS
1.   Preparation mission:         March 5, 2001
2.   Pre-appraisal mission:       September 10, 2001
3.   Appraisal mission:           February 25, 2002
4.   Negotiations:                April 03, 2002
5.   Planned Board presentation:  May 21, 2002
6.   Planned date of effectiveness:  August 19, 2002
7.   Expected program completion: December 31, 2003
24



ANNEX 3: LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
Business Environment Adjustment Credit to Bosnia and Herzegovina
April 9, 2002
Mr. James D. Wolfensohn
President
World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, DC 20433
LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
Dear Mr. Wolfensohn:
As you are aware, Bosnia and Herzegovina (BH) has experienced strong economic
recovery since the signing of the Dayton Peace Agreement in December 1995. Much of this
recovery-reflected in average GDP growth of 29 percent in real terms during 1996-2000--came
from large inflows of concessional funds from the Priority Reconstruction and Recovery Program
(PRRP), which was successful in helping the country to rebuild its basic infrastructure and to
restart economic activity.
Macroeconomic stabilization is now by and large intact. We successfully concluded an
IMF Stand by Arrangement (SBA) in May 2001, and a letter of intent for a new SBA was signed
on March 27, 2002. Unemployment has halved from its high of nearly 80 percent at the end of
the war. Real per capita consumption has increased significantly for most households. Inflation
has fallen progressively, and is currently running at an annual rate of 5 percent. The strong
economic recovery has allowed post-war output to more than double, from US$1,867 million in
1995 to US$4,372 million in 2000.
However, we are aware that the prospect for entering a phase of self-sustained growth will
require successful and accelerated implementation of economic and institutional reforms. In this
respect, we have taken some important steps that contribute to improving the investment climate
for private sector growth. Reforms are ongoing in areas of:
* Accelerating privatization to eliminate the unfair competition of privileged state-owned
firms and to free up resources for use by the private sector
*  Strengthening the banking sector to build capacity of financial intermediaries to support
private sector growth
*  Lightening a burdensome tax regime to motivate companies to return from the informal to
the formal sector
25



*  Liberalizing trade, modernizing customs administration and strengthening competition
policy to improve the competitive environment for the private sector
*  Improving property rights and access to land create the foundation for an active land
market and productive use of land
* Fighting corruption and increasing the independence and capacity of the judiciary.
Among the most successful economic achievements over the past few years has been
the establishment of the Central Bank, introduction and widespread acceptance of the
Konvertible Marka (KM) and, just last year, elimination of the old Yugoslav-era payment
bureaus and transfer of clearing functions to commercial banks. BH was the first in the region
to achieve this difficult task, and both banks and businesses are the beneficiaries. Dramatic
improvements in the banking sector have occurred in recent months, with 80 percent of banking
sector assets now controlled by privately owned banks and more than 60 percent now in
foreign-owned banks. The conversion of the Deutsche Mark to the Euro fueled an "explosion"
in consumer deposits, which doubled to KM 1.3 billion during the quarter ended December 31,
2001. The introduction of deposit insurance, soon to be moved to the state level, has boosted
confidence in the banking sector and participating banks are the largest beneficiaries of these
deposits.
As BH continues in the transition from recovery and reconstruction to economic growth
and sustainability, it has become clear to us that we still have a difficult road ahead. Already,
external debt service requirements are growing at a faster pace than public revenues, at the
same time that concessional aid flows are diminishing. Despite our best efforts to attract
foreign investment, which we view as essential to fill the gap and to bring much needed
technology and management expertise, we continue to lag behind our neighbors. In 2000,
foreign investment was only 3.4 percent of GDP.
We wanted to know why BH is not an attractive location for investment and what we
could do about it. We commissioned the Foreign Investment Advisory Service (FIAS) to
follow its previous work with the Foreign Investment Promotion Agency (FIPA) and help in
drafting our FDI laws by carrying out a study of the Commercial Legal Framework and
Administrative Barriers to Investment in BH. The FIAS study confirmed much of what has
been clear to businesses here--that despite improvements, investors continue to face a difficult
business environment with:
26



*    Absence of a seamless, transparent and predictable legal and regulatory framework
that proves to be a major impediment to setting up and operating a business.
*    Inconsistent and unclear business and administrative regulations and procedures opens
the door to abuse of power at various levels of government-which is compounded by
the absence of effective and independent appeals mechanisms-significantly raises the
cost of doing business.
*    The lack of effective laws, regulations and mechanisms for securing and enforcing
collateral severely restricts availability of much needed working and investment capital
from banks.
*    Courts are weak, deficient, and, in many instances, subject to political direction and
corruption causing long delays in the resolution of commercial disputes.
*    The 14-step business registration process is overloaded with unnecessary but
mandatory approvals resulting in a sequential process that can take months to
complete and is yet another reason for perpetuation of the gray economy.
*    Once registered, businesses face a multitude of inspections from  numerous
inspectorates with unclear and often overlapping mandates, leading to excessive
administrative costs for compliance.
With the assistance of FIAS, we consulted with the private sector, NGOs and other
stakeholders to help us prioritize actions that would have significant impact over the next two
years for improving the business environment and attracting private investment-both foreign
and domestic. This process became an important part of our deliberations and preparation for the
Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper, which envisions growth of the private sector as one of
the key contributing factors to the alleviation of poverty in BH.
Business Environment Reforms
On the basis of these efforts, we have entered into a new reform program to improve the
business environment. Objectives of the reform program are to reduce those administrative and
regulatory barriers that would have the most critical near-term impact on the three phases of
business development:
*    Improving business entry through streamlined and transparent countrywide approach
to business registration and licensing and strengthened legal framework and capacity
for attracting foreign investment
*    Streamlining the environment for business operation by reducing companies'
administrative and regulatory compliance costs through rationalization of inspections
and regulations, strengthening of judicial and extra-judicial capacity to resolve
commercial disputes; improving enforcement of secured transactions; and leveling the
playing field for private sector participation in public procurement
*    Facilitating business exit through improved bankruptcy and liquidation systems.
Underlying these objectives is the need to strengthen the consultative capacity between
the public and private sectors to promote policies and legislation that are business-
friendly.
27



While the proposed credit would have significant short-term results in improving the
business environment and increasing the momentum, we expect that full impact of reforms of
administrative and regulatory barriers to investment will be longer term. The key is to initiate
critical changes that lead to strong momentum toward a self-sustaining process of improving the
investment climate. We expect that the emerging private sector will find its voice and be maj or
players in pushing priority reforms in the future, as we work in partnership with them to improve
the investment climate.
Business Entry
When compared with other countries in Central and Eastern Europe as well as in the
European Union, efficiency of the business registration process in BH ranks at the bottom.
Although certain courts have taken steps to streamline the processes connected with the
registration of a company and to make the process more transparent, we know that this type of
piecemeal reform is insufficient. Therefore, we intend to creating common streamlined business
registration and licensing procedures and a single registry countrywide.
Changes would include introducing a single business registration form and eliminating
superfluous forms, contact points and approvals; simplifying and increasing the transparency of
the process; reducing the number of events that require re-registration; enforcing the "deemed
approved" system, as allowed in existing laws, when a Governmental body does not meet a
required deadline; and using private sector professionals and lower level court personnel to assist
judges in the administrative tasks of business registration. The business registration process
could be re-engineered by summer 2002 and new system designed and ready for pilot testing by
yearend 2002. Certain laws, such as Laws on Entry into the Court Register and Company laws,
would require change to support the new system.  The company laws regulate all aspects of
corporate formation in BH. The FIAS study indicates that it is essential that these laws
incorporate the best practices of business organization and corporate governance and that they be
mutually consistent in order to create a consistent and harmonized regime for business in BH. It
is our intention, therefore, to modernize and harnonize the company laws of both Entities and to
bring them in line with EU standards.
We expect to see results of an improved process even sooner and will use independent
surveys to measure the reduction of time for registering a business. A baseline survey has been
conducted against which we set measurable, verifiable indicators. The full survey will be
conducted every 18 months; targeted surveys to measure progress against the indicators will be
carried out every six months. Results of the surveys will be publicized.
Simplifying the business registration process will be an important element in attracting
foreign investors. More important, however, will be assurance that their rights are protected and
that they are treated equally with domestic investors. Therefore, both Entities have harmonized
new Foreign Investment Laws with the State Law on Foreign Investment Policy and are
committed to implementing these laws. In order to promote and facilitate foreign investment
28



across BH, the Foreign Investment Promotion Agency (FIPA) will be strengthened. Changes to
its founding decree and statute that will help to de-politicize the organization and assure that the
new Steering Board has majority of representatives from private domestic and foreign investors.
The State will allocate adequate funding to ensure that FIPA can operate efficiently across BH
with representative offices staffed and operating in both Entities.
FIPA will build its capacity to represent local investment opportunities by creating strong
links with progressive local governments. The agency will increase visibility of BH by carrying
out a public relations campaign, including promotion of the Government's action plan to
improve the business environment for the benefit of private investors. We believe that the more
transparent we make our plans and achievements, the more attractive an environment we will be
for new investors.
Business Operations
The FIAS study reports that once investors have surmounted the administrative maze to
successfully begin operations, they are then faced with complying with a multitude of regulations
that are often inconsistent and outdated, with massive reporting requirements, and with
inspections by numerous inspectorates with unclear and often overlapping mandates. This was
noted by virtually all businesses as a top complaint and cost of doing business in BH. Bosnia
and Herzegovina is not alone. The European Commission, recognizing that a difficult regulatory
environment can discourage business activity, has recommended that the EU Member States
review their regulatory environments with a view toward streamlining.
We believe that this is one area where we can make significant near-term changes that
will dramatically reduce the costs of doing business. We will start with an inventory of legal--
and extra-legal--inspectorates at all levels of government as a first step toward minimizing
redundancies. The activities of the inspectorates will be coordinated, eliminating duplication
and overlap, and initiatives for joint training and information sharing will be implemented; the
mandate of each inspectorate, authority of inspectors and the process for appealing inspectors'
decisions will be clarified and publicized; rational, planned inspection schedules with appropriate
notification to the business will be initiated; standard inspection forms and guidelines for, and
review of, penalties imposed by inspectors will be established; a Code of Conduct for all
Government employees will be developed; time limits for different inspection activities and
performance standards for inspectors will be set, against which performance will be monitored;
and regulations will be reviewed and rationalized and those that are deemed outdated or
unnecessary will be repealed.
Because businesses report that inspections and regulations are among the top constraints
to doing business in BH, and because we think we can make dramatic improvements in a short
horizon, we will measure progress against the average number of inspector days spent on site in
business premises by those inspectorates that have mandates across all businesses: Market,
Labor, Financial Police and Revenue (Tax) Administration. And we will minimize the impact on
29



business operations by setting targets for the average time spent on-site by these four
inspectorates during a year.
Another area that severely limits the availability of financing to grow a business is the
weak system of securing and enforcing creditors' rights in collateral. We intend to improving
access to capital by protecting creditors' rights in secured transactions through adoption of a
satisfactory Law on Pledges on Movables and Shares in the Federation; creating a central registry
of pledges on movables, and increasing capacity of judges, clerks, lawyers and banks to
implement the new system. It is expected that the new system could be ready for to be pilot
tested in spring 2003.
In order to improving enforcement and commercial dispute resolution we will support
development of altemative dispute resolution mechanisms and use progressive courts to pilot
specialized commercial sections of the court with jurisdiction over business registration,
collateral registration and enforcement of secured transactions, and bankruptcy and liquidation
proceedings. Such specialization would be combined with selection, qualification and training
programs for commercial judges and expert associates.
Weak and disparate public procurement legislation and practice limits the opportunity
for private sector participation in public tenders, impedes competition and creates rent-seeking
opportunities. While the RS recently enacted a Law on Public Procurement, both the law and its
implementation need to be strengthened to eliminate potential for abuse (e.g., reducing
procurements in small-value lots to avoid open bidding; short bidding periods to favor preferred
bidders; excessive public official discretion to award contracts; inadequate advertising
requirements that limit competition). In the Federation, the enforceability of public procurement
rules is severely weak because they are enacted by decree rather than law and that there is little
awareness of the decree. No public procurement legislation exists at the State level. We
recognize that harmonized procurement legislation at all levels of public institutions is important
to promoting competition and strengthening of a single economic space in BH.
Therefore, we intend to adopt strong, harmonized public procurement legislation at all
levels of government for all public institutions. This is a vital part of our anti-corruption
program and an important element of the EU Roadmap.
We are aware that regular consultation between the public and private sector in the
formulation of laws, regulations and policies affecting business, are essential to creating an
effective business environment. Until now, we have relied heavily on the Chambers of
Commerce as the focal point of our consultations, but the private sector has clearly stated that it
is not adequately represented by the Chambers and wants to have a choice of representation.
Therefore, both Entities will pass legislation to eliminate the mandatory membership fees for the
Chamber and Government at State and Entity levels will institute a formal mechanism for regular
consultation with the private sector. In order to assure that our consultations are successful and
30



sustainable for the long-term, we will launch a series of workshops with the dual aim of
educating and advocating change to the business environment.
Business Exit
A well-functioning system of bankruptcy and liquidation is an essential element of a
market economy. Bankruptcy serves many important functions: it relieves debtors of the burden
of debts; it frees up non- or under-performing assets to be channeled into more efficient uses; it
encourages entrepreneurial activity by facilitating risk-taking behavior and it promotes lending
by preventing debtors from delaying and squandering resources and allowing creditors to recover
some portion of debts owed. As a transition economy, the bankruptcy and liquidation system is
extremely important for BH. It will facilitate exit of numerous loss-making state-owned
enterprises that will not find buyers in the privatization process and which must make way for
new, private businesses. In 1998, the Federation adopted a modem bankruptcy law, drafted with
international assistance. Former Yugoslav bankruptcy legislation is still in effect in the RS.
We plan to build upon lessons learned from years of transition in the region that
indicate that it is equally important to balance encouragement of new business activity with the
discipline to remove old, loss-making state-owned companies. It is also important that private
businesses have clear possibility of exit that allows productive parts of the business to survive.
Therefore, we plan to modernize bankruptcy and liquidation laws and procedures so they are
consistent with EU standards; reduce high up-front fees needed to initiate bankruptcy
proceedings; and initiate the creation of a better system through which capable trustees,
liquidators and specialized judges are trained, certified and engaged to implement modem exit
procedures for enterprises. New bankruptcy legislation could be in place by fall 2002.
Lastly, we have established a high-level cross-Governmental Coordination Board for
Economic Transition and European Integration to lead to the country's overall economic reform
agenda, including the business environment reform program. More specific responsibility for
implementation of the reform rests with the State Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic
Relations (MIFTER) in coordination with the Entity Prime Ministers. Each Entity has appointed
a "champion" in the Prime Minister's cabinet to oversee implementation of the business
environment reforms at the Entity level. A bilateral donor has committed financial and technical
assistance to State and Entities to assure that we have access to local and intemational experts as
needed to move the agenda forward. The donor also has committed to fund activities of FIAS to
support our monitoring activities related to implementation of surveys and self-assessment tools
and to help us build capacity for public-private sector dialogue. As noted before, we plan to
publicize the results of the surveys to promote transparency, accountability and further progress
of the reforms.
31



We hope that the above elaboration of our program for business environment reform
has clearly expressed our commitment.   As noted earlier, improvement of the business
environment is an integral part of our Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper, which envisions
growth of the private sector as one of the key contributing factors to the alleviation of poverty in
BH. The proposed BAC agenda will firmly launch the reform program and build momentum
that can be sustained by a stronger private sector in the medium  term.  The continued
contribution of the World Bank and the rest of the International Community is an essential part
of this challenging task.
,,-, ,2S"   5> t_,*, |Minister
v , - ~: > ',9im4s,6Tiegn Trade and Economic Relations
;  '""'. .;r ...' 8,Sriand Herzegovula
DCR
'JOO ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~1 
Alija Behi                                           Mid M      la
F002fiono3
32



AINI 'NIA 4
,~~~ ~~~                           flA      T ^L                          ERAIO       ITAN     HE          Ifl      PS     K                      Ennwortn.   enrlh3
p~%*Y  tditJ~flI1                                                  ND              O..-* 
.~~Ibi                             .-DE  TTIO RANCH
K ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                   - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SLare and Ennti (Ge,ernnmenL axe ru lI
.-\                                                                                                                                               c,r,rumtid to the promotio, c,l  i rirgn
1^   |.                                                                                                                                              direct r.%e.rm-.cnt -.d to proiecung rhc
i*- ->P ;                                     Enuties h3ve adopted Fdigre inieit                                                                                 n rdto protcctang the
I:,                                           Invsr em-  L n enU , L atsfictotr  to rnte                                                             rqabk*h buDmnsses u. BH   Fhe Entit
Association and fuIl hrrnonxzed
Srrer.gthen FDI Leg-al rrimework     wdii uimplement Ere Sute he S-on
^;. ,y,                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~wnh rne Smie Liv ,:,r P.: lc-, oi                                                                       mn    ohvOc
* 'Ira fl~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~F:rcp                                                  r~f
'J. <,!                                   FDi                                                                                                    treaTrdlned regEsirauunr process is
etablished, Enuti Foreign Inietnent
Lius i  lU eliminrate any exr-a teps for
foreign imesaton, which currendt i-ste to
______________________________ _r 1lregister with                                                                 Entity  mnu rcmes
.  ,. I                                                                                                                                        Thle CouncT e  oo f Minsters (StateJ ir
commnicped tc a de-polncized Fl PA ind
en:.ureadequate                     mgtU interue FdI                                                            ing   1cand tor b Ld
.i.                                                                                                                                            Lin  -: brenFP      andlocalState Concl oi uziers has  _. and
Jnvur%                                                                                                         pubh~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~efctrr capenpugtion Lncpremse iarnes
ofa BaHn od ord the re-nnent;bins
t-1 $  adopted amnendmencs i, the                                                                     lnc*nmer re         program
f . j;8, | Increase ropenoonir cap-3ry oi dh.e  Decsion on Foundir.- of Fl PA,  IFIPA represer.EaDC ,iffice 1: mufed  FIPA represenutive ,ffice L *tafTed  FhIPA bud peusoe 3n d: .reach priogme to
un 1 |FregnIveamn Pomon  gn sf3ctory to the . nand  ir0nS m dhe Fedenomon  ind operating Lr. Republilu '~rpu  ma n-cipalloe, and Canton;i FederSitona
Xl,0  t'FI PA5)                      allocared adeq3te ar.dirng                                                                            ro unc re iz e FD I av% arenuss Etid re btn dd
-'. .,;                                                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LmLn.kp,g beme en FIPAt and lc:Hx3
; i                                                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~gznvenmer,   FlPA vwdl carr n, i
pbrocis  campugn to boncrth E itire n ll
. ) e                                                                       Pilot of the                                                        .:.inei RegHHrn  serve BH  ired e the reiG inrient'. bustot
btl5                                                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~enm-tortmenr reform progmrin
.gtuii                                                                                                              Pilot ot tl-e Eltaines Registry  dome budndfome ind ccdv prxesr ic.r
S l>,                                                                                                        tsur.eSs ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~reigzarLnUon v6di be ,iyruficanuiv
9                                                                                                               m~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rphfied ior all c.ompartt-. TFhe State
t;ti                                                                                                           ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~nd Enoite/si gree Lhat 3 SUr. UrJILned
" -.                                                                     systt'n, en'bodyrne common                                                          r., t^        v ll
.wW5v~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Po cu>                           if Ehe BusLnez: Repi un         Pilot .M d.e BLines: Rei.L;"   dmse  ic and I m ortrteig Lner. tosnrreli
'.4                                      ,-stw;ihoenroacmr n vmebozdving c,mrr.:,n                                                                 ;epirnte proces:wncrbeulshc
Entities have fomiulv adopted the  procedures. comm.or. iomrnim and ad                   cm:          sente proeswlr        be eibrshed
StresTnitne and esubltsh er-aetparent  corrcp oihairmonLzrd pr--cedurt;  ungle J :itatve hr been tested i  pioLedureh.. commor. -teen, and i  ior foreign tnverce:s and InV ebera step;.
counrn-vwde approach to bwiLnes      3nd single ditabue for tuines,   .elected cc,urr in the Federation,   inledatbs        be re-red i    for tnrer  vestorr will be eLimi ate
regi.traeaon  registi-ation                 and pLin tot full implernerrarion has  s~~eleccted courts in Republiks ~mpU.  Entities % ll adopt ha-rmniuzed L; i n
i ;.:regpsLnnon                          reppLsonoon                       ind pLLr. io-.r full implementatio h-i  a.  lr 0  1urpscu.-     i    Eu-Ll h U>u        e;E,a-Jl
;L..                                                                       been adopted by the Federjation   ar-Jd pLan to: full imrple-nenution h-ias  Enus inTC- the Coun Rkegister. satisfactory
been idopred by Repubirka Srp-.skna to the X-sctnuon and fuliv suppo:lrting
the re-rdimned busuines registrboun
.i. t                                                                                                                                           pr,cess Nec essary suppornting lgtplspO-n
and bsl ar s wall be adopted without delay
tW cnn:rc qu.ick tnplemernatt.n  Entities
I                                                                      all *  )Jd.:.pt h rnonized Lu,! Jr
I '  '.                                                               Enterprie  .x iact.:rr t: the
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA:
Business Environment Adjustment Credit
33                                                 Proposed Prog-ram of Policy Reforms
Page 1 of 4



ANNEX 4
X P-OCRAS&M     :          |        TRANCHE;                     !                      ;                                         ;SECONDC   LETTER OFIEVELOPMENT
-TRANCRE"                                      :~~~~~RLEPUBLIKA SRPSKA
A.                                              A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(or)   FEDERATION TRANCI-rE  T&~~H    *POLIY
Entities have conducted an         The Federation reduces: (a) the    Republika Srpska reduces: (a) the
independent baseline survey of     average number of days required to  average number of days required to
i    Ensure effectiveness of the business  administrative and regulatory costs  comp ete  e registration process  complete the registration process  Results wiDl be monitored every six
registration system                   of business.                      an    tee numses to commence      for enterprises to commence         months through an independent survey
'  registration system                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oper-ations from 80 days to 30 days;  operations from 31 to 23; and (b)  and findings will be publicized.
and (b) the number of steps        the number of seeps required to
required to register an enterprise to  register an enterprise to 7 or less.
7 or less.
Entities wiDl ensure that a streamlined
and effective pledge registry is
implemented with training for judges,
clerks and banks. Necessary supporting
legislation and by-laws will be adopted
without delay. In parallel with
Entities have adopted the Law on                                                                        establishing the pledge and business
Registered Pledges on Movables,    Pilot of the Pledge Registry system  Pilot of the Pledge Registry system  registries, the Entities will initiate a pilot
satisfactory to the Association,   embodying com   on procedures,    embodying com   on procedures,     program to estabish speciazed sections
ebdi       c.common forms, single database and  common fos, single database andon of comeral matters
Oudge,cleks, on resluctergionaof commrtsa mhatterfocs,
g-,i cmpredtor accesstollate al  by protecang       have formaDy adopted the  tcrained participants (Judges, clerks,  traimned participants (judges, clerks,  including contract disputes, creditors'
Improve access to capital by protecting ontep  harmallyedoptedute       banks) has been tested in selected  banks) has been tested in selected  rights, bankruptcy and liquidation,
concepi of harmnonized procedurescorsiReuM                                             Spkaana
and sngledataase fr reistrtion courts in the Federation and a plan  cut nRpbiaSpk    n          including training for judges, clerks and
fand sngle database fog regnstvateon  for full implementation has been  plan for ful implementation has   lud          crating  a  ces,fcan
t  of pledges on movables.         adopted by the Federation.        been adopted by Republika Srpska.  lrsgan creatig    A cerication
program for judges. As well, authorities
will encourage businesses to use Altemate
Dispute Resolution as an optional
settlement method, in order to speed up
the process and reduce the burden on the
courts, thus freeing them to handle more
complex miatters.
State and Entity Govemments wiD adopt
tr"W ....,State and Entities have drafted an                                                                                                         and implement strong harmonized public
.tw,                              ~~~~~~~~~anti-corruption action plan                                                                     procurement legislation for all public
.      Level dhe playing field for pnvate   incororatng public procurement                                                                          institutions. This is a vital part of the
X  sector parecipat  in public tenders  and initiated the public                                                                              and Govemment's anti-corruption campaign
Level pathcplationg il   o  rvtn consutiationth pro      hcs                                                                                     and is crucial to a fair, transparent and
setrpriiaini              ufc edr          oslainpoes                                                                                             competitive environment for private
sector development. It is also a condition
_____   ______________________________of________________dhe_________             __________E                                                                 U________________R oadm ap._____________________   ofo theh E UU R ooa m ap
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA:
Business Environment Adjustment Credit
34                                                  Proposed Program        of Policy Reforms
Paze 2 of 4



ANNEX 4
|iLtiinaLia burden on bwsneb ciLued b)
The Fedlertion etatbh,he..3       Republik.; 'TtC    etaEhshe, '    st%i eUn2           dipchn       h
- . .                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~bwine... rLp-ecu,)n iymtenr,  buimcs; Ln z  -;  .msc:lv  em..n  dupecuon; ;Lhcm
u-hne  ecorrunirted rc*. Lseirnhrung
- r- _                                                                          secepsble :; the .\SI cYIIOn. to   acceprabl to tphe AbLc.Cteo on. ')   I he npe r: prcth  runcn.;r sl ol be
Enti.ies have eluT.iaated   iLn%ertion re',e-a ir.d rind lne the  snsen.rv. remheei snod ra;onahze the  raonahzed, ipector. trained, a Code of
.Ennncs ha%e elirywriateci    ri-Lnard.ite o1 inspecronrea operanng  rmnd,te, -,I ripectorite- .-periatm1     Cridupc  adoped
businest               overlipping 3uLhonues Fninacil      it Enun nred :ub-Enurv leve;.      at Eniurv and ub- Enntn level.     h        ,.d bee]            -
Reduce regulriore complnce burden         Police end Re-ence Tat           clantied and publiczed the         clnhe.d ind pobiiczed the                           goEnesr,eOr sail
on bu;ne                         AdmntiLrnu,un             mandaute ol Lhe inspectorates end  mandites or the inspectcrirte, nd      -stult a iti pn' are bueu   se to
i-.pecton.. ii'irinuted rnional.   inspectors. enztiuitr! rational.  pno.-ntizc al-itch regulstroca  tems
plane impection scheduler,         prE cl anned       hdtepee-ctn   costl  Cherl burdcn.ome reguldtions
fomts and pudelis. nd      e- ndironri ind   oderLe and         Well     4    anged or elined
!uLndird fooTL, ~~~nd gwdehnes. ind                   i-~~he Entities aidi uork uaith C artot-s
* ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~iiopled3 nect-siin smendmenu to                                    i. dopud.: nece, irv irnendurnenn to  iFdrhon and ntluesbz toI url e-Le xa,nz
law;. ind bV l1u        .         . 13US ind bv bc;Fden.n imuncpl ;zrve
and rsrionilizc requirements tor perrmits
licensing iendoher reiruJidnns.
uenece-;san reg.itions %di be repealed
Ennties hi%e c ,nJucted an.    The Federeumn reduce. the sert-gec    Republik SrpsLa reduces ti-e
independent bLaeirine  neN ot     number ft or-sate Ln:pecror dayv  a -erage number .:1 *nste irnpectOr   Results ' ad be monsied ere  six
Entsite effecnsenes; of iLnpecuon  adn-aruunte and reist.:r elr.c:sr-.  per inspected bu;ine.s per annut-,  dies per inspecied brssne;: Pei   Re-nih t. LLI e  indepede, eunlC5
s91 iystems                       of>1 bu iness             treinrn 1tl dI  t d i; r 1 t e 3annumr fr.rc 2h  dv; 1 ,.. I" div: i i r  n ftndirjg wil11 be pubocut.I
Market, Lab-ir, Fna-ncsi Police ind  ulirket Libor. Fin-ncial P.-sice end
Resenuc \Ndmirusrtaions            Re%enue \dmanuisr3tioni
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA:
Business Environment Adjustment Credit
Proposed Program of Policy Reforms
Page 3 of 4
35



ANNEX 4
-                   --      . .  |'        .   r            .               .-.E       9       - -I  *-C .  -.
:-;;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
7.E0                                       .                                               ._ _
f.-.  R.                                                                                                            S
4 j; *.                       ~~~~~~Stair and Entites h.a.CetaCbLahed a                                                           State ard Entities are c.:mrmined t;.
ni J.-                                t-)rrru mechain,m. saoalicr:,n .;tc 'tv                                                              ipro;vingri-c egi9lau'c Irarnenark tc
ti ?tzfj .tAs:cianor. fo:r regular c:.rvulraur-,s                                                                                           laciliLite the iSCCaticn. n ' pc-t Fx3e
0;                                      it h pm are sector to- conaider thenr                                                               businesie: and merribership mn the
.,t J4 .;                               ie-u in the tc.miuluion ci policies md                                                               C:hambEers CF.Dmmerce LOM be NTde
" '-i , .                                   lepalir ion afI'e;tnng busmn-as  Fedtr3o ad-rped3 arrendnreinr     ReubWtka Srsk 3d     e          t oluntars Stair and Entnnes v.ill
[2  i j2 tnance the co:nrultanse role                                    the La*.n;     3nk,..           3mnV   et u- telawl           actively consl'I with pm are secorl irs arm
ita  O pneaie sector in tomxnTuiri *:2                                  (C.:nrec  tuic-      :he          (CF.ben ol I ;.mec                   anar d  tni ranapaenri A^ if t: seek the
RI jJ,   public policies and conmmercial  State has idopited th,e U-A o n  A       , i ~iu. eliminat rerandatn:r-s  sasfactu.rs' to tht s cl3c ~urC. s *   ial atbusiness pnor to efflecting malor
ri. si..            liws'              *\ssociem3onl and Fo:undtionsn .t BH.  -    merabrsiup              elimiunate nr3ndaton membership  theirg in:.pleresr  Ta1 fura-ici buildeun
Xt4t-it.                            sautacr.:-rv lathe %.sacicsiaicn alloirng                                                            c hngesE d     *ntities ireI rIialetmnIdE
'4    '                                 usoetoro to. coorperate actresa BH                                                                 cchn"Pirtante capacar't of both pubic and
x: ti''ate omdw                                                                              e d ualLam ofu ucin andheld
It  4                                                                                                      f2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~avcatLin chng- t he  busijc- O nesse
lCg                                                                                                ba,in modemn banjupinad liquidanton
on a ffecung b-sLn- hmt unrngof amarketrec:nomy In
I'- t3                                                                                                                                       transition nwvnchen Laie -o:iv ned co .:mpaiesrr
!. . - Entitues hat e es tabitsh rd aaoika .                         hr.g  Th' F ederani-lr. aJ. *pLusruer*re ned  Rubpeik hendmnEi id-e:-c i  rs  pled  are undeLgng InvState zu r a rn d Ennn  tIe
:i - -t *   hinanrm,ue and ,trennr.er .   gt -up to daitre3 hni*:rned     La orbukep       and              ti.nuth:ed Li * :.n B43rinnpi-  tha ai- ndr 1bl ru d,r-c [uer n.s  . .
"lzJr        t mnka-nupicy arid liquidrinn       bankruptc, 1la-a             tistaicr*r r*,. thc \:- :o:au-r  ar.iL   s cCn.;at1cin  su  e  stablish a c Itreera ' tirm--.ni.ed
pubfic policies aLnd C0MMe`IClAI   Lhe L,- .-. t- himb,, .:,I'     imendmenu I.m. Lhe I-aws      ' aveliLn on.innin %.-ihhpn%tate mect-ut. more
State haz )J-)pted die La-, on     Conuncme. 'ALlSf3Ctl)r LhC                                   orgaudg  Isd-er and r  Itrsepe   A.  p A r-net-r
*                                                                                                                                       r* tiar a {  1|ur, ird ccmn) Aht kes plmeera *dc F_
!.~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e .                                    cie. :pt-i m.i Is unre. Irutmared
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA:
Business Environment Adjustment Credit
Proposed ProCpram   of Policy Reforms
Page 4 of 4
36



ANNEX 5                   BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA: BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (BAC)
Key Component Flows with Responsibility/Technical Assistance Mapping
.,  .   B USI N ESS                               i    ADMINI STRATIVE! '                                            | - I  NUIMPLEMENTING                                            MONITORIN
ENVIRONMtENT-         ,   LEGAL/REGULATORV            I RESPONSmIUf'r(        J            TECHNICAL TASlS              I        AUTHORIn'                      INDICATORS                 .    G
(TA)                                                     (7AJ
Strengthen FDI Legal      Adoption of Entity FoIeig,n                                                                    i
Franmeork and Increase    Investment Laws fully                                          .
opeational capacity of the  harmonized with State FDI law  Entity Padiaments (FlA,S
.. BA,  Foreign Investment    Adoption of amended derision     EC)                        R BH, promote inward invesment, increase  Entity Goverments
I Promotion Agency           on foundation of FIPA, allocates  State: COM - MFIER        awareness within and outside BH.       (FLAS/EC)
(FIPA)                    fundinag fConkd                                                                                                                                                 i
Develop and test common procedures     Entities/regional/
,  Adoption of harmonized Laws  Enity Industry Ministries   and single database for business       canronal courts
Z~~~~~ t  ~ ~ ~  ~  ~    Aonptsion                       andhaParliamentsw          registration                            (DFID)                       Reduction in nuosber of days to
on Enterptses            and Paiatnt                                                       Entities/regional/            required to complete the          State and
Sbamlime and establish                                    (G7Z)                       Strengthen capacity of Commercial      cantonal courts               registraion process for enterprses  Entities:
t' cn;' transparent countrywide                                                                sections in courts                     (gJC/DFI D/BilakmrlDonori     to commence operations (BH        METER and
WAi    aroah bue                 Adopton of to  5                                                                                                                 average is 64 days) as measured by  Entity
- tegi Tra  i     rit    aLawts o o          onized                                                                                                          independent survey of private     Sec/SrIa)a
amendents tL          Entry                                                                        Entities/regional/            b
into Coutt Register to                    (GT/DrD           . M t   and                                                          buinsss and in of      of s   (
strelAmlined, ol                EntityJustice Ministriesand  Train judges, decksandayca                 acourtsarequiredstclerksreit lawyer aak    bu sinens/rt
h, ps ;nsuns sni~~~~~~~~~~~Prhrrn'Ptsf                  onDFD                                                                               relobis rnd Lto i'rireLSrergithe...sp  fCmerca rmoal coustines
Z  ;.;llater.l nprs      bh~ueam  e,(-v,J conywd                                                                            (DFDIBlakis u.o;nrr.j5
approachI
Entities/regional/
Deselop nd F  esi Alcomon procedures       cantonal courts
and ingle dactabse for Registry of pledges  (EBRD/USAID)
c,n moo-able':
ic.  ral     ri                 I           Sa-                         Tran judLe': clerks, laTwye, bake      Entities/regional!
I mprc-e accets .c.cpirl  Adoption of tUwn Regisered      EniPrimn                                                            atnlcut
-b, pacrecocng creditrsrs   Pledge': on Mcacambles and      Entiq Padaacr.okComeriaML(ICaruhtonl courts
coltrlrghsSae                       Cwk4iu'Entities/regional!
*O-  La  th.e playing field (ol                         ,                             Ecourag a-er Altemnate Dispute         cantonal tours
CL  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IState Treat .l,n, u:tur mi' 
fi rm   pen-ate sertcl   \Adopronl ':tnrengrhenel       I Prlauer.1                   p>n-.lhsh ran o and tasparen of tState/Enties/Cantons
taarmtrnnued La-as on Pabhc     Emits Fnncpc-errioss at aulevlso
. |   parnoip:iaon m public  PrILmrn end P,dk:rrcnu                                   gofemeri                               (EC)
I,S.      wnder.                                                    a  P,un,i
1 '  i                                                             | Federation: Govemment,        Reduction in the average number
F;  x  .   ! Pederation C_.n.emrr,mnt                              Can:.nslseun:pector  kRS:rGovernmerot  ofn-ste inspector days per  State and
*  Reduce regutv*~n  lUnunalanng ci tswur.g   a:sr.,rn:  t--nicipritn    Rkancn du,'e in: pectorare function     RS   oenetinspected business per~ annum for                  IEntities:
Reouce regulbmrn          Rkri,nn  nng ;.l c%.:nury       L prrr.n  nr.unll                                                                                Market, Labor, Financial Police  MFTER and
uc:rnphince burden on    uregtli' framelork and repal    ,S tF!iti                    R>n:niuc ieq.lwment forpemits,         Federation: Government,       and Revenue (rar) Administration  Entity
cmbu:pane                  nnrdnegulco! irm reulsrk an repeal  S  i.eme               Ratnric edalementsfor prt              cantons, municipalities       as measured by independent survey  Secretariats
I  t                     lRe'egadohe      euain-~S: Government,                               of private businesses (BH average  j(FLAS/SIDA)
municipalities                  21 days
_____________________  _____________________________  (DFID/Bilalenol Donors)    i 1dy)
in l-. e pmiEr seci-:i m    u          tl..n:r.;iarendmer.t: ...... 
lna. i . ulsi puateb ri:i in  AJ.:pn f h *r. c-t,er .-.i C.:-mdnre i Ennn  IS:             ernrr,tr:l . ir*.i F.-.rmai. J ec h nism for consuitation  State COM and Entity
I )err.au  4 pLic   ic.:,''at rsn-,bJr -.i ro, ire Eis .treet                  -d Lrhc pri-are :ector and regular   IGovernments
.    ,c.-lbe . and] ct ,Lom ierl  I. elcrrin-ie mid: it . r,  ,Prlirr -'l'                   i       r : ai , n-going.          jFLAS, SEED, GZ, SIDA),i
I   -                    m rnem  be rship              ,________________________________                                    __________nt G c m t rg n
-Establish a comprehensie approach to  ' Entity Govrrnrntr, rrgional
an *                              ~,                                                          bankruptcy and liquidation, starting with  and cantonal courts
Ill_     l iirrr,-.r ,ze nd          -pn.-.n :A irnFi:.-I  n J     Enimn 1t.,.kr-, Inc. -,.   laws and beginning to build capaciy of  fC7)
Z        v Irer.irthc, binkr.ptc,  l-rn--c.ni;edL-a .r,tl.rkr.p'cs  PF ideni:                 judges, lawyers and trustees.
'J1         i.13  a;rrp  *            .I i 5.Z.anc-r,                                                                               Entities and regional/
M 1l:                                                                                         Strengthen capacity of Commercial     i castonal courts
sections in courts                   I                                                              i7JCTZ)
37



ANNEX 6
Bosnia and Herzegovina: Survey of Administrative and Regulatory Costs of Business
SAMPLE METHODOLOGY
A survey was conducted of 300 majority private firms throughout Bosnia and Herzegovina (BH) in
order to assess the situation at the start of the Business Environment Adjustment Credit and to
establish baseline indicators against which to set targets and measure results of the Government's
efforts to streamline the process for registering a business and rationalizing inspections by Market,
Labor, Financial Police and Revenue (Tax) Administration inspectors. The survey instrument, sample
size and methodology were established in cooperation with FIAS to allow comparison with other
countries in which FIAS has conducted the surveys. Abbreviated surveys to assess progress against
the indicators established for tranche release under the BAC will be carried out every six months and
the full survey will be conducted twice more at 18 month intervals to provide feedback to the
Government and to the public regarding progress against the reform program. The methodology for
the baseline survey and additional factors for future surveys follow.
Baseline Survey
The baseline survey sample followed three principle criteria: (1) sectoral composition representative
of BH's distribution of enterprises between Manufacturing/Mining, Services and Commerce
(including wholesale and retail trade) as indicated by relative contribution to GDP, (2) representative
distribution of small, medium and large firms, subject to a minimum of 15 percent small and 30
percent large firms; and (3) multiple BH cities representative of the diversity of possible conditions for
business operation.
Sub-samples of 200 foreign and domestic firms in the Federation and 100 in Republika Srpska (RS)
were selected. In each Entity, a panel of municipalities representing over 90 percent of total economic
activity is contained within the sample. Eight sectors were included: (1) agriculture, hunting, forestry
and fishing; (2) manufacturing and mining; (3) construction; (4) wholesale and retail trade; (5)
catering trade; (6) transport, storage and communication; (7) financial intermediation; and (8) other
services. Note that some sectors were merged for practical considerations, although some data
presented below are disaggregated. Also, the manufacturing sector was overweighted by 10 percent to
provide better insight into its further development as BH seeks to increase productive capacity and
decrease the overall proportion of trade. The sample included 55 percent small, 15 percent medium
and 30 percent large majority private enterprises, in accordance with EU definition of size (i.e., 0-9
employees=small;   10-50   employees=medium;    greater  than   50    employees=large).
38



Table 1: Baseline Survey Sample Distribution
Si           S2       S3                S5       S6       S7 S9
S4
hun .fict.  Manufactur+Min  Construction  Wholesale and  Catering trade  Transport  in .  Other services
hunt. for, fish,              retail trade              intermediat.
S  M   L S   M  L   S M L   S     M L S M L    S M L S    M  L  S M L
BanjaLuka I 1  1 12  3   3        3  12    1 1      11  2 1           3  2     1 041
Priedor         1 3   1  1        1  3        1        1 1            2  1 __  _
Pmjavor     I    1       2        1  3
Bijelina        113  11  2     1  1  4     1  1        1   
DoboG     I      1   2   2        1  4      11        1
Trebinj  I       I X                 2     -
S 8' S2  29rli,  53  7 ~   42    Si  5i ' 56 8     7  6.    S8    'i
Bihac    I            I  2     I  I  3     I  I         1                        113-
TuzS a      1    5    2  2  I     1  6     1  2        2     1           2 2   128
rcnia1       12      2I -                                          - 1        t
Zenica          2                     6 3  21  4       2     1        2  2     1 I
Zavidovici  11   2       2  1        2
Bugojno                  2        1 3                  I
Mostar           4    1  1        1  6       112             1  1     1  2
Sarajevo    1   1 9  6   10 123      14    4 6      1  4   221     2  6  52 13
SI     ~~~S2     317-       4      S7      S6j0     S7        S 1
The sample was derived through simulation of the following criteria.
Distribution between Entities. The ratio of firms selected within the two Entities is 2:1 (Federation,
200 : Republika Srpska, 100). This ratio is consistent with similar surveys conducted throughout BH
and was derived on the basis of the following statistics from the RS and Federation statistics institutes:
Table 2: BH Statistical Information _
__________________  _ |RS          Federation     Ratio
Population (2000)     1.4 million  2.8 million    1: 1.9
GDP (KM in 2000)      2.6 billion  6.7 billion    1: 2.6
Per Capita GDP        1,793 KM    2,392 KM        1 1.3
Employees (06/2001)   221,326     406,185         1: 1.8
Distribution by Sector. The Entities' statistics institutes do not track contribution of private firms to
GDP, the preferred criterion. Therefore, the sample considered the distribution of GDP by sector;
distribution of private and majority private companies per sector; and number of employees in private
and majority private firns per sector. Proposed sample distribution among the 300 subjects according
to these criteria is detailed in the following three tables and aggregated in Table 6.
39



Table 3: GDP Distribution by Sector
GDP structure          Firms in Sample
Sector _____________________________________________RS    Federation     RS    Federation
1.     Agriculture, hunting and forestry             24.0        8.8           24     18
2.     Fishing                                       0.1         0.0           0      0
3.     Mining                                         1.3        2.8           l      6
4.     Manufacturing                                  10.4 _ _   13.6     L       10  27
5.     Electricity gas and water supply              9.5         7.4           9      15
6.     Construction                                   6.7        5.6           7      11
7. Wholesale and retail trade, repair of motor vehicles,  7.6  10.6         8     21
7.motorcycles and personal and household goods
8.     Catering trade                                2.7         2.1           3      4
9.     Transport, storage and communication           8.6        11.0          9      22
10.   Financial intermediation                       3.6         4.6 4_9
11.   Real estate, renting and business activities   1.7         2.7           2      5
12.   Public administration, defense compulsory social
securityI.I                                               15.7           11    31
13.   Education                                      5.5         6.7           6      13
14.   Health and social welfare                      5.4         5.9           5      12
15.   Other community, social and personal service
activities                                     1.9        2.4 _ _        2     5
TOTAL                                                 100%       100%         I 100   200
Table 4: Sector Distribution by Share of Private or Majority Private Companies
Sector Share of Private
or Majority Private      Firms in Sample
Companies*
RS         Federation    RS        Federation
I -   Agriculture, hunting and forestry             2.9        1.7           3         3
2.    Fishing                                       0.1        0.1           0         0
3.    Mining                                        0.7        0.4           1         I
4.     Manufacturing                                19.1       14.4          19        29
5.     Electricity gas and water supply             0.0        0.0           0         0
6.    Construction                                  7.1        9.4           7         19
7.     Wholesale and retail trade, repair of motor vehicles,  53.4  54.1     53        108
motorcycles and personal and household goods
8.    Catering trade                                1.5        2.7           2         5
9.    Transport, storage and communication          7.6        8.4           8         17
10.   Financial intermediation                      0.5        0.3           I         I
11.   Real estate, renting and business activities  5.5        6.6           6         13
12.   Public administration, defense compulsory social
security                                      0.0        0.0           0         0
13.   Education                                     0.2        0.5           0
14.   Health and social welfare                     0.2        0.1           0         0
15.   Other conmmunity, social and personal service
activities                                    1.1        1.2           1         2
TOTAL                                               100%       100%          100       200
*Note: In the absence of reliable data for proportion of GDP attributable to private sector, the distribution assumes
40 percent, except electricity, gas and water supply and public administration, defense and compulsory social security,
which are all state controlled. This is in line with World Bank estimates.
40



Table 5: Sector Distribution by Share of Employment in Private Firms*
Sector                                           Employee Distribution  Firms in Sample
RS      Federation   RS     Federation
1.   Agriculture, hunting and forestry                   0.4        2.4        0        5
2.   Fishing                                             0.2        0.0        0        0
3.   Mining                                              2.9        4.1        3         8
4.   Manufacturing                                       17.1       25.3       17       51
5.   Electricity gas and water supply                    0.2        3.8        0         8
6.   Construction                                        5.1        6.1        5        12
7.   Wholesale and retail trade, repair of motor vehicles,  46.4    11.9      46        24
motorcycles and personal and household goods
8.   Catering trade                                     12.7        3.6       13         7
9.   Transport, storage and communication                6.5        7.4        6        15
10.   Financial internediation                           4.1         1.9       4         4
11.   Real estate, renting and business activities       2.2         2.7       2         5
12.   Public administration, defense compulsory social
security                                           0.0        14.5        0        29
13.   Education                                          0.0         7.5       0         15
14.   Health and social welfare                          1.8         6.3       2         13
15.   Other community, social and personal service activities  0.4   2.3       0         5
TOTAL      100%       100%       100       200
*Note: In the absence of reliable data for proportion of GDP attributable to private sector, the distribution assumes 40 percent,
except electricity, gas and water supply and public administration, defense and compulsory social security, which are all state
controlled. This is in line with World Bank estimates.
Table 6: Final Sector Distribution in Sample
Firms in Sample
Sector                              RS         Federation
Si         Agriculture, hunting. forestry and fishing               8                  8
S2          Manufacturing+mnining                                   29 (19)          62 (42)
S3         Construction                                             7                  17
S4         Wholesale and retail trade                               32 (42)          53 (73)
S5          Catering trade                                          5                  7
S6          Transport, storage and conmunication                    8                  20
S7          Financial intermediation                                6                  14
S8          Other services                                          5                  19
TOTAL                                                               100               200
Note: Figures in parentheses represent the sample distribution before overweighting the manufacturing
sector by 10 percent as agreed between the World Bank, FIAS and the survey firm
Distribution by Size. Statistics for size of frms are not available from the statistics institutes. Therefore, an
estimate of the distribution by size of firm is extrapolated from a year 2000 survey of nearly 8,000 private
enterprises in the Republika Srpska, which showed distribution of 83 percent small, 10 percent medium and
7 percent large. It is fair to assume that similar distribution exists in the Federation due to status of business
conditions, privatization and economy.
41



However, these numbers should be adjusted to accommodate the known practice of firms to understate
employment to avoid taxes and social contributions. Thus a more realistic distribution by size of private
companies within the country is 70/20/10. In accordance with FLAS' request, the final sample, therefore,
overweights large companies (i.e., 30 percent vs. 10 percent) and underweights small companies (i.e., 55
percent vs. 70 percent).
Table 7: Final Distribution by Size
Firt size          Sahnple structure (%)          RS         Federation
1i.                                   r     nall 55.0             55          110
2.              Medium             15.0                            1 5        30
3.              Large              30.0                           30          60
TOTAL                              100.0                          100         200
Distribution by Foreign Capital. Of 13,027 enterpn'ses in the RS, 80 percent are domestic, 2.9 percent
foreign and 2.3 percent mixed foreign and domestic ownership. Assurning similar distribution of the
Federation, the S percent of the firrns in the sample have foreign capital (i.e., 5 companies in the RS; 10 in
the Federation).
Distribution by Location. Due to lack of information regarding level of development of regions/cantons and
municipalities, sample distribution by location was determined on the basis of population.
Table 8: RS Regional Distribution (2000)
Region                                  % of Population
1.              Banja Luka                              44.4
2.              Bijeljina                               22.2
3.              Doboj                                   17.2
4.              Srpsko Sarajevo                         8.8
5.              Trebinje                                7.4
TOTAL                                                   100%
Table 9: RS Distribution by Municipality in Final Sample
Municipality   Population   % of Total Population  Structure in sarnple  Number of firms
1.   Banja Luka     220,466       15.0               37.9               38
2.   Prijedor       95,502        6.5                16.4               16
3.   Pmjavor        48,889        3.3                8.4                8
4.   Bijeljina      107,040       7.3                18.4               18
5.   Doboj          78,537        5.3                13.5               14
6.   Trebinje       30,673        2.1                5.3                6
TOTAL               581,107       39.5%              100%               100
Three regions cover 83.3 percent of the population. In addition to these three regions, Trebinje is included
in the sample to provide broader territorial coverage. Six municipalities from within these regions are
included in the sample (see Table 9).
42



Table 10: Federation Cantonal Distr ibution (2000)
Canton                                   % of Population
1.             Unsko-Sanski                              13.2
2.             Posavski                                  1.9
3.             Tuzlanski                                 21.9
4.              Zenicko-Dobojski                         17.1
5.             Bosansko-Podrinjski                       1.5
6.             Srednjebosanski                           10.4
7.             Hercegovacko-Neretvanski                  9.4
8.             Zapadno Hrecegovacki                      3.5
9.              Sarajevo                                 17.3
10.            Hercegbosanski                            3.6
TOTAL                                                    100%
Eight municipalities from among the six cantons that represent 89.4 percent of the Federation's
population (i.e., Una-Sana, Tuzla, Zenica-Doboj, Central Bosnia, and Herzegovina-Neretva cantons)
were selected for the sample as noted in Table 11.
Table 11: Federation Distribution by Municipality in Final Sample
Municipality   Population     % of Total     Structure in sample  Number of firms
~~~~~~~~~~Population
1.    Bihac          60,113        2.6             6.3                  13
2.    Tuzla          135,510        5.9             14.2                28
3.    Gracanica      52,902        2.3             5.5                  11
4.    Zenica         127,972        5.5             13.4                27
5.    Zavidovici     37,942         1.6             4.0                 8
6.    Bugojno        37,107         1.6             3.9                 8
7.    Mostar         104,997        4.6             11.0                22
8.    Sarajevo       400,219        17.3            41.8                83
TOTAL                1,135,120     49.2%            100%                200
Semi-Annual Monitoring Surveys
Monitoring surveys will be carried out semi-annually to measure progress against results indicators
for release of the second tranche. At a minimum, the following questions from the baseline survey
will be included in the surveys:
A. How long did the most recent registration/re-registration process last (from the moment you
started the process through the moment you got all the necessary documents)?
B. Did you register or re-register your business in [Court Register, Statistics, Revenue
Administration, Municipality, Health and Pension Fund, Customs Administration, Trademark
Registration, Other]? How many calendar days did it take (for each)?
43



C. How many times during the last 6 months was your business inspected by [Market, Labor,
Financial Police, Revenue Administration] and how many inspectors visited your business? How
many days did the [Market, Labor, Financial Police, Revenue Administration] inspection last?
Sample Frame
Business Registration (QA/QB). All companies that have completed the registration process in the
following municipalities (those from the baseline sample frame) during the six-month reporting
period will be included in the survey: Banja Luka, Prijedor, Prnjavor, Bijelina, Doboj, Trebinje,
Bihac, Tuzla, Gracanica, Zenica, Zavidovici, Bugojno, Mostar and Sarajevo.
Inspections (QC). The sample frame methodology used in the baseline survey will be applied to
randomly select the stratified sample to monitor progress against the inspections indicator. While the
panel will be used when the full survey is conducted again, the sample for monitoring surveys will be
fresh each time. The number of companies in the monitoring survey will be based on data reliability
and cost considerations, but will not be less than 100 companies in the Federation and 50 companies
in the RS.
Calculation of Results
The geometric, rather than arithmetic, mean will be used to compute the average length of the
registration process and number of days of inspections. The aggregate number of days of inspections
will be the result of multiplying the number of inspections times the number of days the inspection
lasted times the number of inspectors for Market, Labor, Financial Police and Revenue
Administration during the six-month reporting period.
Determining Compliance with BAC Conditions
Only Question A will be used to assess status against the second tranche condition related to the
length of the registration process. Question B will provide the Entities detailed data regarding which
steps remain problems. Question C will be used to assess status against the second tranche condition
related to inspections.
In determining compliance with the BAC conditions for the number of days to register/re-register a
business and number of days of inspections, the condition will be deemed to be met if the target value
lies within a 95 percent confidence interval for the estimated mean value.
Survey Monitors
Each of the Entities, the State and the Association may appoint a monitor to observe that the sample
selection and survey process is being carried out according to agreed terms to assure independence
and reliable results. The names of the firms, however, will remain anonymous to the monitors in
order to maintain integrity of the sample.
44



ANNEX 7:
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS
(As of March 31, 2002)
US$ Million
(Less Cancellations
Fiscal
Loan No.                  Year Borrower                  Project                                     Loan     Undisbursed
Loan/Credits/ Grants
4038-BOS                  1996 Bosnia and Herzegovina    Consolidation Loan A                             28.6          0.0
4039-BOS                  1996 Bosnia and Herzegovina    Consolidation Loan B                            284.9          0.0
4040-BOS                  1996 Bosnia and Herzegovina    Consolidation Loan C                            307.1          0.0
Total                                           620.6          0.0
__________ __ _                 Of whicb: Repaid                                 24.9
Total Now Held by the Bank                      595.7          0.0
TFBHc/ (UnderUDisburs
TF-024030                 1996 Bosnia and Herzegovina    Emergency Recovery Credit                        45.0          0.0
TF-024031                 1996 Bosnia and Herzegovina    Emergency Farm Reconstruction                    20.0          0.0
TF-024032                 1996 Bosnia and Herzegovina    Emergency Water Supply                           20.0          0.0
TF-024033                 1996 Bosnia and Herzegovina    Emergency Transport                              35.0          0.0
TF-024034                 1996 Bosnia and Herzegovina    Emergency District Heating                       20.0          0.0
TF-024035                 1996 Bosnia and Herzegovina    Emergency War Victms Rehabilitation               5.0          0.0
TF-024040                 1996 Bosnia and Herzegovina    Emergency Education Reconstruction                5.0          0.0
Total                                           150.0          0.0
ll2A
2897-BOS                  1996 Bosnia and Herzegovina    Emergency Education Reconstruction                5.0          0.0
2896-BOS                  1996 Bosnia and Herzegovina    Emergency War Victims Rehabilitation              5.0          0.0
2902-BOS                  1997 Bosnia and Herzegovina    Emergency Housing Repair                         15.0          0.0
2903-BOS                  1997 Bosnia and Herzegovina    Emergency Power Reconstruction                   35.6          0.0
2904-BOS                  1997 Bosnia and Herzegovina    Emergency Public Works and Employment            10.0          0.0
2905-BOS                  1997 Bosnia and Herzegovina    EmnergencyLandmines Cearance                      7.5          0.0
2906-BOS                  1997 Bosnia and Herzegovina    Emergency Demobilization and Reintegration        7.5          0.0
2914-BOS                  1997 Bosnia and Herzegovina    Transition Assistance Credit                     90.0          0.0
NOOI-BOS                  1997 Bosnia and Herzegovina    Emergency Industry Re-Start Guarantee            10.0          0.0
N002-BOS                  1997 Bosnia and Herzegovina    Emergency Microenterprise/Local Initiatives       7.0          0.0
N003-BOS                  1997 Bosnia and Herzegovina    Essential Hospital Services                      15.0          0.0
N032-BOS                  1998 Bosnia and Herzegovina    Transport Reconstuction II                       39.0          0.0
N035-BOS                  1998 Bosnia and Herzegovina    Education Reconstruction II                      11.0          0.0
3028-BOS                  1998 Bosnia and Herzegovina    Reconstuction Assistance Project                 17.0          0.0
3029-BOS                  1998 Bosnia and Herzegovina    EmergencyNatural Gas                             10.0          0.0
3070-BOS                  1998 Bosnia and Herzegovina   EEmergencyPilot Credit (RS)                        5.0          0.0
3071-BOS                  1998 Bosnia and Herzegovina    Power II                                         25.0          0.0
45



NC40-BOS                  1998 Bosnia and Herzegovina   Forestry                                         7.0          1.2
3090-BOS                  1998 Bosnia and Herzegovina   Public Finance I (Strucal Adjustment)           63.0          0.0
3191-BOS                  1999 Bosnia and Herzegovina   Local Development                                15.0        12.3
3202-BOS                  1999 Bosnia and Herzegovina   Basic Health                                     10.0         6.4
3262-BOS                  1999 Bosnia and Herzegovina   Enterprise and Bank Privatization Project       50.0         14.0
3257-BOS                  1999 Bosnia and Herewgovina   Enterprise Export Facility Project               12.0         4.9
3269-BOS                  1999 Bosnia and Herewgovina   Pilot Culkual Heritage Project (IUL)             4.0          2.2
3258-BOS                  1999 Bosnia and Herzegovina   Second Public Finance (Strucral Adjustment)     72.0         18.4
3351-BOS                 2000 Bosnia and Herzegovina    Education Development Project III                10.6         7.5
3400-BOS                 2000 Bosnia and Herzegovina    Mostar Water and Sanitation                      12.0         8.8
3385-BOS                 2000 Bosnia and Herzegovina    Emergency Labor Redeployment                     15.0        13.2
3439-BOS                 2000 Bosnia and Herzegovina    Social Sector Structural Adjustmnent Gredit - TA  3.55        3.2
Q2370-BOS                2001 Bosnia and Herzegovina    Trade and Transport Facilitation in SEE          11.0        10.7
34650-BOS                2001 Bosnia and Herzegovina    Social Sector SAC(SOSAC I)                       20.0         O.C
35330-BOS                2001 Bosnia and Herzegovina    Local Initiative II                              20.0        19.7
35340-BOS                2001 Bosnia and Herzegovina    Electric Power 3                                 35.0        32.8
35380-BOS                2001 Bosnia and Herzegovina    CommunityDevelopment                             15.0         14.7
3531-BOS                 2001 Bosnia and Herzegovina    Privatization TA                                 19.8         19.5
36080.BOS                2002 Bosnia and Herzegovina    Private Sector Credit                            10.0         9.9
36260-BOS                2002 Bosnia and Herzegovina    Road Mnagement Safety                            30.0         30.
Total                                           749.6        229.4
I_Grand Total                                   899.6        229.4
a/ The status of these projects is described in a separate report on all Bank/IDA financed projects in execution,
which is updated twice yearly and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and Otober 31.
b/ Consolidation Loans A, B, and C were approved on June 13, 1996 and became effective on June 14, 1996.
c/ Trust Fund for Bosnia and Herzegovina.
46



ANNEX 7A: STATUS OF IFC OPERATIONS
Bosnia and Herzegovina
STATEMENT OF IFC Held and Disbursed Portfolio As of                  r 18, 2002 For Febniar , FY2002
_   _    _  _    _  _    _    _  _    _  _    _I                                 I                    I -    _                       I
I         --------------- IFC ield  .             _                IFC Disbursed
FY                                                 institutionShortNme   Loan       Equity     Quasi    Partic     Loan       Equity    Quasi     Partic
1997/99/01                                         Bosnia Micm            0       1,229,746      0       0           0      1,229,746     0         0
1985                                               Energoinvest        7,131,729      0          0       0       7,131,729      0         0         0
1997                                               Enterprise Fund        0       1,684,388      0       0           0      1,056,073     0         0
2001                                               PBS Group           8,429,797     260      887,347     0      8,429,797      0      887,347      0
1997                                               Sarajevska          1,718,227      0          0       0       1,718,227      0         0         0
1998                                               SEF Akova           1,404,670      0          0       0       1,404,670      0         0         0
1999/01                                            SEF Bosnalijek      2,012,457  1,841,848      0       0       2,012,457   1,841,848    0         0
1999                                               SEF Kopex           1,212,230      0          0       0       1,212,231      0         0         0
1998                                               SEF Lignosper       1,841,245      0          0       0       1,597,225      0         0         0
1999                                               SEF Lijanovici      1,697,051      0          0       0       1,697,051      0         0         0
1977                                               TKA Gazin           2,954,866      0          0        0      2,954,866      0         0         0
1998                                               Wood AgenryAL       3,962,231      0          0       0           0          0         0         0
1999                                               Wood Inza           1,397,581      0          0        0       279,516       0         0         0
1999                                               Wood Konjuh         1,987,283      0          0        0      1,765,446      0         0         0
1999                                               Wood Kozara         1,397,572      0          0        0      1,175,735      0         0         0
1999                                               Wood Podgradci       957,226       0          0        0       779,756       0         0         0
1999                                               Wood Vrbas          1,397,581      0          0        0       279,516       0         0         0
Total Portfolio    39,501,745  4,756,243   887,347     0      32,438,222  4,127,666  887,347     0
__ __ _ __ _ _ _App rovals Pending Commnitmnt _t
FY                                                 InstitutionShortNne   Loan       Equity     Quasi    Partic
2001                                               PBS Pre-Priv.     [     0          0      3,087,819    0
Total Pending     |    0           0     J 3,087,819   0   _
47



ANNEX 8:
COUNTRY AT A GLANCE
Bosnia and Herzegovina at a glance                                                                    1/01
Bosnia Europe &     Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                   and    Central  middle-
Herzegovina      Aeia   income      Develepment diamond'
2000
Population. mid-year (millions)                       3.9      475     2,046    i            Life expectancy
GN per capita (Atlas method, USS)                             2,010     1,140
GNI (AtWas melthoc USS billions)                               956     2.327                       7
Average annual growth, 1994-00
Population %)                                         1.3       0.1       1.0                                    Gr
Labor force (%)                                       1.6       0.6       1.3     pNI                            Gross
Iper                             primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1994-00)                             cepita           I          enrollment
Poverty (% of'population below nationaf poverty lineJ)
Urban population (. of total populatiaon)             43        67        42
ULie expectancy at birth (years)                      73        69        69
tntant mortality (per 1,000 live births)              13        21        32
Child mainutrition (% o/ children under 5)                                II. 1 '      Access to improved water source
Accss to an improved water source (% o/population)              go90      s0
lDiteracy (% of population age 15+)                              3        15
Gross primary enrollment (%, ofscliool-age population)         100       114              Bosnia and Herzegovina
Mate                                                         101       116              Lower-middle-incore group
Female                                                        99       114     __
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENOS
1980     1990      1999     2000
IEconomic ratios-
GOP (US$ billtons)                             .45                        4.4
Gross domestic investmentiGOP                                  20.6      20.4                    T
Exports of goods and services/GDP                              26.5      27.1                    Trade
Gross domeslic savings/GDP                                    .13.0     -10.3
Gross nalional savings/GDP                                     -0.6 8     0.2
Current account balarrceGDP                    .        .      21.4     -20.7      o                          I
Inlerest paymentsiGOP                                           1.1       1.3                                Investment
Total debtUGDP                                                 48.1      46.7     savings
Total debt semicelexporis                                      10.9      19.7
Present value of debt/GDP                      ..
Present value of debt/exports
Indebtedness
1980-90  1990-00     1999      20D0   2000-04
(average annual growth)
GDP                                         27.3     10.0       58        60               Bosnia and Herzegovina
GDP per capita                              24.8      6.8       4.7       5.5              Lower-midde-irncome group
Exports ot goods and services         .     41 8     -3.9       4.2      6 6
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1980     1990     1t99       2000     Growth of Investment and GDP (%)
(0 ol GDP)
Agriculture                                                    13.8      12.2
Indusiry                                                       252       26.0
Manufacturing                                                15.4      15.8
Services                                                       61.0      61.8                  C
Private consumption                                                                      Qs .  96   9Z   5r    9Y.  e
General government consurnption                                                 ,                GDI     -0--GOP
Imporos ot goods and services                                  60.1      57.9
1980-90  1990-00     1999     2000      Growth of exports and imports ()
(avwefage anniual gromh)
Agriculture                                           8.1      -3.0      -8.3   1l 
Industry                                             26.2      11.2       5.7    ,oA
Manufacturing                                ..    17.1       0.1       72
Services                                             37.9      17.5       7.9
Private consumption                                                                ..  ..  .4
General government consumption                         o.
Gross domestic investment                            35.6       9.9       4.4                 .E1pOis          rirmpofis
Imports of gcods and services                        21.6      -3.1      -5,9
Note: 2000 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show tour key indicators in the couolry (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diarnond vaIl
be incomplete.
48



ANNEX 8: COUNTRY AT A GLANCE (CONTINUED)
Bosniai anid Herzegov'ina
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
i2omestic                  ~~~~~~~~~~1980  1990  1999  2000  IInflation (%f
Consumer prics                         ..      ..     0.9     5.3    o
Implicif GDP deflator                  .       ..     3.1     4.7         0*se                 xi   c
Government finance
(%of GDP, inclutdes cu,wenl grants)
Current revenue                        .       .     31.7    31.0
Currenrl budget balance                ..      ..     0.9   .-l 2              GOP deflator -O--CPI
Overall surplusfdoficll                ..      .     17.4   *15.9   ___________________
TRADE                      ~~~~~  ~~~~~   ~~1980  1990  1999  200  Export anid Import levels (USS mill.)
(US$ rinllions)
Total expofts (fob)                                   649    732    ao
n.a.
n.a.
Manufactures
Total Imporls (Oil)02                                       2,4
Food                                                                .)
Fuel and energy
Capital goods
Export price index (1995= 100)..               .
Imnport price index (1995=-100)                                               jEot       aImrs
Termns of tfade  (1995=-100)                                        _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$                       ~~~~~  ~~~~~   ~~1980  1990  1999  2000  CuFrent account balance to GOP(%
E Voris of goods and services          .       ..   1,201   1,192    0
rImpors of goods and services          .      ..    2,728   2.543   ~
Resource balance                       ..      .    151 135          r
Net incorne                            .       ..     272    225                         E
Net cutrerenransfers                    ,      .      284    217     2
Current account balance                ..      ..     971    -909
1980  1990  1999  2000   ~     ~    ~    ~       K~~ILT3
Financing items (net)                  .       ..   1.233    935
Changes In niel reserves               .       .     -262    -28 
FReserves including gold (UJS$t million)  .    ..     455     508
Converaion rate (DEC. 1o"11VSS)        1.      .       .e     2.1
EXTERNAL DEBT arid RESOURCE FLOWS
(LJSS million)                                                     i Compositioni of2000 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt oLdtallndintg anid disbursed  .     ..   2,183   2,052 
lSOR                                  .      .      578     562                  G49
IDA                                                 33      38F 3
Trofal debt service                    .       ..     170    297                              W
18110                                 .              34      33
IDA                                   .      ..       2      3        (7:s52
Composition of nel reowurce fto%s
Official grants                       .      .
O11 icia creditors16                                         4
Privae crediotos                      ..4 ..          09
Foreigrr direct irwveltnenta
Portfolio equity                      .
World Bank progrms
Comnmilmenerts                        .             163      41    A - IMO                E -Bflateral
Disbursements                         .      .       68      44    8.- IDA  0 -Other multitrlwarel F -Private
Principal repayrnents                 .      ..       0       0    C - IMF                G - Shorit-trm
Net flows                             .      ..      68      44   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Interest paypnenls                    .              36      36
Net Iranslers                         .      .       32       8
The World Bank Group: htlpJ/w%vw.worIdbank.org1dala/                                            0110
49






IBRD 28578R
To ZagR T  CIROATIA                       ToVnkovc 
To(        +  \   Jezero  X  i  Trovn,k   +%        ;  W ekoTOi
fN      |>  -\> ~~~~~~Bosonsk. Groovo  Gr   osn                                 A5orve  - Vrs <d  snc 
451Pt Coi            p>           nio  u  Der,etoo Brod kon  .       rornc
Zaor                 \)1<L,Lvno Orzr4Pl osieg zec
Adriatic      Seaoblona Hcnlic                       r
ha  Po  Boa j  9PodggoIOT
\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ZC .>JPOLplNDn                UKRAINE3/   EDRA
LI o:  )g;3, ,, : a(                   Biel/R  (SERBIA
-  DAYTON~~~ AGReccEMENTELNEGRL                'o            O)DV
420  iatic      SeLECTED CITIES              OD       n
SnATI O   CAPITAL         t eoa IMope e             25    50t    7
oo otn  fom n evn k shot  )I  I,x I- I
Bownski ~~~~~~~~~~h as f h oni Be- -                         40
BOSNIA  aneet on tNe HERZEGOVINA  A  -.(A
logo1 ~   1 stE  oZEC eny entot  /  UKA IN
DAYTONAGEEMENTLok  a e  or           R    .    a
L42  O  SELECTEDCITIES                     r     < t.  RvATN k  >    Jp~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~iv. 
CRO~~~~eIATIOA ICAI IC)                              BMov eignUt o h 3<r>IDRP<_- 
~~ ~ ~ ~ G                  Ppfrn ludgmeJe  n fee   I   ekoS 
awcceptaonce of sac!,            See  TURKEYEt5 rn
160                  1 7           houndones     10   C      20<itCY;TO R 1997
_013   PI ucareveO  2b Ica  Vqreg       a~~~~~~~~~~~CTOER  99



