Page  1
The World Bank 
1818 H Street N.W. 
(202) 477-1234 
I
NTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
 
Washington, D.C.  20433 
Cable Address:  INTBAFRAD 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
 
U.S.A. 
Cable Address:  INDEVAS 
 
CONFORMED COPY 
July 24, 2003 
 
H.E. Ljerka Maric 
Minister of Finance and Treasury   
Ministry of Finance and Treasury 
Trg BiH 1 
71000 Sarajevo 
Bosnia and Herzegovina 
 
Re:  Swedish Grant for Advisory Services to Support the Business Environment  
Adjustment Credit  --  Grant Number TF052216
Excellency: 
 
I
am writing on behalf of the International Development Association (IDA) to indicate 
IDA’s agreement, as administrator of grant funds provided by Sweden, to make a grant in an amount 
not exceeding the equivalent of three million one hundred fifty thousand Swedish Kronors 
(SEK3,150,000) (the Grant) to Bosnia and Herzegovina (the Recipient). 
 
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient's request for financial assistance and for the 
purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex to this Letter Agreement.  The 
Recipient represents, by confirming its agreement below, that it is authorized to contract and 
withdraw the Grant for the said purposes and on the said terms and conditions. 
 
Please note that it is IDA’s policy to make publicly available this Letter Agreement and 
any information related thereto, after this Letter Agreement has become effective and the 
Recipient has given its consent to such disclosure.  The Recipient, by countersigning this Letter 
Agreement, confirms its consent to such disclosure. 
 
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by signing, 
dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement.  Upon receipt by IDA of 
the copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this Letter Agreement will become 
effective as of the date of the countersignature. 
 
Very truly yours, 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
/s/ Joseph Ingram 
Country Manager for Bosnia and Herzegovina 
Europe and Central Asia Region 
 
AGREED: 
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA 
 
By /s/ Ljerka Maric 
Minister of Finance and Treasury   
Date: 7/31/2003 
Page  2
2
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms, and Conditions of the Grant 
 
1. Purposes 
and 
Activities
1.1. 
The purposes of the Grant are to assist the Recipient, through the Project Implementation 
Units (PIUs) located  in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina (the Federation) and in the 
Republika Srpska (RS), to build capacity of the inspectorate system of the Recipient to fulfill its 
function effectively and to become more user-friendly, and to provide support in the reform of the 
inspectorate, collateral and business registration systems.  The activities (the Activities) for which 
the Grant is given are as follows: 
 
(a)  Preparing of an action plan for reforming the inspection system; 
 
(b)  Developing new legislation governing the activity of inspectorates which will include a 
code of conduct for inspectors, mandates and authorities of the inspectors, issues of 
jurisdiction and standardized inspection forms; 
 
(c)  Support in the implementation of legislation on inspectorates system after its adoption 
by the Parliament of the Recipient by providing training to the inspectors, business 
communities and monitoring of the implementation; 
 
(d) Conducting round-table meetings with the participation of government representatives 
and the private sector   to reach a consensus about the reform process and to coordinate 
and supervise the implementation of the business registry and pledge registry systems; 
and 
 
(e)  Carrying out of a survey and field trips to review progress and organizing meetings and 
consultations with government representatives and donors. 
 
2. Implementation 
Generally
2.1. 
The Recipient shall, and shall cause the Federation and RS to: (a) carry out the Activities 
with due diligence and efficiency; (b) promptly provide the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for that purpose; (c) furnish all information covering the Activities and the use of 
the proceeds of the Grant as IDA shall reasonably request; (d) from time to time exchange views 
with IDA's representatives on the progress and results of the Activities; (e) take all necessary 
measures required to enable IDA to visit the territory of the Recipient for purposes related to the 
Grant; and (f) cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Grant to be used 
exclusively for the purposes of the Project.  Without limitation on the foregoing, the Recipient shall, 
and shall cause the Federation and RS, if IDA shall so request, prepare and furnish to IDA promptly 
upon completion of the Activities a report, in form and substance satisfactory to IDA, on the results 
and impact of the Activities. 
 
2.2. 
The Recipient shall enter into two subsidiary grant agreements (the Subsidiary Grant 
Agreements) with the Federation and RS, as the case may be, satisfactory to IDA, and make 
available to the Federation and RS, as the case may be, the proceeds of the Grant for purposes of 
carrying out of the Activities. 
 
Page  3
3
3. Procurement
3.1. 
Except as IDA shall otherwise agree, procu
rement of the consultants’ services required for 
the carrying out of the Activities and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant shall be 
governed by the provisions of Attachment I to this Annex. 
 
4. 
Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds
4.1. 
The amount of the Grant shall be credited to an account opened by IDA on its books in the 
name of the Recipient (the Grant Account), and may be withdrawn therefrom by the Recipient in 
accordance with the provisions of this Section 4, for expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of 
services required for the Activities and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant. 
 
4.2. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the Grant to each Category, and the percentage of 
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Category
Amount of the Grant 
Allocated 
(in SEK )
%
of  
Expenditures to 
be Financed
Part A
:
The Federation
(1) Consultants’ services  
 
1,374,544 
 
100% 
 
(2) Training  
 
187,013 
 
100% 
 
(3) Incremental operating costs 
 
Sub-total 
 
Part B
:
RS
(4) Consultants’ services  
 
328,443 
 
1,890,000 
 
916,362 
 
100% 
 
100% 
 
(5) Training  
 
(6) Incremental operating costs 
 
Sub-total 
 
TOTAL 
 
124,675 
 
218,963 
 
1,260,000
3,150,000
100% 
 
100% 
 
For the purposes of this paragraph the term “incremental operating costs means expenditures 
incurred on account of interpreters, administrative support, office supply costs, internal travel and 
accommodation for consultants, and expenses and fees of the PIUs in the Federation and the RS 
excluding salaries of civil servants. 
 
4.3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 4.2 above: 
 
Page  4
4
(a) 
No withdrawals shall be made from the Grant Account: (i) for payments made for 
expenditures prior to the date of signature of this Letter Agreement by IDA, except that withdrawals, 
in an aggregate amount not exceeding one hundred fifty seven thousand five hundred Swedish 
Kronors (SEK157,500) for Part A and Part B of the Project, may be made on account of payments 
made for expenditures before that date but after April 30, 2003; (iii) on account of expenditures in 
the territories of any country which is not a member of IDA for services supplied from such 
territories; or (iv) for the
 purpose of any payment to persons or entities  if such payment, to IDA’s 
knowledge, is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter 
VII of the Charter of the United Nations; 
 
(b) 
No withdrawals shall be made from the Grant Account after February 29, 2004 or 
such later date that IDA shall establish by notice to the Recipient (the Closing Date). However, 
withdrawals may be made after the Closing Date for expenditures incurred prior to the Closing Date 
if the corresponding withdrawal application is received by IDA within four months after the Closing 
Date, after which time any amount of the Grant remaining unwithdrawn from the Grant Account 
shall be canceled; and 
 
(c) 
If, in IDA’s opinion, an amount of the Grant allocated to any of the Categories in 
the table in paragraph 4.2 above will be insufficient to finance the expenditures under such Category, 
IDA may, by written notice to the Recipient, reallocate to such Category an amount of the Grant then 
allocated to another Category which, in IDA’s opinion, will not be necessary to meet other 
expenditures. 
 
4.4. 
When the Recipient shall desire to withdraw any amount from the Grant Account, it shall 
deliver to IDA a written application for withdrawal of such amount in the form specified by IDA.  
Withdrawal applications shall be: (a) signed on behalf of the Recipient by the Minister of Finance 
and Treasury of the Recipient or such other person as he or she shall have authorized in writing; and 
(b) accompanied by such evidence in support of the application as IDA shall reasonably request.  
Authenticated specimen signatures of the person authorized to sign withdrawal applications shall be 
provided with the first application bearing his or her signature.  Each withdrawal application for an 
amount of the Grant and its supporting evidence must be sufficient in form and substance to satisfy 
IDA that the Recipient is entitled to withdraw such amount from the Grant Account and that such 
amount is to be used in the carrying out of the Activities.  IDA shall pay the amounts withdrawn by 
the Recipient from the Grant Account only to or on the order of the Recipient. 
 
4.5. 
IDA may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on the basis of statements 
of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) services of consulting firms costing less than 
US$25,000 equivalent each; (b) services of individual consultants costing less than US$15,000 
equivalent each; (c) training; and (d) incremental operating costs, all under such terms and conditions 
as IDA shall specify by notice to the Recipient.  
 
4.6. 
Withdrawals of the proceeds of the Grant shall be made in the currency of the Grant.  IDA, 
at the Recipient’s request and acting as an agent of the Recipient, shall purchase with the currency of 
the Grant withdrawn from the Grant Account such currencies as shall be required to pay for 
expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant.  Whenever it shall be necessary, for the 
purposes of this Letter Agreement, to determine the value of one currency in terms of another, such 
value shall be as reasonably determined by IDA. 
 
4.7. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Activities, the Recipient may open and maintain in Euro 
two special deposit  accounts(the Special Accounts), the Federation Special Account for Part A of 
the Project and the RS Special Account for Part B of the Project in a  bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to IDA, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.  Deposits 
Page  5
5
into, and payments out of, the Special Accounts shall be made in accordance with the provisions of 
Attachment II to this Annex. 
 
5. Accounts 
and 
Audits
5.1. 
(a) 
The Recipient shall, and shall cause the Federation and RS, to maintain or causes to 
be maintained a financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial 
statements in accordance with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to IDA, adequate 
to reflect  the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Activities. 
 
(b) 
The Recipient shall, and shall cause the Federation and RS: (i) commencing with 
the fiscal year in which the grant becomes effective to and including the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Grant Account is made, have the  financial statements referred to in 
subparagraph (a) above  for each such fiscal year or other period agreed to by IDA, audited, in 
accordance with consistently applied auditing standards, acceptable to IDA, by independent auditors 
acceptable to IDA; (ii) furnish to IDA as soon as available, but in any case not later than six months 
after the end of each such year or such other period agreed to by IDA, (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in subparagraph (a) above for such year or such other  period agreed 
to by IDA, as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such statements by said auditors, in scope and  detail 
satisfactory to  IDA; and (iii) furnish to IDA such other information concerning such records and 
accounts and the audit of such financial statements, and concerning said auditors, as IDA shall have 
reasonably requested. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant Account 
were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall, and shall cause the 
Federation and RS, to:  (i) retain, until at least one year after IDA has received the audit report for or 
covering the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Grant Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures; (iii) 
enable IDA’s representatives to examine such records; and (iv) ensure that such  statements of 
expenditure are included in the audit for each fiscal year, or other period agreed to by IDA, referred 
to in subparagraph (b) above. 
 
6. Suspension 
and 
Cancellation
6.1. 
IDA may at any time, by notice to the Recipient, suspend the right of the Recipient to make 
further withdrawals from the Grant Account if any of the following events has occurred and is 
continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to comply with any of its obligations herein specified; or (b) 
the right of the Recipient, or any other entity to which International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development (the IBRD) has made a loan with the guarantee of the Recipient, to make withdrawals 
under any loan agreement with the IBRD or any development credit agreement with IDA shall have 
been suspended.  
 
6.2. 
IDA may, by written notice to the Recipient, terminate the right of the Recipient to make 
further withdrawals from the Grant Account: (a) at any time after the right of the Recipient to make 
withdrawals from the Grant Account shall have been suspended pursuant to the provisions of 
paragraph 6.1 above; or (b) if the Recipient shall have failed to take action, satisfactory to IDA, 
within six months after the effective date hereof, to carry out the Activities. 
 
Page  6
6
Attachment I  
 
Procurement 
Consultants’ Services
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Sections I 
and IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers”, published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997, January 1999 
and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the following provisions of this Section. 
 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Consultant Guidelines, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for described under paragraph 1.1 (a) through (e) of the Annex estimated to cost 
less than US$25,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
2. Individual 
Consultants
Services of individual consultants described under paragraph 1.1 (a) through (e) of the 
Annex, tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 
through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Part D
:
Review by IDA of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
A
plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost estimates, 
contract packaging, and applicable selection criteria and procedures, shall be furnished to IDA for 
its review and approval prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals.  Such 
plan shall be updated every 6 months during the execution of the Activities, and each such 
updating shall be furnished to IDA for its review and approval.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as updated from time to time 
as shall have been approved by IDA. 
 
Page  7
7
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms estimated 
to cost the equivalent of US$25,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants  
estimated to cost the equivalent of US$15,000 or more, the report on the comparison of the 
qualifications and experience of candidates, and terms of reference and terms of employment of 
the consultants shall be furnished to IDA for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after said approval shall have been given.  The provisions of paragraph 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall also apply to such contracts. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
Page  8
8
Attachment II 
 
Special Account 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Attachment: 
 
(a) 
the term "eligible Categories" means the Categories (1) through (6) set forth in the 
table in paragraph 4.2 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the reasonable 
cost of services required for the Activities and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant; and 
 
(c) 
the term "Authorized Allocation" means the amount of EUR40,000 in respect of 
the Federation Special Account and an amount of EUR25,000 in respect of RS Special Account to 
be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Attachment. 
 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures in 
accordance with the provisions of this Attachment. 
 
3. 
After IDA has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account has been duly 
opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the 
Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
The Recipient shall furnish to IDA a request or requests for a deposit into the 
Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the 
Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of such request or requests, IDA shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or 
amounts as the Recipient shall have requested. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall furnish to 
IDA requests for deposits into the Special Account at such intervals as 
IDA shall specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall furnish to 
IDA the documents and other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of 
this Attachment for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested.  On the basis of each such request, IDA shall, 
on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit 
into the Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.  All such deposits shall be withdrawn by IDA from the Grant 
Account under the eligible Category(ies), and in the respective equivalent 
amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other 
evidence. 
 
4. 
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient shall, at 
such time as IDA shall reasonably request, furnish to IDA such documents and other evidence 
showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
 
Page  9
9
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Attachment, IDA shall not be 
required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, IDA shall have determined that all further withdrawals should be 
made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account; 
 
(b) 
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to IDA, within the period of time 
specified in paragraph 5.1 (b) (ii) of the Annex to this Letter Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to IDA pursuant to said paragraph in respect of the audit of the records and 
accounts for the Special Account; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, IDA shall have notified the Recipient of its intention to suspend in 
whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account pursuant to 
the provisions of paragraph 6.1 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant shall equal the equivalent of twice 
the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
 
Thereafter, withdrawals from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Grant 
shall follow such procedures as IDA shall specify by notice to the Recipient.  Such further 
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that IDA shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
 
6. 
(a) 
If IDA shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of 
this Attachment; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to IDA, the Recipient shall, 
promptly upon notice from IDA: (A) provide such additional evidence as IDA may request; or (B) 
deposit into the Special Account (or, if IDA shall so request, refund to IDA) an amount equal to the 
amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless IDA shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by IDA into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If IDA shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the 
Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from IDA, refund to IDA such outstanding amount. 
 
