Page  1
March
2,
2001
H.E. Azra Hadziahmetovic
Ministry of Foreign Trade and
Economic Relations
Musala
9,
71000
Sarajevo
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Re:
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA: Japanese Grant for the Preparation of the 
Business Environment Adjustment Credit
-
Grant Number TF026522
Excellency:
I am writing on behalf of the International Development Association
(IDA)
to
indicate IDA
’s  agreement, as administrator of grant funds provided by Japan, to make
a grant in an amount not exceeding four hundred fifty five thousand U. S. Dollars 
(US$455,000) (the Grant) to Bosnia and Herzegovina (the Recipient).
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient’s request for financial assistance 
and for the purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex to this
Letter Agreement.
The Recipient hereby confirms its request that  IDA carries out the
activities described in paragraph
1
of the Annex to this Letter Agreement, and
represents that it is authorized to contract the Grant for the said purposes and on
the said terms and conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by
signing, dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement.
Upon
receipt by  IDA of the copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this Letter
Agreement will become effective as of the date of the countersignature.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
/s/
Joseph K.
Ingram
Director
Country Office  Bosnia and Herzegovina
Europe and Central Asia Region
AGREED:
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
By
/s/
Azra Hadziahmetovic
Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations
Date:
March
12,
2001
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms, and Conditions of the Grant
1.
Purposes and Activities
1.1.
The purpose of the Grant is to assist in the preparation of the Business 
Environment Adjustment Credit
(the Project), which has as main objectives improving 
the enabling environment for private sector-led growth in the following key areas: (i) 
improving legal, regulatory and administrative requirements for private business
start-up and growth, (ii) reducing tax burden for businesses and rendering the tax 
system fair and transparent, and
(iii) strengthening the court system and 
enforceability of laws, regulations and contracts. The activities (the Activities) for 
which the Grant is given are as follows:
Page  2
(a) 
Legislative and Regulatory Framework
(US$313,640); 
Provision of technical assistance to: prepare a review of key legislation and 
regulations affecting business operations and draft recommended changes with the aim
of reducing burdensome, unfair, inconsistent and non-transparent requirements that 
impede private sector growth.
 
(b) 
Business Lobby Strengthening (US$141,360);
Provision of technical assistance to: conduct advisory services and educational 
workshops to work with existing business associations and create the foundation for
new associations to strengthen their ability to effectively represent the interests of
their members and lobby for key changes.
2.
The Grant shall be used to finance consultants
’
services required for the
Activities.
3.
 IDA shall carry out the Activities on behalf of the Recipient.
The Recipient
shall cooperate with  IDA to the extent necessary to permit  IDA to carry out the
Activities promptly and effectively, and to evaluate the results of the Activities.
The Recipient shall indemnify  IDA against any costs or liabilities incurred by  IDA
as a result of claims against  IDA in connection with the Activities, except those
resulting from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of its staff or external
consultants.
4.
The Activities shall be completed by not later than  October 31, 2001 or such 
later date as  IDA may establish by notice to the Recipient
(the Closing Date).
Except in special circumstances, no proceeds of the Grant shall be used to fund
Activities after IDA approval of financing for the Project, and the Closing Date shall
not be extended beyond the expected date of such approval.
After the Closing Date,
IDA may at any time cancel the remaining balance of the Grant.
5.
The engagement and supervision of the consultants (the Consultants) required to 
assist in the carrying out of the Activities shall be the responsibility solely of
IDA and shall be governed, except as otherwise decided by  IDA after consultation with
the Recipient, by the provisions of the Attachment to this Annex.
6.
The Recipient shall be responsible for the payment of any taxes levied by, or in 
the territory of the Recipient on the Consultants or any of the Consultants’ personnel 
(other than nationals or permanent residents thereof) in connection with the 
Activities.
7.
The Recipient may at any time request  IDA in writing to terminate the 
Activities. Whether or not the Recipient has made such a request,  IDA may at any time 
suspend or, after consultation with the Recipient, terminate the right of the
Recipient to receive Grant funds for the Activities if any of the following events has
occurred and is continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to perform any of its 
obligations under this Letter Agreement; or
(b)
the right of the Recipient, or any
other entity to which the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
(the
IBRD) has made a loan with the guarantee of the Recipient, to make withdrawals under 
any loan agreement with the IBRD or any development credit agreement with  IDA shall
have been suspended.
IDA may also terminate the right of the Recipient to receive
Grant funds if: (a)
IDA has decided, at any time after consultation with the
Recipient, to withdraw its support to the Project; or
(b) the Recipient has withdrawn 
its request for  IDA’s assistance in the financing of the Project.
8.
 IDA is not an agent of, or trustee for, the Recipient and shall not have any 
fiduciary relationship with the Recipient.
The Recipient shall have no right to any
portion of the Grant that is not expended by  IDA pursuant to this Letter Agreement.
Attachment
Consultants' Services
1.
Consultants' services shall be procured in accordance with the relevant
provisions of Statement
15.00 of the World Bank's Administrative Manual, dated 
November
2000
(the Administrative Manual), the Introduction and Section IV of the 
"Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" 
published by the Bank in January
1997
and revised in September
1997
and January
1999
(the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provision of this Attachment.
2. 
Services for legislative and regulatory framework and business lobby 
Page  3
strengthening, each contract estimated to cost US$
50
,
000
or less, shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions, which are consistent with
the provisions of the Administrative Manual, of paragraphs
3.1 and 3.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines
(Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications).
