FILEh  COPI                            Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2379-NIR
REPORT AND RECOMMENT)ATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF NIGER
FOR AN
IRRIGATION PROJECT
September 20, 1978
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their oflicial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit      =          CFAF Franc
US$1               =          CFAF 245
CFAF 1             =          US$0.00408
DM                 =          US$0.48
FISCAL YEAR
Republic of Niger: October 1 - September 30
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilometer (km)   =          0.6215 mile
1 centimeter (cm)  =          0.033 feet
I hectare (ha)     =          2.47 acres
1 metric ton (t)   =          2,207 lbs
I kilogram (kg)    =          2.207 lbs
ABBREVIATIONS
CNCA           Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole
DAC            Development Assistance Committee
FAC            Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation
FED            Fonds Europeen de Developpement
GR             Service du Genie Rural
IRAT           Institut de Recherches d'Agriculture Tropicale
KfW            Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
MRD            Ministry of Rural Development
ONAHA          Office National des Amenagements Hydroagricoles
OPVN           Office des Produits Vivriers du Niger
SOGREAH        Societe Grenobloise d'Hydraulique Agricole
UNCC           Union Nigerienne de Credit et de Cooperation



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
IRRIGATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:             Republic of Niger
Amount:               US$15 Million
Terms:                Standard
Project               The proposed project aims primarily at assisting the
Description:         Government in expanding cereal and vegetable production
along the Niger River, and at creating an appropriate
structure for the development of its irrigation program.
The project would finance: (a) construction of the
irrigation scheme of the Namarigoungou polder (1,550 ha);
(b) provision of administration and financial services
through the Office National des Amenagements Hydro-
Agricole (ONAHA); (c) provision of agricultural develop-
ment services to participating farmers on this polder and
to farmers established on neighbouring irrigation schemes;
(d) provision of health services; (e) training programs
for farmers in modern agricultural techniques and (f)
preparation of a feasibility study for a nearby polder.
The project would also finance the services of a finan-
cial coordinator, attached to the Ministry of Rural
Development, to assist in accounting and financial manage-
ment of the various IDA-financed agricultural projects in
Niger. It is estimated that 3,000 farming units would
take up cultivation in the Namarigoungou polder. The
project's services would also benefit 2,200 farming units
already established on existing irrigation schemes in the
project area, and the 300 farming units which would take up
cultivation on another scheme under construction. There-
fore, some 5,500 farming units (about 30,000 people or
60% of the population in the project area) would benefit
in varying degrees from this project. The project faces
no major technical risks. The financial risks have been
reduced as much as possible by basing the cost estimates
on a detailed engineering study. The institutional risk
is minimized by the creation of ONAHA which would be
adequately staffed and equipped to carry out the project.
The possible social risk involved in land allocation
will be reduced by the use of well-established land
allocation procedures.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization,



- ii -
Estimated Cost:
Local    Foreign    Total
…--------US$' 000    …
Irrigation Works                                1,710      6,840      8,550
Administrative and Financial Services           1,500      1,130      2,630
Agricultural Development Activities             1,140      1,370      2,510
Health Component and Training                      40         90        130
Agricultural Equipment and
Incremental Inputs                            140       560        700
Other                                              _         900        900
Base Cost Estimate                              4,530    10,890    15,420
Physical Contingencies                            590      1,380      1,970
Price Contingencies                             1,090      2,520      3,610
Total                                           6,210    14,790    21,000
%                                                  30         70        100
Financing Plan:       Except for the cost of the financial coordinator
(US$300,000) which would be financed entirely by IDA,
all project expenditures would be financed on pari-
passu basis by the proposed IDA Credit of $15.0 mil-
lion and a KfW loan of DM 12.5 million equivalent to
about US$6.0 million. The proposed financing plan
can be summarized as follows:
IDA        KfW        Total
-------US$ '000 - ---
Local Cost                         4,400       1,800       6,200
Foreign Cost                      10,600       4,200      14,800
15,000      6,000      21,000
%                                     71          29         100
Estimated
Disbursements:                          FY       FY      FY       FY       FY
1979    1980    1981    1982    1983
…-- --US$' 000-     …
Annual                        1,000   4,000   5,000   3,000   2,000
Cumulative                    1,000   5,000  10,000  13,000  15,000



- iii -
Rate of Return:       The economic rate of return is estimated at 12.5 per-
cent for those project components (95 percent of project
costs) which present quantifiable benefits: irrigation
works, agricultural development and related facilities
and services.
Appraisal Report:    No. 1682-NIR
Map:                  IBRD 12835, dated May 1977






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECONIENDATIONS OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF NIGER
FOR AN IRRIGATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Republic of Niger for the equivalent of US$15
million on standard IDA terms to help finance an irrigation project.
Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KfW) would also provide DM 12.5 million
(equivalent to about US$6.0 million to the financing of the project. The
KfW funds will be on a loan basis at 0.75 percent interest on amounts
disbursed and outstanding and 0.25 percent service charge on undisbursed
amounts with 50 years maturity including 10 years of grace.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report, "Economic Memorandum:  Niger" (RN 1109a-NIR) was dis-
tributed to the Executive Directors on May 13, 1976. More recent economic
information from various sources is also incorporated in the following para-
graphs. Annex I contains country data.
Background
3.        With a per capita GNP of about US$160 in 1976, Niger is one of the
poorest African countries and amongst the 29 "least developed countries" so
classified by the United Nations. The country faces a number of formidable
constraints to development including poor soils, unfavorable climatic condi-
tions, landlocked position, high energy costs, high dependence on foreign
factors and low levels of education and technical ability. Agriculture and
livestock together provide employment and livelihood to over 90 percent of
the population and account for nearly half of GNP and a sizeable portion of
export earnings. However, substantial growth was achieved in recent years
in industry and particularly in uranium mining which has become an important
factor in expanding the Government's tax base and diversifying the country's
exports. Consumption has traditionally been rather high (about 95 percent
of GNP) and domestic savings modest; since investments have been relatively
important (16-18 percent of GNP), the resulting resource gap has been financed
by the substantial inflows of foreign resources.
Recent Developments
4.        Niger's recent economic developments have been characterized by
virtual stagnation in the agricultural sector and rapid expansion in mining
and industrial production. During the 1968-74 period, increasingly unfavor-
able weather and in particular the disastrous 1973/74 drought resulted in a
40 percent decline in the output of the staple crops (millet and sorghum)
while production of groundnuts, the single most important export crop, fell



by 70 percent and the size of cattle herds declined by almost half. In
1974/75, production of the main staples picked up again thanks to improved
rainfall and increases in producer prices, but output fell again in 1975/76
to about 80 percent of the pre-drought level because of premature ending and
uneven distribution of rainfall in some of the principal cultivation areas.
In 1976/77, rainfall was almost normal and the food situation improved. The
outlook for 1977/78 appears to be relatively good compared with other Sahelian
countries where inadequate and untimely rainfall caused again severe crop
failures.
5.        The dominant feature of the economy in recent years has been the
continuous expansion in uranium mining activities. Between 1971 and 1976,
foreign investment in this sector amounted to some $275 million; uranium
concentrates production increased rapidly from some 400 tons to about 1,600
tons, thereby facilitating the economy's recovery from the severe effects of
the 1973 drought. Thus in 1974-76 overall real GNP growth exceeded 32 percent
and, in 1976, uranium mining accounted for about 6 percent of GDP, over half
of total exports, and provided about one third of total Government revenue.
Present forecasts indicate that uranium production will reach about 3,500-
4,000 tons by 1980 with the entry into production of a second mine.
6.        Stimulated by this improvement in domestic income and by the impact
of the growing trade with Nigeria, the industrial and services sectors, in-
cluding transport and construction, have also expanded rapidly and accounted
for about 26 percent of GDP in 1976, although this relative increase also re-
flects the drought-induced decline of agricultural and livestock activities.
Public Finance
7.        Over the last seven years, austere spending policy, together with
rapidly rising revenue, mostly from uranium mining, have enabled the Govern-
ment to generate substantial current budgetary savings. They amounted to
about CFAF 8.3 billion (US$34 million) in fiscal year 1976/77 and may reach
CFAF 13 billion (US$53 million) in fiscal year 1977/78. Two features of
particular importance were introduced in the current 1977/78 budget: first,
the elimination of the head tax levied on all citizens between the ages of
15 and 65, with a view to reducing the tax burden on lower income groups;
and second, the rise in capital expenditures in absolute as well as in rela-
tive terms, from CFAF 10 billion in 1976/77 (28 percent of total budgetary
expenditures) to CFAF 13 billion (31 percent) with a corresponding increase
in the share of rural development investments. Both measures reflect Gov-
ernment's increasing concern with the problems of social equity and economic
growth. As a result of the substantial increase in budgetary savings, French
budgetary grants, which averaged about CFAF 1.2 billion (US$5.0 million)
annually over the 1970-75 period were discontinued, and the contribution
of public savings to total public investment increased from 10 percent in
1970-75 to almost 20 percent in 1977-78.
Balance of Payments
8.        The rapid increase in export earnings from uranium notwithstanding,
Niger's balance of payments continues to be characterized by a substantial



- 3 -
deficit on current account: the imports required for operating the economy
as well as for new capital formation still exceed foreign exchange revenues
by a wide margin and will continue to do so for some years to come. These
deficits have however been more than compensated by the inflow of foreign
capital, so that the overall balance of payments has actually shown a sub-
stantial surplus in the last two years. At the end of 1977, Niger's foreign
exchange reserves amounted to some $90 million, equivalent to four months
of imports. The outlook for 1978 appears less favorable. For one thing,
the drought impelled the Government to import foodgrains worth some US$15
million. For another, the Government is intent on doubling imports of capital
goods to speed up the implementation of development projects. Therefore, even
assuming higher export proceeds from uranium, foreign exchange reserves in
1978 are likely to decline somewhat. Over the near to medium term, however,
Niger's trade balance deficit should be improving not only because of expected
further increases in uranium export earnings, but also because of the poten-
tial recovery of agricultural exports. A Bank economic mission, scheduled
to visit Niger in October 1978, will assess prospects more closely.
Development Issues and Prospects
9.        Niger's medium-term development potential lies primarily in the
rural sector, which provides employment and livelihood to about 90 percent of
total population. The Government's strategy assigns top priority to efforts
to improve agricultural productivity and to alleviate the economy's vulnerabil-
ity to the vagaries of the weather, with a view to ensuring some degree of
food self-sufficiency and promoting cash crops. The basic constraints to be
tackled are the poor and apparently deteriorating soil fertility and the
scarcity of arable land in relation to the rapidly growing population: the
cropping area amounts to about 10 percent of total land area of which only
one fifth (2 percent) is under cultivation at any given time under the exist-
ing rotation system of cultivation. The Government has therefore initiated a
''productivity program" aimed at introducing more intensive farming through
provision of extension services, dissemination of adapted varieties and
introduction of appropriate agricultural techniques and implements. Special
efforts are needed to restore exports of a few cash crops, cotton and, espe-
cially, groundnuts which have suffered from the drought in 1972/74 and pests
in recent years. Increasing attention is also given to forestry in recogni-
tion of the vital role of forests in maintaining the country's fragile ecologi-
cal equilibrium and as the most important source of energy in the medium term.
10.       While the productivity program, which is expected to eventually
cover the entire rainfed agricultural area, represents the best way to im-
prove the standards of living of the vast majority of the rural population,
it cannot solve Niger's long-term food problem. The Government therefore
gives priority to the development of irrigation schemes that could lessen
the country's vulnerability to the vagaries of the weather and offer a viable
solution to the land shortage problem. Full development of the country's con-
siderable irrigation potential would however depend on the construction of a
proposed regulatory dam on the Niger River. In the meantime, there are some
16,000 ha which the Government intends to develop right away for double crop-
ping at the rate of about 1,000-2,000 ha annually.



- 4 -
11.       Regarding livestock, the herd reconstitution program initiated in
1976 is progressing satisfactorily but pre-drought cattle numbers cannot be
achieved until 1990. To avoid overgrazing, the strategy for full development
of the livestock potential also aims at establishment of an organization for
land use and grazing patterns based on a recognition of the complementarity
of Niger's different ecological zones.
12.       While the thrust of development efforts is centered on the rural
sector, Government also attaches priority to the exploration and exploita-
tion of the country's mineral resources. As indicated above, uranium already
provides much needed momentum to the economy through substantial Government
revenues and export earnings. In addition, there are indications of large
but as yet unassessed phosphate deposits which could be exploited for exports
and fertilizer production. Several foreign companies are also actively
engaged in oil and gas exploration. There is therefore a considerable poten-
tial for mineral production; the judicious utilization of the resulting mining
proceeds could lay a sound basis for sustained economic growth and diversifi-
cation. The industrial sector offers reasonably hopeful opportunities for
productive employment of Niger's urban and rural underutilized population.
However, some improvements are needed in Government industrial policies in
addition to technical assistance and increased investment funds.
13.       Despite considerable achievement in the past two decades in terms
of primary and secondary school enrollments, Niger's education base has
improved only marginally: more than 90 percent of the population is still
illiterate. Overall, the shortage of qualified manpower for project iden-
tification, preparation and implementation, constitutes the most critical
development constraint in the medium term. There is increasing recognition
within Government that a major educational reform is needed. Another limit-
ing factor is the inadequate economic infrastructure, mainly for transport,
which has also received high priority and increased financial resources.
Interim Program (1976-1978)
14.       The Government's strategy is broadly reflected in the Interim
Program, currently being implemented, which proposed public investments of
CFAF 78.2 billion (US$320 million) during the 1976-78 period. This program
emphasizes infrastructure and power (46 percent of total investments), agri-
culture (33 percent) and development of human resources (18 percent). About
one fourth of total investment was expected to be financed by domestic re-
sources, reflecting the Government's determination to mobilize domestic
savings to the fullest extent possible. This, however, is an ambitious
target which may not be reached during the plan period. In view of Niger's
poverty and still limited growth prospects, external funds should continue
to be provided on concessionary terms. Moreover, foreign aid agencies should
consider financing a high proportion of total project costs, including local
costs in appropriate cases.



15.        Between 1971 and 1975, Niger's total recorded net flow of re-
sources from DAC countries and multilateral agencies averaged about U$$80
million annually of which 95 percent was on concessionary terms. No reliable
information is available on external flows from other sources. The European
Development Fund (FED), France, Germany and Canada remain Niger's major
aid donors along with Saudi Arabia and Algeria, which have expanded their
programs in the last two years.
16.        At the end of 1975, external public debt outstanding amounted
to US$231.7 million, including an undisbursed amount of US$109.1 million.
The ratio of debt service to exports of goods and non-factor services was
3.5 percent in 1973 and 5.8 percent in 1975. No significant increase in
external debt has taken place over the last two years and no debt servicing
problems are foreseen in the near future. The Bank Group ranked as Niger's
second largest creditor with 17.3 percent of total debt outstanding and
disbursed. This reflects the fact that the major bilateral donors extend
their aid on a grant basis. The Association's share in total debt service
payments is insignificant.
PART II - WORLD BANK OPERATIONS IN NIGER
17.        Beginning with an IDA credit for road construction in 1964, thirteen
IDA credits, including two supplementary credits, have so far been approved for
Niger totalling US$63.0 million net of cancellations. Past Bank Group lending
was heavily concentrated in transport and communications, where inadequate
facilities hampered the development of the country: of the thirteen projects
approved to date, four aimed at expanding and up-grading the domestic road
network, one provided for improvement and extension of existing facilities
at Niamey international airport; one for the installation of a more reliable
telecommunications system, and another for the promotion of small/medium scale
enterprises and artisans. The Association's lending to date for the rural
sector includes an agricultural credit project, a drought relief project, the
Maradi rural development project and a forestry project. In general, all
operations are proceeding satisfactorily. Annex II contains a summary state-
ment of these credits as of August 31, 1978 and notes on the execution of
on-going projects.
18.        In keeping with Niger's overall development strategy, future Bank
Group lending will increasingly focus on efforts to ensure self-sufficiency
in food and to improve the incomes and standard of living of the rural popu-
lation; to upgrade and expand physical infrastructure; to develop alternative
approaches to training and educational reform; and to diversify the economic
structure and expand modern sector employment. We will also continue to
advise Government on policy issues and options through our economic and
sector work.
19.        For the two fiscal years 1979-80, the bulk of the Association's
lending to Niger will go to the rural sector. In addition to the proposed
irrigation project, a livestock project would support efforts to speed up the



- 6 -
reconstitution of herds, to increase livestock productivity and to promote
effective participation of the pastoralists in the management and improvement
of communal rangelands and stock watering points. Also under preparation is
a second rural development project designed to achieve sustained increase in
foodgrain production and in rural incomes in the Dosso area.
20.       In transport, we plan to place emphasis on assistance for the
construction of a network of secondary and access roads to support the Govern-
ment's agricultural program while continuing our support for maintenance of
the existing infrastructure; a feeder roads project will mark a first step
towards this objective. Iij education, our objectives are to help the Govern-
ment to address the urgent problem of developing qualified high and middle
level manpower, particularly for agricultural development activities, and to
achieve some expansion in enrollment, improvement in the quality of existing
institutions and development of non-formal education programs. In general,
all future projects will also include, as needed, training, technical assist-
ance, and other provisions necessary for strengthening institutions.
PART III - THE SECTOR
21.       Niger is one o°  the largest landlocked countries in Africa, cover-
ing about 1.3 million km , between latitudes 100 and 250 (see map).  Annual
rainfall ranges from 700 and 800 mm annually in the south, to less than 350
mm 150-200 km further north. About 10 percent of the total land area is suit-
able for crop production, but has very low potential, and only about 2 percent
is cultivated at any given time under the traditional rotation method of cul-
tivation.
22.       Rural activities provide employment and livelihood to the vast
majority of the population: 85 percent of the population are engaged in mainly
subsistence agriculture and the cultivation of groundnuts and cotton for ex-
port, and about 7 percent live from pastoral activity. It is estimated that
in 1976/77 these two sectors accounted for about 47 percent of the GDP as
compared to 58 percent in 1971, a decline that stems partly from the severe
effects of the drought (para. 4) which has dramatically demonstrated the
vulnerability of Niger's agricultural sector to the vagaries of the weather.
Rural Development Policy
23.       Whereas prior to 1973 Niger used to be self-sufficient in food,
it had to import some 500,000 tons of cereals over the three years 1973-75,
equivalent to 17 percent of the food requirements. Although domestic pro-
duction has picked up in the last two years with resumption of normal rain-
fall and food prospects for the near term are relatively good, present esti-
mates are that in the early 1980s, Niger will again face food shortages owing
to growing scarcity of arable land and increasing demand. The Government's
primary objective in the rural sector is therefore to restore and maintain
food self-sufficiency through maximizing the rainfed potential and expanding
the area under controlled irrigation.



- 7 -
24.       As far as rainfed farming is concerned, there is a limit to the
level of increases that productivity improvement projects can generate.
Income levels in the rainfed areas of Niger are less than US$70 per capita
and with present technology they can be increased by perhaps 50%, but the
beneficiaries of such projects will continue to remain very poor, and the
food base of the country will continue to depend upon extremely unreliable
rainfall. The Government intends to improve productivity and farm incomes
where economically justified. It plans to develop the general use of farm
inputs through the development of agricultural credit and the strengthening
of agricultural extension services; and over the next few years it plans
productivity improvement projects throughout the southern tier of the country
where rainfed cultivation is possible.
25.       Besides rainfed projects, which are necessary to help the great
majority of the rural community, Government has given equal priority to
investments in irrigation schemes. At present, some 8,000 ha of modern
irrigation schemes have been developed: 3,700 ha along the Niger river
valley. This compares to a total irrigation potential of about 200,000 ha
of which 100,000 ha along the Niger River. The latter, however, cannot be
fully developed for double cropping irrigation until the flow of the Niger
River is regulated by a dam at the site of Kandadji currently being studied.
Some 16,000 ha could be developed for double cropping irrigation along the
Niger River prior to the construction of the dam. At the present rhythm of
development of 1,300 ha per year, this would take more than 10 years.
26.       The Association endorses the Government's policy of a balanced devel-
opment of the agricultural sector: an IDA-financed productivity improvement
project is underway for the Department of Maradi, whose content and organiza-
tion is intended as a model for future similar projects, and another produc-
tivity improvement project for the Department of Dosso is being prepared.
The two Departments comprise about one third the area of the southern tier
of Niger.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
27.       The proposed project is based on the feasibility study and detailed
engineering prepared by consultants SOGREAH. A Bank mission appraised the
*           project in February 1977.  Negotiations were held in Washington July 12, to
July 15, 1978 with a Government delegation led by the Planning Minister, His
Excellency Annou Mahamane. Annex III contains supplementary project data, the
Appraisal Report No. 1682-NIR is being circulated separately to the Executive
Directors.
Project Objectives
28.       The proposed irrigation project would be the first major irrigation
project in Niger. It would assist Government in creating the necessary insti-
tutional framework for the implementation of its irrigation development program



through the establishment of the "Office National des Amenagements Hydroagri-
coles" (ONAHA), which would integrate and strengthen the construction and
management activities of the irrigation schemes. It would produce not only
rice, which is increasingly becoming a staple food for the population along
the Niger River and the city dwellers, but also a variety of vegetables. It
would also provide the means for a better utilization of the local livestock
resources, and permit the introduction of modern agricultural technology,
including the use of improved methods on the rainfed holdings of the project
participants.
Project Description
29.       The project consists in:
(a) Development of the Namarigoungou polder (2,250 ha of gross
area, 1,550 ha net): Works to be built include a 12 km
dike to protect the polder against maximum flood levels;
two pumping stations designed to allow for gravity irriga-
tion when feasible; about 70 km of irrigation network, and
a drainage network. While project costs would include
financing of the concrete lining of all primary and
secondary canals, agreement was reached at negotiations
that concrete lining of canals will be undertaken only where
criteria mutually acceptable to the Association and Govern-
ment are met. However, the exact length of canals to be lined
cannot be assessed at the present time, but will require
detailed soil surveys, canal by canal, which will be carried
out prior to canal construction. The Association has recom-
mended criteria for concrete lining based on soil permeability
and protection of canal structure, although additional criteria
could be submitted by the Government of Niger for review and
approval not later than one month prior to the commencement
of canal construction. Funds currently allocated for concrete-
lining of canals which would not be required for concrete
lining, after further investigation, and which would not be
required for other phases of the project, would be cancelled.
The project schedule shows procurement of equipment in 1978;
the work on construction of the dike would get under way in
February 1979 and would be completed by mid-year 1981.
(b) Agricultural development and provision of services to farmers:
The project would finance the provision of agricultural
services to farmers who would take up cultivation on the
Namarigoungou polder (1,550 ha net) and on a nearby scheme
under construction (162 ha net); and to farmers already
cultivating some 1,215 ha now under irrigation development.
The area under cultivation in the Namarigoungou scheme
would be divided according to soil suitability between:
rice (1,350 ha), mixed cropping (150 ha) and fodder crops
(25 ha); in addition, 25 ha of eucalyptus would be planted.
Double cropping would be practiced for all annual crops. Mixed
cropping would consist of one crop of sorghum during the rainy



- 9 -
season and a variety of vegetables during the dry season.
The fodder crops would enable 500 head of cattle to be fat-
tened annually. The eucalyptus would be felled every three
years. In addition, project services would be extended to
the 9,000 ha that Namarigoungou farmers would continue to
cultivate under rainfed conditions.
Agricultural services provided to the farmers would
include: delivery of irrigation water, extension, applied
research and seed multiplication, procurement of inputs,
agricultural credit and crop marketing. A number of blocks
in the Namarigoungou polder would be used for applied
research tests. The design of the trials and seed multi-
plication program would be acceptable to the Association (Section
3.09 of the Credit Agreement). Farmers would be eligible for
seasonal credit for fertilizer, insecticides and livestock to
be fattened under the livestock subproject; and for medium term
credit (three years) for agricultural equipment, oxen and carts.
Blacksmiths would be eligible for equipment credit for a term of
five years. Prices for inputs on seasonal credit will be marked
up to include interest at the rate, prevailing for agricul-
tural credit. This rate is currently 8 percent; there is
therefore an indirect subsidy element arising from the differ-
ential between the inflation rate which averaged about 8.5
percent annually over the 1975-77 period (and is expected to
increase marginally over the next three years), and the interest
rate on agricultural credit. Farmers' and blacksmiths' repay-
ment would be kept in a revolving fund administered by the
Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole (CNCA) for the sole
use of project participants. (Section 3.07 of the Credit
Agreement).
Niger follows a policy of subsidization of agricultural
equipment and inputs (insecticides and fertilizers). For
fertilizers the subsidies have been reduced to 50 percent
of cost, consistent with the existing agreement under the
IDA-financed Maradi Rural Development Project.  The level
of subsidies is justified at the present time by the low
use of equipment and inputs and the need to encourage
farmers to assume the financial risks of improved cultiva-
tion techniques; but it should be reconsidered when the
use of equipment and inputs increases. Government has agreed
that its policy regarding subsidies for agricultural equipment
and inputs would be discussed annually by Government and the
Association (Section 4.04 of the Credit Agreement).
(c) Improvement in Health Services: The project would finance
a health training program, to be carried out under the
supervision of the Ministry of Health, for a total of 80
first aid assistants. The project would also provide proper



- 10 -
water supply facilities for the two villages to be estab-
lished around the Namarigoungou scheme. Government has agreed
to conduct a limited epidemiological desk study of the project
area, and if necessary an additional epidemiological field
survey, to collect basic health information (Schedule 2, Part F
of the Credit Agreement). The proposed project would not have
undue adverse impact upon the ecology and the health of the
population since, except in the dry season, no additional area
would be permanently under water, and the concrete lining of
the primary and secondary canals, where utilized, would reduce
the snail population and hence likelihood of schistosomiasis.
(d) Training Programs: The project would provide for the training
of ONAHA extension staff (about 30) and of farmer leaders,
blacksmiths and other artisans. The project includes the
subsistence costs of the trainees, the teaching equipment and
the rehabilitation of a vocational school. Extension staff
would be given one month courses in irrigation upon join-
ing the project. Such training would be provided by the
consultants extending technical assistance to ONAHA. Their
contract would make specific provision for training pro-
grams. These programs would be reviewed and approved by the
Association (Schedule 2, Part C of the Credit Agreement).
(e) Physical Infrastructure and Vehicles: The project includes
the construction of 8 senior staff houses, project offices,
a garage and 2 stores. The capacity of the Tillabery rice
mill would be doubled to 10,000 tons.  A total of 9 light
vehicles and 3 trucks would be purchased, in addition to the
heavy vehicles required for construction of the works.
(f) Feasibility Study for a Future Irrigation Project: The project
would finance the preparation of the feasibility study for
the Gabou-Bonfeba polder (3,300 ha), which is adjacent to
Namarigoungou and shows good potential. The consultants to
carry out the study would have qualifications and experience
satisfactory to the Association (Section 3.02(b) of the Credit
Agreement).
Implementation
30.       The project, except the health component, would be carried out by
the recently established "Office National des Amenagements Hydroagricoles,"
(ONAHA). ONAHA would regroup the activities of construction and agricultural
development of irrigation works currently carried out by two distinct agencies,
the "Service du Genie Rural" (GR) and the "Union Nigerienne de Credit et de
Cooperation" (UNCC). The organization of ONAHA will be based on the recom-
mendations of consultants financed through a Project Preparation Facility
advance of $8,500. ONAHA would comprise three geographic units: the Tillabery



- 11 -
regional director would be responsible for all irrigation schemes in his
region; the second regional director would supervise all irrigation works in
the Lake Chad region and the third would have responsibility over all other
irrigation schemes. The proposed project would finance the investment and
operating costs for the Tillabery regional unit.
31.       The Director General of ONAHA would be responsible for the project.
He would delegate his responsibility of day-to-day operations to the Tillabery
regional director who would report directly to him. The Tillabery regional
director would be assisted by a Technical Advisor for the implementation of
the activities financed under the proposed project.
32.       The lack of experienced local staff is a major constraint to the
implementation of agricultural projects in Niger.   Government is aware of
this and agrees that the shortage of local expertise can only be alleviated
in the short term by technical assistance. The relatively large number of
expatriates that would be employed under the proposed project also reflects
the fact that (a) the Namarigoungou works would be built by force account,
requiring technical skills that even domestic contractors would import; and
(b) the project would include a number of training programs requiring special
training skills. The Technical Advisor to the Regional Director at Tillabery
and 10 key project staff would be recruited internationally from a firm with
recognized expertise to carry out irrigation projects, including construction
of works and agricultural development. Following prequalification in accord-
ance with Bank guidelines, Government has preselected four consulting firms
with relevant qualifications and knowledge of Niger. The firm to be engaged,
the terms and conditions of its employment and the qualifications and experi-
ence of the Technical Advisor would be mutually acceptable to Government and
the Association (Section 3.02 of the Credit Agreement). Signature of the
technical assistance contract would be a condition of the credit's becoming
effective (Section 6.01(c) of the Credit Agreement).
Farmers' Settlement and Organization
33.       The procedures for land allocation in the irrigation schemes have
been proven through past testing along the Niger River and are known to be
acceptable to the present owners and to the new settlers. To ensure that the
Namarigoungou scheme benefits as many farmers as possible, the Association
would be consulted prior to allocating more than 1 ha of land under the project
to any one farming unit (Section 3.08 of the Credit Agreement). If farmers
do not comply with their obligations, ONAHA would impose some disciplinary
action; their land holdings could also be repossessed after consultation with
the farming unit councils, which would include representatives of farmers and
the extension staff assigned to the unit.
34.       ONAHA would assist in organizing the farmers  cooperatives.  Farmers
would be organized into groups comprising about 10 farming units each. The
groups would establish the basis for financial solidarity for credit repayment.



- 12 -
Cost Estimates
35.       Government has agreed to exempt the project from import duties and
other taxes. Total project costs (net of duties and taxes) are estimated at
about US$21 million including physical and price contingencies, as indicated
in the table of the Credit and Project Summary. The estimated cost of irri-
gation works is based on the detailed engineering study carried out by SOGREAH.
The project would also include costs for the feasibility study of the Gabou-
Bonfeba polder and the financing over a three-year period of a financial co-
ordinator for the IDA-financed agricultural projects in Niger. The financial
coordinator would: provide technical assistance and training to the various
projects in accounting and financial management, coordinate processing of
disbursement applications and monitor financial reporting and auditing.
Project costs also include physical contingencies of 15 percent on the cost
of irrigation works and of 10 percent on all other items, and in addition
price contingencies amounting to 23 percent of base costs.
36.       The estimated project costs include the cost of technical assistance
required for project implementation. Salaries would be comparable to those
paid in other projects in Niger. Technical assistance for construction of
the irrigation works would amount to 15 1/2 man-years over the period 1978-81
for a total cost of US$1.5 million, averaging US$8,100 per man-month. Tech-
nical assistance for ONAHA administration and financial management and for
agricultural development would amount to 22 man-years over the period 1978-82
for a total cost of US$2.1 million, averaging US$8,000 per man-month.   These
prices reflect the remoteness of the project area and the expertise required.
Salaries represent about 50 percent of the average cost per man-month, the
remainder consisting of overheads, fringe benefits and travel allowances.
Financing Plan
37.       In addition to the proposed IDA credit of US$15 million, Kreditan-
stalt fur Wiederaufbau (KfW) would provide DM 12.5 million (US$6.0 million) to
the financing of this project. Except for the financial coordinator, who would
be financed entirely by the Association, all other project expenditures would
be financed jointly by the Association and KfW. The IDA and the KfW credits
would be disbursed on a pari-passu basis (70 percent for the Association, 30
percent for KfW). On this basis, the proposed IDA Credit would finance 71
percent of the net project costs. Details of these arrangements have been
agreed with Government and KfW. The Association and KfW will enter into an
understanding according to which all parties would agree to coordinate their
actions a;d to keep each other informed of the status of project implementa-
tion.  Confirmation of fulfillment of all conditions prior to the initial
disbursement of the KfW loan excepting effectiveness of the IDA agreement,
would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed Credit (Section 6.01(a)
of the Credit Agreement).
38.       Although KfW and the Association will finance 100 percent of the
net project costs, Government would contribute indirectly through financing



- 13 -
investments of about US$1.1 million required to establish the two regional
units of ONAHA other than Tillabery (para. 30) and their operating costs
amounting to about US$1.8 million annually. These costs are not in-
cluded in the proposed project estimates because they concern planning and
studies for future projects, as well as general supervision already being
carried out by Government on its regular budget.
Establishment of Revolving Funds
39.       To ensure the efficient and timely execution of the project, Gov-
ernment has agreed that it would: (a) ensure that an account in the name of
the project will be established with "Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole";
(b) deposit an initial amount of CFAF 250 million (US$1.0 million) in the
account; and (c) replenish the account quarterly on the basis of the project
cash forecasts in order to provide the project with sufficient funds to meet
project expenditures for the following three months. The establishment
of this revolving fund account with an initial deposit of CFAF 250 million
would be a condition of credit effectiveness. (Section 6.01(b) of the Credit
Agreement).   The Government would also ensure that seasonal and short term
credit, repayment for farm inputs, seeds, equipment, blacksmith kits and
vaccines would be made to another revolving fund administered by the project
and deposited with CNCA (Section 3.07 of the Credit Agreement).
Retroactive Financing
40.       The project contains a proposal to provide retroactive financing
for the three scrapers required to complement the equipment already avail-
able in the country for construction of the protecting dike around the
Namarigoungou polder. In order to ensure its timely delivery and avoid undue
delays in the start of construction works, this equipment was ordered early
this year under a negotiated contract for a total cost of about US$300,000.
For these reasons, retroactive financing by the Association of up to US$210,000
is proposed (para. 3 of Schedule 1 of the Credit Agreement). KfW has agreed
to provide its share of retroactive financing (about US$90,000).
Cost Recovery and Impact on Government Revenues
41.       The Government policy has been that farmers would be charged for all
operation and maintenance costs, but they should not be asked to pay for exten-
sion services or to contribute to the amortization of the investment in the
irrigation schemes. Under the proposed project, participating farmers would
pay water charges amounting to CFAF 100,000/ha per annum, which is the
maximum allowed under present regulations. These charges would represent
about 27 percent of farmers' gross revenues. A substantial share (66 percent)
of this levy is in excess of what is required to cover operation and mainte-
nance costs. This represents the introduction of a capital recovery charge on



- 14 -
farmers, which constitutes a major improvement in the present Government
policy. The cost recovery index of these water charges (totalling CFAF 155
million annually) discounted at 10 percent is 37 percent. The rent recovery
index, or ratio of water charges to farmers rent (farmers' net cash increase
less allowance for family labor and management and risk) would be 33 percent.
Assurances were obtained that farmers on the Namarigoungou scheme would pay
water charges at a level mutually acceptable to Government and the Asso-
ciation, and that this level would be reviewed from time to time (Sections
4.06(a) and (b) of the Credit Agreement).
42.       Rice produced on Government schemes is sold by the "Office des
Produits Vivriers du Niger" (OPVN) at CFAF 105/kg, which is about the import
substitution price. It is estimated that OPVN makes a profit of CFAF 5/kg.
43.       Government revenues from the project would consist of the direct
charges paid by the farmers, taxation on the product increment resulting
from the project and trading profits made by OPVN. Government outflows
would consist of operating and maintenance expenditures, extension and
administrative expenses after project implementation, and service charges
and amortization of the IDA Credit. The resulting cash flow would show a
surplus from 1980 onwards.
Procurement and Disbursement
44.       The analysis of the construction costs for several irrigation
schemes in Niger indicates that contractor costs are unusually high, re-
flecting a lack of effective competition. To stimulate competition, it is
necessary to build up the capabilities of the smaller local contractors,
and to develop Government capability to construct the irrigation schemes by
force account. The project should give ONAHA such capability. It is es-
timated that this would result in cost savings of some 40 percent on the
proposed works and give practical training to a number of local technicians
and engineers, who would be able to apply their expertise to the construction
of future irrigation schemes. Other advantages to the force account approach
would be greater flexibility in implementation and better phasing of the
agricultural development of the polder. Works carried out through force
account would amount to US$8.1 million. Only the civil works of the pumping
stations would be built under contract (US$0.5 million). ONAHA would call in
small work gangs paid on a piece work basis whenever feasible.
45.       The following procurement procedures would be used:  Contracts for
equipment, vehicles, the power line from Tillabery to Namarigoungou, supplies
for construction, agricultural equipment and inputs with a value of more than
US$50,000 would be tendered through international competitive bidding (ICB),
in accordance with the Association guidelines. Procurement costs are esti-
mated at US$4.0 million. Contracts of less than US$50,000, and construction
of the civil works for the Namarigoungou pumping stations, houses, storage
areas and offices, which are too small to attract foreign contractors, would
be procured on the basis of competitive local bidding, in accordance with



- 15 -
local procedures satisfactory to the Association. Items of less than
US$15,000 each could be purchased directly from local suppliers. It is
estimated that contracts procured under local competitive bidding would
not exceed US$1.5 million.
46.       Disbursements of the IDA credit would be against import documenta-
tion and certified records of expenditures. For disbursements made against
certified records of expenditures documentation would not be submitted for
review as a matter of course, but would be retained by ONAHA for scrutiny by
IDA missions.
Accounting and Auditing
47.       Accounts for the project would be kept according to acceptable
commercial accounting practices. The project accounts and revolving fund
kept by CNCA for farmers' agricultural credit would be audited annually by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association. The auditors' opinion
on the disbursement applications made against certified records of expendi-
tures would be submitted to the Association every six months. Audited annual
accounts would be submitted to the Association within six months of the clos-
ing of the financial year. Assurances to the foregoing were obtained at nego-
tiations (Section 4.01 of the Credit Agreement).
Project Benefits
48.       Project benefits have been quantified only for the farmers taking up
cultivation on the Namarigoungou polder. Farmers on the other schemes would
increase their present income level slightly. Under Niger Law 60-28 of May 15,
1960, a maximum of 0.25 ha of land is allocated per adult male of families
settling on irrigation schemes. Using these guidelines, it is assumed that
the average farming unit would be given 0.5 ha of the Namarigoungou polder,
and that it would keep its present holdings under rainfed cultivation and
traditional irrigation. Since prospective project participants are self-
sufficient in food, it is assumed that production under the project scheme
will be sold as a cash crop and not increase family consumption. The incre-
mental output would be marketed in Niamey through the traditional network of
private traders, except for the paddy which would be processed by the Govern-
ment owned rice mill at Tillabery. The net annual income (after payment of
the direct production costs, operating and maintenance costs and the capital
recovery charge) of the beneficiary families would more than double from $473
to $1,027, or from $90 to $197 on a per capita basis.
49.       It is estimated that at full development beginning in 1982, the
project will generate the following annual production increments: in the
Namarigoungou polder under irrigation, 12,500 tons of rice paddy, 400 tons
of sorghum and 950 tons of various vegetables; on the rainfed holdings of
the Namarigoungou farmers, 1,600 tons of cereals. In addition, about 1,000
eucalyptus trees would be harvested each year, and the cattle fattening
subproject would produce some 32 tons of meat annually.



- 16 -
50.       The economic rate of return is estimated at 12.5 percent for the
project components whose benefits have been quantified. These components
account for 95 percent of project costs. This return excludes the health
component, the technical training programs, the studies and the cost of
the financial coordinator for which no meaningful rate of return could be
estimated. The project would have a number of secondary benefits including
the incremental agricultural production on the other irrigation schemes, the
creation of farm employment and a long term institutional building impact
through the establishment of ONAHA.
Project Risks
51.       The risks attached to the project have been considered from several
angles: financial, technical, institutional and social. The financial risk
has been reduced by basing the cost estimates on a detailed engineering study.
The technical risk is mainly in the achievement of the production increases
contemplated. The sensitivity analysis indicates that even if the production
of paddy were 25% lower, the rate of return would still be acceptable, at 8
percent. The institutional risk should be overcome through the creation of
ONAHA, which would be adequately staffed and equipped to carry out the project.
The social risk involved in land allocation will be reduced by the use of
well-established land allocation procedures.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS OF AUTHORITY
52.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Niger and the Association and the Recommendation of the Committee provided
for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Associ-
ation are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
53.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Conditions of effectiveness include (a) establishment of a revolv-
ing fund with an initial deposit of CFAF 250 million, (b) signature of the
contract with the company providing technical assistance for the project, and
(c) confirmation that all conditions precedent to the initial disbursement of
the KfW loan, except for the effectiveness of the IDA agreement, have been
fulfilled.
54.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.



- 17 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
55.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
September 20, 1978






ANNEX I
Page 1 of 4 pages
TABLE 3A
NIGER               - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU KM2)                 -------------------------------------------------
---------------                                  NIGER                               REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL     1267.0                                       MOST RECENT                       Cent. Afri.
AGRIC.    180.0                     1-960         1910   ESTIMATE          MA LA_I__       Empire         SENEGAL*
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                     80.0       110.0     160.0               70.0       170.0      270.0
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
_______________________________
POPULATION (MID-YR, MILLION)            3.1        4.0       4.9                4.6          1.6         4.4
POPULATION DENSITY                      2.4        3. 2      33.0                            3.0       22.0
PER SQUARE KM.
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND        17.0       22.0      27.0               114.0        27.0       55.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU, AV)         52.4       52.3      52.2                49.3        45.4       47.6
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THOU,AV)          28.4       25.7      25.5                28.1        26.4       24.4
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)       200.0         ..     162.0 Ia
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)       35.9       39.5      36.5                38.5        39.0       40.0
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.1        3.5        3.5                3.2         2.9         3.0
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (X)
TOTAL                                 2.5        2.7       2.7                 2.6         2.2         2.6
URBAN                                 4.5        6.3       5.5                 5.0         7.2         6.0
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)           4.8        8.2        9.4                5.6        30.1        29.0
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                       43.8       44.5      43.0                43.9        42.1       41.2
15 TO 64 YEARS                       53.0       52.6      52.2 /b             52.1       54.8        54.9
65 YEARS AND OVER                     3.2        2.9       4.8 /b              4.0         3.1         3.9
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                    0.9        0.9        0.9                0.9         0.8         0.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.1 /a    1.0 /a       :.                1.1 /a      0.9 /a      1.2 /a
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)           ..         ..        ..                  ..
USERS (% OF MARRIEO WOMEN)             ..         ..        ..                  ..
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)          770,0 /b 1600.0          . .            20CO.0       820.0      1600.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (%)         97.0  5   91.0          *-               99.1        91.0       73.0
UNEMPLOYED (% OF LABOR FORCE)             ..        ..         ..                 ..          ..         7.0
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
X OF PRIVATE INCOME REC'D BY-
HIGHEST  5% OF HOUSEHOLDS            23.0         ..         ..               29.5
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS            42.0         ..        ..                52.9
LOWEST  20% OF HOUSEHOLDS             6.0         ,.        ..                 5.7
LOWEST  40% OF HOUSEHOLDS            18.0         ..        ..                15.0
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
______________________________
X OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS              ..         .         ..                 ..          .
x JWNED BY SMALLEST 10o OWNERS           ..          .         ..                 ..          .
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            71000.0'  58260.0  55330.0               75250.0    38330.0    16640,0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON        7500.0ofC  7040.0   6780.0               6620.0      1280.0/b   2610.C/b
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED          1880.0/d  2230.0   1200.0                 760.0       460.0      810.0/C
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (% OF REQUIREMENTS)         93.0       83.0      80.0               103.0       97.0        91.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)              74.0       72.0      69.0                54-.0       48.0       64.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        21.0        24.0/b    23.1                 9.0 /b    22.0        28.0 /d
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4              ..         ..         ..                 ..          .
EDUCATION
ADUUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                        5.0       14.0      17.0                40.0       69.0        43.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                      0.3        1.0       2.0                 2.0         5.0       10.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)             13.0       13.0      14.0                14.0      10-13        13.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(% OF SECONOARY)                      4.0        3.0       2.2                 3.0       12.0         9,0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (%)                 5.0         ..         ..               22.0          ..        10.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)                  ..        ..         ..                1.9 /C
OCCUPIED CWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (%)                        ..         ..         ..               76.0 /Cd    *
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(% OF ALL DWELLINGS)                   ..         ..         ..               16.0 /o .d
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (%)                     ..         ..         ..                 ..          .
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)          1.1       3E.0         ..               20.0        30.0        69.0
PASSE4GER CARS (PER THOU POP)           0.3        1.0        2.0                2.0         4.0         9.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)            3.3       10.0       15.0               32.0        29.0        73.0
NEWSPRINT (PG/YR PER CAP)               0.1         . .        . .                .5          *          0.1
…-------------------------------------------------..------------------__-----__--------------------------------
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



ANNEX I
Page P of 4 pages
NOTES
Unless otherwise noted, (e.g. CNP per capita and population), data for 1960 refer to moy yeor beorwec 1959 and 1961, for 1970 between 1969 and
191. end for Moot Riesot Estimute between 1973 and 1976.
enegal h.u bero selected a0 an objective country clone its 1970 GNP is about three tiaes that of Niger. both countriea ore in the sane
geographical areaS, have ainilar production patterns (with the same doninant crop-ground-ut.), saare tho nune   -.LeLary sy.ter  and have
about the sane population.
NIGER                1960    /a  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;    lb  Excludes labor force of Niaey city,
coned popalation and fareignara:    /c  1962:    /d  1964.
1970   /a  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;    /b  1964-66.
MOST RECENT ESTDiATE:    /a  1972;        /b Age 15-59 and 60 years and over renpretinel.
MALAWI               1970   /a  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and aver to total labor force;    /b  1964-66;    /c  1967;    /d  Urban only.
CENTRAL ARiICAN    1970   /a  Ratin of population under 15 and 65 aod over to total lubor frcc;    /b  Including vidwivec and aariatunt  orseo.
EMPIRE
SENEGAL              1970   /a  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;    /b  Including uauiacantnursea;
/c uorrnent honpital ootablihcr.nts only;    /d  1964-66.
R6 Sept-ober 12, 1979
EPFlhITIiPll OF SOCIAL INDiCATRS
Land Area (thou k2%                                                                       Population per nureing persoo - Popni-tirn dioided by number of practicing
Total - Total snrfgace area conprinig land area and inland waters,                           mle and fmal.e gradute corona, "trained" or "certified" no-es, and
Agric. - Moat recent estimate of agrioultural area wad temporarily or peena-                auxiliary pereonnal with training or experience
neatly for orepa, pastrrae,  arket & kitchen garden or to lie fallo.                    Poeulation per hoscital bed - Population divided by nsba.r of hospital beds
available in pablio and private general and specialised hospital and
GNP ear narita (tIll - CNP pee capita entimatars ae trrent narket pric-a,                    rehbilitation centers; enlidee nursing ho-es and eatabliah-enta for
calculated by saet conversion mechbd aa world BRic Atlaa (1975-77 basis);                 custodial and prevantive care
1960; 1970 and 1977 data.                                                               Pajacita suerty  f calrites  % of rpseiransnts) - Capputed frma energy
equivalent of net fond suppIiec available in c0ntry par capita per day;
Population aed vital statistic,                                                             available supplies conpriae domestic produotion, imports leaa experts, and
Population (mid-roar million)   00 of Jly first:  if not available, average                 changes io stock; net aopplies eaclode animal feed, seedu, qeatities osed
of two end-year eatimatna; 1 60, 1970 and i977 data                                        in food procating and losass in distribution; requreiarnta we   estimated
by FAO ha...d on physologi-sl needa for norml acivity and health c-id-
Population density - Per sc-are kI  - Mlid-yser population per aquare kilcotar               aring enviroonental temperatu-r, body   ight, spa  nd sea dietei iona of
(100 heotara) of total araa.                                                              population, and allowing liT for -at  at hcuaehnid level,
Population density -er sqa area  k  of anic, land - Coptad a.  bov  for                   Per capita nupply of protein (arson per day) - Protein content of per capita
.ariultu.rl lnd only.                                                                    net aupply of fond per day; ext supply of food ia defined as above; require-
mats for .11 coontries eatablished by USDA Economic Research Servines
Vital statistics                                                                             provide for a cinisee  allowance sf 60 grma. of total protein per day, sod
Crude birth rate   r tho -and., averae  - Annul live birth. per thousand of                  20 gras af animal and puiae protein, of  hibh 10 grans ahould be animal
aid-pear population; ten-yaeararinlea, tic avaragea ending in 1960 and 1970,               protein; thec sctandardo am  lower than those of 75 grona of total protein
and fire-year average ending in 1975 for most recent estiate.                             and 23 grfam  of animal protein aa anaverage for the world, propoaed by FAo
Crude death  rate per thousand, average - Annual deaths per thouand of mid-year              in the Third World Food Survey.
population; ten-year aritisetic averagag ending in 1960 and 1970 and five-               Per capita protein  unppy from animal acd pulse - Protein supply of food
y ar overage ending in 1975 for moat recent estimate                                       derived from animals and puleas im gr_ma per day.
Infant mortality rate 0/thou) - A-.ual daatha of infanta ardor uce year of age            Death case 0/thea) axo  1-4 - annua  deaths pec thoaa...d in age group 1-4
per thuaand livre birtha.                                                                  yearn, to children in this age group; tuggeated as en indicator of
Life aspact ano  at birth (yrs) - Average n.sber of ypars of life remaining at               malnotrition.
birth; usualy five-year averaeg. ending iE 1960, 1970 and 1975 for develop-
ie  Eod-trisa                                                                          Rduc.tion
Gross reproduction rate -  erarg  nober of live daughterp aoun will bear                   Adietsd enrollment ratio - primary achool - E-rolment of all ages as per-
in her  ormal reproductive period if  she eaperincea preaenr age-aspecific                 centage cf primacy auhocl-age population; includes children aged 6-11 years
fertility ratna; usually five-year averaga an ding in 1960, 1970 and 1975                 bht adjnterd for different len1tha  f primary education; for o-untriea with
for developing countries                                                                   cniversal education, enrollment may enceed 1007 since some pupils are bel
Populatingrowth rate          total   - Compound sesal growth rateas of  id-year             or above the official achool ag.
popolation for 1950-60, 1960-70 and 1970-71                                              Adiosted enrollmaet ratio -       secondary school - Computed as abov; econdary
Ponclation growth rate (%) - urbn - Computed like growth rate of total                       education requirea at least four years of approved primary intruotio;
population; different definition  of urban areas nay affect comparability of               providea general, vocational or teacher training isatrusti.nn  for pupils
data among countries                                                                       of 12 to 17 yeare of age; correeponde.ce coursea are generally seclodd.
irban population (% ot total) - Ratio of urban to total population; different              Years of schooling provided (fires  and second levels) - Total yeara of
definitiona of orban areas  s y affent conparability of data among co-ntrie.               schooling; at econdary level, vocational inatrectin may be partially or
completely enc1uded.
Ae structure (percent) - Children (0-14 years), oorking-age (15-64 yeace),                 Voationul enrolment (h of secondary) - Uccational iesicutions include
and  retired  (65 years and ovr) aa p-rcentages of nid-year population,                    technical, induatrial or othar progr-  ohich opere-  indepndetly  r s
Age depondency ratio - Ratic of population under 15 and 65 and over to those                 departments of aroondary institutions.
of ages 15 through 64                                                                    adult literacy rte (1%) - Literate adult  (abl  t    d ad   It)    p
Ec-onoic dependeocy ratio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to                  centage  of total adul population ogud 15 you   rad over.
the labor force in age group of 15-64 yearsu
Familv planningc-acceptots (cumnlative. thou) - Comulacive comber of acceptots            Housing
of hirch-coctrol devices under    pic   of n          fai   p                                    P   coon (urban) - A-erage n-uh-t of persons per oon is occupied
since inception.                                                                           conventional dwellings in urban areas; dcllings exclude cn--permaonet
Family planning-usera (h of carried sunet) - Percentages of carried womrt of                 structures and unocpid    t
cbild-beariog age (15-44 years) eho our birth-control devioas to all martied             Oncuipd deein    ithout pired eater CZ) -   -pidc
cmes it sane age group.                                                                    in urban a-d rural areas  ithout i-side or octaide piped -ater facilities
as percenteare of all occupied deellingas
E.plyment                                                                                  bocesa to eleotricicy ty    of all dwellings) - Cppvetional dwellings nith
Total labor forte (thousand) - fEonomically acctiv  persona, i-ciuding armed                 nlercritity in living quarters as percent of total dvellioga is urban and
fortes and unemployed hot excluding  .o.uewives, otudenct, etc.; definitions               rural aroas
in various oouncrios arenocunt -parable.                                                Rural dvellings con-noted to electricitv  CL; - Conpo-ed as above for coca
Labon firce In ogritulture (%) - Agrt-ultta I lebot forte (Jo farming, foresty,              doenliing   onl -
hunting and fishing) on percentage of total Iabor force
Unemployed (     I of labur force) - Unmployed are 0008lly defined as p-r-ors wh.          Coneunptioc
are able and willifg to take a job, out of a job on a gi-en day, r-mained out            Radio reteivera (per thou pop) - 411 cypea  f       ireirs for radio broadca st
of a job, and seeking work for a specified oinimum period cot -eteeding onec  etpob1i  per thousand of popu lon; rereuds unlicensed rectives
reek; may not be comparable betwoen countries due to different definitionr                 in contries and in years when reitirariop of rdi   e               i   ff ;
of onamployed and toucte of data, e.    employment office ntetistico, sample               data for recent years cay not be comparable ainor moa c          ot r e  abolished
auryeya, conpulaory unompluypet insurance.                                                 liceneicg.
drPaenger cars (per thou Pop) - Pa s-ener oars comprise motor cars assting
Incom  distribnric- -prctaIgn  of private in-n  (both in cas h -od clod)os  than  ight persona; enol~des ombulanoes, hearse.s.ad militar
recei-ed by riuhest 5%, riche-t 20%, poorest 20%, and poorest 40% of house-                vehioleB.
holds.                                                                                   Electricity (kwh/vr per cap) - Annual consumption of industrial, -o-mercial.
public and private electricity in kilowatt hoors per capita, generally
Distribution of l-d onrship - Peroetiaget of land osned by  -eahieit 107                    based on production data,  ithouc allowance for loasce  in grids h   aiellow-
and poorest 10% of land csner.                                                             ing for impoProa and  ea.p of electricity.
-d p.or..t  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~nesrin (h/rprtcf-pcc i  ans osnolnt iorn
HeaLth and N-uritioc                                                                         escimated irtm doneutic produstion pIus net importt of nspriot
Population per  hnsi-Uian - Populetion dinidrd by nub,er of pratt icing                                               P                                    r n
phlysicans qulfied from a medicaI school  at university lev-l



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 4 pages
COUNTRY DATA - NIGE:R
GNP PER CAPITA IN 1976: US$L]0
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1975 *                                             ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (T, CONSTANT 1968 PRICES)
US$ Million      %                             1960-1973              1973-1975
GNP at Market Prices                  639.4       100.0
Gross Domestic Investment             118.5        18.6
Gross National Savings                 43.4         6.8
Current Account Balance               -85.1       -13.3
Exports of Goods, NFS                 167.8        26.2
Imports of Goods, NFS                 226.5        35.4
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCP. AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1975
Value Added (Factor Costs)
us$ million      %
Agriculture                   281.3          47.1
Mining                          28.0          4.7
Industry                       84.1          14.1
Services                      204.2          34.1
Total                         597.6         100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government
(CFAF billion)               % of GDP
1975/76   1976/77          1975/76  1976/77
Current Revenues (a)              25.7 (4.5) 32.2 (8.0)        18.7      19.0
Current Expenditures              20.0        23.9             14.6      14.1
Current Balance                  +5.7         +8.3              4.1       4.9
Capital Expenditure               -4.0       -10.3              2.9       6.1
External Assistance                1.5         0.0              1.1      _
Overall Balance                   +3.2        -2.0               2.3      1.2
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES
1971     1972      1973      1974      1975      1976
(CFAF billion at end of year)'
Money and Quasi Money                12.1      12.9      15.5      20.3      22.3     29.2
Bank credit to Public Sector         -2.3      -3.5      -3.4      -7.2    -11.5    -12.3
Bank credit to Private Sector         9.7      10.7      12.5      21.0     28.5      28.6
PERCENTAGES OR INDEX NUMBERS
General Price Index (1970 = 100) 104.2    114.4    127.8    132.1    144.1    178.1
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index                             9.8      11.7       3.4      9.1      23.6
Bank credit to Public Sector                     .         .         .
Bank credit to Private Sector                  10.3      16.8      68.0     35.7       0.4
* Staff estimates
Not available
Not applicable
(a) = revenue from uranium mining.                                                                       December 21, 1977



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 4 pages
COUNTRY DATA - NIGER
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
(iu millions of current US$)
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                    1973        1974*        1975*             MERCHANDISE EXPORTS 2/ (1975-76)
Exports of Goods, NFS                 128.3        111.0        167.8                               US$ Million        %
Imports of Goods, NFS                 168.8        221.4        226.5
Resource Gap (deficit = -)            -40.5       -110.4        -58.7             Livestock             28.4          21.7
Uranium              76.0          58.0
Interest Payments (net)                -3.7         -8.3        -10.7             Groundnuts             9.1           7.0
Workers' Remittances                  -16.3        -17.9        -18.7             All other             17.4          13.3
Other Factor Payments (net)             4.1          3.2          3.0                Total             130.9         100.0
Net Transfers                          ..           ..           ..
Balance on Current Accounts           -56.4       -133.4        -85.1             EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1975
Direct Foreign Investment (net)         0.8          6.9         15.8             Public Debt, incl. guaranteed          231.7
Official Capital Grants                81.4        119.8         77.1             Non-Guaranteed Private Debt            _
Net MIT Borrowings                      9.6         10.5         17.0             Total outstanding and disbursed    122.6
Disbursements                   (10.3)        (10.6)       (18.8)            DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1975
Repayment                         (0.7)        (0.1)        (1.8)
Public Debt,  cinc. guaranteed          .
Other items 1V                        -31.3        -10.5        -19.8             Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Change in Reserves (end year)           4.1         -6.7          5.0             Total outstanding and disbursed          5.87.
Foreign Reserves (end year)            53.5         44.3         51.4
Fuel and Related Materials                                                         IBRD/IDA LENDING, OCTOBER 31, 1977
Imports:                                                                     Outstanding and Disbursed              26.8
Undisbursed                            28.4
of which:  Petroleum              6.6         13.1          12.8             Outstanding incl. undisbursed          55.2
Exports:
of which:  Petroleum
RATE OF EXCHANGE
1971:    US$1.00 = CFAF  277.03
1972:    US$1.00 = CFAF  252.21
1973:    US$1.00 = CFAF  222.70
1974:    US$1.00 = CFAF  240.50
1975:    US$1.00 = CFAF  214.32
1976:    US$1.00 = CFAF  245.00
1/  Including errors and omissions.
2/ BCEAO estimates.
*   Staff estimate                                                                          December 21, 1977
Not available
Not applicable



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 3 pages
THE STATUS OF BATK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NIGER
A.   STATEMENT OF IDA CREDITS (as at August 31, 1978)
Credit                                                               US$ million
Number   Year   Borrower              Purpose                Amount (less cancellation) /1
IDA      Undisbursed
Seven credits fully disbursed                                 20.0
441     1973   Republic of Niger   Drought Relief             2.0          0.4
608     1975   Republic of Niger   Maradi Rural
Development          10.7          6.3
612     1976   Republic of Niger   Niger Third Highway   15.6             10.3
634     1976   Republic of Niger   Telecommunications
Project               5.2          4.5
800 /2  1978   Republic of Niger   Forestry Project           4.5          4.5
809 /2  1978   Republic of Niger   Employment Creation
Project               5.0          5.0
Total                                               63.0         31.0
of which has been repaid /3                        0.1
Total now outstanding and held by IDA               62.9
Total undisbursed                                                31.0
/1   Prior to exchange adjustment.
/2   Signed but not effective.
/3   Last figure available - July 31, 1978
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as at August 31, 1978)
Nil.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 3 pages
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Credit 441 - Drought Relief Project, US$2.0 Million; Credit of
December 7, 1973; Effectiveness Date: May 7, 1974;
Closing Date: March 31, 1979
This credit aims at helping the population in drought-affected
areas to reestablish their self-sufficiency through redevelopment and improve-
ment of their farms and herds. The project is nearing satisfactory completion.
Out of the seven sub-projects, six (training scheme, construction of rural
warehouses, spot repairs of a feeder road, engineering studies of an irri-
gation project, construction of erosion control facilities and protection
of gum tree natural groves) are completed. Completion of the last one (con-
struction and operation of calf feeding units) is expected by the end of the
year.
Credit 608 - Maradi Rural Development Project; US$10.7 Million;
Credit of February 6, 1976; Effectiveness Date:
October 8, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1979
This project includes provision of production packages to farmers
in 15 Associations Locales de Cooperatives; strengthening of cooperative in-
stitutions, expansion of training programs, study of optimum means to develop
the irrigation potential of the Goulbi de Maradi, construction of 80 km of
roads, planting of 500 ha of woodfuel plantations and imrpovement of livestock
services. The second year of project implementation shows that substantial
managerial and technical progress has been achieved. Most of the project sub-
components are progressing satisfactorily. The training of extension staff
and young farmers is successful and emphasis should now be put on their
follow-up at village level. The irrigation program under preparation is
going to start next fall and will be used as test for a possible second
phase project which should include a major irrigation component.
Credit 612 - Third Highway Project; US$15.6 Million; Credit of March 5,
1976; Effectiveness Date: January 31, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
This project aims at assisting Government with the implementation of
a four-year program of periodic maintenance, including procurement of equip-
ment and training of specialized public work staff, construction and improve-
ment of the Zinder-Nigerian border road (113 km) and of the Maradi-Nigerian
border road (40 km).  The project is about one year behind schedule due to
delays in signature and effectiveness of the co-financiers' loan agreement.
The first three members of the consultant team for technical assistance and
training have arrived in the field and three more are due in October 1979.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report problems
which are being encountered, and the action taken to remedy them. They
should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that they do not
purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and weaknesses in
project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 3 pages
Orders for road maintenance equipment were placed in July and delivery is
expected in early 1979. The contract for the study of the domestic construction
industry is being negotiated. Construction of the Maradi-Nigerian border road
was completed ahead of schedule and that of the Zinder-Nigerian border road is
expected to be completed by June 1979.
Credit 634 - Telecommunications Project; US$5.2 Million; Credit of
June 11, 1976; Effectiveness Date: November 9, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
This project includes installation of automatic switching equipment
with cable and subscriber distribution networks; provision of trunk switching
equipment, three VHF links and one HF radio link, overhead line and carrier
equipment; civil works, miscellaneous equipment, vehicles and tools and
services of engineering and financial consultants. Project implementation
is still in procurement stage. Bid evaluation and award recommendations
for the main project components have been reviewed and approved by the Asso-
ciation. On the basis of the bid prices it appears that the project has
experienced a 24 percent cost overrun. Progress has been made in carrying
out the institution building component of the project.
Credit 800 - Forestry Project; US$4.5 million; Credit of June 7, 1978;
Projected Effectiveness Date: December 15, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
This project will assist Government in its efforts to establish 400
ha of pilot irrigated plantations and 700 ha of pilot rainfed tree plantations;
improve the rural forestry activities of the Forestry Department; finance a
training program in extension services; provide assistance to research and
a workshop maintenance unit. A project unit will be established within the
Forestry Department to assist in coordinating and monitoring the various
project activities, plan rural forestry programs and prepare a second phase
suitable for Bank support.
Credit 809 - Industrial and Artisan Sector Employment Creation Project;
US$5.0 million; Credit of June 7, 1978. Projected Effective-
ness Date: December 15, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
This project aims at assisting Government in the promotion of more
labor intensive employment creation in Niger's industrial and artisan sectors
while strengthening the sector's institutional infrastructure, by providing
a line of credit, training and technical assistance to BDRN, including the
development of a bank management training program of the Ecole Nationale
d'Administration. By providing financial and technical assistance for the
creation of OPEN, a new agency which will provide technical assistance and
training for local enterpreneurs and by assisting the Artisans Center to
improve the producitivity and employment of artisans affilated with the
Center.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2 pages
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare the project: 5 years
(b) Agency that prepared the project: Consultants SOGREAH
(c) Date of the first presentation to the Bank: February 1973
Date of the first Bank mission to consider the project: April 1973
(d) Date of departure of Appraisal Mission: January 27, 1977
(e) Date of completion of Negotiations: July 15, 1978
(f) Planned date of Effectiveness: January 31, 1979
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions
Frequent supervision missions (every 6 months) are planned for the
first few years.
Section III - Special Conditions
(a) The primary and secondary canals would be concrete-lined only
if agreed upon technical criteria were met (para. 29(a)).
(b) The design of the applied research trials and seed multiplication
program would be acceptable to the Association (para. 29(b)).
(c) Government policy regarding subsidies for agricultural equipment
and inputs would be discussed annually by Government and the
Association (para. 29(b)).
(d) Government would conduct a limited epidemiological desk study
of the area (para. 29(c)).
(e) The contract of the company providing internationally recruited
staff would make specific provision for training programs,
and these programs would be reviewed and approved by the
Association (para. 29(d)).
(f) Consultants to carry out the study of a future irrigation
project would have qualifications and experience satisfactory
to the Association (para. 29(f)).



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2 pages
(g)  The qualifications and experience of the Technical Advisor
would be mutually acceptable to Government and the Asso-
ciation (para. 32).
(h)  The Association would be consulted before farmers would be
allocated more than 1 ha per farming unit (para. 33).
.
(i)  Repayment of seasonal and short-term credits for farm inputs,
seeds, equipment, blacksmiths' kits and vaccines would be
made into a revolving fund account administered by ONAHA and
deposited with CNCA (para. 39).
(j)  Farmers on the Namarigoungou scheme would pay water charges at
a level mutually acceptable to Government and the Association,
and this level would be reviewed from time to time (para. 41).
(k)  Conditions of effectiveness would include:
(i)  Establishment of a revolving fund with an initial
deposit of CFAF 250 million (para. 39);
(ii)  Signature of the contract with the company providing
technical assistance for the project (para. 32); and
(iii)  Confirmation of fulfillment of all conditions precedent
to the initial disbursement of the KfW loan, except for
the effectiveness of the IDA agreement (para. 37).






L  I    B  Y    A
REPUBLIC Of NK3ER
NIGER IRRIGATION PROJECT                      z   /oteouof
AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION                      7 -j
A=Zwoather r toads
4r -~                                  - -,t-// E W\ 9& eW 
--- Qa                                         N ter y ; \ , C <CR f<¢
-,_         J 
-~~~~ -e                -- c     Sg      s    
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
-n--~ 
-4                 ~W                 TANOUT"
te S ~~~~~-4--- -                                        /   '  
1>>    V~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7
IWARAOLZ   E           N  %~%
UPPER; 77 -o ,- i'siNo                        6a               LK C/I
80O -<tG              I   G      E     R     I
I   8 B E N I N         lo                                    0 0   a,Lc7MsTrnss 8  _ ,   ^   w *,  J  Z j     _
I-,--,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-'-- yc
~~~   ~~~  1~~~~O  29e  2oN-,W1.~fmi  
KILOMETflSS  Th~~~~~~~~~~   ~~s.s, ~~~~ s~~~ ~~  -<c



