Report No. 1682-NIR3                                                                       1     b/; 1?     5
Appraisal of
an Irrigation Project
Niger
Septemnber 11, 1978                                                        FILE  COPY
Agriculture Projects Department
Western Africa Regional Office
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Dom^S--ivnt of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit       =         CFAF Franc
US$1                =         CFAF 245
CFAF 1              =         US$0.00408
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilometer (km)   =          0.6215 mile
I centimeter (cm)  =          0.033 feet
1 hectare (ha)                2.47 acres
1 metric ton (t)   =          2,207 lbs
1 kilogram (kg)    =          2.207 lbs
ABBREVIATIONS
ADF            African Development Fund
BADEA          Banque.Arabe pour le Developpement en Afrique
CNCA           Caisse National de Credit Agricole
FAC            Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation
FNT            Fonds National d'Investissement
GR             Service du Genie Rural
IRAT           Institut de Recherches d'Agriculture Tropicale
MRD            Ministry of Rural Development
ONAHA          Office National des Amenagements Hydroagricoles
OM             Operation and Maintenance
OPVN           Office des Produits Vivriers du Niger
SOGREAH        Societe Grenobloise d'Hydraulique Agricole
UNCC           Union Nigerienne de Credit et de Cooperation



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
NIGER
IRRIGATION PROJECT
APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ......      ...................i - iii
I.         INTRODUCTION      ..................... .....................
II.        BACKGROUND      ...................... ......................
A.   General         ..........................................   I
B.   The Agricultural Sector ..........................    2
III.       THE PROJECT AREA ......................                           4
IV.        THE PROJECT  ..........................................           5
A.   Objectives and Components ........................    5
B. Detailed Features .... ..........                              6
V.         COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS    .10
A. Project Costs   ..10
B. Proposed Financing   .                .11
C. Procurement   ..12
D. Disbursements   ..13
E. Accounts and Audit    .                  .14
VI.    ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT .14
A. Organization                 ...14
B. Staffing                 ...15
C. Training..                                                    16
D.   Farmers' Settlement and Organization    ...                 17
VII.       YIELDS AND PRODUCTION, DEMAND, PRICES, MARKETING
ARRANGEMENTS, FARMERS' BENEFITS AND COST RECOVERY ...   18
A. Yields and Production   .                 .18
B.   Demand, Prices and Marketing Arrangements . .18
C. Farmers' Benefits....   19
D.   Cost Recovery and Impact on Government Revenues             20
VIII.      ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION          .. ........ 20
IX.        RECOMMENDATIONS                                            .     22
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their oMcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)                                              Page No.
ANNEXES
Annex 1  - IDA Financed Projects in the Agricultural Sector,                   25
Niger's Food Self-sufficiency and the Irrigated Sector             26
Table I - Main Crops                                               29
Table 2 - Forecast of Food Supply and Demand                       30
Table 3 - Maximum Area to be Irrigated Under Double
Cropping Without Regulation of the Niger River          31
Annex 2  - Irrigation Schemes Present Organization                             32
Annex 3  - Summary Description of Existing Schemes and Schemes to be
Built in the "Arrondissements" of Tillabery and Tera               36
Annex 4  - Climate and Hydrology of the Niger River                            38
Annex 5  - Population                                                          42
Table 1 - Composition of Farming Unit                              45
Annex 6  - Agricultural Development                                            46
Table  1  - Area Under Cultivation in 11 Villages of the
TillaLbery Area                                       59
Table  2  - Project Area                                           60
Table  3  - Monthly Allocation of Time Requirements                61
Table  4  - Timing of Cultivation                                  62
Table  5  - Area Cultivated and Production on Schemes in
the Project Area                                      63
Table  6  - Agricultural Production with Project                   64
Table  7  - Farm Budget A Without Project                          65
Table  8  - Farm Budget B Rice Cultivation                         66
Table  9  - Farm 'Budget C Mixed Cropping                          67
Table 10  - Farm Budget D Wood Plantations                         68
Table 11  - Farm Budget E Rainfed Development                      69
Table 12  - Farm Budget F Livestock Sub-project                    70
Annex 7  - Namarigoungou Irrigation Works                                      71
Table  I  - Quantities of Main Works                               76
Annex 8  - Water Demand                                                        77
Table  1  - Water Demand                                           78
Annex 9  - Project Costs                                                       79
Table  1  - Project Cost and Financing                             80
Table  2  - Namarigoungou Irrigation Works Construction            81
Table  3  - Staff Costs                                            82
Table  4  - Construction                                           83
Table  5  - Equipment                                              84



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Page No.
ANNEXES
Table  6  - Vehicles                                              85
Table  7  - Administrative and Indirect Expenses                  86
Table  8  - Agricultural Equipment and Incremental Inputs         87
Table  9  - Training Program, Audit, Visiting Consultants         88
Table 10  - IDA Disbursement Schedule                             89
ANNEX 10 - Construction of Irrigation Works By Force Account                  90
Annex 11 - Organization and Training                                          93
Appendix I - Terms of Reference for Engineering
Consultant Firm                                     98
Appendix 2 - Organization Chart
Annex 12 - Prices and Impact on Government Finances                          107
Table I - Prices for Paddy and Rice                              107
Table 2 - Rent and Recovery Indices                              108
Table 3 - Prices and Impact on Government Finances               109
Annex 13 - Economic Calculations                                             110
Table 1 - Rate of Return Calculations                            113
Annex 14 - Implementation Schedule                                           114
MAPS






NIGER
IRRIGATION PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
(i)       The Government of Niger has asked IDA to help finance the develop-
ment of the country's irrigation subsector. A major component of the project
would be the development of a 1,550 ha scheme at Namarigoungou. The project
is based on a feasibility study by SOGREAH, and on the findings of an ap-
praisal mission which visited Niger in February 1977.
(ii)      Because of the increasing demand for food the country is no longer
self-sufficient, even in normal years, and is unlikely to become so in the
next decade, even assuming that all planned rainfed improvement projects and
all irrigation projects (some 1,300 ha annually) for the period 1977-1983 are
realized. While rainfed projects are necessary to help the great majority of
the rural community, Government believes that equal priority should be given
to investments in irrigation schemes. IDA endorses Government's policy of a
balanced development of the agricultural sector. IDA is financing a producti-
vity improvement project for the Department of Maradi; is assisting in the
preparation of another productivity improvement project for the Department of
Dosso; and considers financing a forestry and a livestock project. The pro-
posed irrigation project would be the first major irrigation project. In ad-
dition to its objective of food production, it would assist Government in its
goal of creating the necessary institutional framework to build and develop
some 1,300 ha of irrigated schemes annually through the creation of the
"Office National des Amenagements Hydroagricoles" (ONAHA).
(iii)     The relatively high cost of the project, estimated at US$6,300/ha
for investment (in constant terms) and at US$500/ha/year for annual develop-
ment expenses during the development period, is due (a) to the fact that the
country is landlocked which increases the cost of imported goods; (b) the lack
of local expertise; and (c) the absence of effective competition in the con-
tracting and supply industries.
(iv)      The project would comprise (a) constructing the Namarigoungou
polder; 1/ (b) providing services to the farmers who would take up cultiva-
tion at Namarigoungou and to the farmers already cultivating on the schemes
presently under irrigation; (c) improving health services; (d) training
farmers in modern agricultural techniques; and (e) preparing a feasibility
study for a nearby Dolder north of Namarigoungou.
1/   Polders are land reclaimed from the sea or any other body of water by
constructing dikes and drying out the land so empoldered. Thereafter,
the water runoff is controlled by sluicing or pumping. A "cuvette"
is part of the food plain of the Niger River and is usually submerged
at the time of the high flood level.



- ii -
(v)       Project costs are estimated to total CFAF 5.1 billion (US$21
million) of which the foreign exchange component would be US$14.8 million, or
70%. Principal components are irrigation works construction (US$8.6 million);
management of the project and administrative and financial services (US$2.6
million); agricultural development services and support unit (US$2.5 million);
other (US$1.8 million); and contingencies (US$5.5 million). Other costs
include the financing over a three year period of a financial coordinator for
the IDA-financed agricultural projects (US$0.3 million). Except for the
financial coordinator, who would be financed 100% by IDA, all other project
items would be financed jointly by IDA and Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
(KFW). It is proposed that IDA make a credit of US$15.0 million. KFW would
make a credit of DM 12.5 million (US$6.0 million). The IDA credit and the KFW
credit would be disbursed on a pari-passu basis (70% for IDA; 30% for KFW).
(vi)      Analysis of the construction costs for several irrigation schemes
in Niger indicates that contractor costs are unusually high reflecting partly
a lack of effective competition. To stimulate competition, it is necessary
to build up the capabilities of the smaller local contractors and to develop
Government capability to construct the irrigation schemes by force account.
The project would give ONAHA the capability to construct the Namarigoungou
works by force account. This would result in cost savings of some 40% com-
pared to contractor costs and give practical training to a number of local
technicians and engineers.* Another advantage of the force account approach
would be the greater flex:ibility in project implementation. The only civil
works to be built by contractor (US$0.5 million) would be the pumping sta-
tions.
(vii)     Thd following procurement procedures would be used:  Orders or
contracts for equipment, vehicles, the electrical line from Tillabery to
Namarigoungou, supplies for construction, agricultural equipment and inputs
with a value of more than US$50,000 would be through international competitive
bidding (ICB), in accordance with IDA guidelines. Such procurement is esti-
mated to have a value of US$4.0 million. Contracts of less than US$50,000,
and construction of the civil works for the Namarigoungou pumping stations,
of houses, storage areas and offices, which are too small to attract foreign
contractors, would be procured on the basis of competitive bidding adver-
tised locally and in accordance with local procedures satisfactory to IDA.
However items of less than US$15,000 each could be purchased directly from
local suppliers. Contracts procured under local competitive bidding would
not exceed US$1.5 million. Consultants would be recruited according to IDA
guidelines (US$4.3 million). Some US$5.3 million would be for operating
expenses and local staff salaries.
(viii)    The project would be carried out by ONAHA, which would be establi-
shed prior to presentation of the Credit to the Executive Directors. The
organization of ONAHA would be based on the recommendations of consultants
financed through a project preparation facility of US$8,500. The Regional
Director of ONAHA at Tillabery would be responsible for day-to-day implemen-
tation of the project.



- iii -
(ix)      Organization of farmers on the schemes would evolve, with ONAHA's
directive involvement being progressively replaced by farmers' cooperatives.
Until such time as the latter are ready to assume management activities, ONAHA
would assure farmers supply of water and basic services. Farmers would be
organized into the smallest groups compatible with management of the schemes,
comprising about 10 farming units. The group would establish the basis for
financial solidarity for credit repayment.
(x)       The procedures for land allocation in the irrigation schemes have
been proven through past testing along the Niger River and are known to be
acceptable to the present land owners and to the new settlers. Under the
project land would be allocated on the basis of no more than I ha per farming
unit.
(xi)      Project induced annual production would be as follows:  In the
Namarigoungou polder under irrigation: 12,500 tons of rice paddy, 400 tons
of sorghum and 950 tons of various vegetables; on the rainfed holdings of the
Namarigoungou farmers: 1,600 tons of cereals. Production increases on the
existing schemes are estimated at 900 tons for rice paddy in the polders, and
700 tons for cereals under rainfed cultivation.
(xii)     Without the project the farmer taking up cultivation on the
Namarigoungou polder would continue to have an annual net income of about
CFAF 115,900 (US$473). With the project and assuming that he is given 0.5 ha
to cultivate, his net income would increase to CFAF 251,600 (US$1,027). His
per capita net income would increase from US$90 to US$197. At the proposed
level of water charges, Government's cost recovery index from farmers would
be about 37%.
(xiii)    The project's direct benefits would be the increased production
it would generate for the 3,000 farming units (16,000 people) who would take
up cultivation on the Namarigoungou polder. The economic rate of return is
estimated at 12.5% for the project components whose benefits have been quanti-
fied. The project would have a number of secondary benefits not included in
the rate of return calculations, namely: (a) increase in the agricultural
production of farmers cultivating in other schemes in the project area; (b)
creation of farm employment (some 400,000 man-days), 70% of which for the
riparian populations.
(xiv)     The risks attached to the project have been considered from several
angles: financial, technical, institutional and social. The financial risk
has been reduced by having the detailed engineering study completed prior to
this draft green cover report. The technical risk is mainly in the achieve-
ment of the production increases contemplated. The sensitivity analysis
indicates that even if the production of paddy were 25% lower, the rate of
return would still be acceptable, at 8%. The institutional risk will be
overcome through the creation of ONAHA, which would be adequately staffed and
equipped to carry out the project. The social risk inivolved in land alloca-
tion will be reduced by the use of well-established land allocation procedures.
(xv)      On the basis of the assurances set out in Chapter IX, the project is
suitable for an IDA credit of US$15 million.






NIGER
IRRIGATION PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Republic of Niger has asked IDA for assistance in financing
the development of the country's irrigation subsector mainly in the "Arron-
dissements" of Tillabery and Tera. A major component of the project would
be the development of a 1,550 ha scheme at Namarigoungou. A feasibility
study of the Namarigoungou scheme was prepared by Consultants SOGREAH in
1974. This report is based on the findings of an IDA appraisal mission which
visited Niger in February 1977. The appraisal mission consisted of Messrs.
Ropiteau and Park (IDA), Boumendil, Chateau, and Reynders (Consultants).
1.02      The proposed project would be the fifth  in Niger's agricultural
sector to be financed by IDA. Summary statements on the implementation of
the other projects are in Annex 1, including that on the Agricultural Credit
Project (Credit 207-NIR) for which a completion report and an audit report
are being circulated to Government for comments.
II. BACKGROUND
A. General
2.01      Niger is one ot the largest landlocked countries in Africa, cover-
ing about 1.3 million km , between latitudes 100 and 250 (map).  Rainfall
decreases from between 700 and 800 mm annually in the south, to less than 350
mm 150-200 km further north. About 10% of the area is suitable for crop
production, but of very low potential. About 2% of the land area is culti-
vated. Drought to one degree or other is a common occurrence and in 1968-1973
drought reached catastrophic proportions.
2.02      About half of the country's some 4.7 million people live between the
southern border pnd the 500 mm isohyet, where population pressure averages
only about 20/km , although in valleys it may be as high as 100 km . Popula-
tion growth rate is high at 2.7% per annum.
2.03      The per capita GNP increased between 1972-75 to US$130, owing
to greater mining activities. Uranium mining began in 1971. The present
production of 1,600 tons should increase to 3,500-4,000 tons in 1979, making
Niger the fourth largest producer of uranium in the world. The earnings
resulting from increased uranium production and quadrupling of its price make
it possible for Government to allocate greater local resources for productive
investments. The "Fonds National d'Investissement" (FNI) is the vehicle for
such investments. Government's allocation to the FNI was CFAF 10 billion in
1976/77 (US$40 million) compared to CFAF 4.5 billion in 1975/76.



-2-
B. The Agricultural Sector
2.04      The agricultural sector directly supports about 90% of Niger's
population.  It contributes about 47% to GDP.  Prior to 1973 Niger used to
be self-sufficient in food, but it was obliged to import some 500,000 tons
of cereals over the period 1973-1975.  Because of the increasing demand for
food the country is no longer self-sufficient, even in normal years, and is
unlikely to become so in the next decade, even assuming that all planned
rainfed improvement projects and all irrigation projects (some 1,300 ha
annually) are realized.
2.05      As far as rainfed farming is concerned, there is a limit to the
level of increases that productivity improvement projects can generate.
Income levels in the rainfed areas of Niger are less than US$70 per capita
and with present technology these can be increased by perhaps 50%, but the
beneficiaries of such pro;jects will continue to remain very poor, and the
food base of the country will continue to depend upon unreliable rainfall
which from time to time fails catastrophically. Nevertheless, Government
intends to improve productivity and farm incomes as much as economically
justified. It intends to develop the general use of farm inputs through
the development of agricultural credit and the strengthening of agricultural
extension services; and over the next few years plans productivity improve-
ment projects throughout the southern tier of the country where rainfed
cultivation is possible.
2.06      While rainfed projects are necessary to help the great majority
of the rural community, Government correctly believes that equal priority
should be given to investments in irrigation schemes. At present, some
8,000 ha of modern irrigation schemes have been developed: 3,700 ha along
the Niger river valley. This compares to a total irrigation potential of
about 200,000 ha (Annex 1): 100,000 ha along the Niger River. The latter,
however, cannot be fully developed for double cropping irrigation until the
flow of the Niger River is regulated by a dam to be built at the site of
Kandadji (1985). Still, there are some 16,000 ha that could be developed
for double cropping irrigaltion along the Niger River prior to the construc-
tion of the dam. At the present rhythm of development of 1,300 ha per year,
this would take more than 10 years.
2.07      IDA endorses Government's policy of a balanced development of the
agricultural sector: IDA is financing a productivity improvement project
for the Department of Maradi whose content and organization is intended as
a model for future similar projects, and is assisting in the preparation of
another productivity improvement project for the Department of Dosso. The
two Departments comprise about one-third the area of the southern tier of
Niger. IDA also intends to finance a pilot forestry project and a livestock
project which would include 30% of all cattle in Niger.



-3-
2.08      The proposed irrigation project is a necessary complement to
these various projects. It would be the first major irrigation project
in Niger, and in addition to its objective of food production, it would
have a number of other benefits:
(a)  It would assist Government in its goal of creating the
necessary institutional framework to build and develop
some 1,300 ha of irrigated schemes annually, through
the creation of the "Office National des Amenagements
Hydroagricoles" (ONAHA), which would integrate and
strengthen the activities of construction and manage-
ment of the irrigation schemes hitherto carried out by
the "Service du Genie Rural" (GR) and the "Union
Nigerienne de Credit et de Cooperation" (UNCC), res-
pectively.
(b)  It would not only produce rice, which is increasingly
becoming a staple food for the populations along the
Niger River and the city dwellers, but also a variety
of vegetables, and it would provide the means for a
better utilization of the local livestock resources.
Irrigated fodder and crop by-products and residues
would be used for finishing stock for sale, and this
would help reduce the long cattle migrations, often to
Nigeria, during the dry season.
(c)  It would allow the use of modern agricultural tech-
nology on the schemes, and to some extent, the use of
improved methods on the rainfed holdings of project
participants.
2.09      The relatively high cost of the project, estimated at US$6,300/ha
for investment (in constant terms) and at US$500/ha/year for annual devel-
opment expenses during the development period, is due to a number of fac-
tors, including (a) the fact that the country is landlocked which increases
the cost of imported goods, (b) the lack of local expertise, (c) the small
scale of the project and (d) the absence of effective competition in the
contracting and supply industries. Cheaper alternatives to the proposed
technical design (full water control) were studied and rejected because they
were less economical or impractical, namely: improved flood recession, which
will no longer be possible once the Kandadji dam is built (para 2.06), limited
water control, which is less economical, and development through wells, which
is impossible. The project would be built by force account, which would
result in savings of about 40% compared to the contractor costs, would make
possible a transfer of expertise in the construction of irrigation works to
the local technicians, and would introduce some competition in the contract-
ing and supply industries.



III. THE PROJECT AREA
3.01      Location.  The project area is the "Arrondisements" of Tillabery
and Tera (see map). There are a number of existing irrigation schemes
(1,200 ha) described in Annex 3, and one new scheme to be built in 1978,
Lossa third phase (162 ha), with financing from Fonds d'Aide et de Coopera-
tion (FAC).
3.02      Access.  The major town in the project area is Tillabery, 130
km northwest of Niamey (see map) by tar-surfaced road. The Namarigoungou
scheme would be linked by a 30 km dirt road to Tillabery, and the other
schemes are within a 60 kin radius of Tillabery.
3.03      Climate.  The climate is Sahelian, characterized by high day time
temperatures, sharp intra--day variations, and a long dry season, from October
through June. Average annual rainfall is about 430 mm (Annex 4), which is
only adequate for the production of low yielding crops of drought resistant
plants such as millet.
3.04      Hydrology.  The discharge of the Niger River is monitored through
5 water gauges a ong the 550 km of the Niger River. The average flow in
Niamey is 985 m /sec. Highest floods occur in the period September through
March, and lowest floods in June. Considering the period of seference as
1964-1974, the dry season monthly discharge would exceed 15 m /sec nine years
out of ten. This figure limits double cropping irrigation from the Niger
River north of the town of Say to around 12,000 ha (Annex 1, Table 3). South
of the town of Say the river benefits fsom a number of tributaries and the
dry season flow is rarely below 50-60 m /sec.
3.05      Soils.  The soils of the polders along the Niger River are usually
clay and are suitable for rice cultivation. The soils classification map for
the Namarigoungou polder (scale 1/10,000) and the soils analyses indicate that
soils are clay (60%) and sandy/silty soils (10%) and that the remaining 30%
are unsuitable for cultivation. Double cropping of rice is possible on the
clay soils, and double cropping of sorghum and vegetables on the sandy/silty
soils.
3.06      Population.  The main beneficiaries of the project would be the
3,000 farming units (16,000 people), who would take up cultivation on the
Namarigoungou polder. Other beneficiaries would include the 2,200 farming
units already cultivating on the existing schemes. At least 75% of partici-
pants would belong to the Wogo tribe, who are traditionally good at farming.
The rest would belong to the Kado tribe. (Annex 5). The average farming unit
size of about 5.25, with 1.50 male adults, is the same for both ethnic groups.
Ihe present per capita income of farmers likely to participate in the project
is about US$79, or some 25% above the absolute per capita poverty level of
US$63 for Niger.
3.07      Farm Size and Land Tenure.  Socio-economic surveys conducted
during project preparation indicate that the average Wogo farm comprises



- 5 -
4.10 ha under cultivation: millet and cowpeas (rainfed, 2.60 ha); rice
(traditional irrigation, 1.15 ha); sorghum (flood recession, 0.15 ha);
tobacco and gardens (0.20 ha) (Annex 6); the study also showed that farmers
do not give up traditional cultivation when they participate in modern
irrigation schemes. The Wogos rent about 20% of the land they cultivate
from the Kados. The land in the schemes becomes property of the nation, and
previous owners are given priority for land allocation.
3.08      Health.  There are no reliable statistics on the health situation
in the area. Waterborne diseases (malaria and bilharzia) are the most
frequent, especially affecting the young children, but the proposed project
would not exacerbate the present situation, and it includes a limited health
component (para 4.22).
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives and Components
4.01      The project (1978-1982) would seek (i) to increase Niger's produc-
tion of rice through the development of irrigated agriculture and (ii) to
improve the income of participating farmers from their holdings in the irri-
gation schemes and in rainfed areas. The project would comprise:
(a) Constructing the Namarigoungou polder (dike, irrigation and
drainage systems and on-farm works);
(b) Providing services to the farmers who would take up cultivation on
the Namarigoungou polder (1,550 ha of net area) and on the Lossa III
scheme (162 ha of net area); and to the farmers already cultivating
on 1,215 ha presently under irrigation development. Such services
would include: delivery of irrigation water, assistance in organi-
zation, extension, applied research and seed multiplication, pro-
curement of inputs, agricultural credit and crop marketing;
(c) Improving health services;
(d) Training project staff, farmers and artisans;
(e) Providing the necessary physical infrastructure and equip-
ment to carry out project activities; and
(f) Preparing the feasibility study for a nearby polder (3,300
ha net area) north of Namarigoungou.
The project would be carried out by ONAHA (para 2.08).



-6-
B. Detailed Features
Development of the Namarigoungou Polder
4.02      Works to be built in the Namarigoungou polder include (Annex 7):
(i) a dike some 12 km long and 3.0 m high to protect the polder
against the maximum flood levels occurring in a one to one
hundred year frequency;
(ii) two pumping stations, each serving a separate district,
designed to allow gravity irrigation as often as possible,
with the lowest pumping station serving during floods to
drain water back to the river. The pumps would be vertical
axial flow type, and the power would be supplied by a 20 KV
power line drawn from Tillabery.
(iii) an irrigation network, including some 30 km of primary and
40 km of secondary canals, and a tertiary network; and
(iv) a drainage network, using as much as possible the existing
streams.
4.03      Concrete Lining of Canals.  The cost and financing plan of the
project are based on the assumptions that primary and secondary canals would
be concrete lined. Since concrete lining cannot always be economically
justified, assurances were obtained at negotiations that this would be done
when criteria agreed upon between Government and the Association are met.
The criteria proposed by the Association were that the canals be lined where
(i) the soil permeability imeasured in situ was equal to or greater than
0.4 m/day, and (ii) necessary as protection upstream and downstream of canal
structures and connections. Additional criteria could be submitted by the
Borrower for the co-lenders' review and acceptance no later than one month
prior to the commencement of canal construction.
4.04      Namarigoungou Irrigation System Design and Capacity.  The capacity
of the main canals is designed for 2.8 1/s/ha (Annex 8). Farmers would
irrigate 16 hours per day. The secondary canals irrigating mixed cropping
areas are designed for 2 1/s/ha. The perimeter would be divided into two
irrigation units. Based on a discharge for the tertiaries designed at
between 20 1/sec and 40 1/sec, the size of the irrigation blocks would vary
between 7 and 14 ha. The average size of the individual farms would be 0.5
ha. They would be irrigated by rotation.
4.05      Namarigoungou Drainage System Design and Capacity.  Drains would
have a design capacity of 1.2 1/s/ha. During the normal flows of the river
drainage would be assured by gravity through flap gates at the southernmost
tip of the scheme; during the flood season drainage waters would be pumped
out at the pumping station SP2'



-7-
4.06      Water Demand and Supply.  At full development (by year 1982) total
yearly requirements ior the Namarigoungou scheme (1,550 ha of net area) would
be some 48 million m at the source, based on requirements on the existing
irrigation schemes. Its requirements in June when the water level is lowest
in the Niger River would amount to 16% of the minimum flow occurring in a
one to ten year frequency (Annexes 1 and 2).
4.07      Water Quality.  The waters of the Niger River are excellent for
irrigation and can be classified CI SI on the USBR classification.
4.08      Status of Engineering.  Maps of the Namarigoungou polder (scale
1:2,000) and semi-detailed soil classification (scale 1:10,000) have been
completed. The detailed design of the works and the update of the costs as
well as the bidding documents for procurement were terminated in February
1978. This was done by SOGREAH under Government financing. The project
would be executed with the assistance of consultants to be retained under
the procedure described in para 6.04.
4.09      The construction schedule (Annex 14) shows procurement of equip-
ment in 1978, and the works starting in February 1979 with the construction
of the dike, being completed by mid-year 1981.
Provision of Services to Farmers
4.10      Beneficiaries.  The project would finance the provision of services
to all farmers cultivating on the irrigation schemes in the "Arrondissements"
of Tillabery and Tera, including the existing schemes where the services are
presently inadequate (Annex 2).
4.11      Until such time as farmers are ready to assume management activities
(para 6.08), ONAHA would manage the main infrastructures, provide irrigation
water, assist in the creation of farmers' cooperatives, evaluate farmers'
equipment requirements, organize the provision of agricultural credit for
equipment and improved seeds, and importantly, provide them with effective
extension advice for their holdings in the irrigation schemes and in the
rainfed areas. A number of blocks in the Namarigoungou polder would be used
for applied research tests and seed multiplication. Assurances were obtained
at negotiations that the design of the research trials and the seed multipli-
cation program would be acceptable to IDA.
4.12      Details of the production packages are given in Annex 6.  The tech-
niques advocated for rice cultivation and mixed cropping under irrigation
are proven through past testing in the project area and known to be accept-
able to reasonably receptive farmers. They include: ox-drawn plowing,
transplanting, fertilizer applications, proper weeding, hand harvesting
and threshing using a thresher with paddles. There is no evidence that
the improved measures advocated for rainfed cultivation have been thoroughly
tested in the project area under farmers' conditions (new varieties, pure
stand planting, fertilizer applications). There is some indication, however,
that increases in yields are possible. In any case, improved techniques
would be introduced progressively, and it is not assumed that the complete
package would be adopted by more than 10% of all farmers.



- 8 -
4.13      The area under cultivation in the Namarigoungou scheme would be
divided according to soil suitability between: rice (1,350 ha), mixed crop-
ping (150 ha) and fodder crops (25 ha); in addition 25 ha of eucalyptus would
be planted. Double cropping would be practiced for all annual crops. Mixed
cropping would consist of one crop of sorghum during the rainy season and a
variety of vegetables during the dry season. The fodder crops would enable
some 500 head of cattle to be fattened annually. The eucalyptus would be cut
every 3 years. In addition, project services would be extended to the 9,000
ha that Namarigoungou farmers would continue to cultivate under rainfed
conditions.
4.14      The area under cultivation in the other schemes (1,180 ha total
net area) would comprise 740 ha of rice in double cropping, 140 ha of rice
single cropping and 300 ha of mixed cropping. In addition, project ser-
vices would be extended to the 5,000 ha cultivated under rainfed condi-
tions by the farmers participating in these other schemes.
4.15      Farm Inputs and Equipment, Procurement and Credit Procedures.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the project would be granted
a license to import inputs and agricultural equipment. Although the local
manufacturer of agricultural equipment, SONIFAME, has recently received a line
of credit to expand its facilities, it may not be able to meet the emerging
demand for agricultural equipment in the country. Some 500 sets of agricul-
tural equipment, comprising a plow and a hoe, would be financed under the
project.
4.16      Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole (CNCA) has been vested with
overall responsibility for agricultural credit in the country, and all project
funds for credit as well as for other costs would be channelled through CNCA.
However day-to-day administration of farmers credit under the project would
be carried out by the project staff. Farmers would be eligible for seasonal
credit for fertilizer, insecticides and livestock to be fattened under the
livestock subproject; and for medium term credit (3 years) for agricultural
equipment, oxen and carts; blacksmiths, for 5 years' equipment credit. Prices
for inputs include interest at the rate prevailing for agricultural credit;
this rate is currently 8%. FParmers' and blacksmiths' repayments would be kept
in a revolving fund administered by CNCA for the sole use of project partici-
pants. This fund would be established no later than 1979.
4.17      Niger follows a policy of subsidization of agricultural equipment
and inputs: agricultural equipment (between 32% and 73%), insecticides
(25%), and fertilizers (43%). For fertilizer the policy is consistent with
existing agreements in the Maradi Rural Development Project that subsidies
be reduced to 50% of cost by year-end 1977. This policy is justified at the
present time by the low use of equipment and inputs; but it should be recon-
sidered when that use increases. Assurances were obtained at negotiations
that government policy regarding subsidies for agricultural equipment and
inputs would be discussed annually by Government and IDA.



- 9-
Improvement in Health Services
4.18      The project would finance a health training program, to be carried
out under the supervision of the Ministry of Health (MOH). Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that MOH would organize this training component,
including post-training supervision and refresher courses; in addition,
volunteer first aid assistants would be selected from among project farmers
for training in basic skills. A total of some 80 first aid assistants would
be trained under the program. Each person trained would be provided with a
basic kit financed under the project. Renewal of the kit would be paid for by
the community. The project would also provide proper water supply facilities
for the two villages to be established around the Namarigoungou scheme.
Assurances were obtained that Government would conduct a limited epi-
demiological desk study of the area and that the results of the study would
be reviewed by Government and IDA to determine whether an additional epi-
demiological field survey to collect basic health information is warranted.
Training Programs
4.19      The project would provide for the training of its own extension
staff (about 30) and for farmer leaders, blacksmiths and other artisans (paras
6.07-6.10 and Annex 11). The project includes the subsistence costs of the
trainees, the teaching equipment and the rehabilitation of a vocational
school in Tillabery.
Physical Infrastructure and Vehicles
4.20      The project includes the construction in Tillabery of 8 senior
staff ho ses, project offices, a garage, and in Namarigoungou, 2 stores
(1,000 m total area). The capacity of the Tillabery rice mill would be
doubled to 10,000 tons. A total of 9 light vehicles and 3 trucks would
be purchased, in addition to the heavy vehicles required for construction
of the works.
Feasibility Study for a Future Irrigation Project
4.21      The project would finance the preparation of the feasibility study
for the Gabou-Bonfeba polder (3,300 ha), which is adjacent to Namarigoungou
and shows good potential. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the
consultants to carry out the study would have qualifications and experience
satisfactory to IDA, and that they would be employed under terms and condi-
tions satisfactory to IDA.
The Project's Impact on Ecology
4.22      It is unlikely that the project would have any undue adverse impact
upon the ecology and the health of the population, since, except in the dry
season, no additional area would be permanently under water. On the contrary,
the concrete lining of primary and secondary canals of the Namarigoungou



- 10 -
scheme would increase the speed of the flow, thereby reducing the snail
population, which is the vector of schistosomiasis. The project also in-
cludes a limited health improvement component.
V. COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS
A. Project Costs
5.01      Project costs are estimated to Total CFAF 5.1 billion (US$21 mil-
lion), of which the foreign exchange component would be US$14.8 million or
70%.
5.02      Government will exempt the project from import duties and direct
taxes. Project costs are therefore net of duties and taxes. They are
detailed in Annex 9 and summarized below:
Local  Foreign            Local  Foreign            % Foreign
Cost   Exchange  Total  Cost   Exchange  Total  Exchange
CFAF Million --       --  US$ Thousand ----
Irrigation Works
Construction                  419    1,677    2,096  1,710   6,840    8,550         80%
Direction "Office National
des Amenagements
Hydroagricoles"               101       100       201    410      410      820      50%
Administrative and
Financial Services            266       178      444  1,090       720    1,810      40%
Agricultural Develop-
ment Services                 178       179      357    720       730    1,450      50%
Support Unit                    103       155      258    420       640    1,060      60%
Health Component and
Training                        9        22        31     40       90      130      70%
Agricultural Equipment
and Incremental Inputs         34       137      171    140       560      700      80%
Other                            -        221       221     -       900      900    100%
Base Cost Estimate            1,110    2,669    3,779   4,530  10,890  15,420         70%
Physical Contingencies          145       337      482      590   1,380   1,970       70%
Price Increases                 267       617      884   1,090   2,520   3,610        70%
Total Expected Cost
of Project                  1,522    3,623    5,145   6,210  14,790  21,000         70%
5.03      The cost of the project is based on the detailed engineering study
carried out by SOGREAH. Expatriate staff salaries would be equivalent to those



- 11 -
paid in other projects in Niger. Technical assistance for the construction
of the Namarigoungou works would amount to 15 1/2 man-years over the period
1978-1981 for a total cost of CFAF 356 million (US$1.5 million), averaging
US$97,000 per man-year. Technical assistance for ONAHA management and
agricultural development would amount to 22 man-years over the period
1978-1982 for a total cost of CFAF 506 million (US$2.1 million), averaging
US$95,000 per man-year. Salaries would account for about 50% of the total
expatriate costs. Project costs include a physical contingency of 15%
of the cost of the irrigation works and of 10% on all other items, and in
addition a contingency to cover expected inflation amounting to 25% of base
costs over the disbursement period.
5.04      Other costs comprise the feasibility study of the Gabou-Bonfeba
polder and the financing over a three year period of a financial coordinator
for the IDA-financed agricultural projects. The financial coordinator would:
provide technical assistance to the various projects in accounting and finan-
cial management, coordinate processing of disbursement applications and
monitor financial reporting and auditing.
B. Proposed Financing
5.05      It is proposed that IDA make a credit of US$15 million.  Kreditan-
stalt fur Wiederaufbau (KFW) would make a credit of DM 12.5 million (US$6.0
million). 1/ Except for the financial coordinator (para 5.04), who would be
financed 100% by IDA, 100% of the other project expenditures would be financed
jointly by IDA and KFW. The IDA and the KFW credits would be disbursed on a
pari-passu basis. The financing plan is summarized below:
IDA      KFW        Total      %
…-----------US$  000…
Irrigation works construction                 5,990    2,560      8,550      40
Direction "Office National des
Amenagements Hydroagricoles"                  580       240       820       4
Administrative and financial services         1,270       540     1,810       9
Agricultural development services             1,020       430     1,450       7
Support unit                                    740       320     1,060       5
Health component and training                    90        40       130       1
Agricultural equipment and incremental
inputs                                        490      210        700      3
Other                                           720       180       900       4
Base cost estimate                      10,900    4,520    15,420      73
Physical contingencies                   1,390      580      1,970      9
Price increases                          2,710      900      3,610     18
Total expected cost of project          15,000    6,000    21,000    100
% of total                                71%      29%       100%
1/   The terms of the KFW credit would be similar to those of IDA excepted
for a commitment of 0.25% on the undisbursed amount.



- 12 -
5.06      To ensure the efficient and timely execution of the project,
assurances were obtained from (,overnment that it would: (a) ensure that
an account in the name of the project be established with "Caisse Nationale
de Credit Agricole" (CNCA); (b) deposit an initial amount of CFAF 250 million
(US$1.0 million) into the accotnt; (c) replenish the account quarterly on the
basis of the project cash forecasts in order to provide the project with
sufficient funds to meet project expenditures for the following three months;
and (d) ensure that seasonal and short term credit, repayment for farm inputs,
seeds, equipment, blacksmith kits and vaccines would be made to revolving fund
accounts administered by the project and deposited with CNCA. The establish-
ment of the revolving fund account with an initial deposit of CFAF 250 million
is a condition of credit effectiveness.
5.07      Retroactive financing by IDA of up to US$210,000 (70% of total cost)
from January 1, 1978 is proposed to finance three scrapers necessary for the
construction of the dike. KFW would finance its share or up to US$90,000 (30%
of total cost).
C. Procurement
5.08      The analysis of the construction costs for several irrigation
schemes in Niger (Annex 10) indicates that contractor costs are unusually
high, reflecting a lack of effective competition. To stimulate competition,
it is necessary to build up the capabilities of the smaller local contrac-
tors, and to develop Government capability to construct the irrigation schemes
by force account. The project would give ONAHA the capability to construct
the Namarigoungou irrigation works by force account. This would result in
cost savings of some 40% and give practical training to a number of local
technicians and engineers, who would be able to apply their expertise to the
construction of future irrigation schemes. Other advantages to the force
account approach would be greater flexibility in implementation and better
phasing of the agricultural development of the polder. Works built on force
account would amount to US$8.1 million. Only the civil works of the pumping
stations would be built by contractor (US$0.5 million). ONAHA would call in
small work gangs paid on a piece work basis whenever feasible.
5.09      The following procurement procedures would be used:  Orders or
contracts for equipment, vehicles, the electrical line from Tillabery to
Namarigoungou, supplies for construction, agricultural equipment and inputs
with a value of more than US$50,000 would be through international competitive
bidding (ICB), in accordance with IDA guidelines. Such procurement is esti-
mated to have a value of US$4.0 million. Contracts of less than US$50,000,
and construction of the civil works for the Namarigoungou pumping stations, of
houses, storage areas and offices, which are too small to attract foreign
contractors, would be procured on the basis of competitive bidding advertised
locally and in accordance with local procedures satisfactory to IDA. However
items of less than US$15,000 each could be purchased directly from local
suppliers. Contracts procured under local competitive bidding would not
exceed US$1.5 million. Consultants would be recruited according to IDA
guidelines (US$4.3 million). Some US$5.3 million would be for operating
expenses and local staff salaries.



- 13 -
D. Disbursements
5.10      The proceeds of the proposed IDA credit (US$15 million) would be
disbursed over five years (1978-1982) as follows:
US$
Category I:    Civil Works
a)  Primary and secondary canals   1,400,000        70%
b)  Other                              400,000      70%
Category II:   Equipment, Vehicles, Cement,
Chemicals                          2,700,000      70%
Category III:  Tillabery-Namarigoungou Electric
Line                                 360,000      70%
Category IV:   Pumping Station                         470,000      70%
Category V:    Operating Expenses Including
Salaries                           4,820,000      70%
Category VI:   Agricultural Projects Coordinator    300,000    100%
Category VII:  Audit, Studies                          400,000      70%
Category VIII: Reimbursement of Project Prepara-
tion Facility                          8,500    100% of amount
not reim-
bursed at
the date
of effec-
tiveness
Category IX:   Unallocated                           4,141,500
TOTAL               15,000,000
5.11      Disbursements of the IDA credit would be against import documenta-
tion and certified records of expenditures. For disbursements made against
certified records of expenditures documentation would not be submitted for
review as a matter of course, but would be retained by ONAHA for scrutiny by
IDA missions. The estimated schedule of disbursement of the IDA credit is
in Annex 9, Table 10.



- 14 -
E. Accounts and Audit
5.12      Accounts for the project would be kept under acceptable commercial
accounting practices. The cost of concrete lining the primary and secondary
canals would be recorded separately, and savings realized by not lining 100%
of the canals would be cancelled from the credit (para. 4.03 and para 5.10).
The project accounts and revolving fund kept by CNCA for farmers' agricultural
credit (para 4.16) would be audited annually by independent auditors accept-
able to IDA. The auditors' opinion on the disbursement applications made
against certified records of expenditures would be submitted to IDA every six
months. Audited annual accounts would be submitted to IDA within six months
of the closing of the financial year. Assurances to the foregoing were
obtained at negotiations.
VI. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Organization
6.01       The project would be carried out by ONAHA through its regional
offices at Tillabery. ONAHA would be created prior to the presentation of
the credit to the Executive Directors. Its organization would be based on
the recommendations of consultants financed through a project preparation
facility of US$8,500, approved as part of the proposed credit. ONAHA would
be an autonomous public agency under the overall responsibility of the
Minister of Rural Development. ONAHA's policy decisions would be taken by a
Board of Directors and implemented by a General Director. ONAHA's central
services would include:
- General Directorate: The General Director would be account-
able to the Board of Directors for ONAHA's operations. He
would be assisted by a deputy responsible for technical
operations and by planning staff;
- Engineering Services: responsible for topographical surveys,
detailed engineering and construction of irrigation works;
- Agricultural Development Services: responsible for assist-
ance in the management of the schemes, definition of agri-
cultural development programs and development of cooperatives;
- Equipment Services: responsible for management and maintenance
of the equipment of ONAHA (pumping stations and water gates,
earthmoving and transport equipment, agricultural equipment
and central garage);
- Administrative Services: responsible for personnel and
general administration;



- 15 -
- Accounting Services: responsible for general accounting
and analytical accounting.
The central services would backstop ONAHA's regional offices established
where justified by the number of irrigation schemes and the distance to
headquarters i-n Niamey.
6.02      There would be a regional office at Tillabery.  The regional
director at Tillabery would report to the General Director. He would be
responsible for day-to-day implementation of the project and all other ONAHA
activities in his region, and would be responsible for the interface of ONAHA
with the other public agencies in his region. The organization of the ser-
vices at the Tillabery office would be similar to those at the central level:
engineering, agricultural development, equipment, administration and account-
ing. The agricultural development services would include a technical assist-
ance support unit responsible for assistance in grouping the farmers on the
schemes; training of extension staff, farmer leaders, herdsmen and a number
of technicians including blacksmiths; and for evaluation of project results.
6.03      Project Evaluation.  The support unit of the project's agricultural
development services would be responsible for evaluation of the project. It
would produce quarterly progress reports and an annual report giving the
information outlined in Annex 11. Assurances were obtained that the unit
would prepare the project completion report.
B. Staffing
6.04      The lack of experienced local staff is a major constraint to the
implementation of agricultural projects in Niger. Government is aware of
this and agrees that the shortage of local expertise can only be alleviated
in the short term by technical assistance. The Regional Director at Tillabery
would be assisted by an expatriate technical adviser and a team of as many as
ten other expatriate specialists. The relatively large number of expatriates
reflects the fact that (a) the Namarigoungou works would be built by force
account requiring technical skills that even contractors would import; and
(b) the project would include a number of training programs requiring special
training skills. The staff recruited internationally would be provided by a
company with recognized expertise to carry out irrigation projects, including
construction of works by force account and agricultural development. Govern-
ment has pre-selected four consulting firms with relevant qualifications and
knowledge of Niger. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the com-
pany, the terms and conditions of its employment and the qualifications and
experience of the technical adviser to the Regional Director at Tillabery
would be mutually acceptable to Government and IDA. Selection of the company
and nomination of the technical adviser to the Regional Director are condi-
tions of Board presentation. Signature of the technical assistance contract
is a condition of the credit becoming effective.



- 16 -
6.05      High and medium level local staff would belong to one of the
following specialties: agricultural engineer or ITA ("Ingenieur des travaux
agricoles"), rural engineer or ITR ("Ingenieur des travaux ruraux"), accoun-
tant. There are a limited number of these specialists in the country, but
some are being trained under various scholarships overseas and are expected
to return to Niger after 1980. After that date recruitment of high and
medium level local staff would become easier.  Such staff would be seconded
to the project as government employees on full pensionable service, and
with posting allowances comrnensurate with their new responsibilities.
6.06      The ratio of extension staff to farmers would be one to 200 farm--
ing families. They would work with the delegates of the farmers' groups, who
in turn would be expected tco serve as the relay with the other farmers. A
delegate would represent 10 farming units, demonstrate irrigation techniques,
organize procurement and distribution of inputs and equipment within the
group, and control the use of water for irrigation. The extension staff would
report to the heads of the irrigation units.
C. Training
6.07      High and medium level staff would receive on-the-job training
so as to be in a position to replace expatriate staff after the project
development period. Extension staff who do not receive any specialization
in irrigation techniques at the agricultural school in Niger (Kolo) would be
given one month courses in irrigation application upon joining the project.
Such training would be provided by the consultants providing technical
assistance to ONAHA. Their contract would make specific provision for
training programs, and assurances were obtained at negotiations that
these programs would be reviewed and approved by IDA.
6.08      Farmers' training would be performed by project staff and would
concern: (i) farmers' group delegates, who would receive technical training
in cultivation, irrigation, network maintenance and work organization over a
5 month's period on their own plots; (ii) farmer accountants: who would be
taught basic bookkeeping over a 5 month period, spent partly in the villages
and the training center built under the project; (iii) herdsmen: their
courses would be essentially technical in nature and taught over a 5 month
period, alternating between the villages and the training center. Some 366
delegates, 82 farmer accountants and 82 herdsmen would be trained.
6.09      Village first aid volunteers would be chosen by the village
and trained in emergency help situations over a 2 week period at the Tilla-
bery dispensary. Some 82 first aid volunteers would be trained.
6.10      The project staff member responsible for the blacksmith training
component would himself have participated either in Niger or in other
countries in a blacksmith training program for a period of about 6 months,
after which he would be able to provide courses to advanced blacksmiths in
the use of blacksmith's equipment, fabrication of improved tools, metal



- 1 7 -
brazing, tampering, and fabrication of parts. The courses would last a
total of 40 days broken up into a number of periods. About 25 blacksmiths
would be trained.
D. Farmers' Settlement and Organization
6.11      The procedures for land allocation in the irrigation schemes have
been proven through past testing along the Niger River and are known to be
acceptable to the present owners and to the new settlers (Annex 2). They
are based on Law No. 60-28 of May 25, 1960 and entail: (a) ascertaining
present land use rights through a series of interviews with the local
population; (b) giving priority for land allocation to the farmers whose
rights can be established; (c) selecting farmers according to a number of
criteria including: proximity to the schemes, size of the family, farming
experience, and existing assets, including ownership of bullocks; and
(d) allocating no more than 0.25 ha per male adult. Some flexibility
should be shown in the application of these procedures. Land allocation
would be handled jointly by the "Comite Technique d'Arrondissement," (the
advisory body to the Sous-Prefet of Tillabery, the population, and the
Nigerien head of the project's agricultural development services. To
ensure that the Namarigoungou scheme would benefit as many farmers as
possible, assurances were received that IDA would be consulted before
farmers would be allotted more than I ha per farming unit.
6.12      The organization of farmers on the schemes would evolve with
ONAHA's directive involvement being progressively replaced by farmers'
cooperatives (para. 4.11). Until such time as the latter are ready to
assume management activities, ONAHA would assure farmers supply of water
and basic services. Farmers would pay for operating and maintenance costs
incurred by ONAHA and a capital recovery charge (para. 7.11), but not for
extension services. If farmers do not comply with their obligations, their
lands could be repossessed. The decision to repossess holdings or to impose
other disciplinary action would be made by ONAHA, but advice would be sought
from the irrigation unit councils. Unit councils would be created for each
irrigation unit (para. 4.04) and would include representatives of farmers
and the extension staff assigned to the unit.
6.13      Farmers would be organized into the smallest groups compatible
with the management of the schemes comprising about 10 farming units each.
The group would establish the basis for financial solidarity for credit
repayment.



- 18 -
VII. YIELDS AND PRODUCTION, DEMAND, PRICES, MARKETING
ARRANGEMENTS, FARMERS' BENEFITS AND COST RECOVERY
A. Yields and Production
7.01      The yields for the crops grown on the Namarigoungou polder have
been estimated at full development (1982) as follows: paddy (4,800 kg/ha
per ssason), sorghum (2,500 kg/ha), cowpeas (1,200 kg/ha); eucalyptus
(20 m /ha year). In addition, the millet yields under rainfed conditions
would increase from 310 kgJha to 390 kg/ha. The paddy yield is lower than
the 5,200 kg/ha actually obtained on the comparable Toula scheme (Annex 6,
Table 5).  The yields for mixed cropping are those currently obtained where
mixed cropping is practiced.
7.02      The yield increases are estimated to result in the following an-
nual production increments (1982): In the Namarigoungou polder under irri-
gation: 12,500 tons of rice paddy, 400 tons of sorghum and 950 tons of var-
ious vegetables; on the rainfed holdings of the Namarigoungou farmers: 1,600
tons of cereals. In addition, wood pole production would have an annual value
of some CFAF 16 million, and the livestock subproject would gross some CFAF
6 million annually.
7.03      Production increases on the existing schemes are estimated at
900 tons for rice paddy cultivated in the polders, and 700 tons for cereals
under rainfed cultivation.
B. Demand, Prices, and Marketing Arrangements
7.04      Rice.  Local demand for rice has been increasing over the past
few years and is expected to continue to increase as a result of the popula-
tion growth and the rapid urbanization. (Annex 1, Tables I and 2). There is
at present a deficit of some 6,000 tons of rice between local production
and consumption.
7.05      The official producer price for paddy at CFAE' 45/kg gives farmers
working on the irrigation schemes adequate incentives. Assurances were
obtained that the official paddy price would be reviewed annually to determine
its adequacy, taking into account the necessity to maintain economic incen-
tives for farmers and the overall supply and demand situation. The financial
price of CFAF 45/kg of paddy was used for the farm budgets, and the farm gate
economic price of CFAF 53/ kg for the economic rate of return calculations.
7.06      Rice produced on the Government schemes is sold by "Office des
Produits Vivriers du Niger" (OPVN) at CFAF 105/kg, which is about the import
substitution price, (Annex 12, Table 1). It is estimated that OPVN makes a
profit of CFAF 5/kg of rice.



- 19 -
7.07      ONAHA would organize the transport of the paddy produced under the
project (para. 6.12) for delivery to the government mill at Tillabery. The
mill's processing capacity would be doubled to 10,000 tons of paddy with
relatively small investments in equipment.
7.08      Thp demand for the project's other products (cereals, vegetables,
wood and meat) is strong given the proximity of Niamey. They would be mar-
keted through the traditional network of private traders. The prices used
for farm budgets and in the economic rate of return calculations are: millet,
CFAF 40/kg, sorghum, CFAF 35/kg; cowpeas CFAF 45/kg; onions, CFAF 196/kg;
tomatoes, CFAF 38/kg; gombos, CFAF 340/kg; trees, CFAF 1,600/tree; liveweight
meat, CFAF 180/kg.
C. Farmers' Benefits
7.09      Benefits of the project have been quantified only for the farmers
taking up cultivation on the Namarigoungou polder. Farmers on the other
schemes would increase their present income level slightly. It is assumed
that the average farming unit would comprise two male adults; would be given
0.5 ha of the Namarigoungou polder, and would keep its present holdings under
rainfed cultivation and traditional irrigation. Since prospective project
participants are presently self-sufficient in terms of food, it is assumed
that they would sell all their production under the scheme, and would not
increase their family consumption.
7.10      Without the project the farmer taking up cultivation in the Nama-
rigoungou polder would continue to have an annual net income of CFAF 115,900
(US$473) (Annex 6, Table 7). With the project, and assuming that he is given
0.5 ha to cultivate, his net income would increase to CFAF 251,600 (US$1,027)
(Annex 6, Table 8). His per capita net income would increase from US$90 to
US$197. In addition, the family cultivating 0.1 ha of mixed cropping would
increase its net income by an additional CFAF 57,200 (US$233). While incomes
would increase substantially, the amount of work required would also increase:
family labor from 343 man-days to 440 man-days and hired labor from 40 man-
days to 121 man-days for the family cultivating 0.5 ha of rice. Net income
per man-day would increase from CFAF 339 to CFAF 1,399.
7.11      The net income figures have been calculated after deducting
direct production costs (seed, fertilizer, debt service on credit received,
payments for hired labor, etc.), the operation and maintenance cost of the
irrigation system (O.M.) and a capital recovery charge. The governmental
policy has been that farmers be charged for all O.M. expenses, but that they
should not be asked to pay for extension services or to contribute to the
amortization of the investment in the schemes. As a major improvement upon
this policy and to ensure some degree of financial viability and replicability
of the investment, assurances were obtained at negotiations that farmers on
the Namarigoungou scheme would pay water charges including a capital recovery
charge. These water charges would initially be set at CFAF 100,000/ha/year,
starting June 30, 1980, and would be maintained at a level acceptable to the
Government and the Association which would be the maximum allowed under the



- 20 -
Government's regulations at any one time. ONAHA would maintain separate
accounts for the water charges recovered from farmers. Since O.M. expenses in
the Namarigoungou scheme would be about CFAF 34,000/ha/year in 1978 terms, the
capital recovery charge wou:Ld be about double at CFAF 66,000/ha/year. This
relatively high level of capital recovery charges compared to O.M. expenses
and past practice is justified given the high cost of the project and the
substantial benefits expected for project participants.
D. Cost Recovery and Impact on Government Revenues
7.12      At a discount rate of 10% per annum the present value of Govern-
ment's initial and recurrent investment in the Namarigoungou scheme is CFAE'
3.7 billion (Annex 12, Table 2). At the agreed level of water charges of
CFAF 100,000 per ha per year, the cost recovery index of these water charges
(totalling CFAF 155 million annually) discounted at 10% compared to Government
investment in the scheme is 37%. The rent recovery index or ratio of total
direct charges to farmers' rent would be 33%.
Impact on Government Revenues
7.13      Government revenues from the project would consist of direct charges
paid by farmers, indirect taxation induced by the increase in farm production
and trading profits made by OPVN.  Government outflows would be operating and
maintenance expenses, extension and administrative expenses after project, and
service charges and amortization of the IDA credit. The cash flow (Annex 12,
Table 3) shows a surplus from 1980 onwards.
VIII. ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
8.01      The project's direct benefits would be the increased production
it would generate for the 3,000 farming units (16,000 people), who would
take up cultivation on the Namarigoungou polder. The economic rate of
return is estimated at 12.5% for the project components whose benefits
have been quantified. These components account for 95% of project costs.
This return excludes the health component, the technical training pro-
grams and the studies, for which no meaningful rate of return could be
estimated because of the predominance of non-quantifiable effects.
8.02      The main assumptions for the economic rate of return calculations
at Annex 13 include:
(a) incremental producti'on from the Namarigoungou scheme only
(para. 7.02);
(b) economic farm gate prices in constant prices as shown in paras.
7.05 and 7.08;



- 21 -
(c) inclusion in the cost streams of all on-farm production costs,
including hired labor costed at the prevailing wage rate (about
CFAF 200/day) throughout the year and family labor costed
for the periods of the year when it is fully employed
(estimated at 55%) at the wage rate of CFAF 200/day and for
the other periods of the year (45%) at CFAF 100/day; and
(d) based on a standard conversion factor of 0.86, foreign exchange
costs and benefits have been converted to the rate of exchange
of CFAF 285 = US$1. (16% lower than the present official rate
of CFAF 245 = US$1).
8.03      A number of sensitivity tests have been run and indicate that
the project would be equally sensitive to variations in benefits and costs.
A variation of benefits or costs of 10% would result in an absolute change
of about 2 percentage points in the project's rate of return. Other tests
indicate that:
-    Without an increase in production on the rainfed'holdings of
the Namarigoungou farmers the rate of return would be 1 percentage
point lower (11.55%);
-    Keeping the technical assistance five years after project comple-
tion would decrease the rate of return about 1 percentage point
(12.15%); and
-    Reducing the cropping intensity from 200% to 175% would lower
the rate of return 1.5 percentage points (10.45%).
8.04      The project would have a number of secondary benefits which have not
been included in the economic rate of return calculations:
(a) an increase in the agricultural production of farmers
cultivating in other schemes of the project area outside
Namarigoungou.
(b) the creation of farm employment, estimated at some 400,000
man-days, about 70% of which for the riparian populations
which otherwise would continue migrating to the south;
and 30% for casual laborers, mostly from the "Ouallam
Arrondissement," one of the poorest in Niger.
(c) it would help reduce the income disparities between the
local tribes and between the rural and urban populations.
(d) it would provide a reliable source of cereals which could
soften the impact of drought.



- 22 -
(e)  it would provide the demonstrative effect of an integrated
approach to provide farmers with comprehensive extension
and marketing services, not only for their holdings on the
modern irrigation schemes, but also for those cultivated
under rainfed conditions, and it would establish the proper
institutional framework for Government to meet its goal of
developing some 1,000-2,000 ha of irrigated land annually
over the next five years.
(f)  it would have other secondary benefits including the impact
of the health and training programs, the expansion of non-
farm rural employment, for example in blacksmithing and at
the Tillabery rice mill, and the improvement of nutrition
and health.
8.05      The risks attached to the project have been considered from several
angles:  financial, technical, institutional and social.  The financial risk
has been reduced by having the detailed engineering study completed prior to
this draft green cover report. The technical risk is mainly in the achieve-
ment of the production increases contemplated. The sensitivity analysis
indicates that even if the production of paddy were 25% lower, the rate of
return would still be acceptable, at 8%. The institutional risk will be
overcome through the creation of ONAHA, which would be adequately staffed and
equipped to carry out the project. The social risk involved in land alloca-
tion will be reduced by the use of well-established land allocation procedures.
IX. RECOMMENDATIONS
9.01      Conditions of Board presentation are receipt of evidence that:
(a)  ONAHA would have been established (para 6.01);
(b)  A company would have been selected to provide the interna-
tionally recruited staff; and the Technical Adviser to the
Regional Director at Tillabery would have been nominated
(para 6.04).
9.02      Assurances were obtained at negotiations that:
(a)  The primary and secondary canals would be concrete lined only
if agreed upon technical criteria were met (para 4.03).
(b)  The design of the applied research trials and of the seed
multiplication program on the Namarigoungou polder would be
acceptable to IDA (para 4.11).
(c)  ONAHA would be granted a license to import agricultural
equipment and inputs (para 4.15).



- 23 -
(d) Government policy regarding subsidies for agricultural
equipment would be discussed annually by Government and
IDA (para 4.17).
(e) The Ministry of Health would organize the training of
first aid volunteers including post-training supervision
and refresher courses (para 4.18).
(f) Government would conduct a limited epidemiological desk
study of the area; and the results of the study would
be reviewed by Government and IDA (para 4.18).
(g) The consultants who would carry out the study for the
development of a second irrigation project would have
qualifications and experience satisfactory to IDA,
and they would be employed under terms and conditions
satisfactory to IDA (para 4.21).
(h) Government would:
Ci) ensure that an account in the name of ONAHA would
be established with "Caisse Nationale de Credit
Agricole";
(ii) deposit an initial amount of CFAF 250 million into
the account;
(iii)   replenish the account quarterly to provide ONAHA
with sufficient funds to meet project expenditures
for the following three months; and
(iv) ensure that seasonal and short term credit repay-
ments for farm inputs, seeds, equipment, blacksmith
kits and vaccines would be made to revolving fund
accounts administered by ONAHA and deposited with
CNCA (para 5.06).
Ci) The project accounts and revolving fund kept by CNCA for
farmers' agricultural credit would be audited by independent
auditors acceptable to IDA. The auditor's opinion on the
disbursement made against certified records of expenditures
would be submitted to IDA every six months (para 5.12).
(j) The support unit would prepare the project completion report
(para 6.03);
(k) The company providing the internationally recruited staff,
the terms and conditions of its employment and the quali-
fications of the Project Manager would be mutually acceptable
to Government and IDA (para 6.04).



- 24 -
(1) The contract of the company providing internationally re-
cruited staff would make specific provision for training
programs, and these programs would be reviewed and approved
by IDA (para 6.07).
(m)  IDA would be consulted before farmers would be allotted more
than 1 ha per farming unit (para 6.11).
(n) The official paddy price would be reveiwed annually to de-
termine its adequacy, taking into account the necessity to
maintain economic incentives for farmers and the overall
supply and demand situation (para 7.05).
(o) Farmers on the Namarigoungou scheme would pay a capital re-
covery charge at a level mutually acceptable to Government
and IDA, and this level would be reviewed from time to time
(para 7.11).
9.03      Conditions of effectiveness of the IDA credit are (a) the
establishment of a revolving fund with an initial deposit of CFAF 250
million (para 5.06); and (b) signature of the contract with the company
providing technical assistance for the project (para 6.04).
9.04      With the above assurances and recommendations the project is suit-
able for an IDA credit of US$15 million to the Republic of Niger.



- 25 -
ANNEX 1
NIGER
IRRIGATION PROJECT
IDA Financed Projects in the Agricultural Sector,
Niger Food Self-Sufficiency and the Irrigated Sector
A. IDA Financed Projects in the Agricultural Sector
1.        There have been four IDA agricultural projects in Niger as follows:
(i) Agricultural Credit (207-NIR) for US$0.6 million made in
1970 for the financing of agricultural credit, technical
assistance to Caisse Nationale de Credit et de Cooperation
(CNCA) and extension staff training. Although the tech-
nical assistance and training components were completed
satisfactorily, the agricultural credit component lagged
considerably. One reason was that it coincided with the
worst drought of the century. An equally, and probably,
more significant constraint was Niger's poorly developed
credit, input and extension delivery systems. Disburse-
ments for agricultural credit were about 23% of the
appraisal estimate. Credit 207-NIR was closed with an
amount of US$44,000 remaining undisbursed.
(ii) Drought Relief Fund (441-NIR) for US$2 million made in
1973 to help people in drought affected areas to re-estab-
lish as far as possible, their self-sufficiency through
assisting them to redevelop and improve their farms and
herds. The fund financed a range of subprojects. The
project is nearing satisfactory completion.
(iii) Maradi Rural Development Project (608-NIR) for US$10.7
million made in 1976 to provide production improvement
packages to farmers grouped in 15 cooperatives ("Associa-
tions Locales de Cooperatives") in the "Departement de
Maradi" together with 80 km of agricultural tracks, planting
of 500 ha of wood fuel plantations, study of the irriga-
tion potential of the area and improvements of livestock
services. The project is progressing satisfactorily.
(iv) Forestry Project (800-NIR) for US$4.5 million, made in
1978. This project will assist Government in its efforts
to establish 400 ha of pilot irrigated plantations and 700 ha
of pilot rainfed tree plantations; improve the rural forestry
activities of the Forestry Department; finance a training pro-
gram in extension services; provide assistance to research and
a workshop maintenance unit. A project unit will be established
within the Forestry Department to assist in coordinating and
monitoring the various project activities, plan rural forestry
programs and prepare a second phase suitable for Bank support.



- 26 -
ANNEX I
B. Niger Food Self-Sufficiency
Millet and Sorghum
2.         Table 1 shows the total production for millet and sorghum at 1.3
million tons in 1976, and Table 2 the total consumption for these staple
foods at about 1.1 million tons, leaving a surplus of some 11,000 tons in
1976/77 after seed requirements and losses have been deducted. The slight
1976 surplus is due to better than average rainfalls in 1976. During the
recent series of drought years Niger imported a total of about 500,000 tons
(1973-1975).
3.         Projections at Table 2 are based on the expected population growth
rate of 2.7% per year and the historical consumption of 220 kg/capita/year of
coarse grains. Even under normal rainfall, and assuming that all productivity
improvement projects unti:L 1983 are implemented, there would likely be an
increasing deficit of mil:Let and sorghum starting in 1977/78.
Rice
4.         Paddy production was estimated at 29,000 tons in 1976, with 20,000
tons produced traditionally, and 9,000 tons on the development schemes. All
paddy comes from the Niger valley. Corresponding rice quantities after
deduction of losses and seed requirements totalled 17,000 tons, with 11,000
tons produced traditionally and 6,000 tons coming from the modern irrigation
schemes.
5.         The government investment program to develop a total of some 4,000
ha between 1977 and 1980 would increase rice production from 17,000 to 37,000
tons by 1982/83. The rice consumption forecast at table 2 takes into account
(i) the country's overall population growth (2.7% per year); (ii) the migra-
tion towards the towns (Niamey's growth is estimated at 7.7% per year and
that of the other towns at 5.5%); and (iii) the growth of consumers' real
income (estimated at 2% per year).
Overall Food Self-Sufficiency
6.         The analysis at Table 2 shows that (i) even under normal rainfall,
and assuming that all productivity improvement projects for the rainfed area
are implemented, there would likely be an important millet and sorghum deficit
in years to come, (ii) that the present rice deficit will be offset only if
the irrigation program embarked upon by Government is implemented without
delay, and (iii) that irrigation is unlikely to help reduce the deficit in
millet and sorghum unless more investments in irrigation schemes are made
beyond those proposed over the period 1977-1982.
7.         Since the problem stems from the very high rate of population
growth, little can be done in the short term to improve the situation. The
Government welcomes the Bank's assistance to help in establishing the insti-
tutional framework necessary to carry out the various productivity improvement
projects for the rainfed area and achieve its goal of building some 1,000-
2,000 ha of irrigated schemes annually.



- 27 -
B. The Irrigated Sector
8.        The area of the country under irrigation development totals some
8,000 ha, 3,700 ha along the Niger River (Table 4), 3,000 ha in the Konni
scheme, and the rest distributed throughout the country.
9.        The total potential for irrigation development in Niger is esti-
mated as follows:
Niger River valley - "polders"                      22,000 ha
- terraces                     80,000 ha
Maggia River         - valley                        5,000 ha
- hillside retaining basins   5,000 ha
Komadougou River                                     5,000 ha
Lake Chad                                           35,000 ha
Dry valleys ("dallols," "goulbi")                   50,000 ha
Telak/Errazer                                       15,000 ha
217,000 ha
Of the 217,000 ha, about 50% are along the Niger River, and the rest located
throughout the country, mostly in areas of low population density. Because
of its comparatively large potential and its high population pressure, the
valley of the Niger River is the priority area for irrigation. (The assess-
ment of the potential for "polders" and terraces development is based
on a 1976 study by consultants SOGREAH.) However, as can be seen below, the
total potential of about 100,000 ha for irrigation development could only be
obtained after the flow of the Niger River has been regulated; until that
time only 16,000 ha can be developed.
10.       The potential for further development of double cropping irrigation
along the valley of the Niger diver north of Say (see Annex 4) is limited by
the river minimal flow of 15 m /sec ( 9 years out of 10). This limit does not
apply to single cropping done during the rainy season when the Niger River
flow is more than adequate to provide the complement of water that cultivation
requires, but since double cropping is essential So economically justify
investment in modern irrigation schemes, the 15 m /sec flow should be con-
sidered the limit for irrigation development north of Say at the present
time. Table 3 indicates that this corresponds to a total area of 12,000 ha
under double cropping irrigation. South of Say, where the Niger River re-
ceives a number of local tributaries, and the minimum flows rarely drop below



- 28 -
50 m /sec, there is a potential 8,000 ha of "cuvettes."  All told there is a
16,000 ha potential for double cropping irrigation before the flow of the
Niger River needs to be regulated.
11.       Such a regulaticon would be obtained through the construction of-
the Kandadji dam, likely to be built starting in 1985 with Arab financing.
The dam would cost an estimated US$100 million and would be multipurpose,
providing Niger with its own source of energy, and regulating the river for
agricultural and transportation purposes.



NIGER
IRRIGATION PROJECT/PROJET D'IRRIGATION
Niger Food Self-Sufficiency and the Irrigated Sector/Autosuffisance alimentaire du Niger et le secteur d'irrigation
Main Crops/Cultures principales
1976    1975    1974    1973    1972
Millet     - Area ('000 ha)                  2,531   1,693   2,230   2,008   2,195         Mil        - Surface ('000 ha)
- Production ('000 tons)         1,091      581      883     627      919                 - Production ('000 tonr&es)
- Yield (kg/ha)                    431      343      395      312     391                 - Rendement (kg/ha)
Sorghum    - Area ('000 ha)                    856      893      919     823      920      Sorgho    - Surface ('000 ha)
- Production ('000 tons)           257      254      219      126     208                 - Production ('000 tonnes)
- Yield (kg/ha)                    406      320      404      282     344                 - Rendement (kg/ha)
Cowpeas    - Area ('000 ha)                    856      893      919     823      920      Niebe      - Surface ('000 ha)
- Production ('000 tons)            236     219      133       92     144                 - Production ('000 tonnes)
- Yield (kg/ha)                     276     260      144      112     136                 - Rendement (kg/ha)
Rice       - Traditional Area ('000 ha)         20       16       15       18      17      Riz        - Surface en culture traditionnelle ('000 ha)
(Paddy)    - Production ('000 tons)             29       29       30      46       32      (Paddy)   - Production ('000 tonnes)
- Yield (kg/ha)                  1,381   1,812   2,000   2,555   1,882                    - Rendement (kg/ha)
Groundnuts - Area ('000 ha)                    178      320      256      365     419      Arachides - Surface ('000 ha)
- Production ('000 tons)             96      42      129       77     260                 - Production ('000 tonnes)
- Yield (kg/ha)                     539     130      504      211     385                 - Rendement (kg/ha)
F- m



- 30-
ANNEX 1
Table 2
NIGER
IRRIGATION PROJECT/PROJET D'IRRIGATION
Niger Food Self-Sufficiency and the Irrigated Sector/Autosuffisance alimentaire du Niger et le secteur d'irrigation
'DJ o oo. jupply and Demand/Previsions de la production et des besoins alimentaires
('000 tons/'000 tonnes)
1976/77 1977/78 1978/79 1979/80 1980/81 1981/82 1982/83
Millet and Sorghum                                                                                  Mil et sorgho
A. Production                                                                                       A. Production
1. Base year production /1  1,268    1,268    1,268    1,268    1,268    1,268    1,268              ll Production de l'ann6e de
refErence /1
2. Incremental production                 18        40        68      104       143       153       2. Production supplementaire des
of productivity im-                                                                                  projets de productivite
provement projects
3. Seed requirements and       (190)    (193)    (196)    (200)    (206)    (212)    (213)           3. Besoins en semences et pertes
losses
4. Total production          1,078    1,093    1,112    1,136    1,166    1,199    1,208            4. Production totale
B. Consumption                                                                                      B. Consommation des familles
1. Population ('000) /2      4,850    4,986    5,126    5,272    5,421    5,577    5,737            1. Population ('000) /2
2. Consumption /3             1,067    1,097    1,128    1,160    1,193    1,227    1,262            2. Consommation /3
C. Millet-Sorghum Surplus           11        (4)     (16)      (24)      (27)     (28)      (54)   C. Surplus ou deficit en mil et
(Deficit)                                                                                            sorgho
Rice                                                                                                Riz
A. Production /4                                                                                    A. Production /4
1. Traditional                   11       11        11        11       11        11        11        1. Traditionnelle
2. Incremental production of    6          7        11        15       20        23        26        2. Production supplementaire des
irrigation schemes                                                                                  projets d'irrigation
3. Total production              17       18        22        26       31        34        37        3. Production totale
B. Consumption                                                                                      B. Consommation
Average forecast /5              23        25       27        28        30       33        35        Projection moyenne /5
C. Rice Surplus (Deficit)           (6)       (7)      (5)       (2)        1        1         2    C. Surplus de riz (deficit)
Overall Food Surplus (Deficit)       5       (11)      (21)     (26)      (26)      (27)     (52)   Surplus global (deficit)
/1  1976 actual production was reduced by 40,000 tons                                           /1  La production de 1976 a Ete reduite
under the assumption that some 250,000 ha would                                                 de 40.000 tonnes dans l'hypothase
not have been planted in cereals in 1976 if farmers                                             que 250.000 ha de cereales n'auraient
had been able to get enough groundnut seeds.                                                    pas ete plantes en 1976 si les fermiers
avaient ete capables d'obtenir assez
de graines d'arachide.
/2  Assumes a 2.7% annual increase.                                                             /2  Hypothese de 2,7 % par an.
/3  220 kg/capita corresponding to 1,687 calories per                                           /3  220 kg par tEte correspondant a 1.687
day.                                                                                            calories par jour.
A4  Net of seed requirements and losses.                                                        /4  Net des besoins en semences et des
pertes.
/5  Between projections based on total population                                               /5  Entre des projections basees sur une
growth and average national consumption of 5.21                                                 croissance de la population entiere et
kg/capita, and projections based on urban growth                                                une consommation moyenne de 5,21 kg
with an average consumption of 50 kg/capita.                                                    par tete et des projections bas3es sur
la croissance urbaine et une consomma-
tion de 50 kg par tEte.



NIGhR
IRPIGATION PROJECT/PROJET D' IRRIGATION
Niger Food Self-Sufficiency and the Irrigated Sector/Autosaffisance al1mentaire du Niger et le secteur d 'irrigation
Maximum Ares to be Irrigated Under Double Cropping Without Regulation of the Niger River/
Surfaces maximas qui peuveot 6tre irriguees en double culture snoo  r6gularis3tion  ou Fleuve Niger
Requirements in June at    nater Losses Returned
the Pumping Station/          to the River
Existing    Possible           Besins 0U mois le juin    (:i of pumped flow)/
Schemes      Schemes           a la station de  pompage    Pertes d'eau                   Net Requirements!
1m/ecnha      mVmec           revenant a la                Besoins en  oau
Surface mett                 Gontinuous/  Continuous/   riviere                         nets
(ha)                  Continu        Continu         (3 du debit)                (m3/sec)
1. Irrittion Sche-me  North of the Town of Say                                                                                                                             1. Ouvrages d'irrigation au nord de Say
"Cuvette6"                                                                                                                                                                Cuvettes
Rice                                               3,490           8,900            i.6           14.2                15 /1                      12.1                   Riz
"Polyculture"                                                        3°°            0.7            0.2                30 '2                      0.2                    Polyculture
Total "Cuvettes"                             3,490           9,200                                                                        12.3                           Total des cuvettes
"Terrasses"                                                                                                                                                               Terrasses
Sugar Cane                                            240          2,500            1.0            2.5                20 13                       2.0                    Canne a sonre
"Polyculture"                                                        500            0.5            0.4                30                         0.3                     Polyculture
Total "Terrasoes"                              24C           3,000                          2.9                                            2.3                           Total des terrasses
Grand Total                                  3,730          12,200                         17.3                                           14.6                           Total global
2.  Urban and Industrial Requirements                                                                      1.0 /4             80                          0.8              2. Besoins urbains et industriels
3.  Possible Schemes South of the Town of Say                              6,760            1.6           10.8                                                             3. Ouvrages possibles au sud de Say
/1  2/' of water losses (25% of pumped water) are returned to the                                                                                                          /1  2/5 des pertes d'eau (25 ?6 del 'e.u pompee) snot
river and likely to be reused by the schemes downstream.                                                                                                                   retourn6s A la riviere et utilimAm en aval.
/2  3/4 of water losses (409 of pumped water) are returned to the                                                                                                          /2  3/4 des pertes d'eau (40 % de P'esu pomp6e) sont
river.                                                                                                                                                                     retournes a la riviere.
/3  2/7 of water losses (3509 of pumped water) are returned to the                                                                                                         /3  2/3 des pertes d'eau (30 % de lPeau pompee) sont
river.                                                                                                                                                                     retournes A la riviere.
/4  Niamey urban requirements were only 0.23 m /sec in 1974.                                                                                                               A4  Les besoins de la ville de Nianey etaient de
0,25 m3/.e.  en 1974.
/5  The minimum Niger River flow in Jdne at that location is                                                                                                               /5  L'etiage minimum en juin du Niger ext de 50 m'/sec
50 m3/sec because of the numerous tributaries flowing into                                                                                                                 a cause de l'apport des nombreux affluents du
the Niger.                                                                                                                                                                 Niger sur cette portion du parcours.
-3 S



- 32 -
ANNEX 2
NIGER
IRRIGATION PROJECT
Irrigation Schemes Present Organization
A. General
1.        Although the activities of construction and management of the
irrigation schemes are the overall responsibility of the "Ministere du
Developpement Rural," these activities have been carried out separately,
without much cohesion by two government agencies:  the "Service du Genie
Rural," which constructs the schemes, and the "Union Nigerienne de Credit et
de Cooperation" (UNCC), which manages them. Furthermore, there is a great
deal of confusion in the management of the schemes between the central staff
of UNCC and the UNCC repres(entatives in the various "departements" (Niamey,
Tahloua, Dosso, etc.). Although the local UNCC representatives are nominally
responsible for management of the schemes within their jurisdiction, they
usually do not have the required technical capability, and the unit which is
responsible for backstopping them at the central level is under-equipped,
understaffed and usually does not have enough authority over the local re=
presentatives to implement a cohesive policy. For these reasons Government
has decided to create a new "Office National des Amenagements Hydroagricoles",
which would assume the functions until now entrusted to the "Service du Genie
Rural" and UNCC. ONAHA is discussed at Annex 11.
2.        The "Service du Genie Rural" is one of the four directorates of the
"Ministere du Developpement Rural." It is subdivided into the four divisions
listed below with their main activities:
(1) "Hydraulique Agricole" (Agricultural Hydraulics) - Use of surface
and ground waters applied to the rural world. Irrigation, drainage,
construction of dams, pumping stations and bottomland improvement:.
(2)  "Hydraulique Pastorale" (Livestock Hydraulics) - Construction of
dams on intermittent streams for livestock use.
(3) "Equipement Rural" (Rural Equipment) - Construction of rural
tracks, rural buildings (houses, laboratories, classrooms, sheds
for storage).
(4) "Hydrologie des Eaux de Surface" (Surface Water Hydrology) -
Control of high floods, construction of dikes, measurement of
the river flows and depths, anti-erosion measures.
Of particular relevance to trie construction of irrigation schemes along the
Niger River is the division Df "Hydraulique Agricole" (Agricultural Hydrau-
lics). This division would be transferred to ONAHA.



- 33 -
3.        "Union Nigerienne de Credit et de Cooperation" (UNCC) was created by
Law 62/37 of September 1962 and includes two main departments, listed below
with their main responsibilities:
(1) "Service de la Cooperation" - to promote the cooperative
movement; train cooperative agents; to organize, inform
and train farmers; provide them with agricultural credit
and market their production.
(2) "Service de la Production" has three divisions:
- "Division des Operations" (Operations Division) - to
supervise the production improvement projects entrusted
to UNCC;
- "Division des Artisans Ruraux et Machinisme Agricole"
(Rural Artisans and Agricultural Equipment Division);
- "Division de la Gestion des Amenagements "Hydroagricoles"
(Management of Irrigation Schemes Division).
The latter is responsible for managing the irrigation schemes.  This division
would be transferred to ONAHA.
4.        Terms and conditions of the management of the irrigation schemes
are set out in Law No. 60-28 of May 25, 1960, and their application is the
object of Decree No. 69-149 MER/CGD of October 19, 1969. These legal in-
struments specify:
the ownership. The land in the schemes obligatorily
belongs to the State.
the farming system. The schemes should be allocated
to individual families, although industrial farming is
possible in the case of an agro-industry.
the organization to be set up along cooperative lines,
with Government replacing cooperatives only in the case
of failure of the cooperatives.
These legal instruments have not been translated into any formal procedures:
land registration, management contract for the scheme, or individual contract
for the farmers. Under the proposed project farmers would receive individual
leases giving them adequate security of tenure. This may induce them to re-
duce their rainfed holdings, or their traditional rice fields, and eventually
assume larger holdings on the schemes.
5.        The first schemes built in Niger were managed by the "Service de
l'Agriculture," a directorate of the "Ministere du Developpement Rural."
UNCC started taking over from the "Service de l'Agriculture" in 1967. In
1977 all existing schemes are under UNCC.



- 34 -
6.         Present Organization of the Schemes in the Department of Niamey.
In the six "Arrondissements" which comprise the Department of Niamey,
there are irrigation schemes in only two: Niamey and Tillabery. The UNCC
staff situation in these "Arrondissements" in the summer of 1976 was as
follows:
"Direction" - 1 Chief of Division "Amenagements Hydroagricoles"
(Technical Assistant)
Niamey    - "Delegation Departementale"
I "Delegue departemental" + supporting staff
I Training Assistant
I Assistant for Management of the Schemes
(Technical Assistant)
I Procurement Officer and 1 Accountant
I Mechanic
On the schemes, I extension agent for 50 ha.
Extension agents on the schemes are seconded by the "Ministere du Developpe-
ment Rural."  Because of the overall shortage of agricultural technicians
and the priority given to staffing the various branches of the "Ministere,"
the ratio of extension agents is rather low. Furthermore, these agents are
not formally trained in the management of irrigation schemes since the Kolo
agricultural school, which supplies all agricultural technical agents, does
not specialize in water management, and since UNCC does not provide in-ser-
vice training.
7.         Farmers' Organization.  The models of land allocation, organization
of farmers, extension techniques and training activities presently applied on
the schemes along the Niger River were first designed in 1970 for the schemes
of the Adder Douchi Maggia. The system was supposed to rely on a low ratio
of agricultural technicians being assisted in extension work by farmer
leaders. Because of the limited number of technicians and of their poolr
qualifications, and because there were no programs for the training of iarmer
leaders, extension services on the schemes lagged considerably. In 1975
"Projet Fleuve," financed by USAID, started training farmer leaders for the
Toula scheme.
8.         The Toula Case.  The FED-financed Toula scheme was built in 1974.
Farmers are organized in pre-cooperatives, "Groupements Mutualistes de
Progres" (GMP), covering 50 ha each and comprising 100 farmers, usually from



- 35 -
the same village. The GMPs are integrated in a formal vertical structure
and linked by a number of committees. The farmers trained under the "Projet
Fleuve" have become the key staff in this organization and are perceived by
the other farmers to represent the organization. In fact, because of the
multiplicity of committees (8) and the great number of paid farmer staff (65
leaders and 15 accountants) for 250 ha under cultivation, the cooperative
framework is no longer thought to represent the interests of the land users,
and it is feared that the traditional chieftains will take over the actual
management of the scheme, leaving only the appearance of a cooperative. In
addition, this structure hides the sociological and other problems which
exist between farmers on the same scheme.
9.        To draw from the Toula experience:  (i) priority should be given
to the in-depth training of as many farmers as possible, with training taking
place in the field prior to the first cultivation season; (ii) paid farmer
leaders should be avoided; (iii) the cooperative structure should be kept as
simple as possible, i.e., for Namarigoungou only one committee where the
representatives of the GMPs would meet should suffice; (iv) joint financial
responsibility should be introduced at the GMP level or even within smaller
groups where farmers have chosen to cooperate on the basis of inter-individual
affinities; and lastly (v) the management of a scheme should conduct a con-
stant analysis of the sociological problems on the schemes. The proposed
project intends to apply these principles.



- 36 -
ANNEX 3
NIGER
IRRIGATION PROJECT
Summary Description of Existing Schemes and Schemes to
Be Built in the "Arrondissements" of Tillabery and Tera
Existing Schemes
Fergoun (300 ha)
1.        Development of the "polder" in 1955 included construction of a
protection dike, with flood control gates. Because the control of the water
level is not guaranteed, only the lower parts of the "polder" are cultivated
(132 ha in 1976 in the rainy season with an average yield of 3 tons of paddy
per ha).
2.        The reconditioning of Fergoun in a scheme with full control of the
water level and land levelling is being considered. A number of donors have
been approached. Fergoun would be submerged if the Kandadji dam 35 km down-
stream is built.
Toula (260 ha)
3.        This "polder" downstream adjacent to Tillabery was developed in
1974/1975 under FED financing. The full water control is obtained with a
dike, a pumping station for irrigation and drainage, concrete lined primary
and secondary canals, tertiaries every 200 m limiting 7 ha plots. The design
of the scheme is excellent, and explains in a large part the yields obtained
(more than 5 tons/ha per cropping season, with two crops per year).
4.        To ensure that yiealds are maintained, it will be necessary to
introduce better maintenances practices and reorganize farmers' cooperative
arrangements (Annex 11).
Lossa-Sona (402 ha) (First and second phase)
5.        This "polder" was developed in several phases.  This scheme has
full water control and land levelling, but the transport of water from the
pumping station is by concrete pipes under low pressure. This method allowed
savings in investments, but because of the considerable loss of head pressure
in the pipes, the pumping cos s are almost thres times as much as in Toula (be-
tween CFAF 2.6 and CFAF 2.9//m , versus CFAF 1/m ). In addition, there have
been many repairs and incidents in operations, such as malfunctions of the
gates and breaks in the pipes.



- 37 -
Schemes Planned for the Period 1977-1980
Yelewani and Daibery (120 ha and 357 ha)
6.        The feasibility studies and detailed engineering for the two schemes
were done by consultants "Agrar und Hydrotechnik" in 1975. The works are
similar to those of Toula and Namarigoungou.
Lossa (162 ha, third phase)
7.        The third phase will be the development of a terrace with pumping
station and concrete lined canals. It will be financed by FAC. Crops in-
tended are legumes and cowpeas during the dry season, and sorghum during the
rainy season.
Other Possible Schemes in the Project Area
Gabou-Bonfeba (3,270 ha)
8.        This "polder" is just downstream of the site of the future Kandadji
dam, and upstream of Namarigoungou. Its southern part, and, if Kandadji is
built, all the "polder" area, could be irrigated without pumping.
9.        The feasibility study for this scheme is included in the proposed
project. The study should examine the possibility of gravity irrigation of
Namarigoungou from Gabou-Bonfeba, after the Kandadji dam is built. The
pumping stations included in the proposed Namarigoungou project would for
the most part have been depreciated by that time, but would still be necessary
for drainage during high floods.



- 38 -
ANNEX 4
NIGER
IRRIGATION PROJECT
Climate and Hydrology of the Niger River
A. Climate
Rainfall
1.        Along the 550 km of the Niger River in the Republic of Niger
(from Ayorou, in the north at the Malian border, to Dole in the south at
the Nigerian border), the climate evolves progressively from Sahelian to
tropical-Sudanian. Average rainfall and periods of rainfall registered are
shown below:
Number of Years   Annual average        Period           Average
Registered       Rainfall (mm)      of Rainfall      monthly peaks
Ayorou          15                370       June to September  August 150 mm
Tillabery       30                509       May to September   August 200 mm
Niamey          30                566       May to September   August 200 mm
Say             30                685       May to October      August 230 mm
Gaya            30                871       April to Oct/Nov.  August 280 mm
2.        As is well knowr, in the Sahelian zone rainfalls vary greatly from
year to year as shown belciw:
Variations of Average Monthly Rainfall at Tillabery (mm)
J  F    M    A    M    J    J      A      S     0   N   D Total
Average (1960-1974)       -  -   3.1  6.8 19.2 54.7 100.6 166.4  70.0  9.8 0.6 0.3 431
Maximum monthly rainfall - 0.6 35.7 67.4 63.2 98.5 189   358.7 170.6 46.8 9.7 4.2
Minimum monthly rainfall -  -    -    -    -  32    50.1  65    23.5   -   -   -
Monthly rainfall with
probability > 0.8       -  -    -    -    -  35    65    95    30        -   -   -
3.        The maximum daily rainfall, on which the drainage works are cal-
culated, is estimated at 85, mm day for the I to 5 year frequency (f=0.2).



- 39 -
4.        Temperature.  Recorded temperatures at Tillabery were as fol-
lows:  (C ).
J    F    M    A    M    J    J    A    S    0    N    D
Average temperature  25.0 27.5 30.1 32.3 34.0 32.0 29.6 27.5 29.0 30.5 27.5 24.8
Minimum temperature
Record               10.2 10.4 14.1 17.0 18.0 18.5 18.4 19.4 17.5 15.4 11.7  8.6
Average              16.6 18.7 21.6 24.1 27.0 25.8 24.4 22.9 23.0 22.0 18.6 16.1
Maximum temperature
Record               39.6 41.9 43.6 44.8 45.2 44.6 41.3 37.8 39.6 41.2 40.4 39.5
Average              33.3 36.2 38.6 40.5 40.9 38.1 34.8 32.1 34.4 38.2 36.4 33.5
5.        Evapotranspiration
Potential evapotranspiration has not been measured in Niger. Best
estimates are as follows based on Penmant formula:
Monthly Average Evapotranspiration Over Free Water in the Tillabery Area
(mm per month)
J     F      M     A      M      J     J      A     S      0     N      D    Total
166   155   177   204   222   237   198   140   159   200   180   160   2,200
B. Hydrology
6.        General.  Except for the area around Gaya near the southern border
with Nigeria, no sizeable tributaries enter the Niger River between Tossoye
(Mali) and the border with Nigeria, and the upstream flow is not augmented.
High flood level at Niamey occurs four to five months after the Segou-Mopti
area, i.e., in January/February. It makes traditional irrigation possible
during the dry season.
7.        Average Flows.  There are five gauges that are read regularly at
Ayorou, Tillabery, Niamey, Say and Gaya. The discharges calculated from gauge
rating curves show a very good correlation. The average monthly flows at
Niamey and Malanville (in Benin) opposite Gaya are as follows:
3
Average Monthly Flows at Niamey and Malanville (m /sec)
J   A    S    0    N    D    J    F    M    A   M   J  Mean
Niamey
(1928-1967)   125 503 1085 1262 1422 1605 1745 1750 1434  854 340 125  985
Malanville
(1952-1967)   215 791 1705 1638 1442 1599 1871 2074 1890 1220 523 237 1262



- 40 -
High Water Level
8.        The preceding table indicates that the water level in Niamey
increases progressively from July until January-February and decreases
progressively thereafter. On the other hand in Malanville the water level
rises in September because of rainfall occurring in June-July in the catchment
areas of the local tributaries, then recedes and rises again at the onset of
the Niger's own flood levels. This observation shows that any development
upstream would have limited impact on the development of irrigation in the
Gaya-Malanville area.
9.        As indicated in the same table, the maximum flow 'n Niamey occurs
in Januiry-February.  Since 1928 it has varied from 1,430 m /sec (1943) to
2,150 m (1956). UnSil 1962-1964 the one/hundred year frequency flood was
estimated at 2,200 m /sec. Until that time there was a very good correlation
between the flood in Dire (Mali) and that in Niamey. Since 1962 this correla-
tion has been modified. The floods in Niamey are higher (the one/hundred year
frequency flood is now estimated at 2,800 m /sec).  They occur earlier and
decrease faster. The minimum flows are more pronounced and occur earlier.
The likely explanation could be a deepening of the channels of the internal
Niger delta in Mali, with lower evaporation losses and an increase in the
speed of the flow; besides overgrazing has probably resulted in an increase in
the flow coefficient.
10.       The increase in the one to one hundred year maximum flow would re-
sult in a higher water level in Niamey of 75 cm.  Offsetting this, the dam
to be built at Kandadji (70 km upstream of Tillabery) would reduce the height
of the average flood by some 0.5 m at Tillabery. The reduction for the 1
to 20 year and for the 1 to 50 year flows, which are the measures used in the
construction of the dikes that protect the schemes along the Niger River,
would be smaller.
11.       A study of the evolution of the maximum flows of the Niger River
since 1962 is being financed by FAC and carried out by ORSTOM.
12.       Lowest Flows.  The 3flows occur in June-July; monthly val es varied
between 13  m /sec and 200 i /sec until 1965-1966, and reached 5 m /sec with a
minimum  daily low of 0.4 m /sec during the period 1972-1974.  Based on the
last 40 years' data, the monthly lowest flows at Niamey corres onding to a
return period of 1/10 year frequency would be as follows: (m /sec)
J    A     S       0      N       D      J       F     M      A     M    J
40   350   820   1170   1275   1490   1400   1200   570   160   45   25



- 41 -
ConsideriSg only the 1364-1974 period, 3the minimum flow in June would decrease
from 25 m /sec to 15 m /sec. The 15 m /sec can be considered the limiting
natural flow to irrigation development upstream. On the other hand, further
downstream in3the Gaya-Malanville area, the dry season flow rarely decreases
below 50-60 m /sec and a storage dam is no longer as necessary for large
irrisation development as it would be for the upstream areas where the
15 m /sec discharge is fully committed.
14.       Profile of the Riverbed between Ayorou and Dole.  The slopes of the
free water surface at the highest floods are as follows:
Ayorou   Tillabery   Niamey   Say   Gaya   Dole
Cumulated distance (km)          -         100        218      280    516    554
Average slope (cm/km)           27          16          7.5      7      7      -
There are great variations in these average slopes because of rock formations
in the riverbed.  In the Namarigoungou polder the average slope is 10 cm/km.
Turbidity and Water Quality
15.       There have been no turbidity analyses.  However, because of the
sedimentation which occurs in Mali, the waters between Gao (Mali) and Say
have very little turbidity.
16.       Waters are excellent for irrigation and can be classified Cl-SI in
the USBR classification.



- 42 -
ANNEX 5
NIGER
IRRIGATION PROJECT
Population
1.  Project Area
1.01      The main beneficiaries of the project would be the 3,000 farming
units (16,000 people), who would take up cultivation on the Namarigoungou
polder. Other beneficiaries would include the 2,200 farming units already
cultivating on the existing irrigation schemes, and the 300 farming units
who would take up cultivation on the Lossa scheme. Therefore, some 5,500
farming units (or about 30,000) people would benefit from the project to one
degree or another. This is 60% of the population in the project area, which
is estimated at 50,000 people.
1.02      A number of studies of the population in the "Arrondissement" of
Tillabery indicate that the average farming unit is comprised of 5.25 people,
including 1.54 adult males (Table 1), and that this is fairly constant within
the various ethnic groups.
1.03      Allocation of Land in the Namarigoungou Irrigation Scheme.  It is
proposed that 0.50 ha be allocated to each farming unit, giving preference to
the people already cultivating the polder. Since the scheme would cover
1,550 ha, some 3,000 farming units (16,000 people) would be given land on the
Namarigoungou scheme. The population of the various villages around the
Namarigoungou polder is as follows:
1st group:  (less than 1 km)
Namarigoungou                  1,870 people
Diamballa                     2,722
Gari (I) 1/                   1,103
Darbani (I)                     591
6,286
2nd group:  (1 to 5 km - 2 hours maximum of travel per day)
Norandla                         279 people
Bonfeba                         710
Sawani (I)                    1,118
Soudani (I)                   2,485
Sinder-Boura (I)                953
M'Bida (I)                      854
Wissili (I)                   2,178
Fala (I)                      1,357
Sinder-Tiendadji (I)            255
Sayani (1)                      546
12,735
1/   I = from the islands.



- 43 -
3rd group:  (5 to 8 km - 3 hours of travel per day)
Tessa (I)                       960 people
Dionte Niargou (I)            1,912
Dangala (I)                     655
3,527
4th group:  (beyond 8 km - Anzouron "Canton")
Doukou Dindje                    390 people
Doukou Makani                    328
Doukou Saro                      831
1,549
1.04      Assuming that 75% of the population in the villages of groups 1 and
2 participate, giving 2,700 farming units (14,300 people), only 30% of group
3 villages (200 farming units or 1,000 people) and 34% of group 4 villages
(100 farming units or 1,600 people) need participate. Farmers from group
3 villages would need to cultivate their rainfed crops closer to the scheme,
and farmers from group 4 villages may need to relocate. Establishment of two
new villages would be planned under the proposed project. 75% of farmers in
groups 1 and 2 are Wogos from the islands.
1.05      Since there is no way to ascertain at the present time whether
farmers belonging to the various villages will participate in the proportions
indicated at para 1.03, project management should use flexibility in allocating
land in the scheme, and may even try out mechanized cultivation on a limited
scale.
1.06      Allocation of Land in the Lossa Scheme.  Study of the population in
the villages within 1 km of the Lossa scheme indicates that no farmers from
outside the project area would be required.
Scheme net area                          160 ha
Number of farming units                  320 ha
Number of people                       1,700
% of the population of                    30%
surrounding villages
2.   Sociological Characteristics of the Population
2.01      The Kados belonged to the Songhai Empire, which spread from the
source of the Niger to Say (500 km downstream from Tillabery), and are consi-
dered the first settlers of the area with the Gourmantches. At the end of
the 18th century the Gourmantches disappeared from the islands and were re-
placed by the Kourthey. The Wogos, whose origin is unknown, appeared around
1810. They live in the islands between the Kourthey chiefdoms of Dessa in the
north and Sonsonni in the south. All these ethnic groups share the same
characteristics of the Songhai civilization: language (Zerma), socioeconomic
organization and political structure, but differ markedly in their agricul-
tural practices. The Kados cultivate essentially in the rainfed areas and
practice little rice cultivation. The Wogos practice traditional rice irriga-
tion and flood recession cultivation. The Wogos lack land and are expanding
into Kado territory. The Wogos would constitute 75% of project farmers.



- 44 -
2.02      Sociological Characteristics.  Originally the various racial groups
were fairly autonomous. The groups themselves were organized into micro-groups
corresponding to the villages. The villages were made up of one extended fam-
ily or several related famil:ies. In the extended family the chief had under
his jurisdiction several households integrated into the same economic unit.
The power of the chiefs was backed by a regime of slavery in which the slaves
were assimilated into the family as perpetual junior members. The abolition
of slavery transformed the social structure and led to a splitting of the
families into smaller farming units. The heads of families as well as the
traditional chiefs lost power. The remaining chieftains at the village or
"canton" levels, although thetoretically backed by the central administration,
today have only powers of representation. They can no longer levy taxes, and
their lands belong to those who cultivate them. The various groups remain
cohesive, especially the Wogos. In 1968 in Tessa, 99 of the 100 marriages
involved 2 Wogos, and 66 weret between persons of related families.
2.03      The Basic Social Units:  Compound, Family, Farming Unit.  Originally
the compound was the basic unit for habitat, production and consumption, and
in more than 80% of the cases corresponded to one family group; in the other
20% compounds comprised 2 family groups. Compounds are still the basic unit
for habitat and they can still house from 9 to 11 people, but today only the
unmarried children are under the direct authority of the head of the family.
When married, children set up their own production and consumption units.
3.   Labor Situation
3.01      As can be seen at Annex 6, even under traditional cultivation farmers
use hired labor at the time of peak labor requirements such as for seeding
and weeding millet, and for land preparation of the rice fields and planting
of rice. It is estimated that between 30 and 50% of farming units use hired
labor under traditional cultivation conditions. Laborers are either young
Kados without land or prospective emigrants, seeking to acquire some cash for
the journey, or are Djermas coming from the "Arrondissement" of Ouallam,
which is considered one of the poorest in Niger. Laborers are organized into
groups of 2 to 5 and are hired as a group for periods not exceeding 3 days.
Wages vary between CFAF 200 and CFAF 300 per man-day. Kado farmers use more
hired labor than Wogos.
3.02      The "bogu" is another form of hired labor.  It is the organization of
Wogo farmers into an association of 6 to 15 members to cultivate each others
plots at specific times. The "bogu" covers every detail of the association:
working hours, salaries and fines. Although somewhat disappearing, the "bogu"
is still very much alive in the "Canton" of Sinder.
3.03      It is proposed that the project consider the "bogu" as an important
step in the organization of the farmers on the scheme. The "bogu" main ad-
vantages are that it is a spontaneous organization of farmers and that
it is neither too small (like the family compound) nor too large to be ef-
fectively controlled by the traditional chieftains.



- 45 -
ANNEX 5
Table 1
NIGER
IRRIGATION PROJECT
PROJET D'IRRIGATION
Traditional Cultivation
Culture traditionnelle
Composition of Farming Unit
Composition familiale des exploitations
Il                              I
I Average number
|                  I Average number  | of male adults
| Number of farming | of people per   | per farming unit
Sources           | units studied     | farming unit    | (man > 14 years old)
…-----------------I…_- --- --- -- --- --_ --I --------- ---…----I…----------------
I                                    I | Nombre moyen
|  Nombre moyen de | d'actifs par
Sources           | Nombre d'exploi-  | personnes par   | exploitation
citees            | tations etudiees  | exploitation    | (hommes > 14 ans)
_ _ _ _  _   _ _ _I_          _    I              .1__ _     _ _ _ _ _
Olivier de Sardan I        62         |    5.30         |     1.52
AHT                       325         |    6.23         |     1.92
Enquete agricole  |       100         |    5.56         |     1.53
S/Prefecture      I
Tillabery       I     2,800         I    5.11         |     1.50
_ _ _  _    _ I  _ _  _    _    _ I  .__       _     I _  _   _    _   _



- 46 -
ANNEX 6
NIGER
IRRIGATION PROJECT
Agricultural Development
1. Present Situation in the Project Area
1.01      Average Farming Jnit.  Annex 5 defines the average farming unit as
composed of 5.25 people, including 1.54 adult males.
1.02      Average Farm Size.  A recent study conducted in the "Arrondissement"
of Tillabery with 325 farming units indicated that on the average the tradi-
tional farm comprises 4.10 ha under cultivation, 1.0 ha under fallow in the
rainfed area, and 0.20 ha tunder fallow in the flood plain (Table 1). The
area under cultivation would on the average be distributed as follows:
- Millet and cowpeas (rainfed)                 2.60 ha
-  Rice (traditional irrigation)                1.15 ha
-  Sorghum (flood recession)                   0.15 ha
-  Tobacco and gardens                         0.20 ha
Total    4.10 ha
1.03      Cowpeas are grown in association with millet over 50% of the mi:Llet
area. Traditional yields are:
Millet:   312 kg/ha
Cowpeas: 118 kg/ha
Sorghum: 450 kg/ha
Traditional Cultivation Methods
1.04      Rainfed crops (millet, cowpeas, sorghum, sesame) are sown in June
after a slight scarifying of the soil. Millet is weeded twice during the
season. Cowpeas and at times groundnuts are planted between the rows of
millet. No fertilizers are used. Cultivation is carried out almost exclu-
sively by men.



- 47 -
1.05      In the flood plain farmers practice traditional flood submersion.
For rice, the soil is turned over by hoe in July after the first rains, and
the plants are weeded a couple of times after submersion starts. Paddy is
harvested from pirogues in December when the "polders" are still underwater.
After being dried from 10-20 days, paddy is threshed collectively. The
difficult harvesting conditions result in a product of inferior quality
suitable only for home consumption or the traditional market. Varieties used
are floating or semi-floating rice and are progressively being replaced by
the D 52-37 variety, which is produced on the modern schemes. There are also
some traditional varieties (orysa glaberrima) used as early maturing types
and harvested in September. The latter must be transplanted. Yields vary
from 800 kg/ha for the traditional variety to 1,200 kg/ha for the D 52-37.
1.06      Sorghum is sown in March, in border strips where it is watered by
hand for about three weeks. It is then transplanted following the flood
receding line. Sorghum requires a very long cycle (7 months) and four to
five weedings. For these reasons sorghum cultivation is regressing, the
Wogos starting to cultivate millet instead.
1.07      Tobacco is grown exclusively by the Wogos, in the terraces border-
ing the flood plain. Its cycle is from November to February. Cassava is at
times grown in association with tobacco, and unearthed as the need arises.
The gardens belong to the men and women, and produce vegetables of local and
European origin. The cultivation of a local pimiento is especially important,
and it is done by women.
1.08      Livestock.  The various studies show that 75% of the farms own
cattle, and some sheep and goats (5.1 animals per compound). The average
income per animal is estimated at CFAF 6,000 for cattle and CFAF 1,000 for
sheep and goats.
1.09      Existing Irrigation Schemes.  The technical characteristics of the
main irrigation schemes of the project area are described at Annex 4. The
schemes are the following:
Scheme Gross Area (ha)
Polder     Terrace
Fergoun                  300            -
Sakoira                    -          42
Tillakeina                  -        101
Toula                    260           -
Daikena                   110          -
Sona                     212           -
Lossa                     190          -
Total    1,072         143



- 48 -
1.10      Table 2 shows the production of the schemes in 1975 and 1976.  Some
736 ha were under rice in the rainy season of 1976 with a production which
averaged 4.5 tons/ha for the season.
1.11      The new schemes for which financing is being sought include:
Namarigoungou               1,550 ha
Yelewani                      120 ha
Daibery                       357 ha
Lossa Terraces                162 ha
Total             2,189 ha
2.   Agricultural Research
2.01      Agricultural research in Niger is the responsibility of INRAN.
Rice research under irrigated conditions started in 1953 under IRAT management
and was transferred to INRAN when the latter was created in 1975. Tests for
applied rice research are conducted in three schemes, none of which can
duplicate proper irrigation conditions.
2.02      The inadequate infrastructure for applied research under irriga-
tion explains why there is not much difference between the yields obtained by
farmers and those obtained under research conditions. Still, the comparisons
made by the research staff are useful since their tests are made under similar
conditions for all varieties tested. The results of research for the two
cropping seasons 1975/1976 dry season and 1976 rainy season were:
(a)  Irrigated rice with full water control.  The tests comprised
preliminary tests for new varieties, and comparison tests
for varieties already selected and tested during preceding
two years. The new varieties were provided by ADRAO. It
is unlikely that any of the varieties introduced in 1976
would be retained. The two highest yielding varieties
were eliminated because their vegetative cycles were too
long (140-145 days). Among the varieties already selected
and tested the short cycled varieties IR 28 and IR 30 (90-
115 days) confirmecl their high yielding potential. Further-
more they are resistant to disease and lojing. The middle-
length cycled varieties (120-130 days), IR 269-26-333 and
IR 1529-680-3, confirmed their high yielding potential.
The latter should replace IR 22 now distributed to farmers.



- 49 -
(b)  Deep submersion rice.  For this type of rice cultivation
without full water control the variety D-52-37 is still
the best suited because of the length of its vegetative
cycle and its adaptability to the various levels of
submersion.
(c)  Floating rice.  Under traditional cultivation the varie-
ties Nang-Kiew, Khao-baew and Mali-Sawn remain, as in
Mali, the best varieties recommended.
2.03      Fertilizer trials concerned the two varieties used on the irri-
gation schemes, IR 22 and D-52-37. For the D-52-37 the most economic yields
are obtained with 45 kg of nitrogen at seeding and 45 kg at tillering; for
IR 22 it takes 135 kg of nitrogen, either applied all at once or in two
applications: 90 kg at seeding and 45 kg at tillering. The study of
the soils under permanent cultivation does not show a lack of P 205 or K20
after 8 years of cultivation.
2.04      For rainfed cultivation.  The varieties recommended for millet are:
P Kolo where rainfall is greater than 400 mm, and HKP between 300 and 400
mm. The cowpea variety recommended is the TN 88-63, which is better yielding,
has a shorter cycle and is more drought-resistant than the local varieties.
Fertilizer trials conducted between 1967 and 1973 show that for a groundnut/
millet rotation the best applications are 66 kg/ha of triple phosphate on
groundnuts and 50 kg/ha of urea on millet. For a millet/millet rotation
applications would be 35 kg/ha of triple phosphate and 50 kg/ha of urea for
each crop of millet.
2.05      Future research programs.  The emphasis put by Government on the
development of the modern irrigation sector requires that rice research
be strengthened and given adequate physical infrastructure: in this con-
text it has been proposed that all comparison and fertilizer tests be
regrouped on one scheme: Saadia-South, and that new varieties be tested
at Gabougoura. It is also proposed that a limited number of plots in the
Namarigoungou "polder" be dedicated to applied research to test new tech-
niques (row seeding) and study the problems which might arise on the polder
itself (disease, pests, fertility).
3.    Rice Development
3.01      Improved cultivation methods recommended by the agricultural re-
search service and already tested on a number of schemes include:
Nursery:
- Allow 0.7 ha for each 1.0 ha cultivated;
- Broadcast seeding of 8 kg of already-dressed seeds
per 0.10 ha;



- 50 -
- Fertilizer £Lpplications (per 0.1 ha)
2 kg of urea
2 kg of triple superphosphate
2 kg of potassium chloride;
- Amount of time plants are left in the nursery:
25 days during the rainy season
35 days during the dry season.
Fields:
- Ox-drawn plowing;
- Submersion of fields with 10 cm - 15 cm of water and
levelling;
- TransplantirLg, four seedlings every 20 cm x 20 cm;
- Fertilization: (200 kg of urea)
100 kg aft:er transplanting
100 kg one month later;
- Weeding:
1st weeding - 8-10 days after transplanting
2nd weeding - 20 days later;
- Maintain 10-20 cm of water in the field up to 25 days
before harvesting;
- Harvesting with a sickle, and drying of paddy in small
stacks before
- Threshing with a thresher with paddles.
When farmers have mastered the techniques of rice cultivation, they would
be introduced to row seeding, which would replace transplanting.
3.02      Introduction of Row Seeding.  Transplanting has a number of advan-
tages, among which, regularity of planting, optimum density, better resis-
tance against weeds and better use of seeds (30% less than direct seeding).



- 51 -
However, transplanting requires extra labor and is more expensive than
the modern method of direct seeding. There is a new seeder with four bins
(Nodet-Gougis) which has been successfully tested in Mali, where 150 units
were placed in 1976. Since the seeder has a capacity of 2 ha per day and
requires 2 men and 2 oxen, planting with the seeder requires 1 man-day per
ha, while transplanting requires 25-30 man-days per ha. The seeder costs
CFAF 175,000, and assuming a life of 5 years and the use over 100 ha per year
(25 days in January - February and 25 days in July), the per ha cost of the
seeder is CFAF 350/ha, which is cheaper than hiring extra help at 25 x CFAF
200 = CFAF 5,000/ha. From an agronomic standpoint, a number of tests have
shown that the yields obtained with both methods (row seeding and transplant-
ing) are equivalent when there has been land levelling and there is full
water control. 1/
3.03      Labor Availability:  Experience in Niger has shown that farmers
participating in modern irrigation schemes do not give up cultivation of
their traditional farms and often give priority to cultivation of their
rainfed holdings. Consequently, the time they can spend on the schemes,
and therefore the size of the lots they should be allocated, must take into
account what time they have left after cultivating their traditional farms.
3.04      Labor requirements for traditional cultivation have been calculated
for an average farm size as defined at para 1.02, assuming the following per
ha requirements for the various crops:
Man-days
Traditional Flood Recession Millet and Tobacco and
Rice           Sorghum         Cowpeas      Gardens
Nursery                                       5                            5
Hoeing                                        5
Hoeing and Transplanting                     15                           20
Land Preparation             15                              12
Direct Seeding                1                               4
Weeding                      35              50              25
Irrigation                                                                 5
Harvesting                   20              15              18           15 (tobacco)
Garden Work                                                               14
Threshing - Transport        15              10              12
Total             86             100              71           59
1/   Cf. B. A. Stout in Etude FAQ No. 84 (1966):  A. Alim, "Effect of Direct
Sowing and Transplantation on the Yield," in Agric. Pakistan (1960);
M. Vaugh in IRC Newsletter (1954); R. F. Chandler, "An Analysis of Fac-
tors Affecting Rice Yields" in IRC Newsletter (1963).



- 52 -
Table 3 indicates that on the average the farm under traditional cultivation
would require some 341 man-days throughout the year, and that family labor is
supplemented by hired labor in the period from most of July through December.
3.05      Labor Requirements for Rice Cultivation.  The following table is
based on actual time studies made on the Toula scheme:
Man-days Required per ha
With Transplanting    Direct Seeding
Nursery /1                                      -                     -
Land Preparation                               6                     6
Submersion                                    10                     -
Planing                                        -                     2
Transplanting                                 25                     _
Direct Seeding                                 -                     I
Fertilizer Application                         2                     2
Weeding                                       20                    20
Irrigation                                     5                     5
Harvesting and Stacking                       15                    15
Threshing (with paddle thresher)              10                    10
Transport                                      4                     4
97                   65
/1   By the scheme management.
Draft animals are used 3 days in the case of cultivation with transplanting
(land preparation) and 5.5 days in the case of direct seeding (land prepara-
tion, planing and direct seeding). Farms equipped for direct seeding could
also use the Arara toolbar for weeding. Weeding in this case would take 2
days with two men per ha. It would reduce the time required for weeding from
20 man-days to 8 man-days, and total labor requirements from 65 man-days to
53 man-days. The timing of labor requirements for irrigation cultivation
with transplanting is in Table 4.
3.06      For an average farming unit of 1.54 adult males family labor
available is estimated at 1.54 x 25 x 12 = 461 man-days. Table 3 indicates
that the average farming unit requires hired labor even under traditional
cultivation conditions during the rainy season (July) when the rice fields
are prepared and the rainfed crops need weeding, and in the dry season
(October) when millet is harvested. While in October the harvested crop
is unlikely to be spoiled since there is no rainfall, the conflict exists
in July, and farmers usually give priority to millet over rice.  For this
reason it is proposed to limit land allocations in the Namarigoungou scheme
to 0.50 ha per farming unit (the same as in Toula). A smaller plot would be
unattractive to farmers and would not be consistent with past practice on
the other schemes. In addition, there may not be enough people to work on
the schemes (Annex 6) if (say) only 0.25 ha were allocated to each farming
unit.



- 53 -
3.07      Rice Paddy Production.  Paddy production for the project area is
at Table 6. Total paddy production would increase from 6,000 tons in 1976
to 20,400 tons by 1982. Production from the Namarigoungou scheme alone would
start in 1980 (2,700 tons) and reach 13,000 tons by 1982.
4.   Mixed Cropping Development
4.01      Project farmers would practice mixed cropping on the irrigation
schemes where rice cultivation is not possible: soils being too sandy, too
slopy or impossible to land-plane. There are already two schemes Sakoira
(42 ha) and Tillakeina (36 ha) established on the terraces where mixed crop-
ping is practiced. Another terrace, Lossa (162 ha), should be completed in
1977, and in the Namarigoungou scheme there are an estimated 300 ha unsuitable
for rice cultivation, of which 150 ha would be allocated to mixed cropping.
4.02      The other 50 ha would be divided into 25 ha for wood plantations
and 25 ha for fodder crops. Wood plantations would belong to the farmers'
cooperative units, while fodder crops and mixed cropping plots would be
allotted to interested farmers. On the mixed cropping plots several crop
rotations are possible. It is proposed here:
rainy season: sorghum;
dry season:    cowpeas, onions, tomatoes, gombos.
4.03      Mixed cropping cultivation assumes (a) no irrigation in the rainy
season, or only complementary irrigation, and (b) full irrigation during the
dry season. Water requirements 1/ would be:
Rainy season
- Sorghum complementary irrigation               4,500 m /ha
Dry season
- Cowpeas                                        9,500 m /ha
- Vegetables                                    12,000 m /ha
During the dry season the 200 ha would be divided as follows:
- Cowpeas         120 ha
- Onions           10 ha
- Tomatoes         25 ha
- Gombos           25 ha
- Other            20 ha
TOTAL   200 ha
1/   Based on volumes used at Sakoira and Tillakeina.



- 54 -
4.04      Plots under mixed cropping as well as those under rice irrigation
would be supervised by the extension staff. Modern agricultural techniques
would be taught to achieve the following yields:
Estimated Yields
Cowpeas        1,200 kg/ha
Sorghum        2,500 kg/ha
Tomatoes      25,000 kg/ha
Gombos           700 kg/ha (dry)
4.05      Tree Plantations.  Following the success of the tree plantations in
the Toula scheme, some 50 ha in the Namarigoungou scheme would be allocated
to tree plantations. Soils selected would be those least adapted to crop
cultivation, but where watering would still be possible. Plantations would
also serve to protect the perimeter against wind erosion. Eucalyptus varie-
ties would be used. Planting density would be 1,200 trees per ha, assuming
that 1,000 trees emerge. Felling would take place in the third year. At
least three crops would be grown on the same plot.
5. Rainfed Development
Project services would be extended to the holdings that farmers
participating in the schemes would continue to cultivate under rainfed
conditions.
5.01      Improved cultivation methods would be introduced progressively, and
adopted by a minority of farmers.
Millet: - Abandoning cultivation of cowpeas between two
rows of millet. Cowpeas would be cultivated
in pure stand at the start of the crop rotation;
- Scarifying the soil with an ox-drawn hoe;
- Using improved varieties P3 Kolo or HKP;
- Seeding after the first useful rains at a den-
sity of 10,000 seeds/ha;
- Dressing seeds with 2 g of Thioral per kg of
seeds;
- Thinn:ing to 3 plants per hole between 15 and 21
days after emergence;
- Weeding 10 days after emergence and again 20
days after the first weeding;



- 55 -
- Applying 35 kg/ha of triple phosphate during
soil preparation and 35 kg of urea after the
first weeding.
Cowpeas:  - Scarifying the soil;
- Using improved variety TN 88-63;
- Applying 75 kg/ha of superphosphate at the time
of soil preparation;
- Seeding at a density of 60,000 seeds/ha;
- Weeding 10 days after emergence and again 20
days after the first weeding.
Sorghum (on the dunes):
- Planting in the crop rotation after millet;
- Scarifying the soil;
- Seeding at 10,000 plants/ha;
- Applying 35 kg/ha of triple superphosphate
before soil preparation, and 50 kg/ha of urea
at thinning before the second weeding;
- Thinning early (20 days after emergence);
- Weeding twice, 8 days after emergence and 15
days later.
5.02      The application of these improved techniques would result in the
following yield increases:



Stages of
Adoption of
Improved                                                               Yields under improved
Techniques    Improved Techniques                 Yield Increases    Conditions
Millet
(yield under traditional
cultivation 312 kg/ha)           1         Proper seeding density; correct          25%            400 kg/ha
thinning and weeding
2        Preceding methods 4- improved seeds      45%            450 kg/ha
3        Preceding methods + fertilizer
application   ox-drawn cultivation    110%              650 kg/ha
Cowpeas
(Yield under traditional                   Pure stand, at head of rotation
cultivation 118 kg/ha)           1         Proper seeding density; correct          40%            165 kg/ha
thinning and weeding
2        Preceding methods + improved seeds       85%             220 kg/ha
t insecticides treatment
3        Preceding methods + fertilizer          150%             300 kg/ha
application + ox-drawn cultivation
Sorghum
(Yield under traditional         1         Proper seeding density                   30%            585 kg/ha
cultivation 450 kg/ha                      Early weeding
2        Preceding methods + Improved seeds       45%            650 kg/ha
3        Preceding methods - fertilizer          100%            900 kg/ha
application + ox-drawn cultivation
H a%



- 57 -
5.03      Adoption of improved cultivation methods could be as follows (% of
total farming units):
Stages of Improved
Methods         1980       1981       1982
Millet           1             15         20         30
2                        15        25
3                        5         10
Cowpeas          1              5         15         20
2                       10         15
3                        5         10
Sorghum          1             10         15         20
2                        10        20
3                        5         10
5.04      Rainfed Production.  The incremental production under this component
is estimated at about 2,400 tons by 1982 (Table 6).
5.05      The equipment for rice cultivation was calculated at the ratio of
one basic unit per 5 ha, which would leave sufficient time for work on the
rainfed holdings since it is generally estimated that one unit should be used
on 6 ha per year. Some specific attachments would, however, be required for
scarifying (estimated at 340 units). No additional labor would be required.
6.   Livestock
6.01      The favorable elements for a livestock development program are:
- present ownership of cattle estimated at 5.06 head per
compound;
- production of rice by-products at Tillabery rice mill
(12-16% of tonnage of paddy) with high nutrient:
1 kg = 0.29 UF;
- proposed production of fodder crops under irrigation in
Namarigoungou (25 ha with yields of 30 to 40 tons per ha).
6.02      The proposed development program is limited to stall fattening of
3-4 year old cattle (live weight 225-275 kg) for 3 months, with green fodder
and rice by-products for a daily gain of 600/700 grams.
6.03      The problem with stall fattening is the purchase of lean animals
at a reasonable cost. No purchases should be made between July and November
because at that time the animals are in demand and cost too much. Purchases



- 58 -
would start in December. Sheds would be built with local materials, and no
more than 2 or 3 head of cattle would be fattened at the same time. Fatten-
ing would last 90 days and would be done twice a year.
6.04      Daily ration by animal would be:
Green fodder          20 kg
Rice by-products       4 kg
Salt                   0.3 kg
6.05      Fodder varieties would be any of the following:  Andropogongayanus,
Panicum maximum, Brachlaria mutica and Cynodon dactylon. All varieties were
tested in a pilot program over the period 1970-1973 at Kirkessoye. 1/ Yields
on the scheme were estimated at 40 tons per hectare of green fodder. Fodder
is cut 5 to 6 times a year, and fertilizer is applied after each cut (for
a total of 300 kg/ha).
6.06      Assuming that a fiamily unit fattens on the average 3 head of
cattle during 90 days and has 2 fattening cycles per year, total green
fodder consumption would be 10.8 tons per farming unit (rounded to 12 tons
with losses). If yields of 40 tons per ha are obtained, each farming unit
participating in this project component should receive 0.30 ha. Assuming
that the area under fodder crops in Namarigoungou is 25 ha, some 83 farmers
could participate (some 3% of all farmers). The number of animals fattened
would be 250 per cycle, or 500 per year.
1/   The pilot program was technically successful, but farmers were unable
to sell their animals once fattened. Today marketing arrangements are
better, and there should not be any problem selling the project pro-
duction.



- 59-                           ANNEX 6
Table 1
NIGER
IRRIGATION PROJECT
PROJET D'IRRIGATION
Agricultural Development
Developpement agricole
Area under Cultivation in 11 Villages of the Tillabery Area
Superficie cultivee des exploitations de 11 villages de la region de Tillabery
I Total area
| Number of Farming  | Area cultivated per farming unit  | cultivated per
Villages         | units surveyed      I Milletl Rice |SorghumITobacco (ha)l farming unit
…_______I           - - -   - - -  --I- ----------------------------------…I…--------------
I                    I                                    I Surface totale
I Nombre d'exploita- ISurfaces cultivees par exploitationi cultivee par
Villages         I tions enquetees    I Mil  I Riz  ISorghol Tabac   (ha)| exploitation
I                    I       I
Maloumbery       |          6          j 1.06 | 1.12 |  -  |  -             |    2.18
Kiekietondo      |          8          | 2.93 I 1.49 I  -  I  -                  4.42
Diadia Kado      I         53          | 2.38 | 1.06 |  -  |  -             I    3.44
Darbey Goumbia   |         10          | 1.78 | 0.84 |  -  I  -             |    2.62
Daibery          |        104          | 2.57 | 0.94 | 0.01 I  -            |    3.52
Toulame          I         12          | 4.76 | 0.85 | 1.63 | 0.06          I    7.30
Yelewani Kado    I         15          | 4.32 | 0.13 | 0.09 |  -            |    4.54
Yelewani Goungou |         33          | 3.60 | 1.58 | 0.29 | 0.12          |    5.59
Neyni I          I         22          | 1.11 | 1.12 | 1.20 | 0.10          |    3.53
Neyni II         I         42          | 2.02 | 1.62 | 0.40 | 0.08          |    4.12
Neyni III        |         20          | 3.56 | 2.12 | 0.59 | 0.13          |    6.40
Total5                              I      l
Total            |        325          I
_ _  ,, _ _    I                   I__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _   _    _   _   _    _   _   _



N IGE1
IRRIGATION FRC ECT/PROJET D'TRPIGATION
Project Area/Zone du nrojet
Area Under Irrigation/       Area Cultivated in 1975 (ha)        Area Under Rainfed Cultivation/
Farming Units/   Total Ponulation/   Surface amenagee en            Surface cultivee en 1975 (ha)    Surface en culture pluviale
A. Existing Fchemes/Am&nagements existants    Exoloitations    Poculation totale   irriration, moderne (              Rainy Season        Dry Season      Millet/Mil       SorghumjSorgho
Saison des pluies  Saison seche
Fergoun                                          202              1,060                            500                   132                             500                 100
Sakoira                                          275              1,444                             36                                    42             700                 100
Tillakeina                                       124                651                             42                                    36             =00                 100
Toula                                            450              2,367                            2601                  242             24o           100                   200
Daikena                                          .6i              1,695                            110                   100             110             900                 200
Sona                                             470              2,468                            212                   149             115           1,150                 200
Losaa                                            288              1,5i2                           390                   115              113             700                 100
Totol                        2,170             11 391                          1,150                   738             656           5,350               1,000
3.  New Schemes/aiouveaux amenagements
Namaripoungou                                  .,000              5,75o                          1,550                                                 7,400               1,400
Yelewani                                         240              1,260                            120                                                   600                  100
Daibery                                          720              3,760                            360                                                 1,700                  300
Lossa - Terrasses                                320              1,700                            160                                                    800                 200
Total                        4,200 22,4710,500                                                                                                            2,000
Grand Total                  6,450             73,863                          3,340                                                 15.850 /300
/1  Of the 15,850 ha under millet cultivation, 9,350 ha (or 59,,) are mixed with cowneas.
/2  Sur les 15.850 ha ou ae cultivent le mil, le mil est plant6 avec du ni6b6 sur 9.35C ha (59 -f)3
'13



NIGER
IRRIGATION PROJECT/PROJET D'IRRIGATION
Agricultural Development/Developpement agricole
Monthl.y Allocation of Time Requirements/R&partition mensuelle des temps de travaux
January     February    March   April       May       June      July        August   September    October    November  December          Total
A. Culture traditionnelle       Janvier      F6vrier      Mars    Avril      Mai       Juin      Juillet    Aout      Septembre    Octobre    Novembre  Decembre          Total  A. Traditional Cultivation
Hommes/jour/mois            39.00       36.oo       39.00     50.00   59.00 30.00 3o9.0o                 39.00      38.oo       39.00       38.00      39-00       461.00       Man-days/month
Riz traditionnel                                                                                                                                                                Traditional Rice
Nouage                                                                                    17.25                                                                   17.25         Hoeing
Semis                                                                                      1.15                                                                    1.15         Seeding
Oseherbages                                                                                                      20.00       20.25                                40.25         Weeding
Recolte                                                                                                                                             23.           17.005         Harvesting
Battage                  17.25                                                                                                                                      .25         Threshing
Sorgho de decrue                                                                                                                                                                Flood Recession Sorghum
Semis en pepinieres                               0.75                                                                                                             0.75         Nursery
Houage et repiquage                                          3.00                                                                                                  3.00         Hoeing and transplanting
Sarclages                                                            1.50        1.50      1.50        1.50        1.50                                            7.50         Weeding
Ricolte - battage                                                                                                              3.75                                3f75         Harvesting-threshing
Mil et niebe dunaire                                                                                                                                                            Millet and Cowpeas
Preparation du sol                                                  31.20                                                                                         31.20         Soil preparation
Semis                                                                           10.4                                                                              10.40         Seeding
Sarclages                                                                                  30.00      35.00                                                       65.00         Weeding
Recoltes                                                                                                          20.00       26.80                               46.80         Harvesting
Battage -transport                                                                                                                       15.60      15.60         31.20         Threshing-transport
Tabac et Jardinf                                                                                                                                                                 Tobacco - Gardens
P4pini4resi                                                                                                                                1.00                    1. oo0       Nurseries
PpNougeetrepiug                                                                                                                                       4.00         4.00         Nosing and transplanting
Houage et repiquage                                                                                                                                                 10Irgtio
Irrigation                 1.00                                                                                                                                    1.00         Irrigation
Recolte tabac                          3.O0                                                                                                                         3.00        Tobacco harvest
Travail sur jardins                    0.75       1.00       1.00                                                                                                   2.75         Work in gardens
Total traditionnel                 18.25       3.75        1.75       4.00   32.70       11.90      49.90      36.50       41.50       50.80      47.80     4z.60         341.45  Total Traditional
ELin d'oeuvre familiale            20.75      -2.25       7.25       34.00    6.30       26.10    (10.90)       2.50       ('.50)    (1 .RO)    (O.Ao)   (0.60)           119.55  Family Labor
disponible (deficit)
B. Temps de travail                 3.00      19.00        6.oo       5.50    8.00       10.00      19.00       6.0oo       5.50        0.50       7.50       7.00         97.00  B.  Labor Requirements (0.5 ha
(0.5 ha riz repique)                                                                                                                                                                 of transplanted rice)
Main d'oeuvre familiale restant  17.75        13.25       31.25      28.50   (1.70)      16.10    (29.90)       (3.50)     (9.00)    (12.30)   (17.30)   (10.60)            22.55  Family Labor Left Over
disponible (d6ficit)
71



NIGER
IRRIGATION PROJECT - PROJET D'IRRIGATION
Agricultural Development - DEveloppement agricole
Rice Cultivation Under Modern Irrigation With Transplanting - Culture du riz sur am6nagement avec repiquage
Timing of Cultivation - Calendrier Cultural
lay  | June % Jul   IAupset peptmbet Ort.  I Nov.  Dpec;  jlanuarvyF.ehra-l r                  ril       sai
ju I! Kt    S~epxesDe   ictou',  Noo,nbre  0&cebloe   Janvier~ F0v,ier   Mas  tf     Ma
10 ~u   10 10  10 70  10 2Q  t1  20  10 20   10 20   10 20  10 20   10 20   10 20  10 20   1  20
Preparation                                                  10 i 1020 K……                                                                                                              Pr6paration
Submersion                                                                                                                         M~Fise en eau
S,eeding                                         Nursery                                                                                                                                Semis
Maintenance                                      p6pkinies                                                                                                                              Irrigation d 'entretien
Fertilizer application                                                                                                                                                                  Fumure
Uprooting                                                                                                                                                                               Arrachage dee plants
Soil preparation                                                                                                                                                                        P6aaind   o
Submersion                                                                                                                                                                              Remplissage
Transplanting                                                                                                                                                                           PRepiqaraioe  uo
Maintenance irrigation                                                                                                                     -       -    -Iritondet'in
First fertilizer application                   Rice Field                                                                                                                               Premier 6pandase d engrais
Weeding-Spraying  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                         --D4sherbage-Traite-uets
Phytosanitaires                                                                                                                                                                          htmLntie
S,econd fertilizer anplication                                                                                                                                                         Deuxi4rae 6psndage dlengrais
Harvesting                                                                                                                                                                             R6colte paddy
P,'eei re  eampaone   I,j campagne  d' hiverni
First season or wintre
oesaiOie capagne ou caspagne de saison sOche
Second 'season or dry season..



NIGER
IRRIGATION PROJECT - PROJET D IRRIGATION
Agricultural Development - Developpement Agricole
Area Cultivated and Production on Schemes in the Project Area - Surfaces cul tivAes et prodvctien sur amenagement dan. la sone du projet
Rainy Season 1975/Campagne SP 1975         Dry Season 1975-76/Campagne SS 1975-76          Rainy Season 1976/Canlagne SP 1976                         Average area
Area/     Yield/        Production/           Area/        Yield/        Production/       Area/         Yield/       Production/    No. of farmers'  cultivated/
Surface    Rendement      Production           Surface      Rendement      Production       Surface      Rendement       Producticn      Nombre d.e-      Surface *oy.
(ha)       (kglha)       (tons/tonnes)          (ha)        (kg/ha)       (tons/tonnes)    (ha)          (kg/ha)       (tons/tonnes)  ploitants          cultiv6e
Iergoun           Paddy/Riz                        132         3,500             456                             -               -             132          3,500              462            202              o.65
Sakoira /1        Onions/Oignons                   -             -               -                  19.5      30,000             585           -               -               -              275              0.07
Cowpeas/Ni4bgs                   -             -               -                  22.5       1,500              34           _               _               -              275             0.08
Tillakeina /1    Cowpeae/Ri6b6s                    -             -               -                  36.4       1,300              47           -               -               -              124              0.29
Toula             Paddy/Riz                        242         4,600           1,113               240         5,200           1,248           240          5,200            1,248             450             0.53
Daikena           Paddy/Rim                        100         4,000             400               110         4, 150            456           105           4,000             420            361              0.29
Sona              Paddy/Riz                        149         4,000             596               215         4,660             536           124           4,000             496             470             0.26
Losea             Paddy/Ri.                        115         4,400             504               113         3,600             407            135          5,100             688            288              0.47
Total cultivated/total cultive                     738           -               _                 656.4         -                -             736                            -               -
Total paddy/total riz                              738                           -                 578           -                -             736                            -
Paddy production/Production riz                    -             -             3,069               -             -             2,647            -                            3,314
Paddy yoeld/Rendement riz                          -           4,160             -                 -           4,580             -              -            4,5oo             -               -
Total project beneficiaries/total attributaires -                -               -                  -            -                       -                     -               -             2,170
/1  Schemes where sorghum is cultivated without irrigation during winter season.
Am6nagements cultiv6s en sorgho pendant lhivernage sans irrigation.
\J@ o



ANNEX 6
Th8IGATION PROllCT/PR°JIT D0IBR IATZION
Agricultural D velop Dt/D6- lopp=..t gari-ol
Agr,oolt-rl Produotion With Projeet/Froduotiom aricole *0- 1i Pr0Jet
Area Cultivated (h.)/1              Yield. (k )                    Preduction (too.)
A.  l'Ood-t-O  of lOddy                            S... foi.. oulti,Ica (haY/il          R.ad t.otS!g                   Pred-tioc (toe-..)          A. Prod-t.eto  d. paddj
WithoAt Project  With Project            With-t F-23.T Pinrroi   Without Projeot  With ProJect
-iootgngu.oh.e.e                              Sen. projot       A-yoc Drjt  S2.-  projet         Avee.Proit   S-en pro eto A.;L.M Drp26  ..!t. eOittent-
Fergoun                                             140            140            3,500           3,50D             5rgoc_
'loula                                              480            520/2          5,000           5,000           2,400           2,600             Toul.
locken.                                             200            220            4,000           4,500              800          1,000             Daik en
.000                                                350/3          380            4,300           4,500           1,500           1,700             Soaa
l oscc                                              300t/3         360            4,400           4,500           1,300           1.600             LoeDa
Totol Area (h.)/Superf..ie totale (h.) 1,470            1,620                 Total Produotion (to e)   6,500            7,400  Produotlon totale (toacee)
aere. et.l Prodeetioe (to-e)                      0oo  Prodootioo  .cppl6ee.taire (tonn m)
Area Coltipated (a) /1               Yield. (k )                    Produotion (toe.)
New (ohbe 16                                   SoPerfuodee  oltioWee (hl7T /1       RB,de_.t. (ha/)                 ProdotMoo  (toopee)              Aewnt nouvu /6
61980           1982             1980            1982                                           A         t198
Nucsrogounpoo                                       2.700  ~~~~~3OD4.300)            N.0             1'0            1.,0               1e,rigooegoo
Total Are  (he)/Sup.rfo... totale (ho)  300            270                               eoo  1tee) 1,            000    t004  Prducton totele (tore..)
Area Ocitivlted (ha)                 Yield. (kg/ha)                 Prodeotrec (tooe)
Mooed CropDn-g /4                              Sdcerfionet .ultuchee (ha)            Bode.eote (kg/ha)              Prodootioo  (to_ee)         B. P1yiooltore /4
N- S~~~~~h...                         q196              192             1980            L98                                              o,ea         -Srh
L...                          1 q12                                                                                             l :.       6-g ....~~~___  192  ocvoo   odaecte
loew Scbeme    -  orti2                                               163           2,200           2 500 SCghO
- Coepeoc                               98              98          1100            1 200              110             120                         - Ni6b6
-  nQoooc                                8               8          27,000          30,000              210             240                         - Oognooe
- 7oe.toeo                              20              20          22,500          25,000              450             500                         - Tocatee
- Otter Vegethblec                      36              36             900           1,000               30              40                         - A,trec lg-.ee
324            324                                             1,160          1,300
lamarigo n.o.  - Sorghum                               50             150           2,200           2,500              110             400          Nemarugo.ogoc - Sorgho
C.oepeec                              30              90           1,100           1,200               30             120                         - Niibh
- Oo..                                 3              10          27 000          30,000               80             300                         _ Oogeooe
To.atoe.                               6              20          22,500          25,000              140             500                         - Yo.atee
Other Vegetollee                      11             000                           1 0010                              30 1                         Autree 16g.me.
100            300                                               370          1,350
C. Wood Pleutotiooc  pad Liveetook                    Arm. Oltiv-ted (ha)                                        Productioc  (CFAF .011,0cc)        C.  Pleotatic. et 6levage
On Na-arigocogoc                              Surie. cultai (a                                             Prodwtion (cc  1flio.a do FOFA)          a Ncmarimooccou
,oo.l rlpatotloon                                     10              25                                                                            PicPtati ce
lveetock                                                -             25                                                                13          21.0.go
D.  (Woofed (Incremental Product.oo  cn Pamfed                                                                                                       D. Culture.. echee (prodoot.on
Holdmg. of Schec ..   rt.cipoute) (too.)            1980            1981             1982                                                           topplI.eot.rh dee 001(00cc  .eohee
dee Partichpootadup9p24
--lti.g Sch.... /5 Pngmn_    xsat 
Millt                                               120            400              680                                                             Mil
Sorgip-                                              20             70              130                                                             Soagho
(Coopeso)                                           (30)            (50)            13                                                              (Ni6bO)
Total                110             420                                                                             2T0t1
boor Soheme                                                                                                                                       I 00cc
lMl1lt                                              20               80             130                                                             mil
Sorghum                                             10               20              30                                                             Sorgho
mCoop..)                                           (10)             (101            (20)                                                            (N6bA6)
Tota1                 20               90             140                                                             Total
Apsaorogooogoo                                                                                                                                      Nocorgooungou
Plit                                               260              860          1,460                                                             Mil
orghum                                               50              160             280                                                            Sorgho
(coovreo)                                           (60)            (1'0)           (160)                                                           (NodhA)
Total                250              S90          1,50
/1 Lohble oropp.ng .c.ept for Fergou-.                                                                                                             /1 D.ux r60o1tec, Fergoun except6.
1'7 orc  reolao1cd from curocrce.                                                                                                                  /7 Soperfocie gga.Be eon los pla-totooc.
Inve-t.entt to expand thee. too -che-e. ore 000 ,t  Leo mve0tceoete  pour re-foro-r 0cc o-vr.eg.
o-clud.d On projeot cot,                                                                                                                           no aoot p-e 000pri  d... 1  ooat do projet.
/4 10 orodoc.oi  ioore.e .oo.templutod oo the 2                                                                                                    /4 P_. dwaugm..t.to.n do prodootioo  pr6voe dpac
cooctong .che.e.  where clued oroppmg 1.                                                                                                          lc  de.u  -eWoagee..t. cucet-ot. od 10
pr-ot .ed (Sako.ro, Tillakema)                                                                                                                     polycolture ..t protiqoe (Sakoira, Tollklocn).
/5 Inoludec Sukooro - Icoheco                                                                                                                      /5 Comprcod Skolira, Tillalekeco
/6 Prodwtien eithoot project (300 to.).                                                                                                           /6  predeetic, _n 1. pr_ejt (500 te..).



NIGER
IRRIGATION PROJECT -  RGTET D'IRRIGATION
Agricultural Development - Piveloppement agricole
Farm Budget/Budget de ferme
Area/       Yield/         Farm Price/          Total/
Surface    Rendement    Prix au producteur    Total
(ha)      (kg/ha)       (CFAF/kg/FCFA/kg)  (CFAF/FCFA)
A. Without Project                                                                                                                                   A. Sans le projet
Crop Production Groso Income                                                                                                                         Pevenu brut de la production agricole
Paddy                                                                         1.15        1,200               45              62,100                 Piz
Millet                                                                        2.6o          312               40               32 4YI                Nil
Cowceas /1                                                                    1.05          113               45                5,580                Niebe /1
Gardens and Sorghum  (net income)                                                                                              18,000&               Jardins et sorgbo (r*nn   me)
Total Crop Production Gross Income                                                                               118,130                             Revenu total brut de la production agricole
Cron Production Expenses                                                                                                                             Frais de production
Seeds                                                                                                                                                Gemences:
Rice                                                                   1.15            80              45                4,14o                          Riz
Millet                                                                 2.60            15              40                N.56o                          Mil
C-ceas                                                                 1.05            12              45                  570                          Niebe
Total Seeds                                                                                                        6,270                             Total semenceso
Hired Labor  39.6 man-days at CFAF 200/man-day                                                                                  7,920                Main-d'oeuvre salariee  39,6 hommnee-jours a FCFA 200 par hoome-jour
Land Pent: /2                                                                                                                                        Location des terres: /2
Rice 25 a at 10>W of gross income                                                                                                                               Rir - 25 % A 10 % du revenu brut
Millet 18. at 5  of gross income                                                                                      .                                         Mil - 18 % A  5 Ii du revenu brut
Total Rent                                                                                                        1.840                             Total location dee tefrem
Total Crcr Production Expenses                                                                                   16,030                             Total frais de production
Crop Production let Incoae                                                                                                     102,100               tevenu net de production agricole
Livestock Net Income                                                                                                             13,800              Revenu net de 1'elevage
Total FEarming  bnit Gross Income                                                                                              131,9'0               Revenu brut par exploitation
Total Farming linit tlet Tcome                                                                                                 115,900               Revenu net par exploitation
Labor Requirements (341.45 man-uay.)                                                                                                                 besoins en  min- loe.vre (341,45 hommes-jours)
Purmers' Gross Income ocr (an-o                                                                                                     386              Revenu brut  -es fermiers  ar jour de traseil
.armers ' Net Income ner tan-as                                                                                                                      Pevenu net cen fersiers oar jour de travail
Parsers' Gross Income ner Casito  (3.25 neocle in farming unit)                                                                 25 130               Pevenu brut d.es fermiers nar tete (5.25 pernonnes par exploitation)
Farmers' Nlet Income ner Capita                                                                                                  22,080              Reven  net (en fermiers par tete
/1  Grown with Millet.                                                                                                                               /1  Plant6 en association avec le mil.
/3  This is the farm budget (without the project) of a Wogo farmer who                                                                               /T   C'met le budget de ferme (sans le projet) d'un fermier lWogo qui
rents an estimated 25% of the land cultivated in rice, and an                                                                                         loue 25% des terres cultivbes en rim  et 18% des terree en
estimated 18% of the land cultivated under rainfed conditions from Kado owners.                                                                       culture sache des proprietaires Kados.                               C
o C



NIGER
IRRIGATION PROJECT/PBOJET D' IRRIGATION
Agricultural Development/D6veloppement Agricole
Fam Budget/Budget de feree
CFAF/FCFA                 B. Riziculture (1 ha - 1 r6colte)
B.  Rice Cultivation (one ha -one crop)
Farsers' Gross Income                                                                                                Revenu brut des fermiers
Paddy        4,BOO kg at CFAF 45                                                    216,000                          Paddy
Farmers' Cultivation Expenses                                                                                        Frais de culture des farmiera
Soil Preparation /1                                                                    2,007                         Preparation du aol /1
Nursery /2                                                                             6,522                         Pepini-re /2
Fertilizer (200 kg of urea)                                                            8,000                         Engrais (200 kg d'ur6e)
Insecticides /2                                                                          812                         Insecticides /}
Rent of Paddle Threshers /4                                                            3,500                         Location de batteuses a p4daisa /4
Crop Transport 7/572                                                                                                 Transport de la recolte /2
Sub-total                                                                       22,413                               Total partiel
Rired Labor /6                                                                         7,900                         fr5io de main-d'oeuvrc salaries /6
Irrigation Water /7                                                                  1715                            Frais d'irrigation /7
Total Farmers' Cultivation Expenses                                             47a46j Tot.! ann trais de cuiture dee fermiers
Capital Recovery Charges                                                                32,850                         Cbarges de recouvrement de l'investisasent
Total Farmero' Expensem                                                         631                                  Total des frais des fermiers
Farmers' Net Income (one ha - one crop) for half a year                               135,687                          Revenu net des fermiers (1 ha - 1 recolte) pour six mois
or(O.5 ha - two crops) for a year                                                                                          ou (0,5 ha - 2 recoltes) pour un an
Labor Requirementa (0.5 ha - two crope: 97 man.-daym per year)                                                         Bcsoins de main-d'oeuvre (0,5 ha - 2 r6coltes:  97 hoee-jours par an)
Earners' Grosls Income per Man-day                                                    2,227                            Revenu brut des fermiers pour un homme-jour
Farmers' Net Income per Man-day                                                       1,399                            Revenu net des fermiera pour un homme-Jour
Farmers' Gross Income per Capita (5.25 people in farming unit)                       41,143                            Revenu brut den fermiers par tdte (5,25 personese per exploitation)
Farmers' Net Income per Capita                                                       25,845                            Revenu net des fermiers par t6te
Subsidies                                                                                                              Subventioos
Soil Preparation - Plowing equipment sold to farmers at CFAF 8,000                       410                            Preparation des sols - materiel agricole de labour vendu aux
(73% subsidy from coat of CFAF 29,400)                                                                                 fermiers & FCPA 8.000 (sobvention de 73 % pour un covt a. FWAM   .400)
Fertilizer - Urea sold to farmers CFAF 40/ke (43% subsidy from                         6, O0                           Engrais - uree vendue aol ferniereri FCFi 40/kg (subvention de 43 % pour un coat
cost of CYAP 70/kg)                                                                                                    de FCPA 70/kg)
Insecticides - Insecticides sold to farmers CFAF 600/liter (25% submidy                  271                            Insecticides - insecticides vendua cur fera±ersi rGFi 60h0itrs (subvention de
from cost of CFAF 800/liter)                                                                                           25 % pour un cout de FcFA 800/litre)
Crop Transport - Cart sold to farmers CPA-F 48,000 (3256 subsidy from                    161                           Transport de la r6colte - charrattes vendues aux feriere & FPF0   48.000
cost of CFAF 71,000)                                                                                                    (subvention de 32 % pour mn cout de FCFA 71.000)
Total Subsidies (one ha - one crop)                                              6,842                               Total des subventiona
/1  3 days of plowing. A pair of oxen cost CFAF 618 per day.  Under the assumption                                      /1  3 Jours de labour.  La paire de boeufa codte FCFA 618 par Je.  lo supposant
that the pair costs CFAF 59,300 per year and works 96 days per year.                                                     qua is pairs revient A FCFA 59.300 par an et travaille 96 homes-jours par an.
The plow and the Arara tool bar (CFAF 8,0oo  to farmers) are used on 12 ha yearly                                        La charrue et le bA-ti  Arare (venduz FCFA 8000 aux fersiers) sont utilisa  sunr
and lest 6 years.                                                                                                        12 ha par ann6e et durent 6 ar.
/2  At cost.  The project proposes to eliminate the subsidy on seedlinga from the                                        /2  Au pric de revient.  La projet propose dl&limi... la subvention au niveau de la
nursery.  In 1976 seedlings were mold at a cost of CFAF 3,444/ha to farmers (43%                                         pepiniere. En 1976 lea plants avaient ete vendus au coudt soyen de FCFA 3.444
subsidy from coat of CFAF 6,522).                                                                                        l'hectare aux fermiers (43 % de subvention pour un cout de MdEA 6.522).
Main assumptions for nursery:                                                                                            Lea hypothbses prinoipales pour lee frais de pepinieres:
1 ha of nursery for 14 ha of rice cultivation;                                                                           I ha de pepiniere pour 14 ha de riziculture;
3,000 m3 of water/ha;                                                                                                    3.0C0 m3 d'eau A l'hectare;
37 man-days of labor; and                                                                                                37  oums-jours ds travil; et
600 kg/ba of fertilizer.                                                                                                 600 kg d'engrais.
/3  Based on the average used fer all schemes in 1976.                                                                  /3  Sur is base de la moyesne utilise, sur l'ensemble des smnnagements en 1976.
/Z(~ 10 days at CPA-F 350/day.                                                                                           /4t  10 flours, A- PPA- 3.50/jour.
2 days of carting.  The cart (CFAF 48,000) is used 60 days yearly and lasts 6 years.                                 /  2 fours de charrois.  La charrette sert 60 (ours par an et dure 6 ans
/079 sun-days of hired labor/ha at CFAF 200/man-day are required during the rainy                                       /6  79 hommes -joure par    bectare id  main-d'oeuvr e   larA-e  A  Z(20 par h s-Jour              requie
season. (39.5 man-days as an average for the year).                                                                      7                                main-dhoerasjura e  noystr
/7  17,500 m3 per cropping season at CPAF 0.98/m3 (Cost of T-ola works).                                                     pendant sa   saison de=        ulte    FCFAn  098/m3 (cout  sur l por n 'semnt de Toula))



- 67 -
NSlR                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Table 9
IRRIGATION PROJECT/AFROJRT DIIRRIATION
Agrioolt l D 1e0elcoaNt-veloapseent awi±ol.
FPe  ftdact/Rdget d. fer.
Yield/    Prod.por Prie./
Rendemest   Pr-a eu Prodoteur   Sorghc/  C0oopae/ OCno. /  To,ato.e/   Goeboe/  Other Vegetablee/  Total
Kt/ha     CFaFAP     - FCFAAgR   Boxrgho   Ni6b6      0inows   Toate.       Goeboc    Autres lUgame.   (CFAF 'o00)  CFAF/FCFA
C. Ml-ed Croppng (N -oarigiongo.)                                                                                                                                         C.  Poloultore  (N-uri-goaogo,)
(armor GO-pen mneaee                                                                                                                                                      Rev-n. btrt des ferxcer-
So-heh                            2,500            S             87.500                                                                                                   Sorgho
Coaxcoo                           1,200           45                         54,O00                                                                                       Ni6b6
Inioto                           30,000          196                                  5,880,ooo                                                                          0go.n.
Toentoan                         25,000            38                                             950,000                                                                 TorAt.e
Gbab                                700           340                                                         238,000                                                     Go-bo.
Other Onnegeblec                  1,500          i6o                                                                         240,o00                                      Autree lgoces
iarx-px-n' Ores. Incore per ba (CFAF)                          87500       54,000   5,880,000  950,000      238,000        240,OoC                                        R-soe- brut par ht  (FCFA)
A-no Under Clit-t-on (ha)                                         Io           90          10        20           20            10                                        Sope-fiAi     n nat-ee (ha)
Fix-oc-n' Urea, rIacre fi- the                                 13.125       4.860      58,800   19,000        4.760          2.4W0        1a2,-4                          Reveso btrt des ferie-rs
Area (CFAF '000)                                                                                                                                                         po-r l'escetble (FCFA'00)
F-.re' Ciltnvtt-o topens..                                                                                                                                               Frsne de pil.tr-  des fox-mcro
'bail Prepix-atien /1                                            2,007       2,007       2,007    2,007        2,007          2,007                                     P-pirptio.  do roi /1
Lood   nI ox-tag-                                                               771         771       771          771           771                                     Affimage
:tp l:o-r /2                                                      6,o0o       3,000      13,000   21,000       17,000         17,000                                     Ingxe-i /2
,cens ax- Jecdliogs                                                 640      1,350       10,000    1,200       12,800         12,800                                     S..eno.c .. plhoto
Ix-ocottoidec /5                                                              5,600               14,400                                                                 InJecotoidcie /2
nh-tatal                                                        0,647      10,720      25,77S   39,537       32,570         32,570                                       Total px-tic1
r[t-c  Latex- /4                                                            5,400       3,400    5,400        5,400          5,400                                     Mam_-d'oeao-c il1-ixi   /4
Irrigetian Water /5                                               4 410      9.510       11.760   111.60          760         11, 7to                                    Fae W0ir.d-gcti.o  /5
lox-ocx-' Oalttpatio  Eaneon..   po- ho                         f7/    25 450          4Z 93    5 5t5        49 (3F 49,730                                               P-ooo We cul-trs po- ho
loxmers' CutIaat-ot   E.x..-ot    fa- the erem (CFAF'000)      1.959       2.289         429    1.131          998            497            7,300                      Fx-iA dc palt-re pier
11'c-bele (FC3A 10001
Ca-ito1 Ro--cry Otaxgan /6 fa- the ax-s  (CFAF 000)                4,928       2,957         329       657          657           329            9,857                               re,g pit recoat (C
ox-ox-' loet I-oeoe fax  the trot (0FAF '000)                     5.113        (386)     58,042  17,212         3.108          1.574               RR                   Iltensemb ot d(C fI..n .o
la-a- Eogix-c... (t o-dao poer  ha)                                   60          45           85       92          105           105                                    Assomi eiin-0'otra
(h-.-ei-.or   -a ha)
Toth l Lnlor  oaaox-ooeonto                                     9,00        4,050         850    1,840        2,100          1,050           18,900                       aeso z  totaux en cm o-
fax- the ax-op (pin-Scyol                                                                                                                                               d'aoeure peax- 1' ononohl
(haeaci-jaari )
arx-xerx-' 3x-x-it  nox-ass pox- Non-Woy                                                                                                                   5,450        Rex-ca brut dAs  fo--iern te-
Nrxoar' Not IOa.o. Pox- Ma-doy                                                                                                                             4,54hPai setoe                    x
Forax-tlraeo6  nox-ass   x-r Firmt  honi /7                                                                                                                68,600        R.eoo  brat PAr coploatatio /7
Fzrmers' Net Incoae  P .r iarping UnAt /7                                                                                                         57,200        Reonc net per copl-ititiaa /7
Foroers'  rox-ai  Incoao  poer 0ap4 /8                                                                                                                     13,100                trot  or tAte /0
7or-eri' Not poc or Ii iti                                                                                                                                 10,900        ks±n)±ctsJt6te /a
aatniaicn                                                                                                                                                                 Oatx-cntnono
hail PrpeAreLat I /1    410/ht                                                                                                                    164                       o n          .i eI /1  410/ho
Pox-ilF  ex--   laheati     48'f                                                                                                                3,193                                 b tgriie-ctt-otaa  a 48o
Itneotix-idop - Sold at _r-m  GFAF 600/latc-                                                                                                      264                    Inecotioodec - vondan aux
(25z -eb-ody fx-m acbt I                                                                                                                                                 foir  (notacotio 251o di
Uptot  So handle 3oo                                                                                                                          22T.otal OcT d                         otbenti.o.
/1  s.e Ttbl
/' arhP-   50 kh,/ht  af -prr nid 100 kg of a-c; aO 2oxgho   50 kg/ha P0 roper et 100 Ag (ox-c.
Canaan   75 kg/ho xf sopor                                                                                                                           SAgho6   75 kg/ta  do sopor.
Tount.  150 kA  o--er, 200 kg o-ca, 100 kg hOL.                                                                                                     0gneom.150 kg dc maper, 100 kg a'arto, 100 kg KCL.
T6 eta-s ?50 A-  --     dr, 200 kg a-so,  O Ag hCt..                                                                                                 To.atcc:250 kg dWe cper, 200 kg d'ar-6, 100 kg KCL.
/   h lero  fax- coa-noa and 24 intorn for tocanoon                                                                                                 36lte   oroOt  t2   irs                     cmtn
/4  27  -n-Way   er h.  t CFAF 200/ian-diy doi.ng tho ria-y    6an                                                                                           1t2               6 t24 t-z'ha  z  PCA     .Poo r
/ 4 a,500 or7/   far sarghum, 9,500 51>3/  fax--tangonoand 12,000  3/                                                                                                        1h4A00 r3o g     9.00 o - po   o ,  t
far athor cgotntblo  it CPAF 0.9S/rn                                                                                                                12.000 mo/ha pair natre.  16gioco a FCFA 0,98/m.
'6  At C-AF -.,850/tia                                                                                                                              /6  A 6 FCFA 32 850/ha
A 0.10to    x-hx- fi_rig out.                                                                                                                        /5  A 0,10 ha p-r eapleitttat_.
x-0  tc 5.2? x-sx-x-lc pcr formtogonco.                                                                                                              /g  A FCFA 5,25 p-rconaes pox soplotntioo.



NIGER
IRRIGATION PROJECT/PROJET D' .RIGATION
Agricultural Development/Developpement agricole
Farm Budget/Budget de ferme
Per ha                                                        Total
(CFAF)                                                       198o-84
L'hetare      1980      1981       1982     1983      1984     Tot
D. Wood Plantations  (Namarigoungou)                     (FCFA)                                                                                 D. Plantations (Nasarigoungou)
Area planted per year (ha)                                          7         8         10                                                      Surface  plantee par annee (ha)
Area planted cumulative (ha)                                        7        15         17       10                                             Surface plantee cumul6e (ha)
CFAF 'OOO/FCFA '000
Income from Wood Sales                                                                                                                          Revenu des ventes de bois
1,000 trees at CFAF 1,600/tree                    1,600,000     -         -        12,000   12,000   16,000    40,000                           1000 arbres a FCFA 1600 par arbre
Wood Plantations Expenses                                                                                                                       Frais de plantation
Seedling6 and pl=rtation epense.                    188,500    1,414      1,414     1,885                         4,713                         Plants et frais d'Atablissement
Maintenance and sprinkling                           95,000       712     1,425     2,375    1,663       950      7,126                         Entretien et arrosage
Felling                                              71,500                           537       537      715      1.789                         Abattage
Total Plantation Expenses                                   2,127      2,839     4,797    2,200    1,665    13,628                              Total des frais de plantation
Capital Recovery Charges /1                                   247        493       822      575       329     2,466                             Charges pour recouvremnt de I'investissement
Wood Plantations Net Income                                      (2,374)   (3,332)    6,381    9,225   14,006    23,906                         Revenu net des plantations
/  CFAF 32,850/ha.                                                                                                                              /h  32,850 FCFA l'hectare.



NI6LE
IrRIGATION PROJECT/PROJET D'IRX(IGATION
Agricultural Development/Developpement agricole
Farm Budget/Budget de ferme
1977
(Without
Praject/
Sans le                                      Total
Projet)      1980      1981       1982      1980-82
(CFAF 'OOO)/(FCFA '000)
E.  Rainfed Development (Namarignungou)                                                                              E.  Developpement en cultures seches (Namarigoungou)
Farmers' Gross Income                                                                                                Revenu brut des fermiers
Incremental Crop Production (tons)                                                                                 Production agricole (tonnes)
- Millet                                                           260       860      1,460                          - Mil
- Sorghum                                                           50       160         280                         - Sorgho
- Coweeas                                                          (Co)    (Wo)         (160)                        - Niebe
Value of Incremental Crop Production (CFAF '000)                                                                     Valeur de la production agricole supplementaire (FCFA '000)
- Millet (CFAF 32/kg)                                           8,300   27,500       46,700    82,500                - Mil (FCFA 32/kg)
- Sorghum (CFAF 32/kg)                                          1,600    5,100         9,000    15,700               - Sorgho (FCFA 32/kg)
- Cowpeas (CFAF 45/kg)                                          (2Z700)  (5,900)    (7 200)  (15.800)                - Niebe (FCFA 45/kg)
Total Value of Incremental Production                    7,200   26,700         ,500    o2,400                       Valeur totale de la production agricole supplementaire
Farmers' Cultivation Expenses  (CFAF '000)                                                                           Frais de culture des fermiers  (FCFA '000)
Additional Agricultural Equipment Amortization /1                     70       140         140       _               Amortissement de le6quipement agricole supplementaire /1
Fertilizer                                                                   1,810       3,530      5,340            Engrais
Insecticides /2                                                                390         640      1,030            Insecticides /2
Total Farmers' Incremental Cultivation Expenses             70    2,340        4,310      6,720                      Total des frais de culture  supplementaires
Farmers' Incremental Net Income                                     7,1       2-4,6o-44=90         .6 0o=            Revenu net supplementaire des fermiers                                          '.
Farmers' Incremental Gross Income per Farming Unit                                 CFAF 16,200                       Revenu brut supplementaire par exploitation au stade de plein
at Full Development (1982) /3                                                                                        developpement (1982) /3
Farmers' Incremental Net Income per Farming Unit at                                CFAi 14,700                       Revenu net supplAmentaire par exploitation au stade de plein
Full Development (1982) /3                                                                                           developpement (1982) /3
Farmers' Incremental Gross Income per Capita at Full                               CFAF   3,086                      Revenu brut supplementaire par tete au stade de plein
Development (1982) /4                                                                                                developpement (1982) /4
Farmers' Incremental Net Income per Capita at Full                                 CFAF  2,805                       Revenu net suppl6mentaire par tete au stade de plein
Development (1982) /4                                                                                                developpement (1982) /4
Subsidies                                                                                                            Subventiono
Additional Agricultural Equipment -Sold to farmers at CFAF 3,000/unit                                  804          Materiel agricole supplementaire - Vendu aux fermiers a
(70,%' subsidy from cost of CFAF 9,916/unit)                                                                        FCFA 3000/l 'unite (subvention de 70 % pour un coat de FCFA 9916/1'unit6
Fertilizer - Sold to farmers with 48,% subsidy                                                      5,411           Engrais - Vendu aux fermiers avec une subvention de 48 %
Insecticides - Sold to farmers with 25% subsidy                                                        343          Insecticides -  Vendus aux fermiers avec une subvention de 25 %
/1  Basic equipment amortized over rice cultivation, additional equipment                                                 /1  Materiel agricole de base amorti sur le budget de'riziculture,
required amortized over 6 years.                                                                                          l1Aquipement supplementaire est amorti sur 6 ans.
/2  4.5 1/ha on cowpeas.                                                                                                  /2  4,5 1/ha pour le niebh.
1/3  Assuming 3,000 farming units.                                                                                        /3  Suprosant 3,0(Oexploitations.
/T  Assuming 5.25 people in the farming unit.                                                                             /_  Supposant 5,25 personnes par exploitation.
Iz 
H Oa



NIGER
IRRIGATION PROJECT/PROJET D'IRRIGATION
Agricultural Development/D4veloopement agricole
Farm Budget/Budget de ferme
No.    1981      No.       1982
F.  Livestock Sub-Project (Namarigoungou)                                                                               F.  Sous-projet 6levage (Namarigoungou)
Animals                 250                500                                                                                   Animaux
Increase in Liveweight Meat /1  (tons)                                              16                  32              Gain de viande poids vif /1  (tonnes)
Value of Liveweight Meat (CFAF '000)         at CFAF 180/kg                     2,900                5,800              Valeur du gain de viande poids vif (FCFA '000)   a FCFA 200/kg
Expenses: (CFAF '000)                                                                                                   Depenses (FCFA '000)
Green Fodder                                   Hectares                 13                 25                           Fourrage vert                                           Hectares
Plowing /2                               at (TOAF 3,0001ha                     38                   25                          72a A FFA 300/ha
Fertilizer /3                            at CFAF 18,000/ha                    225                  450                  Engrais 73                                        A FCFA 18.000/ha
Irrigation Water /4                      at CFAF 24,500/ha                    307                  613                  Irrigation /4                                     a FGFA 24.500/ha
Cost of Green Fodder Prior to Capital Recovery Charges                    570               1,138                       Coit du fourrage vert avant charges de recouvrement du capital
Capital Recovery Charges /5                                                   821                1,643                  Charges de recouvrement du capital /5
Total Cost of Green Fodder                                              1,391                2,781                      Cout du fourrage vert
Rice By-Products /6                            Tons                     90                180                           Son de riz /6                                           Tonnes
Value (CFAF '000)                    at CFAF 1.2/kg                       108                  216                      Valeur (FCFA '000)                           a FCFA 1,2/kg
Salt /7                                        Tons                      7                 14                           Sel /7
Value (CFAF '000)                    at CFAF 12/kg                         84                  162                      Valeur (FCFA '000)                            a FCFA 12/kg
Total Expenses                                                          1,583                3.159                      Total des d6penses
Total Net Income from Livestock Sub-project (CFAF '000)                         1.312_               2,641              Revenu net total du sous-p-ojet 61evage (FCFA '000)
Farmers' Net Income per Farming Unit at Full Development (1982)/8                                   31,81§              Revenu net par exploitation au stade de d6veloDDement final (1982)/8
Farmers' Net Income per Capita /9  (CFAF)                                                            6,061              Revenu net par tete /9  (FCFA)
Subsidies                                                                                                               Subventions
Fertilizer (CFAF '000)                                                                               413                Engrams (FCFA '000)
/1  700 g per day per animal for 90 days.                                                                               /1  700 g par jour par animal pour 90 jours.
/7  Every 2 years.                                                                                                      /P  Tous lea 2 ans.
/3  300 kg of urea and 150 kg of superphosphate.                                                                        /3  3500 kg dmur6e et 150 kg de superphosphate.
11T 2,500 .3 at CFAF 0.98/in3.                                                                                          /7  2.50o m3 A FCFA 0,98/m:~'.
/5  CFAF 32,850/ha/season.                                                                                              /5  FCFA 32.850 par hectare par saison de culture.
/7  4 kg per animal per day during 90 days.                                                                             /7 4 kg par jour par animal pour 90 jours.
/7  0.3 kg per animal per day during 90 days.                                                                           /7F  0,3 kg par jour par animal pour 90 jours.
/7  Assuming that  83 farming units participate.                                                                        /7  Supposant que 83  exploitations participent.
/9  Assuming 5.25 people in the farming unit.                                                                           /g  Supposant 5,25 personnes par exploitation.
cr



- 71 -
ANNEX 7
NIGER
IRRIGATION PROJECT
Namarigoungou Irrigation Works
A.        Constraints to Development Under Traditional Irrigation
1.        Farmers traditionally sow rice in July and harvest it in March-
April. The Niger river floods are supposed to provide the water supply
to replace rainfall after it stops in September. The main physical con-
straints to the development of traditional irrigation are the following:
(i) The river floods do not completely meet the demand for water
requirements. In September the average monthly rainfall
is 70 mm, 1/ while rice requirements for the month can be
estimated at 270 mm (Annex 8, Table 1). Although the
river level starts rising in August, it reaches only the
lower polders in September, those located at an altitude
of less than 3 m over the riverbed. In Niamey in September
the floods of the Niger River reach, on the average, an
altitude of 2.72 m, and 2.36 m with an eight to ten year
frequency. In October the floods, on the average, reach
3.0 m, but it is too late.
(ii) Very often the water level in the lower polders rises too
fast. Between August and September when the lower polders
get submerged, the rise of the water level is 3.6 cm/day
in an average year, and 4.9 cm/day in the one/ten year flood.
Both measures are in excess of the speed usually tolerated,
3 cm/day, for floating rice.
(iii) The maximum height reached by the river level on the lower
terraces usually exceeds the limit for high yielding
varieties. For instance, the limit of flooding for the
D 52-37 variety, which yields 2.5-3.5 tons of paddy per
ha, is 0.5-0.6 m, while flooding in Niamey on the lower
terraces varies between 1.64 m on the average in August
and 3.76 m on the average in February, and can even reach
4.16 m in February in a one to ten year frequency.
(iv) Rice-eating fish are a natural pest.
1/   The rainfall exceeds 30 mm 8 years out of 10.



- 72 -
B.         Improved Irrigation System
2.        The first irrigation works, starting in 1954, comprised essentially
the construction of a dike around the polder equipped with gates and fish
screens. These works could slow down the speed of the rising flood, limit
flooding somewhat, and protect rice against fish.
3.         However, under local conditions these works have the following
deficiencies:
(i) They do not help 'bridge the gap between rainfalls and the
river high water levels;
(ii) The height of flooding still exceeds the limits for high
yielding varieties, and the lack of natural drainage still
makes harvesting f-rom boats necessary; and
(iii) These works do not allow double cropping.
4.         Because of the above deficiencies, and also as a political choice,
since Niger has limited irrigation potential and intends to use it to its
fullest, schemes built according to the above model are being reconditioned.
5.         Variations on the above system have been introduced, with the
equipment of the schemes with: pumps, simplified irrigation networks and
construction of bunds to limit the quantities of water pumped.  However, the
oversized irrigated lots (due to the insufficient irrigation network and
limited number of bunds) and the lack of land levelling, required enormous
volumes of pumped water per ha, and did not reduce the height of flooding in
the schemes, which still exceeded (0.5-0.8 m) the limit for high yielding
varieties. These schemes are also being reconditioned.
6.         The only schemes now being considered in Niger are those with
full control of the water level and land levelling. Such schemes comprise,
in addition to the dike, pumping stations for irrigation and drainage,
complete irrigation and drainage systems, and land levelling and bunds along
contour lines.
C.         Proposed Works for the Namarigoungou "Polder"
7.        Main Technical Characteristics.  A first feasibility study was
prepared in 1972 by Consultants Carlo Lotti for the construction of a scheme
of the simpler design. Following Government's policy decision on the subject,
a new feasibility study for a scheme with full water control was prepared by
SOGREAH in 1974 with FAC financing.  The following are the characteristics of
the system proposed in this project.
(i) Area: The Namarigoungou polder (1,550 of total net area)
would be divided irnto two perimeters of equal size. Of



- 73-
the 1,550 ha, 1,350 ha would be under rice and 150 ha
under mixed cropping; 25 ha under fodder crops and 25 ha
under eucalyptus.
(ii)  Dike:  Because the southern perimeter of the Namarigoungou
polder is protected by the island of Darbani, which acts
as a natural dike, the length of the dike compared to the
area protected is the smallest of all existing polders.
The dike would average 7.7 ml/ha compared to 20 ml/ha in
Toulas and the volume of 3earth moved for the dike would be
120 m compared to 363 m /ha in Toula. The dike would be
11.6 km long and 3.0 m high. It would be built for the
1:100 year frequency flood as derived from statistical
observations over the period 1962-1974. At the location
of the pumping station furthest upstream (SPI) the levels
for various frequencies of floods would be as follows:
Flood frequency                  1:20         1:50         1:100
Water level before diking    205.38         205.46       205.52
Water level after diking       205.83       205.93       206.05
Freeboard                        0.60         0.60         0.60
Crest level of dike            206.43       206.53       206.65
Because of the small cost supplement (about 1%) over the 1:20 year
frequency, the 1:100 frequency was selected. The width of the dike
has been fixed at 3 m and the dike will be covered with a layer of
compacted laterite of 10 cm. Geotechnical tests have shown that the
slopes of the dike should be 2.5 horizontal to 1 vertical. The
southern part of the dike would be equipped with a flap gate for
gravity drainage when the river waters are low.
(iii)  Pumping Stations.  There will be two pumping stations; each serving
a separate district and equipped with 4 vertical axial electric
pumps each. All pumps are identical with a discharge of 600 1/sec
and a maximum manometric head of 6 m. The intakes of the pumping
stations will also permit withdrawing water by gravity during the
Niger floods. During the floods the lowest pumping station SP2
would also be used through gated devices to drain water from the
scheme back to the river. A 31 km long, 20 KV high tension line
connecting the 2 pumping stations to Tillabery is also included
in the project. At peak irrigation periods the pump would operate
16 hours per day.



- 74 -
(iv) A complete irrigation netork: including 27 km of primary
and 36 km of secondary canals: 1/
-  The network for rice irrigation would be designed for
2.8 1/sec/ha, on the assumption that the maximum
continuous requirements would be 1.86 1/sec/ha on a
continuous basis, and that farmers would irrigate a
maximum of 16 hours per day.
-  The network for mixed cropping irrigation would be
designed for 2 1/sec/ha on the assumption that the
maximum continous requirement would be 1 1/sec/ha
and that farmers would irrigate the plots under
mixed cropping only during the daytime (12 hours),
since mixed cropping cultivation is more delicate
than rice cultivation. The plants would be grown on
the beds between two furrows.
-  Permeability tests carried out by SOGREAH
determined that a significant length of primary and
secondary canals should be concrete lined because of
permeability and construction considerations. Since
the exact amount of concrete lining cannot be deter-
mined prior to negotiations, project costs include
the lining of 100% of primary and secondary canals,
but assurances would be sought at negotiations that
concrete liniLng would be done only where technically
justified. The criteria to be used to decide
whether concrete lining would be justified would be
agreed at negotiations.
-  Concrete lining would be 9-15 cm thick at the bottom
of the canals and 7-12 cm on the sides.  Primary and
secondary canals would be built for most of their
length on land fills (2703m of fills per ha for the
south perimet:er and 202 m for the north perimeter).
(v) A network of tertiary canals. The tertiary canals would be
spaced every 200 m and their length could reach up to 700 m.
Their discharge would vary between 20 and 40 1/sec and they
would control irrigation blocks of up to 14 ha.
1/   The corresponding ratios are 18 ml/ha and 24 ml/ha, respectively.  Ihese
are relatively high.



- 75 -
(vi)  A drainage network designed for 1.2 1/sec/ha:  Using as much
as possible the natural network of the existing streams,
and connected to a channel of the Niger River, which would
have been cut off by the construction of the dike. Because
there is more natural drainage in the southern perimeter,
more drains wolld be dug in the northern perimeter (85 m /
ha versus 43 m /ha). The density of the drains would be
identical in the two perimeters (71 ml/ha).
(vii)  A network of tracks along the dike and along all primary
and secondary canals, and transversal tracks every 3-4 km:
These would be laterite-covered.
(viii)  Land levelling including:
- clearing and de-stumping;
- plowing at 30 cm (a subsoiling had been recommended
by the feasibility study but should not be carried
out since it would risk increasing the subsoil per-
meability);
- land levelling without filling (motorgrader), and
land levelling with filling (bringing in earth with
motorscraper or bulldozer) in the areas of the perim-
eter along the edges; and
- building contour bunds so that there is not more than
15 cm of difference in the ground level in the same
plot.



- 76 -
ANNEX 7
Table 1
NIGER
IRRIGATION PROJECT/PROJET D' IRRIGATION
Namarigoungou Irrigation Works/Ouvrages d'Irrigation de Namarigoungou
Quantities of Main Works/Quantites des ouvrages principaux
1.  On-farm Works                                         1. Am6nagements a la parcelle
Clearing                       1,750 ha                  Debroussaillage
Deep plowing and                                          Sous-solage (0,35 m) et
surfacing                   1,350                         surfacage
Levelling between                                         Nivellement compris entre
750 and 2,000 m3/ha            700 ha                     750 et 2000 m:3/ha
Bunding                     568,000 m                    Diguettes
Tertiary irrigation                                       Canaux d'irrigation tertiaires
canals                      75,000 m                      (arroseurs)
Tertiary drain canals         84,000 m                    Drains tertiaires
2.  Earthworks on Irrigation                              2. Terrassements
and Drainage Systems
Excavations                                               Deblais
- Irrigation canals        58,000 m3                     - Canaux d'irrigation
- Drainage canals         225,000 m3                      - Canaux de drainage
Earthfills                  504,000 m3                    Remblais
(of which for dike)        (340,000) /1                   (dont pour la digue)
Roads along canals            79,000 m                   Pistes de circulation le long
des canaux
3.  Concrete Works                                         3.  Ouvrages en betons
Concrete                       1,750 m3                    Betons
Reinforced concrete              350 m3                    Beton arme
Steel for reinforcement           65 T                    Acier pour armatures
Concrete lining             165,000 m2                     Revetement en beton
(between 9 and 15 cm)                                      (entre 9 et 15 cm)
/1  Earthfills for the main canals                    /1 Les remblais des canaux principaux
adjoining the dike are included in                   adjacents a la digue sont inclus
that figure.                                         dans ce chiffre.



- 77 -
ANNEX 8
NIGER
IRRIGATION PROJECT
Water Demand
1.        Total irrigation requirements for doubie cropping of rice in the
Tillabery region are estimated at about 31,000 m /year (Table 1), requiring
a network capacity of:
1.86 1/s/ha on a continuous basis (24 h/24 h);
2.8 1/s/ha when pumping 16 h/24 h.
2.        Total irrigation requirements for double cropping of maize and
cowpeas in the mixed cropping areas of the Tillabery region are estimated at
14,000 m /year, requiring a network capacity of:
1 1/s/ha on a continuous basis;
2 1/s/ha when pumping 12 h/24 h.
In this case irrigation is difficult at night and would entail much higher
losses.
3.        These water requirement estimates are comparable to actual ex-
perience on the existing schemes.



NIGER
IRRIGATION PROJECT/PROJET D'IURRIGATIoN
Water Demand/Demande d'eau
(Measured by Blaney-Briddle Modified Method/Mesur6e par is mthode du Blaney-Briddle)
November
June 10-30   JU1y 1-5   Ju1y 6-31   August    September    October           1-10       Total
Juin 10-30   Juil.1-5   Juil.6-31   Ao6t          Septembre    Octobre   Novembre
A. Water RNquiremeots for Rice                                                                                                                              A. Besoins en eau pour le riz
During the Rainy Season                       --------------------n----------e/day/ha-o/jour/ha            -------------------------------------            durant la emison des pluies
1.  Submersion (150 om)                               6           6                                                                                          1. Submersion (150 m)
2.  Seepage                                           2.2         2.2          2.2        2.2          2.2         2.2         2.2                           2. Pertes per infiltration
E7.1.                   5.2           3.5        b.1           5.8        7.3                                3. PTO /i
4.  Kt (Rice)                                 1.1            1.1        1.1          1.1         1.1           1.0       0.95                                4. Ki  (Rio)
5.  ET (Rice)                                         7.8         5.7          5.7        3.9          6.7         5.8         6.9                           5. ET (Riz)
Total                                      16.o        13.9          7.9        6.1          8.9         8.0         9.1                                      Total
6.  Less useful rainfall /2                          (1.1)       (2.1)        (2.1)      (3.1)        (1.0)                                                  6. Pluie efficace /2
Water require-nts in the field                14.9        11.8          5.8        3.0          7.9          8.0        9.1                                 Besoins en eau a la parcelle
Water requ1rementa at the pumping                                                                                                                           Besoins en ean a la station
station /3                                   15.0 /4    11.8 /4        7.7        4.o         10.5        10.7        12.1                                  de pompage /3
Water requirement  lI/e/ha (24h/24h)            1.74       1.37         0.89       o.46         1.22        1.24        1.40                                Bemoins en eu I/s/ha (24h/24h)
Water requirements I/s/ha (16h/24h)             2.61       2.06         1.34       o.69         1.83        1.86        2.10                                Besoio  en eau 1/s/ha (16h/24h)
B. Water Requiremente for Rice During the          Dec 11-31    Jan 1-15   Jan 6-31    February  March             April      MEL                           B.  Remain  so el      rsr
Dry Season                                  DOc 11-31    Jan 1-15   Jan 6-31    F6vrier   Mars               Avril      Mai                                 dursot is MMsorsrh
1.  Subeeroino  (150 m)                               6           6                                                                                          1. Submersion (150 am)
2.  Seepage                                           2.2         2.2          2.2        2.2          2.2         2.2         2.2                           2. Pertes par infiltratiom
3.  ETO /1                                    6.3            6.6         6.6          7.3        7.0           6.5        6.6                                3. ETO /1
4. Ke (Nice)                                   1.1           1.1         1.25         1.25       1.25          1.1        1.0                                4. Ke (Ric)
5.  ET (Rice)                                         6.9         7.3          8.3        9.1          8.8         7.2         6.6                           5. ET (Riz)
Total                                      15.1        15.5         10.5       11.3         11.0          9.4        8.8                                      Total
6.  Lees nsefa1 raInfall /2                           -           -            -          -            -           -           -                             6. Fluie efficace /2
Water requirements in the field                15.1        15.5         10.5       11.3         11.0         9.4         8.8                                Besaime en san a la parcelle
Water requirements at the pumping                                                                                                                           Beaoins en eau A la station
station /3                                    15.7 /4    16.1 /4      14.o       15.1          14.6        12.5       11.7                                  de pompago /3
Water requirements 1/s/ha (24h/24h)             1.82        i.86         1.62       1.75         1.70        1.45        1.36                               Besoins en eau l/a/ha (24h/24h)
Water requirements l/s/ha (16h/24h)             2.73        2.79         2.43       2.63         2.54        2.18        2.o4                               Besoine en eau 1/s/ba (16h/24h)
/1  ETO.  Evaporation of a green grass area, 8-15 cm high.                                                                                                 /1  Evaporation d'une surface de matiers verte haute de 8-15 cm.
/2  100l   of rainfall of 0.2 frequency.                                                                                                                   /I  100 % de le plnie dane  mne friquence de 0,2.
/3  With a 752 efficiency.                                                                                                                                     Aver efficiencs de 75 %.
/4  Using the Van de Goor-Zyljstra formula to compensate the losses through evaporation in the parts of the perimeter already                                  En utili,sant is formule de Van de Goor-Zyljstrs pour compenser
underwater.                                                                                                                                                le; pertee d'6vaporation dans le pAristro dejA seubaergh.



NIGER
IRRIOGATION PROJECT/PR0JET WI'R0IGATION
Total                     IDA              EFO
1978         1979        1980          1981          1982                19 78- 1982                 F.nantiug        Financ ing
------------ FAF '000-------------                               CFAF '00s0$ '000                    00$ '000         us$ '000
Oqooeeted  ella196,300                                              294 40                                                 490.700              2,000           1,400              60              nqolsnsn-    libcna'
Opraig  nene                                                        232,400       163,000       70,000                     465,400              1,900           1,330              50700           Gn4es d'oper-tloh
Labo  and ataf                                           0,0100     2235,00       240,000      140,500                     611,000              2,490            1,750             740             Selai-r
Supplies                                                57,800      i45,600        37,300                                  240,700                980              680             3 00ouilre
Pumping 'st.cIung                                                   104,800        59,200                                  164,0001~              670             470              200             0ttoada Ppompag
20 kv Iitne Ieos Tiliab-ry                                          100.000       24.000                                  12400                  500              360              100             Ligne ds 20 IF ds Tillab-ry
Sob-total Irrigation W-rba                      226,100   1,100,700        523,500      215,500                   0,091,800              8.000            1,990           2,560                    SocIta   urae              irigation
Loa  atff slre                                         6.000        6,000         4,000        6,000        6,000         30,000                120              00               30             Salairsa.do peraaa. Iot-l
Enporriae  "',f -,-aioo                                 14,008       34,000        34,DO0       34,000       34,002        130,000                610              430             100             Oelair.. do   - . pe -one  e,p-rr
io...iruct...                                            8,000        9,100                                                 17,100                 70               50              20             toet-ttl..s
OrbIris,                                                 2.00         2004000                                                                      20               10              I0             vibtenlss
gob-total n-r-ci-n                                30,000       51,100       40,000       40,000        40,000       201,100                820              500              240                   Doeitli-ati.n
Adaioiirgtiva and Finantia1 S-vin..a                                                                                                                                                                 Sacitac adainslt-tifs et0
Lorel crft  ene                                          3,200       14,000        15,400       16,000        14,000        64,200                260              180               80            Salai-e  dn p--   IIe local
npg-ia-r ateff acaia17,500                                           41,600        41,000       41,800       4D,000        104,700                750              530             220             Salaire  do p--sane  eap-tie
Conste-tion oi buildings                                39 000         7,300                                                46,300                190              130               60c.. tansri.nt.n
Eqoiproent                                              11,800        2,8000                                                14,200                 68               40              20             Oqolpemen
Vabhrlss                                                 5,400         67,60        .2.          850          2,00         113,01000               50                8dt -bttia
Adninto-raivr and indi-eoe-p's...e                       9.4200      26.70        2.0            850          650          1110500                                _350             1_5(0          DOOprcr   dccseie   ntdrne
Sub-tcotgi Adcini-trti-e and Pina..ial
ISeetrs                                         80,700      101,000        05,400       86,300        83,100       443,500              1,010            1,270              540                    ea-odsrisada. at fiaaaieea
.sariaabecai' eealanast ssrviiaa                                                                                                                                                               Services du d-I.elormsot as-     e
Local staff salaries                                    18,700        3710          7,700       40,300        43,300       176100~                720              510              210             -ai-icne do.rersonne  l..al
Conatrotion of buildiegs                                              29,200       21,200                                   50,400                200              140               60              on-trurtion
Rq0l ee60,400                                                        17,000O       31,600                                  189200                 440              310             130                cpent
Vebirle,                                                               340            000       17.200                      214.40                 90               60              30             Orbiru
Oub-tota1 Agri-alt-rl 3e-  Se-                   80,100        81,700       91,500        60,500       43,300       357,100               1,450           1,020              430                   Sosfea  srln'  do 4  d.v-lapp-sastaree
Sareort UnIt                                                                                                                                                                                         Onirh d'seo
fepariare ataff oularO-                                 20,000       .50,400       30,400       50,400       50,400        221,600                900              630             270             Salaice        - do .p..e.ce   xpatrid
tonst-ttl_ of buildings                                              32,900                                                 32,900                140              100               40            Cen..etoctions
Vebirlec                                                               3.800                                                 3.0800                20               iS               10            V4hitules
Sob-rot1 Support Unft                             20,000       87,100       50,400        50,400       50,400       258,380               1,068             740              320                   Soe-ualacr  dasewal
1sls  s 2'v vils                                                                  3,20                                      3,200                 20               10              10             .ot   a. dsox villae
Village belikl                                                                      2,700                                    2,700                  10              10                             pbar'saie de village
Triin    f Piret Aid vourIe760                                                              080          60             53010                               -70                 38            For,atioc d .   ... acoaiste  da village
Sob-told1 Hsaltb imp onset and Training                                     13,500        10.900        6.000        30 ,200                030               90              40                    gone-tota
rtcs deeslopeoser                                  ~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~65,000  41,300  22,000              129,liO                530              370              160              vap etrtae
tainfed deoelop ..nl                                                   9,200        8,600                                   17,800                  70              50               28             OSevaloppeetenna lures ..s..bh..
LIvestock enbprcJ-t                                                   15.300        8.900                                   24,200                158               78               30              ospjtevg
Snb-eona1 Ag. Eqoip's.ot and  nrI---ta1
Input's                                                        90,300       58,000        22,000                     171,100                700              480             218                    so--tota1  pinp-t,es  agrinas et int-et. sappI1.alairs'
lgrMiealtar'   PraJsets Cees'di'star                                 24c35m        24,,oo       24,5733,50D                                       300              300              -               llssnrdlaat.sr d's' PeeJet. a    ea
A.ditnO p-ojeat aee..-ts                                               1,606 00  i6o             i,6o          i600          6,400                 200              10               iS             Aedit des captas d's pej'st
Sp.. elali's'  ses"itiag esre.es                         6,600         3,7500       1,8oo                                   11,90                  50               40               10             8s.-ieis'  d's eesltaeta
Uabea-Ea'fsba f'ssibility 'sEdy                                                   1290012.000                                                     570              3716o                            Etd's d's faetibilith  d's Gblso-B'efsba
5ab-tors1Ot016c                                  27                                                         -0       m                                                                              Sog-leClt d8ver
O... cet IEtinate                                78,308   1,541,788    108, 02 880       511,T00      227,200    3,778,900               11,428          10,900            4,520                    C.aot. do base rertea fgt
Fbysi-1 Conticasen.is's U/                      _g3           210,0        12,8           680          5,0   , 1 2482,40                  1, 970          1,590              588                    T 0p-.n physiq.e. j/
Prica Onarsase's                    0148~~~~~~~~~~08  283.888  108208      0.0         12f1.010       89.29.0                               2700Agnealad'prm /
Total Repented CosE of frej-i                   187,000   2.035,000   1,428,8080        726.800       871,000    5,160,800              21,000           15,000 , ~        6,000  2/-ote colac  prea'
±1  157 . on 8ic-igattoccrk  ecd 107, en eb   es717 sn  le  uvng    d'irri gation  et 107. au  I.  el.                                                                                                                                                                            15
51  1879   8%; 1879 . 7.57.; and 1980-82   177./  1878 = 82; 187       .5;tn 1880-82 e 77,.
5/72. 0DA - 302 IfFW.
0001 -CRAP 242.
0841 U 010.50.



80 -
ANNEX 9
Table 2
NIGER
Namarigoulgou Irrigation ProJect/Projet d'irrigation de Nan*arigoungou
Coastruction of Irrigation Works/Construction des ouvrages d'irrigstion
CFAiF 'OO0/FCFA '000
1978         1979        1980        1981         Total
A. irocurement of Equipment and Vehicles /1                                                                                A. Achat de metriels et 'Ihicule. /1
1. For earthnoving                                 140,700      211,000      -            -          351,700               1. Pour terrassement.
For concrete works                              21,600        32,500      -            -           54,100               2. Pour ouvrages en beton
For supervision and maintenn.ce                 34,000        50,900 -                 -          84,900                3. Pour 1s surveillance et l'entretien
Total Equipment and Vehicles              196,300       294,400 -                 -         490.,700                       Total materiels et vehicules
1. bper-ting Expensee                                                                                                      B. Couitt  d'exploit-tion
1. Fuel and Oil 12                                                                                                         1. Carburants et lubrifiants /2
For earthoving                                             71,000      49,600      21,000      141,600                    - Terras.emente
- For concrete works                                        13,000       9,500       4,500       27,000                    - Ouvragem  en beton
- For mopervision and maintenance                           38,000     26.          11.600       76.300                    - Surveillance et entretien
Subtotal                                                122,000      85,         37,100      244,900                       Total partiel
2. Spares and Consumables                                                                                                  2. Pigces d6tachiee et connommables
- For earth-oving                                           78,000     54,500       23,100      155,600                    - Terrassementt
- For concrete works                                         4,400       3,100       1,300        8,800                    - Ouvrages  n beton
- For -opervimion and maintenance                           28.000     19.600        8,500       56,100                    - Surveillance et entretien
Subtotal                                                110,400     77,200       32,900     220,500                        Total partiel
Total B - Operating Expenses               -            232,400    163,000       70,000     465 400                        Total couts d'ecploitaticn
C. Ibior or.d Staff                                                                                                        C. Cadres et main-d'oeuvre
1. Expatriate staff /3                                          125,500    135,000       95,500      356,000               1. Ex atriee /3
2. Local civil servants                              2,000        8,000      10,000       5,000       25,000               2. Fonctionneiree locaux
". Local technical staff                            _            30,000      35,000      15,000       80,000               3. Personnel technimue local
4. Temporary CAsUAl Labor                           -            60,000      60,000      30.000      150,000               4. Main-d'oeuvre tesporaire
Total Labor and Staff                       2,000       Z23,500    240,000      145,500      611000                        uot oal mann-d'oeuvre
D:. Supplies                                                                                                               D. Fournituree
1. Cement 4                                         11,900       51,200      -            -           73,100               1. Cmnt4
2. Stee/5                                            3,500        8,300      -            -           11,800               2.
3. Wood for forms and miscellaneous /6              '0,100       33,600      13,400       -           67,100               3.  oi de coffrage  t divers /6
4. Hydro-mechanical equipment /7                    12,300       28,700      -            -           41,000               4.      ielhydro-mecauique /7
5. Supplien from sA11 local contractors /6          .            23,800      23,900       -           47700                5.                    chero   /6
Total Supplies                             57,800       145,600     37,300        -         240,700                        Total fournitures
K. <uop-rg Stations /8                                                                                                     F. Stations de pompage/8
Civil 1.,ks (cluding taxes)                                   79,800      34,200       -          114,000                  Ganie civil lTTC1
Eqoipment /9 (free of taxes)                     .            25.000      25,000       -           50.000                  Mat6riel (HT) /9
Total Pumping Stations                      .           104.800     59,200        -         164,000                        Total stations de pompage
F. 20 KV H.T. Line from Tillabery to
Namarigoungow /tf /10 iincluding taxeS)              ..          100,000      24,ooo       -          124,000           F. Lig   20 KV. Till.bery-qam.rigou.gu
0 ,/d  % TTC,
Total Cost of Works                                   206,100    1,100,700    523.500       219 4/f- 2 n09n 8rn            Cout total des travaux
1Smlvsge velom of eo,invent)                                                                            (135,000)         (Valeur rediduelle do mater:iel)
P. Add:
Phynic-l Contingencies at 10%                                                                                              A ajouter:
Pri"                                                                                        I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MPr6vus et divers 10%
Price contingencies                                                                                                        Rviciions des prix
i See details io Appendix 1 to Table 2.                                                        /1 Voir details da.n  I-Appendice 1 de 1x Table 2.
.2 Cs-oil free of tax price per liter                  CFAF 57.8                               /3 Gas oil hore taxe (HT)
Oil     free of tax price per liter                  (FAF 322                                    Huiles (HT)
Benoine  includiog taxes                             CFAF  97                                   Easence tane. comprises (TTC)
/3 See details in Annex 11, Table 3.                                                             /3 Voir d6tails dane Aenexe 11, Table 3.
/  Cement: 3,050 tons at CFAF 23,950/ton (free of taxee).                                        /l Ciment: 23.950 FCFA 1l tonne (ST) (35.000 FCFA T1TC)
/5 Steel: 94,000 kg at between CFAF 123 per kg (free of taxes) and 156.6                        /  Acier: 94.000 kg A on prix au kg variant entre 123 FCFA et 156.6 (HT)
/I ocluding taxes.                                                                              /6 TTC.
/3 Hydro-mechanical equipment: gates for irrigation corks and for                                /7 Mat6riel hydro-m6canique: vannes et vannettes poor ouvrages
pumping  tations (free of taxes).                                                                d'irrigstion et stations de pospage (HT)
,' To be con.tructed by contractors after International Competitive Bidding.                     /8 A construire par dee Entrepreneurs apris Appel d'offres international.
/9  Plun around CFAF 13.2 million for gates already accunted for in                              /9 Plus environ 13,2 millions FCFA pour cannes, d6ji d6comptA6 au
item D4 above.                                                                                - D4 ci-deseus.
/10 31 kn (including connection of the 2 pumping statiorm) at CFAF 4 millions                    /10 31 km (y compri raccordement des 2 stations de pompage) ai
per ku.                                                                                          4 millione   de FCFA par km.
at Febr-ay 1978.                                                                                 A. fevrier 1978.



- 81 -
AN1NEX 9
Table 2
Appendix I
NIGSR
IRRIGAIION PROJECT/PROJET D'IRRIGATION
Project Costs/CoGt du prolet
List and Cost of Construction Equipment/Liste et cout du material de construction
ITEM                                   Number                 Unit Price                  Cost                    Nature do materiel
Nombre                 Prix unit                  Cout
---------------(CFAF _0A/PCA '000)--------------
(H.T.)
1.  For Eartheovlne                                                                                                             1.  Pour terrassement
Crawler tractor of 200 hp                        1                         25.2                      25.2                       Tracteur a chenilles de 200 cv
Crawler tractor of 165 hp                        1                         16.5                      16.5                       Tracteor a chenilles de 165 cv
Agr-cultoral tractor of 80 hp                    1                           2.7                      2.7                       Tracteur agricole de 80 cv
Scrapers 150 hp (self-propelled)                 4                         22.3                      89.2                        D6capeuse de 150 cv (automotrice)
Notograders 180 hp                               3                          24.5                     73.5                       Niveleuse de 180 cv
llydraulic excavator 120 hp                      1                          22.5                     22.5                       Pelle hydraulique de 120 cv
Combheod hydraulic excavator and loador          1                          8.0                       8.0                       Combine pelle hydr. et chargeuse
Compactor type 815                               1                         23.0                      23.0                       Compacteur type 815
Roller with Grid                                 1                          7.0                       7.0                       Rouleau  tacto   grille
Clearer disks 32" offset                         1                           2.9                      2.9                        DEfricheur disques 32" "offset"
Dlsk plough, 28" disks offset                    1                          3.0                       3.0                       Pulverisateur lord disques 28" "offset"
lump truck, 5m3                                  4                          5.1                      20.4                       Camion-benne 5m3
Watertank truck, 7,000 1                         2                           4.8                      9.6                        Camion citerne eau, 7,000 1
Fuel tank truck, 7,000 1                         1                          5.2                       5.2                        Csmion citerne carburant, 7,000 1
'rcoler (for transporting equipment)             1                         18.4                      18.4                        Caoion porte engin
oatrrtark, 3,000 1                               1                          0.6                       0.6                        Citerne'a ea  (tractee), 3,000 1
ompr.-  ore                                     1                          3.0                       3.0                       Compresseu-
,..ps                                            2                           1.5                      3.0                       Pompes d'epoisemect
Vibrating Rloler                                 1                           3.0                      3.0                        Rouleau vibrant
Small Equvpmect                                                            15                        15                         Petit materiel
Sub-total No. 1                                                                                   351.7                                    Sous-total No. I
2.  For Concrete works                                                                                                           2.  Pour ouvrages en beton
Loader (on tires), 300 1                         1                          12                       12                          Chargeur sur pneus, 300 1
Dump truck. 5c3                                  2                          5.1                      10.2                       Comion benne 5m3
Flat track 5 to 6 toms                           1                          4.3                       4.3                       Camion plateau 5 a 6 tonnes
Aloto-coocrete dumpers                           3                           1.8                      5.4                       Moto-basculeurs pour beton
Co.crete batihers, 320 1                         3                           1.5                      4.5                       Betonninres, 320 1
Vibrating beam                                   8                           0.21                     1,7                        Regle vibrante
'railers                                         1                           2.5                      2.5                        Remorques plateaux
Small equipment                                                                                       8.0                       Petit mat6riel
.oratory equipment                                                                                   5.5                       Equipement pour laboratoire
Cub-total No. 2                                                                                    54.1                                   Sius-total No. 2
3.  Transport Elquipent and Workshop                                                                                             3.  Vehicules. garase et atelier
Truck for transport (15 tons)                    1                          11.6                     11.6                        Camion de service (15t)
Workohop truck                                   1                          17.9                     17.9                        Camion atelier
4-wheel drive                                    4                           2.2                      8.8                       Vehicule toot terrain   4x4
Pick-up                                          6                           1.3                      7.8                        Pick-Hp et fourgonnettes
breaks                                           2                           2.2                      4.4                       Break
Watertank (trailer)                              1                           0.6                      0.6                        Citerne a eau tractee
Fool tank (tcsiler                               1                          0.6                       0.6                        Citerne a carborant tractee
Generator 150 kva                                2                           6                       12                          Groupe electrogbns 150 kvs
Fydraulic press                                  1                           1.2                      1.2                        Presse hydraulique
Workshop equipment                                                                                   20                          Equipement atelier
Sub-total No. 3                                                                                    84.9                                    Soos-total No. 3
2/
TOTAL                                                                                             490.7                                    Total general
I,  All costs are without taxes and are based on economic conditions at end 1977.  They were derived from those
obtained for the tender for simtlar equipment for the Cameroon-Sasry II projec ./Tous le. co-ns soot bors taxes ec
soot bases sur les conditions economiques en rigueur fin 1977.  Ils ont ete deduits de ceux obtenus dans l'Appel
d'offres pour do materiel aimilai-e pour le projet Cameroun-Senry II.
21  At the end of the construction of project works, the residual value of the equipment will be about CFAF 135 million./
Quand la construction des osvrages du projet sera terminie, la valeur residuelle do materiel sera d'environ 135 millions de FCFA.



NI GER
IRRIGATION PROJECT/PROJET U'IRRRIGArION
Pro ject Co-ts/Cout doL pro (o
Statf Co-te/Salaires
(CFAF '000/FCFA '000)
Urit Co.t
Feb rary -
1978/Coats
soitai-ee                                                                                     Total
fiorior 0070        No.      1979     No.      1980     No.      1981      No.    1982      1978-1982
Direction "Office d- Am6nagemeots                                                                                                                                Direction "Office den Am.9e-ag tc
Hydr-ogri-oles"                                                                                                                                                  Hydr-geri-ales"
6,000            1       6,000    1        6,000    1         6,000    1       6,000       24,000            Directe-r
rech rAssistnt (                                   34,000            1       34 000    1       34 000    1       34 000    1      34 000      136,000            Assistant technique (eapstrie)
Nob t itan                                                             40,000            40,000            40.000            40,808     160,000                     Tot'- p' titl
Nmmarigoongoo Works Coostroction                                                                                                                                 Con-troction des o..r.Ses   de  sar,ige...geou
Engineer TP/Ilydro (expatriate)                   32,000             1      32,000    1       32,000    1        52,000                        96,000            IngEnicur TP/Hydro (eparrid)
Topo Engineer (-epatriote)                         24,000            1      24,000    1       24,000    1        24,000                       72,000             i,geniesr tops (leparrie)
Topo Techoiciorn  (o,potrietO)                     22,000            1      22,000    1       22,000    1/2    11,000                          55,000            Ingeieur g6enitre (-epatrie)
Works (1sp9rriotc)                                                                                                                                               Trav-on (eapatris)
- encrol FPoanis  (corthomoviog)                19,000            1       19,000    1       19,000    1/2      9,400                        47,500               Condoctoor terrassexenta (eapstrie)
- General Focemao (concrete)                    19,000            1       19,000    1       19,000    1/2      9,000                        47,500               Conducteur ouvragee et betons (c0patete)
- General  .oroasr.  (on-form)                  19,000            1/P      9,00      1      19,000    1/2      9,500                        38.000               Cordocteor aensagementa  la parcelle (expatrie)
Sob-toteS                                                             125,b00           135,000            95, 00                       356,000                     Total partial
Local Civil Servants                                                         8,000            10,000              5,000                       23,000             Fonctio-sair-a lesase
Lotal Technical Staff                                                       30,000            35,000             15,000                        00,00o            Personnel techniquo  local
Temporary Cancel Le-or                                                      60.000            60.000                                             .00             Mei-d'oeuv   tnporair
Sob-Lotal Na-arig-ougo- Works                                        223,500            240,000           148,500                       609;000                     Tota  partial
Admininstrtiv-  end Slionodal Services                                                                                                                          Services edzioiatratifa  at financiers
Chief Accoostan t (expaiciate)                     22,800            1      22,800    1       22,800    1       22,800    1       22,800      91,200             Chef c-mptable (reprtrie)
Attountests                                         3,000           3        9,000    3        9,000    3        9,000    3        9,000      36,000             Comptahle-
Chief Mcn-bict  (scpotniatn)                       19,000           1       19,000    1       19,000    1       19,000    1       19,000      76,000             Chef   eastr (eapatr4)
Mlchonics                                           2,000           2        4,000    2        4,000    2        4,000    2        4,000      16,000                   m astiena.-
SopporLing Stlff                                      600           3        1,800    4        2.400    5        3,O0    3         1.800       9.000            Personnel sobalterne
sob-total Adticistrativ  and Financial                                56,600            57,200            57,800           56,600      228,200                     Total partiel aervi-es adeinsitratifs et flnanciers
Agricoltourol Develooment Services                                                                                                                               Services do d6velopemeet dancels
Cbief Aricaltorxl Developmrent Servicsn             3,500           1        3,500    1        3,500    1        3,500    1        3,500      14,000             Chef den services du developpement agrirole
T,raivig Specialist                                 3,000           1        3,000    1        3,000    1        3,000    1       3,000       12,000            Spe-ialiste de formation
Heads of Irrigation Unite                           3,000           4       12,000    4       12,000    4       12,000    4       12,000      48,000             Chefs de primetre
Eit-nnio- Works - Orrigatio.                          800           13      10,400    19      15,200    25      20,000    25    20,000        65,600            Agents de vulga-isaion-   - irrigation
- Rainfed                            000           4        3,280    5        4,000     8       4.800     6       4.800      168oo00                                     - c1lto-en seches
SOb-total Agricoltural Deoelopment                                    32,100             37,700            43,300           43,300      156,400                     Total partiel developpement agricols
Sopport UOia                                                                                                                                                    Unte, d'appui
Agricraltsrant - Irrigation (expatriate)           26,400           1       26,400    1       26.400    1       26,400    1      26,400      105,600            Agronoxe d'irrigation  (eapatrie)
Agro-econoxint (expatriate)                        24,000           1       24,000    1       24.000    1       24,000    1      24.000       960ooo            Agro-e-onomiste (expatril)
Sob-tctal Tocbnic-l Assistance Unit                                   50,400             50,400            50,400           50,400      201,600                     Total partiel unite d'appui
Total Staff Sale-ien                                                 402,600            425,300          337,000           190,300   1,355,200                      Salaries Totaux
Salaries totax 'a l'eeceptian des travaux de NHamaigsougou



NIGER
IRRIGATION PROJECT/PROJET D' IRRIGATION
Project Costs/Cout du Projet
Construction /Constructions
Unit Cost/Cout unitaire                                                                                Total
Mid 1977/ mi-1977      1/            No.  1978    No.   1979   No.    1980         1981    1982       1978-1982
(CFAF '000)/(FCFA'000)                                    =---- CFAF'000/FCFA'000-----------------------
Direction                                                                                                                                                                   Direction
Director "Office" p.m. (Niamey)                                                                                                                                         Bureau de Directeur (Niamey)
Project Unit Manager House                             7,500                                          1      7,500                                          7,500       Maison du Dir. du Bureau du Projet
Utilities at 15%                                                                                             1,100                                          1.100        Utilitgs publiques I 15%
Total Direction                                                                                              8,600                                          8,600       Total direction
Namarigoungou Works Construction                                                                                                                                            Construction des ouvrages de Namariaoun-
2O0
Engineer TP/Hydro - House                              7,500                            1    7,500                                                          7,500       Maison d'ingenieur TP/Hydro
Administrative and Financial Services                                                                                                                                       Services adm. et financiers
Chief Accountant House                                 7,500                            1    7,500                                                         7,500        Maison de chef - comptable
Chief Mechanic House                                   7,500                            1    7,500                                                          7,500        Maison de chef mecanicien
Offices  -Accounting  Staff                      100 m2 @ CFAF 60,000/m2                1    6,000                                                          6,000        Bureaux - personnel comptable
- Other Staff                           100 m2@ CFAF  60,000/m2                             1      6,000                                          6,000                 - autre personnel
Garage                                           250 m2 @ CFAF 40,000/m2                1   10,000                                                         10,000        Garage
Utilities at 15%                                                                              5.800            900                                          6.700        Utilites publiques a 15%
Total Administrative and Financial Serv.                                                     36,800          6,900                                         43,700        Total services adm. et financiers
Agricultural Development Services                                                                                                                                           Service de developpement agricole
Chief Agricultural Development Services House          7,500                                          1      7,500                                          7,500        Maison du chef
Service Centre Stores                            2 of 500m2@CFAF 40,000/m2                            1    20,000   1    20,000                            40,000        Magasins
echnical Assistance _ Unit                                                                                                                                                  Unite d'assistance technique
Agronomist (Irrigation) House                          7,500                                           1     7,500                                          7,500        Maison d'agronomiste (irrigation)
Socioeconomist House                                   7,500                                          1      7,500                                          7,500        Maison de socio-economiste
Agronomist (Rain-Fed) House                            7,500                                           1     7,500                                          7,500        Maison d'agronomiste (cult. seche)
Utilities at 15%                                                                                             4,500                                          4,500        Utilites publiques h 15%
Training Center Rehabilitation                   100 m2 @CFAF 40,000/m2                                1     4,000                                          4,000        Reamenagement du centre de              H N>
formation
Total Technical Assistance Unit                                                                             31.000                                         31,000        Total unite d'assistance technique  I M
Total Constructions                                                                          44,300         74,000         20,000                         138,300        Total cot.Jtructions
I/  For base cost February 1978, 6% was added./ Pour le coot de base de fevrier 1978 on a ajoute 6%.



NIGER
IRRIGATION PROJECT/PROJET D IRRIGATION
Project Costslcoat do Proiet
Equipment  /      Matgriel
Unit Cost
Mid 1977                                                                           Total
(CFAF'000    No.    1978    No.   1979   No.    1980          1981      1982    1978-1982
Namarigoungou Works Construction                                                                                                                             Construction des ouvrages de Nasriacunno
Included in Construction Costs                                                                                                                               Cospris dans les coufts de construction
Adsinistrative and Financial Services                                                                                                                        Services admoinistratifs et financiers
Office Furniture                                        1.300       1      1,300   1       1,300                                       2,600                 Mat6riel de bureau,
Office Machines                                         1,300       1      1,300   1       1,300                                       2,600                 Equipement de bureau
Safe                                                      200       1         200                                                        200                 Coffre-fort
Garage                                                  8,000       1       8.000                                                       ,                    Garage
Subtotal Administrative and Financial Serv.                               10,800           2,600                                      13,400                 Total partiel des services adminsitrat1fs et ft- t
Aericultural DeveloPment Services                                                                                                                            Services de developpement agricole
Livestock Sub-project included in Table                                                                                                                      Sous projet 6elevage dans  ic tableau
Rice Research                                             57,000       1      57 000                                                     57,000              Recherche rizicole
Rice Seed Multiplication                                  16,000                        1    16,000                                      16,000              Multiplication des semences du riz
Tillabery Rice Mill (Rehabilitation)                   30,000                                      1       30,000                     30,000                  Rizerie de Tillabery  (Rehabilitation)
Subtotal Agricultural Development Serv.                                   57,000          16,000           30,000                    103,000              Total partiel de service de d6veloppement agricole
Health Sub-Project                                                                                                                                           Sous-proiet sante
Wells for the two new Villages                                                                                                                                Poits pour les 2 nouveaux villages
@CFAF 50,000/meter x 30 th                                                _                     2        3.000 .33,000                                          a FCFA 50.000/metre x 30 mstres
Total Equipment                                                                           18,60033A000                               119,400                  Total de l'equipement
1/ For base cost February 1978, 6% was added./ Pour le cout de base de fevrier 1978 on a ajoute 6%.



NIGER
IRRIGATION
Project Costs/Cout du Pro1et
Vehicles  /  Vehicules
Unit Cost
Mid 1977  1/                                                                                   Total
(CFAF'000)     No      1978   No.    1979   No.    1980   No.    1981   No.    1982    1978-1982
Direction                                                                                                                                                              Direction
DireCtor "Office" - Light Vehicle                          1,900      1       1,900                                                                 1,900             Directeur de l'Office - vehicule 16&.
Project Unit Manager - Light Vehicle                       1,900                       1     1,900                                                  1,900             Direct. du projet - vehicule leger
Nagsarisouneou Works Construction                                                                                                                                      Construction des ouvraRes de Namari-
(Included in Cost of Works)                                                                                                                                        goungou (com,pris dans lee coute des
ouvrages)
Administrative and Financial Services                                                                                                                                   Services Administratifs et financiers
Chief Accountant - Light Vehicle                           1,900       1      1,900                                                                 1,900         Chef Comptable - vehicule lAger
Chief Mechanic - Four Wheel Drive                          3,200      1       3,200                                                                 3,200         Chef m6canicien - vehicule 'a 4 roues .
Garage -  Four Wheel Drive                                 3,200                       1     3,200                                                   3,200        Garage - vehicule i 4 roues
-  5 ton Truck                                     4,000                   _   1     4,000                                                   4000                  - camion de 5 tonnes
Total Administrative and Financial Services                                   5,100          7,200                                                  12,300         Total des Services ad.. et financiers
Agricultural Development Services                                                                                                                                       Service de dbveloppement asricole
Chief - Four Wheel Drive                                   3,200                       1     3,200                                                   3,200         Chef - vehicule 'a 4 roues
Extension Agents motorcycles                                 200                                     4        800   1         200                    1,000        Agents de vulgarisation- motocyclettes
Marketing 12 ton Truck                                     8,000                                            -        2    16.000                    16.000        Commerci1isation - Camion de 12 tonnes
Total Agricultural Development Services                                                      3,200            S00         16,200                    20,200         Total du service de dev. agricole
Technical Assistance Unit                                                                                                                                               Unite d'assistance technique
Agronomist (itrigation) - Pick-up                          1,200                       1     1,200                                                   1,200         Agronomiste(Irrigation) - Pick-up
Socioeconomist           - Pick-up                         1,200                       1     1,200                                                   1,200         Socioeconomiste           - Pick-up
Agronomist (dry land)   - Pick-up                          1,200                       1     1.200                                                   1 200         Agronomiste cult. seche)  -Pick-up
Total Technical Assistance Unit                                                              3,600                                                   3,600         Total de l'Assistarce  technique
Total Vehicles                                                                7,000         15,900             800         16,200                   39,900         Vehicules Totaux
1/ For base cost February 1978, 6% was added./ Pour le cout de base de fevrier 1978 on a ajoute' 6%.



NIGER
IRRIGATION PROJECr
Project Cost
Administrative and Indirect Expenses/Depenses administratives et indirectes
Unit Cost
Mid 1977 1Y           1978           1979            1980           1981            1982      Total
(CFAF'0O0)      No.           No.             No             No.             No.             1978-1982
Vehicles Running Cost                                                                                                                                                      Couts de fonctionnement des Vghicules
Light Vehicles                                           1,100           2   2,200    4    4,400    4    4,400    4    4,400    4    4,400              19,800          Vehicules legers
Four Wheel Drive                                         1,900           1   1,900    2    3,800    2    3,800    2    3,800    2    3,800              17,100          Vehicules a 4 roues
Motorcycles                                                  60                -               -       4       200    5       300    5        300          800          Motocyclettes
lubtotal Vehicles Running Cost                                               4,100           8,200          8,400           8,500           8,500       37,700             Total Partiel des Vehicules
Vehicles Spares                                                                                                                                                            P14ces detachees
30% of Preceeding                                                            1,200           2,500          2,500           2,600          2,600        11,400           30% du pricedent
Utilities                                                                                                                                                                  Utilites publics
CFAF 300,000 per House                                      300          5   1,500   13    3,900   14    4,200   14    4,200   14    4,200              18,000           s FCFA 300.000 par maison
Building Maintenance                                                                                                                                                       Entretien des Batiments
3.5% of Cost                                                                 1,600           4,100          4,800           4,800          4,800        20,100           3,5% du coiut
Office Supplies                                                                                                                                                            Fournitures de bureau
CFAF 15,000 per Employee                                     15         18      300   30       500   45        700   50       800   55        800        3,100           a FCFA 15.000  par employe
Rice Multiplication Operating Expenses                                                         6,000          6, 6-       06,Q 6,000                      24.000          Depenses de Fonctionnement pour le
multiplication des Bemences riz
Total Administrative and Indirect Expenses                                   8,700          25,202                         2_6 900         2           114,300    De penses Administratives et indirectes
Totales
1/  For base cost February 1978, 6% was added./ Pour le coat de base de fevrier 1978 on a ajoute 6%.                                                                                                                i
SM



NIGER
IRRIGATION PROJECT/PROJET D' IRRIGATION
Project Cost/Coat du Pro jet
Agricultural Equipment and Incremental Inputs/Equipement agricole et intrants supplementaires
Unit Cost/Coat unitaire
Mid-1977/mi-1977   2/                                                                                     Total
(CFAF)   /(FCFA)           No.  1978   No.  1979    No.   1980    No.   1981   No.    1982                1978-1982
---                       CP------- ---------CFAF'OOO/PCFA '   -00-0 -----------------------------------
Rice Cultivation                                                                                                                                                                  Riziculture
Basic Units 1/  - Number                                                                   80            125            125            125                                    Unitd de base 1/_ Nombre
- Value                          CFAF 34,878/Unit                              2,800          4,400           4,400           4,400        16,000                             - Valeur
Oxen             - Number                                                                  80            125            125            125                                    Boeufs            - Nombre
- Value                          CFAF 120,000/Pair                             9,600         15,000          15,000          15,000         54,600                             - Valeur
Carts            - Number                                                                  20             20             20             20                                    Charrettes        - Nombre
- Value                          CFAF 71,000/Unit                              1,400           1,400          1,400           1,400          5.600                             - Valeur
Urea Incremental Tonnage                                                                  635            240            120                                                   Tonnage suppl. d'uree
- Value                          CFAF 70/Kg                                   44,500         16,800           8,400             -          69,700                                             - Valeur
Insecticides Incremental Liters                                                         4,760         1,800             940                                                   Litres  suppl. d'insecticides
- Value                          CFAF 800/Liter                                3.800           1.400            800             -            6.000                                            - Valeur
Subtotal Rice Cultivation                                                                       62,100         39,000          30,000          20,800       151,900           Total partiel Riziculture
Rain-Fed Development                                                                                                                                                              Developoement de la culture en seche
Attachment for toolbar  - Number                                                                         170            170                                                   Attachement au multiculteur
- Value                 CFAF 9,916/Unit                                               1,700           1,700                         3,400                             - Valeur
Super phosphate incremental Tonnage                                                                       40             38                                                   Tonnage supplementaire de super-             0
- Value                 CFAF 90/Kg                                                    3,600          3,400                          7,000           phosphate                          - Valeur,
Urea Incremental tonnage                                                                                  36              34                                                  Tong  sup.du|
- Value                 CFAF 70/Kg                                                    2,500          2,400                          4,900          Tonnage suppl. d'ure- Valeur
Insecticides Incremental Liters                                                                       1,080             720                                                   Litres suppl. d'insecticides
- Value                 CFAF 800/Liter                                                  900             600                         1.500                                           - Valeur
Subtotal Rain-Fed Development                                                                                    8,700          8,100                         16,800          Total partiel
Livestock Sub-Pro ject                                                                                                                                                            Sous-projet elevage
Tractor                                            CFAF 6,000,000                                          1    6,000                                          6,000           Tracteur
Fertilizer                                                                                                         900             900                         1,800           Engrais
Oxen                      - Number                                                                       250             250                                                   Boeufs            - Nombre
- Value                 CFAF 30,000                                                   7,500           7,500                        15,000                             - Valeur
Subtotal Livestock Sub-Project                                                                                  14,400          8,400                         22,800           Total Partiel de I ltevage
Health Sub-Project                                                                                                                                                                Sous-pro et sante
Village Health Kits                               @ CFAF 30,000
per Farmer Group                                  82    2,500                                          2,500           Pharmacie de village
1/ Arara toolbar, plow and hoe.
2/  For February 1978  base cost of 6% was added./ Pour un cout de base de fevrier 1978 on a ajoute/ 6%.                                                                     1/ Multiculteur, charrue, houe.
mx1



0IGER
IRRIGATION PROJECTI rOJET D'IRRIGATIOI:
Project Cost,Cout du projet
Training Programs - Audit - Visiting Consultants Programmes de formation - Audit des conctes - Honoraires den consultants
Unit Cost
mid-1977'                  -----------------------------_CFAF '000 FCFA '000---------------------------
coot uni-
taire mi-                                                                                           Total
1977 (CFAF)                No.  1978   No.   197   No.    1980   No.   1981   No.   1982    17ot1982
A.  TraininE Programs                                                                                                                                                           A. Programmes de formation
lnst ht Tr lainn rogram                                                                                                                                                       Programme de formation des forgerons
Inecstrutor's Salary - D Level                           420,0OO0                                               1        4cc   1      40cc    1     400       1, 200           Salaire do Omniteur - niveau D
Blacksmiths' Subsistence, Transport                      CFAF 500/day (40 days)                                 5        100  10      200   10      200         500            Frais de nourriture, transport des forgerons
Blacksmiths' Equipment                                   180,000                                                                                  1             !1E.pmn                        foge.
Sub-total Blacksmith Training Program                                                                            1,90         2,40o0)        2.4c        6200                               Prog.amc dc fo.-ation
forgerons
Other Technical Training (mechanics. satermen)                                                                          2,000       4.000          4.000      10,000           Autre formation technique (mcaniciens,
Total Technical Training Programs                                                                                3.4°°        6,400          6,400      16,200                 Total  formation technique
Training of Farmers' Delegates, Farmer Accountants,                                                                                                                            Fomation des repr6sentants des feris, des
and Shepherds                                                                                                                                                                 cFoptableo  ay           des bouviers
Subsistence                                              CFAF '50/day (50 days)                                82      1,500  82   1,500                       3,0Co           Friai  de6n2r  tret
Transport                                                                                                                500          500                      1,000           Transport
Pedagogical Equipment                                                                                                    700          700                     1,400            Equipement p6dagogique
Agricultural Training Equipment                                                                                          700         800                       1,500           Equipement de formation agricole
Aountant Tr  andg ofheperds- Delogates,Frmer                                                                       40         3'5°°°                      1,900                Totsl formation des repr6aentante des
Accoustants and Shepherds                                                                                                                                                      fermiers, des comiptables paysana et des
bouviers
Training of First Aid Volunteers
.,u, ~~~~~~~~.ntg  Aid Volunteers ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Formation des secouristes de village                                                                                           e
Sbsiost                                                  CFAF 350/day (15 days)                                41        200  41      200                        400           Frais de nourreitwue                              I
Transport                                                                                                                100          100                        200           Transport
Miscellaneous                                                                                                            100          100                        200           Divers
Training of First Aid Volunteers                                                                                    400          400                        800                 Formation des secouristes
Total Training Programs                                                                                         ±7?290 ......                      .... 23 30Q                 Total progr ammes  de formation
B. Audit of Project Accounts                                                                                  1,500          1,500         1,500         1,500       6,o0o      B. Audit des Comptes
C.  Visiting Consultants for Namarigoungos                                                      6,000         3,500          1,700                                  11,200       C. Honoraires de consultants pour la construction
Cons5truction.                                                                                                                                                                  de amadAriggou
D.  Feasibility Study (Gabou Bonfeba).  Etude de factibilit (bou Bonfeba)
Topography at 1/5000 an 5,000 ha                          CFAF 7000/ha                                                 35,000                                                .          opographie A lacibit     aur 500o ha
Soils Classification on 6,ooo ha                          CFAF 3500/ha                                                 21,000                                                    Eotude des sola sur 6,      00 he
Factibility Study  1% of Project Cost                                                                                  47,000                                                    Etude de factibilit6  1% do cout do projet
(Project Cost 2,370 ha x CFAF 2 million   CFAF 4.7 billion)                                                                                                                      (Codt do projet 2,i 70 hn x Fout 2 millions
(CoFA  d,7 milliards)      xFCA    mllo
Other (gravity primary canal to Namarigoungou)                                                                         15,000                                                    FCFA 4,7   pilliardi)
gravitaire de Nasmarigoungou)
Total Feasibility Study                                                                                       122,000                                                          Total Atude de factibilit6
1/  For base cost February 1978 6% was added./Pour us cout de base en fevrier 1978, on a ajout4  6%.
'0



- 89 -
ANNEX 9
Table 10
NIGER
IRRIGATION PROJECT
Project Cost
IDA Disbursement Schedule
IDA Fiscal Year                   Cumulative Disbursement
and Quarter                         at End of Quarter
(US$' 000)
FY 78/79
3rd Quarter                                  500
4th Quarter                                1,000
FY 79/80
1st Quarter                                1,500
2nd Quarter                                2,000
3rd Quarter                                3,500
4th Quarter                                5,000
FY 80/81
1st Quarter                                6,500
2nd Quarter                                8,000
3rd Quarter                                9,000
4th Quarter                               10,000
FY 81/82
1st Quarter                              11,000
2nd Quarter                               12,000
3rd Quarter                               12,500
4th Quarter                               13,000
FY 82/83
1st Quarter                              13,500
2nd Quarter                              14,000
3rd Quarter                              14,500
4th Quarter                               15,000



- 90 -
ANNEX 10
NIGER
IRRIGATION PROJECT
Construction of Irrigation Works by Force Account
1.        The high cost of irrigation works in West Africa is due to two
factors:
(a) the increasing degree of sophistication of the irrigation
design;
(b)  the increase in the unit costs charged by the contractors.
2.        Increasing Degree! of Sophistication.  Annex 7 showed that the type
of design for the irrigation schemes in Niger has rightly evolved from a dike
with a flood gate, to a minvimum distribution network, to a system with movable
pumping stations, to full water control with pumping and land levelling. 1977
costs of these different types of schemes would be:
- from CFAF 400,OOC to CFAF 700,000/ha for the dike with
flood gate;
- from CFAF I million to CFAF 1.5 million/ha for partial
control of the water level and movable pumping stations;
- from CFAF 2.3 million to CFAF 3 million/ha for the recent
schemes with full water control and pumping.
3.        In addition to the greater security of production and the higher
benefits for farmers, the schemes with full water control, despite their high
cost per ha, have similar economic returns to those of the least sophisticated
schemes because they make possible double cropping at high yields.
4.        The following table compares the cost of the most recent and most
comparable scheme, Toula, with the three schemes to be built in the "polders"
under this project.



- 91 -
Toula  Namarigoungou   Daibery    Yelewani
Net area (ha)                          260        1,500          357          120
Cost per ha (CFAF '000 - 1977 Terms)
(Actual)
Dike                                   580          193          750          640
Pumping stations (including
electrical equipment)                197         232          490          803
Irrigation and drainage networks  1,400           1,625          990        1,105
Land planing, tertiary distri-
bution and drainage system           435          360          290          262
Tracks, miscellaneous                   /1           /1          120           81
Total                          2,612        2,410        2,640        2,891
/1   Included in preceding items.
Except for Toula, for which the figures are actual costs updated
to 1977, the figures for the other schemes are estimates, which in the case
of Namarigoungou would be modified by the change in specifications studied
as part of the detailed engineering study.
5.        The unit cost of 5 projects (up-dated to mid-1977) have been com-
pared:
Niger       - Namarigoungou, SOGREAH study, 1974, estimate
of cost by contractors;
Niger      - Toula, actual costs of contractors SFEDTP
and SATOM/SNGTN, April 1974;
Niger      - Konni, actual costs of contractors SATOM/
SNGTN, October 1976;
Mauritania - Gorgol, SCET estimate based on Dagana, Senegal;
actual costs + 20% to take into account the
distance;
Senegal    - Recent bids for an irrigation project in the
Senegal delta.



- 92 -
6.        The results for Namarigoungou, Toula and Konni are summarized below:
Namarigoungou    Toula             Konni
1. Land moving, filling   Normal             Normal           50% to 100% greater
than Toula
2. Concrete and steel      Overestimated    Normal            30% to 40% greater
by 20%                             than Toula
3. Concrete lining of      Overestimated    Normal            N.A.
canals                  10-30%
4. On-farm Works           Slightly          30% to 100%      N.A.
Underestimated   greater than
Namarigoungou
7.        From the following comparisons it can be concluded that:
(a) Contractors are not accustomed to do on-farm works and
tertiary networks.
(b) The available unit costs for Konni are much higher than
those for Toula. Since Konni is the latest scheme built,
it can be expected that contractors would base their
offers on these prices. Since Konni is about 400 km from
Niamey and Toula less than 100 km, the Konni costs could
justify only a 10-20% price differential.
(c) Prices obtained in Senegal are some 30% below those for
Toula.
8.        In light of the fact that there is limited competition among
local contractors, and that there is a substantial backlog in Niger for
civil works (especially roads), the tendency to higher construction costs
will most likely accelerate.
9.        This can only be prevented by:  increasing the advertising for
the works to be built over the next few years, building up the capabilities
of the smaller contractors, and developing capabilities to do the works on
force account within a number of government agencies. This would be one
of the reasons for the establishment of the "Office National
des Amenagements Hydroagricoles."



- 93 -
ANNEX 11
NIGER
IRRIGATION PROJECT
Organization and Training
1. The "Office National des Amenagements Hydroagricoles"
1.01      It was shown in Annex 2 that Government had decided to create an
"Office National des Amenagements Hydroagricoles" to (i) overcome the de-
ficiencies of "Genie Rural" and UNCC; and (ii) regroup under the same agency
the construction and management of irrigation schemes. The "Office" would
also introduce the principles of farmers' organization described in this
annex.
1.02      Government requested FAC financing for a study of the statutes
and organization of ONAHA. The study was completed in November 1977,
but its recommendations have not been approved by Government or IDA. IDA
has been requested to finance another study by consultants under a project
preparation facility. The recommendations of the study should be available
for the negotiations of the proposed project. The consultants will also
determine the requirements for technical assistance, taking into account
the number of local rural engineers available, and will propose a training
program and a schedule to phase out the expatriate technical assistance.
1.03      ONAHA would be responsible for engineering and construction of
irrigation works and agricultural development on the schemes and the rainfed
holdings of scheme participants.
1.04      ONAHA could eventually cover some 200,000 ha of irrigated land.
ONAHA would be set up with central headquarters in Niamey which would be
responsible for general policy, planning and studies, and branches where major
investments are planned. These local branches would be responsible for the
implementation of the investment programs and agricultural development in
their areas of jurisdiction.
1.05      The organization chart for ONAHA is attached to the present annex.
1.06      The articles of agreement creating ONAHA would incorporate the
dispositions of Law No. 60-28 of May 25, 1960, referred to in Annex 2,
and would, in particular, ensure that formal contracts be signed between
Government and ONAHA for management of the schemes, and that farmers' right
to occupancy be guaranteed by leases.
2. Farmers' Organization
2.01      The organization of farmers in the schemes should be given greater
attention than in the past, so that eventually all schemes would be managed



- 94 -
Government meet its goal of increased food supply, and assuring a greater
chance for recovery of Government's investment in the schemes.
2.02      The organization of farmers on the schemes should be evolutive,
with ONAHA's directive invoLvement being progressively replaced by the
cooperatives as they assume greater management activities. In the first
few years ONAHA would be responsible for the procurement of services (ex=
tension, credit, water, coLlection of credit, marketing of crops), for
which farmers would pay whoLe or part; and the farmers would be responsible
for the allocation of these services amongst themselves.
2.03      At the same time a number of problems would need to be solved:
- land reallocation,, its impact on the populations;
-  indoctrination and motivation of farmers to join the
scheme;
-  teaching of irrigation methods;
-  grouping of farmers.
To help solve these problems, which basically are common to all schemes,
ONAHA would be given a support unit, staffed with appropriate specialists.
2.04      The progressive transfer of all management activities to farmers
should be done under the guiLdance of a union of cooperatives or a recognized
cooperative body, which would transfer onto new schemes the experience
learned on older ones and would support the newly-formed cooperatives with
the network of the already-f-ormed cooperatives.
2.05      The organization of the farmers would therefore require that
in the first years ONAHA be responsible for the procurement of services to
farmers, and assist in solving the initial problems of farmers' settlement
with a specialized support unit. All management activities would be pro-
gressively transferred to farmers, with farmers being regrouped into co-
operative units, and the cooperative units being guided and supported by a
broader union of cooperatives.
2.06      Farmers would be organized in the smallest groups compatible witlh
the physical management of t:he schemes. Since water application for rice
cultivation is shared between 10 farming units cultivating 5 ha altogether,
groups would be made up of 10 farming units each. These farming units
would co-opt themselves on t:he basis of inter-individual affinities in a
process similar to the "bogu" (Annex 2). The number 10 is small enough for
the group to escape the cont:rol of the traditional chieftains and corres-
ponds to the smallest number for water application, and could serve to
establish the basis (which cloes not exist at present) for financial
solidarity for credit repayment.



- 95 -
2.07      Since the average village's population 1/ is 400, comprising some
80 farming units, the village would be made up of some 8 farmers' groups,
represented at the village level by a delegate in each group. The village
would have one paid farmer accountant keeping the books for the 8 farmers'
groups. In the case of Namarigoungou (1,550 ha net area, 3,000 farming
units) there would be 300 farmers' groups represented by 300 delegates. The
books would be kept by 40 farmer accountants. The Namarigoungou villages
would be regrouped into three zones.
3. Farmers' Training
3.01      Besides farmers' training conducted as part of the normal exten-
sion work, and in addition to the training of technicians and health
volunteers, there are three types of farmers who would receive specialized
training under the proposed project: the delegates of farmers' groups, the
farmer accountants keeping the books for the farmers' groups, and the
herdsmen. The work expected of these farmers and their training require-
ments are listed below:
Number                 Work                      Training
Delegates   1/10 farmer units  Teaching of irrigation              Training (cul-
techniques, procurement and    tivation, irri-
distribution of inputs and       gation, mainte-
equipment of farmers' groups   nance), notions
and control of irrigation        of organization
Farmer       1/80 farmer units  Keep farmers' groups accounts  Notions of ac-
Accountants                      for credit, marketing, water   counting
charges
Herdsmen    1/80 farmer units  Training of draft oxen and          Technical
teaching of use of ox-drawn
equipment.
3.02      The delegates would be trained on their lots for a 5 month period
with no subsistence allowance. Farmer accountants and shepherds would alter-
nate training in Tillabery and training in their villages for a total period
of 5 months. It is assumed that 50 days would be charged to the project for
their training. Cost of subsistence and training is at Annex 9, Table 9.
Altogether, about 400 delegates, 90 farmer accountants and 90 shepherds would
be trained. Teaching would be done by ONAHA staff.
1/   Or "quartier" for the big villages.
4. Training in Technical Skills



- 96 -
4. Training in Technical Skills
4.01      The proposed project includes funds for the training of a number
of artisans in basic skilLs, and for providing them with some equipment.
Since the needs have not yet been quantified, the number of people to be
trained and their specialities have yet to be determined. This project
component could address itLself to the training of small civil engineering
contractors, mechanics, watermen, etc., and could follow the training of
blacksmiths outlined below, which has been fairly successful in Niger and
Mali.
4.02      The Blacksmith Training Program.  The first step would be to miake
an inventory of the number of blacksmiths in the project area and their
capabilities, and to enlist the participation of the various villages to
determine which blacksmiths should be trained first. The staff member
responsible for the program would himself have participated in blacksmith
training courses, either :in Niger (Maradi) or in other countries (Mali-Mali-
Sud area) for a period of about six months.
4.03      The courses wou:Ld comprise:
(i) construction of proper sheds, training in the proper use
of blacksmiths' equipment;
(ii) fabrication of :improved traditional blacksmith tools;
(iii)  teaching brazing, tempering, fabrication of plow parts
and spares, and small equipment used on the irrigation
schemes;
(iv)  teaching some eLements of management.
The courses would last 40 days and would be broken up into a number of pe-
riods. At the end of the courses the blacksmiths would be given some equip-
ment which they would repay over a 3-year period at the going interest rate
and without subsidies. Twenty-five blacksmiths could be trained under this
program.
5. Monitoring and Evaluation
Objectives
5.01      In broad terms the objectives of monitoring the project's perfor-
mance would be to design and operate an information collection system whiLch
would help to identify issues or problems of implementation and operation.
This would serve the project as a management tool for both operational and
policy decisions.



- 97 -
5.02      The information system would supply project management with key
indicators to ensure that the project meets its development objectives. Ef-
ficiency of project implementation would be measured in respect to standards
of performance in terms of targets set at appraisal.
5.03      Ongoing evaluation of problems of project implementation and
operation would allow project management to adapt the project to changing
objectives and circumstances.
Design of the Data Collection System
5.04      The support unit of the project Agricultural Development Services
would be responsible for design and operation of the monitoring and evalua-
tion system. The design would include selected summary indicators, showing
project progress, both at farm and project levels, in the following fields:
- investments, both physical and costs of infrastructure
and equipment;
- agricultural inputs and outputs;
- operation and maintenance of irrigation and drainage
systems;
- irrigation water management;
- reimbursements of farmers' credits;
- project cost-recovery; and
- the socioeconomic impact of the project.
5.05      IDA would review both the design of the system before it becomes
operational and the form of presentation.



- 98 -
ANNEX 11
Appendix 1
NIGER
IRRIGATION PROJECT
Terms of Reference for the Engineering Consulting Firm
Special Clauses
I.   Objective of the Bidding.  General Features of the Project.
Administration Organization.
Objective of the Bidding
1.1       The Government of the Republic of Niger decided to call for bids
from various engineering consulting firms to provide technical assistance
to implement the Namarigoungou Irrigation Project, for which a joint IDA/KFW
credit has been negotiated.
General Features of the Project
1.2       The above mentioned project includes the following components:
(a) Construction of a protection dike and irrigation and drainage
networks (including on-farm works) in the Namarigoungou cuvette
along the Niger river (about 1,500 net ha) located about 30 km
upstream of Tillabery;
(b) Farmers' training and management of the irrigation perimeters
in the Tillaberry and Tera arrondissements and of the
Namarigoungou perimeter during the course of its development;
(c) Improvement of health conditions in the perimeters mentioned
in paragraph (b) above;
(d) Training of Nigerien staff, farmers and artisans;
(e)  Construction of infrastructure and purchase of equipment
to implement the project; and
(f)  Preparation of a feasibility study for the Gabou-Bonfeba
cuvette (about 3,300 net ha), located directly upstream
of the Namarigoungou cuvette.
1.3       The technical assistance necessary to accomplish objectives (c)
and (f) of paragraph 1.2 above, is not included in this call for bids.



- 99 -
Technical features of the Namarigoungou Cuvette Irrigation Works and Methods
of Executing the Works
1.4       The works envisaged for the Namarigoungou cuvette are the following:
(a) a protection dike against the Niger River floods, 12 km
long and 3 m high on the average;
(b) two pumping stations, equipped with electric vertical axial
pumps. A 22 Kv power line will be built from Tillabery to
Namarigoungou under the supervision of NIGELEC.
(c) complete networks of irrigation and drainage canals and tracks.
(d) on-farm works, including land clearing, land levelling,
construction of bunds and irrigation and drainage ditches.
1.5       Maps and detailed engineering for the execution of these works,
based on a scale of 1/2000 for the irrigation and drainage works, and 1/500
for the pumping stations, are available. They were drawn up in 1977 by con-
sulting engineers SOGREAH.
1.6       Works (a), (c), and (d) above would be implemented by force account,
with all the necessary equipment (the purchase of which was provided for under
the project). Works (b): pumping stations (civil engineering and electro-
mechanical equipment) as well as the provision of the hydro-mechanical equip-
ment for all the irrigation works under the project will be done by contractor,
under the supervision of the staff responsible for project implementation.
Technical assistance by the engineering consulting firm is required for all
the works (a) through (d) of paragraph 1.4 (i.e., the execution of works by
force account and the supervision of works done by contractors.
Administrative Organization
1.7       The Government of Niger is on the verge of establishing an Office
National des Amenagements Hydro-Agricoles (ONAHA) to carry out studies and
works on the schemes, and to handle training and management of the irrigated
perimeters. ONAHA, whose central office will be located at Niamey, will
theoretically be operational before end 1978.
1.8       An ONAHA Regional Office will be set up at Tillabery, and its in-
stallation and operating expenses for four years will be financed under the
IDA/KFW credit. The Regional Director, who will be a Nigerien, will be in
charge of all project activities, as described in paragraph 1.2 above. The
Regional Office at Tillabery, which will require the technical assistance
of the engineering consulting firm, will comprise:
(a) Equipment Services, within which a Namarigoungou Studies
and Works Division;
(b) Agricultural Development Services, which will cover the
entire Niger River Region;



- 100 -
(c) Equipment Garagte (TPO and agricultural) and Regional Repair
Shop;
(d) Administrative and Accounting Services.
1.9       The Regional Director, who hierarchically will only be responsible
to the General Director oF ONAHA, will be directly responsible for all the
services in his Regional Office, which will, however, be supervised by and
receive technical guidance from the corresponding services at ONAHA's central
office.
II. Personnel to be Recruited from the Engineering Consulting Firm
General
2.1       The personnel to be recruited from the engineering consulting firm
will fulfill executive responsibilities, and consequently will be fully in-
tegrated into the services of the Regional Office at Tillabery.
Personnel Required
2.2       The personnel required are as follows:
(a) Regional Office
-    The Technical Adviser to the Regional Director
at Tillabery, who will, in particular, be
responsible for the execution of the project
financed by IDA/KFW, as well as for the expa-
triates provided by the consulting firm.
(b) Namarigoungou Studies and Works Division
-    1 TR/TP/Hydraulic Engineer, Chief of the Division
-    1 Engineer-Topographer
-    1 Topograhical Technician
-    1 Foreman : Earthworks
-    1 Foreman : Works
-    1 Foreman : On-farm Works
(c) Agricultural Development Services
-    1 Agronomist (irrigation)   ) Both will be Deputies to
) the Chief of the Agricultural
) Development Services (who will
) be a Nigerien).
-    1 Agro-Economist



- 101 -
(d) Garage and Repair Shop
-    1 Chief Mechanic, Garage and Repair Shop Chief
(e)  Administrative and Accounting Services
-    1 Chief Accountant, Chief of Administrative and
Accounting Services.
2.3       In total, 11 expatriates are required; the approximate duration of
their employment is given in the attached Table I (approximate total: 35.5
man-years). The total duration of the project is four years (from 1979 to
1982).
Responsibilities and Qualifications of the Personnel to be Provided by the
Engineering Consulting Firm
2.4       The Technical Adviser to the Regional Director at Tillabery
(a) Responsibilities: As indicated previously, he will be the
Deputy of the Regional Director of ONAHA, and will primarily
be responsible (under the authority of the Regional Director
of course) for the execution of the project financed under the
IDA/KFW credit. He will, moreover, supervise the activities
of all the expatriates provided by the engineering consulting
firm selected.
(b) Qualifications. He should have at least 10 years' experience
in the design, execution and management of irrigation schemes,
preferably in Sahelian Africa, where he will have proven his
technical ability and his skills in organization, extension
work, and management of irrigation projects. He should,
preferably, have a degree in Agronomy or Rural Engineering.
2.5       TR/TP Hydraulic Engineer
(a) Responsibilities: He will be Chief of the Namarigoungou
Studies and Works Division, and as such, should:
-    finalize designs for the construction  of irrigation
and drainage networks and hydraulic structures;
-    organize and superintend works done by force account;
-    supervise the construction of pumping stations (which
will be done by contractor); and
-    supervise the preparation of surveys, detailed estimates
of quantities for each type of work, basic production
cost data, etc.



- 102 -
(b) Qualifications: He should have at least 5 years' experience
in the study and execution of irrigation schemes, preferably in
Africa. He will have a degree in Rural Engineering/or Rural
Works/or Public Works, or in Hydraulic Engineering.
2.6       Engineer-Topograher
(a) Responsibilities: He will be in charge of all the topograhical
work necessary to implement the Namarigoungou works: supple-
mentary maps, sitings, surveys, etc. If necessary, he will
be assisted in his task by the Topographical Service of
ONAHA's Equipment Services, which will monitor the quality
of his work.
(b) Qualifications: At least 5 years' experience in implementing
irrigation schemes. He will have a degree from a school for
Engineer-Geometers or for Topographers, or possibly, will be
a senior topographical technician.
2.7       The Topographical Technician will assist the Engineer-Topographer
and should have at least 5 years' experience in performing the topographical
duties to implement irrigation schemes.
2.8       The Three Foremen
(a) Responsibilities: They will be responsible for the works to
be implemented by force account in the irrigated schemes in
the Namarigoungou cuvette.
-    The first (No. 1) will be responsible for the construction
of earthworks (dike, irrigation and drainage canals, access
tracks);
-    The second (No. 2) will be responsible for the construction
of concrete (or masonry) works in the irrigation and drain-
age networks. In addition, he will supervise the execution
of civil engineering works done by contractor for the two
pumping stations;
-    The third (No. 3) will be responsible for the execution of
on-farm works (land clearing, land levelling, construction
of bunds, and digging irrigation and drainage ditches).
(b) Qualifications: The three foremen should, in particular, be
qualified in the execution of irrigation works by force account,
and should be especially experienced in the use of heavy earth-
moving equipment and other heavy equipment. The foremen should
have at least 10 years' experience in the execution of this
type of works, at least 5 years of which should be in the
execution of works by force account.



- 103 -
2.9       The Agronomists
(a) Responsibilities: They will assist the Chief of the Agricultural
Development Services (a Nigerien Agronomist/Manager) in training
farmers, management of the schemes and assisting cooperatives
in all the perimeters in the administrative arrondissements of
Tillabery and Tera.
-    The Irrigation Agronomist will be primarily responsible
for agricultural development: selection of crops, systems
of production, organizing and setting up seed programs,
agricultural extension, etc.
-    The Agro-Economist will assist in setting up and monitoring
programs to create and develop cooperatives, in the execu-
tion of rural economic studies, socio-economic surveys, etc.
(b) Qualifications: The two Agronomists should have at least
5 years' experience in their specialties, preferably in
irrigation projects in Sahelian Africa. They should have
degrees in agronomy.
2.10      The Chief Mechanic
(a) Responsibilities: He will be Chief of the Public Works and
Transportation equipment garage, and responsible for agri-
cultural equipment, as well as for the Regional Repair Shop
at Tillabery.
(b) Qualifications: He should have at least 10 years' experience
in the repair and maintenance of heavy public works and
transportation equipment. He should have a degree from a
professional school.
2.11      The Chief of the Administrative and Accounting Services
(a) Responsibilities: He will be the Chief of the Administrative
and Accounting Services of ONAHA's Regional Office. He will
be, in particular, responsible for keeping accounts of commit-
ments, cash flows, and payments approved by the Regional Director.
(b) Qualifications: He should have a degree in accounting, with
at least 10 years' experience in the financial administration
of important development projects. He should likewise be
well versed in administrative questions (personnel manage-
ment and general administration) relative to such projects.
Detailed Curriculum Vitae
2.12      Detailed curriculum vitae will be provided for each of the 11
expatriates proposed by the engineering consulting firm, which will give,
among others, complete information on:



- 104 -
their degrees and professional qualifications;
their experience in the areas required, with details about
the projects (or parts of projects) for which they have
been responsible;
evaluations by the administrative authorities for whom
these projects were executed;
etc....
Special Responsibility of the Expatriates Recruited
to Train their Nigerien Counterparts
2.13      Whether they fu:Lfill executive responsibilities such as Chief of a
Service or Division, or whether they serve as technical advisers, the expa-
triates provided by the engineering consulting firm should devote a consider-
able portion of their act:ivities to training the Nigerien counterparts under
their jurisdiction. This very important aspect of the expatriates' role
should not be neglected. Experience in training will be an important selec-
tion criterion. The training programs will be submitted to the Association
for approval.
III. Special Clauses
3.1       Housing:  Only .5 houses, furnished and air conditioned, will be
provided free of charge to the engineering consulting firm, at Tillabery. 1/
(4 with 2 bedrooms, living room, kitchen and bathroom, and 1 with 3 bedrooms,
living room, kitchen and bathroom). In view of the close contact that he
must maintain with ONAHA's Central Office, the Agro-GR Engineer (Principal
Technical Adviser) will be authorized to live in Niamey, at the consulting
firm's expense. Utilities for the 5 houses at Tillabery (water, gas, elec-
tricity) will likewise be paid by the engineering consulting firm.
3.2       Offices - Vehicles 1/:  Offices and vehicles for the expatriates
will be provided by ONAHA, which will likewise pay the operating costs.
3.3       Payments.  The engineering consulting firm will be paid for each
month spent in the field by the expatriates seconded to ONAHA at rates which
will be negotiated in the contract and will be based on proposals made during
bidding. The monthly rates, which will be renegotiated at the beginning of
each calendar year, will include allowances, salaries and expenses during
leave, overheads, and profits for the engineering consulting firm, etc.,
excluding travel expenses, which will be reimbursed on a case by case basis
upon presentation of appropriate justification.
1/   Construction, purchasing and operating costs are provided for in the
IDA/KFW credit.



- 105 -
1.4       Possible Pooling of 2 Engineering Consulting Firms
In view of the wide range of qualifications required by the expa-
triates sought, 2 engineering consulting firms (at the most) might associate
to make a joint offer. In this case, it is expressly stated that they would
be mutually liable and that, in addition, the Agro-GR Engineer (referred to
in para 2.4 above) will be solely responsible for all expatriates provided
by the two firms under the project.
3.5       Arbitration:  An international arbitration clause will be included
in the contract to be concluded with the engineering consulting firm.
3.6       Start of Secondment:  In principle, secondment of the required
experts should begin in early January 1979.



inzpvw    F Ur7 =L NCE/=lLJ S1L  7E --C-_
Sor the Engineerin7g Consultant Firm/Pour  e _ure?u                                C 'u.es <Ii;ginieuro Csn s
lechnic=.t Assisyance rersornn/Fer on"e   'Aswistunce Tlechricue
O(I:-er.-Years)iWomsjy-s
(JKon~7ear I ~ ~re-I I ea,
197c    979    c90   15    19
l-'angeement                                                                                             Direction
Tronect *:-it M.anager                                   5/12       1                       1            Directeur .li `ureau on -ro et
aiorks Construction Section                                                                              Txecutior. es ouvrages
Torr-rograhica  Section                                                                                  Section ?i/!Wdro
r/llyc'ro  ancineer                                   5/12       1       I      1/2                      rngenieur .r/ nycro                                       F
Engineer/Topographer                                                     i      :/F                       Ingenieur topo
,'onsoraphical Technician                                         1       1     1/2                       ingenieurs tonograshe
Construction _,ection                                                                                    Section Travaux
'neat' roreman                                                                                         Cornducteur C.e trav-uy
.Site roreman (Canals)                               5/12      1       1      1/2                      Chef :e chantier (cannux)
Site Fore.rnan (on-farm works)                                7/12     1      1/2                      Chef  a_ clhantier (amAnarer.;ents terminaux)
Administrative and Financial Services                                                                    Acmdinistration/Services S61nnraux
Chief Accountant and. Acoinistrative  :i)rector          5/12                                  1  1         Chef comntable et . irecteur a:ministratif
Chief ;'ech.anic                                         5/12           1       5                           Chef mecanicien
ric-ci La-  D )eve'1o -ent Seorvce,                                                                       ,-ise en va'eur
AsTDanom  st- (irri7,t2 inc.                              2         ±5/12   1   1   '       i            Agrorore Kirrigation )H 
.,xri-ec.ro la,t                                         541.2     11                      ± 1             ra-ec-normistre                                  H e4
:                                                                               H ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~x H    '
------------~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



NIGER
IRRIGATION PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART
Ministry of Rural Development
I
"Office des Amenagements
Hydroagricol es"
I
Project
Namarigoungou Works                      Administrative and                         Agricultural
Construction                              Financial Services   |                    Development
Topographical           Construction                                           Techni cal                 Extension
Section                 Section                                                Assistance Unit            Services
World Bank - 17508






NIGER
IRRIGATION PROJECT,'PROJET D'IRRIGATION
Prices and Impact on Government Finances,'Prix et iMpact sur les finances gouvernementales
Rice and Paddy Economic Prices//Prix economiques du riz et du paddy
1978 Conetant Tez.Aft tes. constants 1978
1980-1985
A. Import Substitution                                                                                               A. Substitution d'importation
Rice FOB Bangkok                                                                                                      Riz FOB Bangkok
RD    jections - Thai 5% Broken /1                                                   422                              - Projections BIRD - Thai 5% brisures ,1
- Discount from IBRD Projections  2                                                 (127)                             - D6cote par rapport aux projections BIRD  /2
US$ 295
at CFAF 245 = uSSi                                                        CFAF 72,300                                 a FCFA 245   EUSi
FOB Bangkok - CIF Cotonou - Transport                                              8,5oo                              FOB Bangkok - CAF Cotonou - Transport
at Cotonou - Loading                                                               1,500                              Cotonou - Chargement
- Unloading                                                           1,200                                        - Dechargement
- Transit                                                             1,200                                        - Transit
- Supervision                                                            a 0                                       - Supervision
Total at Cotonou                                                       4,100                                       Total A Cotonou
Cotonou - Niamey Transport                                                       21,900                               Cotonou - Niamey Transport
Niamey - Unloading                                                                 1.400                              Niamey - Dechargement
Total Import Costs at Niamey                                          35,900                                       Coats d'importation totaux
Rice Import Substitution Price /2                                                108 200                              Prix de substitution d'importation pour le riz
Paddy Equivalent /3                                                  696                                                        Aquivalent en paddy
Tillabery - Niamey - Transport - Handling                                         (5,000)                             Tillabery - Niamey - transport - manutention
Tillabery - Factory Processing /4                                                (10,000)                             Tillabery - Usinage
Farmers to Tillabery - Transport ,5                                               (2,000)                             Fermiers - Tillabery - Transport
Paddy Import Substitution Value                                                   52,600                              Valeur de substitution d'importation du paddy
'1 October 1977.                                                                                                   /1  Oetobre 1977.
2  70% based on Niger production of 30%-100%  broken (55% discount) and of                                         /2 '0 % bas6  sur la production du Niger de 70Q, (decote 5S X)
?O%-20% broken (20% discount).                                                                                     de brisures et de 70% (avec 20% de brisures (decote 20%).
at 64.71%, which is the average ratio in Niger.                                                                1/3 A 64,71 %, qui eat la moyenne au Niger.
v  CFAF l0,kg of paddy (1977 average).                                                                             /V FCFA 10/kg de paddy (moyenne de 1977).
,_  CFAF 2 kg of paddy.                                                                                             /3 FCFA 2/kg de paddy.



NIGER
IRRIGATION PROJECT/PROJET D' IRRIGATION
Rent and Recovery Indices/Rente fonciare et Indice de recouvrement
CFAF/FCFA            CFAF '000
Mixed
Rice/       Cropping/
Riz         Polyculture  Total Project /5
(0.50 ha)  (0.1 ha)       Projet total /5
1.  Gross Value of Farm Production at Farm Gate                           216,000    680600         686100              1.  Valeur brute de la production des fermiers sortie ferme
2.  Less Production (Cash Costs)                                          (y300y°)   (3.400)         (Rr -ngm           2.  Moins costs reels de production
3. Net Cash Income                                                        135,?00    65,200         399,200             3. Revenus mon6taires nets
4.  Less Imputed Value of Family Labor /1                                 (15,000)   (2,000)        (43  4nn            4.  Mcino valeur du travail familial jl
5.  Less Imputed Value of Management /2                                   (21,600)   (6,900)         (68,700)           5.  Movis valeur de la gestion familiale /2
6.  Allowance for Risk/Uncertainty /3                                     (21..600)     (6.8-7o)     68'700)            6.  Proviaion pour risque0/incertitudes /3
7.  Rent                                                                  127,500    49,400         418,300             7.  Rente fonciare
8.  Rent as a Percentage of Net Cash Income                                    69%        76%             70%           8.  Rente fonciere en pourcentage du revenu monetaire
9.  O.M. Water Charges                                                    (17,200)   (3,400)        (17,000)            9.  Coftts d'operation et d'entretien
10.  Capital Recovery Charge                                               (32,800)   (6.60o)        (2.600)            10.  Charge de recouvrement du capital
11.  Total Direct Charges (9 & 10)                                         (50,000)  (10,000)       (136,600)/4         11.  Total des charges directes
12.  Rent Recovery Index (llt7)                                                  39%       20%                          12.  Indexe du recouvrement par rapport a la rente
13.  Public Sector Outlays (Capital + O.M.) /4                                                     3,660,000 /4         13.  D6penses du secteur public /4
14.  Cast Recovery Index (lltl3)                                                                           37%          14.  Indexe de recouvrement des couts
15.  Farmers' Income per Capita in 1982, at Full Development                                          uSt 197           15.  Revenu des paysans par tete en 1982, a plein developpement
16.  Estimated Critical Consumption Level                                                            US$  63            16.  Estimation du niveau critique de consommation (1982)
17.  Estimated National per Capita Income                                                             US$ 130           17.  Estimation du revenu national per capita
/1  For family labor requirements, see Annex 6.                                                                        /1  Pour lea besoine en main-d'oeuvre voir Annexe 6.
Valued at CFAF 200/man-day during 55% of the year;                                                                     Evalu6 a 200 FCFA/hom_e-jour, 55% de l'annee;
Valued at CFAF 100/man-day during 45% of the year; or                                                                  Evalue A 100 FCFA/homme-jour, 45% de l'ann6e; ou
CFAF 155/man-day on the average.                                                                                       155 FCFA en moyenne.
/2  10% of gross production.                                                                                           /2  10% de la production brute.
,   10% of gross production.                                                                                           /4  10% de la production brute.
/4  Discounted at 10% over 25 years.                                                                                   /'  Actualise a 10% sur 25 ans.
/   1,350 ha under rice and 150 ha under mixed cropping.                                                               /5- 1,330 ha de riz *t 150 ha do polyculture.
ru



NIGER
IRRIGATION PROJECT/PROJET D' IRRIGATION
Prices and Impact on Government Finances/Prix et impact sur lea finances du Gouvernement
(CFAF'OOo)
Average   Average   Average
1983-     1988-      1998-
1978       1979       1980     1981       1982       1987      1997       2027
I.  Cash Inflows                                                                                                                    I. Flux positif6
Farmers Direct Charges                                          38,800   77,500   155,000   155,000   155,000   155,000            Charges directes des fermiers
Inairect taxes on farmers /1                                    10,500   20,900    41,00    41,800    41,80o    41, 8o            Taxes indirectes sur fermiers /1
OPVN profits /2                                   _9,000    19,20    40,200    402o0    40,200  _ 40,2oo                           Profits de l#OPVN /2
Total Cash Tnflows                                           58,300  117,600   237,000   237,000   237,000   237,000                   Total des flux positifs
II.  Cash Outflows                                                                                                                  II. Flux negatifs                                            £
Operating and maintenance expenses                             (13,400) (26,900)  (53,700)  (53,700)  (53,700)  (53,700)           CoOts d'op6rations et d'entretien                      0
Extension and administration                                                                  (50,ooo)   (40,000)  '40,ooo)        Vulgarisation et administration
IDA credit                                                                                                                         Credit IDA
- Service charge                       (3,000)   (14,200)  (21,800) (25,500)  (27,600)  (27,600)  (26,200)  (12,400)               - Commission de service
- Amortization                                                                                        (36,800) (110,300)           - Amortissement
Total Cash Outflows              -(3,000)   (14,200)  (35,200) (52,400)  (81,30)  (131,300) 1-56,700) (2 6400)                       Total des flux n6gatifs
Net Cashflow                                (3,000)   (14,200)   23,100   65,200   155,700   105,700    80,300    20,600           Flux nets
/1 10% of farmers' rent (Annex 12, Table 2).
10% de la rente fonciere des paysans (Annexe 12, tableau 2).
/2  Estimated at CFAF 5/kg of rice.
Estimee a 5 FCFA/kg de riz.
iI >



- 110 -
ANNEX 13
NIGER
IRRIGATION PROJECT
Rate of Return Calculations
Assumptions
1.        The economic rate of return is based on the following assumptions:
(a) Rice Price. The farm gate price used for paddy in the
economic calculations is derived from the commodity
price forecasts at October 1977, expressed in 1978
constant terms. Appropriate adjustments have been made
for freight, handling and processing (Annex 12, Table 1).
(b)  Benefits.  The project would benefit all farmers culti-
vating on the irrigation schemes in the "Arrondissements"
of Tillabery and Tera. However, since the main benefi-
ciaries would be the farmers taking up cultivation on the
Namarigoungou polder, and since in the other schemes the
project would benefit from important "sunk" costs, for
the purpose of the rate of return calculations only the
benefits accruing to the Namarigoungou farmers have been
quantified.
(c) Costs.
-  Project costs have been estimated in 1978 constant terms
and include physical contingencies. They are net of
the cost of the health and training components, audit
and studies, for which no meaningful rate of return
could be estimated.
- Operating and maintenance costs have been estimated
at CFAF 34,300/ha per year or about CFAF 1/mi based
on the experience on the Toula scheme.
- Extension and administration after the project period
(beyond 1983) have been kept at 80% of the 1982 level.
-  Agricultural seasonal inputs have been kept at the
level reached in 1982.
- Hired labor has been estimated at 112,000 man-days for
the Namarigoungou scheme, based on the farm budgets at
Annex 6 estimating the total yearly requirements for
hired labor at 79 man-days/ha for double cropping of
rice and at 27 man-days/ha for mixed cropping.  The



- ill -
cost of CFAF 200/man-day is the prevailing wage rate
in the project area.
- Family labor is estimated at 287,100 man-days for the
Namarigoungou scheme, based on the farm budgets at
Annex 6 estimating the total yearly requirements for
family labor at 194 man-days/ha for double cropping of
rice and a; 126 man-days/ha for mixed cropping. The
family labor availability is determined from Annex 6,
Table 3, which shows the time required for cultivating
the traditional farm and the balance of labor available.
The assumption is that farmers would continue cultivat-
ing their traditional farms. At the time of labor
deficit (May and from July until December) farmers
would call on hired laborers. In these months of tight
labor supply (55% of the time) family labor has been
costed at the prevailing wage rate of CFAF 200/man-day;
at other times the opportunity cost of family labor
has been assumed to be worth 50% of the prevailing
wage rate.
(d)  Adjustment for Shadow Pricing of Foreign Exchange.  The
shadow price of Niger CFAF was determined following the
standard conversion factor approach per "World Bank Staff
Working Paper No. 239," August 1976, and assuming minimal
trade distortions on the export side where the equation for
the standard conversion factor becomes L =    M
M + Tm i where
M equals the value of imports and Tm equals the value of
import taxes, has been 0.86 over the period 1970-1977,
based on an average value of imports of 32.9 billion CFAF
and an average value of import taxes of 5.44 billion CFAF.
The shadow exchange rate therefore can be estimated at
CFAF 285 = US$1, instead of the official exchange rate of
CFAF 245 = US$1. In the economic calculations the foreign
exchange components (100% of the incremental value of
paddy production was shadow priced; 71% of project costs
and operating and maintenance costs; and 80% of agricultural
equipment and seasonal inputs) were shadow priced..
2.        Economic Rate of Return and Sensitivity.  With the preceding assump-
tions the rate of return for the base case calculations would be 12.5%, assum-
ing a 25 year project life. The sensitivity results are:



- 112 -
Rate of Return
Base Case                                                            12.55
Benefits    + 25%                                                    17.35
+ 10%         Costs Unchanged                           14.55
- 25%                                                    7.05
Costs        - 25%                                                   18.75
+ 10%         Benefits Unchanged                        10.75
+ 25%                                                    8.25
Other tests have been run:
(a)  Paddy production 25% lower; rest remains unchanged               8.15
(b)  Cropping intensity (175%); rest remains unchanged               10.45
(c)  No increase in rainfed production                               11.55
(d)  Keeping technical assistance 5 years after project
completion                                                      12.15



TRTI3ATI11, PROJECT/PRCJET )'lRHEIDATICl
Pate of Return Calculat'ons/Culcuis ju tbuys derntoaJno
ProJect Life = 25 years                                               1978         1979           1980       19£1        19'2        9c 3       1984         Dree du -ra et -25 ans
Hamarigoongou Xhese                                                                                                                                          Amenagement de Namarigcungou
I. Benefits (CFAF '000)                                                                                                                                      r. Avantages
Race                                                                                                                                                         Pi,
Incremental Paddy P-oduction (tons)                                                                                                                        Production auppl6mentaire (tosses)
- With Project                                                                             3,300       6,500     13,000    13,000         13,000           - Avec projet
- sithout Project                                                                           (500)       (500)       (500)     (500)         (500)          - dans Drojet
Net Incremental Padcv Froduction (taos)                                                      2,800       6,000     12,510    12,500         12,500         Production supplementaire nette (tosses)
Value of Incremental Production - Paddy /1                                                   147,300    315,600    657,500   657,500         657,500         Valeur de la production supplementaire - paddy /1
- Mixed Cropping /2                                          25,500     50,900    101,800   101,800        101,800            - polyculture /2
- Wood Plantations /3                                                               12,000    12 000        16,000            - plantations /
- Livestock /4                                                           2,°900      5,800     5,800         5,800            - 6levage /4
- Painfed /5                                                  7,200     26,700      48,500    48,500        48,500            - cultures sAches /5
Total Economic Benefits                                                                      1.80,000    394,100    825,600   825,600        825,600          Total des avantages econoeique6
II. Costs                                                                                                                                                    II. Co6t6
Project Costs /6                                                 (555,900) (1,617,100)       (890,700)  (465,000)  (240,700)                                  Cofts du projet /6
Operating as! Maintesance                                                                     (13,400)   (26,900)   (53,700)  (53,700)       (53,700)         Op&rations et entretien /6
ixtensio. and Administration                                                                                                    (50,000)     (40,000)         Vulgarisation et administration
Agricultural Equipment                                                         (13,800)       (36,000)   (30,000)                                             Equipement agricole
Seasonal Inputs                                                                (48,30D)       (74,400)   (90,900)   (90,900)  (90 900)        (90,900)        Intrants saisonniers
Hired Labor /7                                                                                 (5,600)   (11,200)   (22,400)  (22,400)       (22,400)         Main-d'oeuvre /7
Family Labor 78                                                                                                      (44,500)  (44,500)      (44.5Co)         Travail familial /8
Total Economic Costs                                             (555,9CO) (i,679t200)   (1,020,100)  (624,000)  (452,200) (261,500)    (261,500)             Total des coats 6conomiques
IITT. Adjustment for Foreign Exchange Shadow Pricing                                                                                                          III. Ajustement Pour valeur virtuelle de la composante en
- Value of Paddy /9                                                                         24,OCO      51,500    107,300   107,300        107,300           devises   - paddy  /
- Costs /10                                                     (64,400)   (195,60D)      (119 2CO)   (72800)   (46,ooo)  (18,100)         (18,100)             -          - couts
(64,ftoO)   (195,600)     ( 95,200)   (21,30C)    61,300    o9,200          89,200
/1  At CFAF 52,600/ton of paddy.                                                                                                                            /1 A FCFA 52.600/tonne de paddy.
/2  Annex 6, Table 9.                                                                                                                                       /2 Annexe 6, tableau 9.
/3  Annex 6, Table 10.                                                                                                                                      /3 Annexe 6, tableau 10.
/   Annex 6, Table 12.                                                                                                                                      /A Annexe 6, tableau 12.
/5  Annex 6, Table 11.                                                                                                                                      /5 Annexe 6, tableau 11.
/;  Net of health, agricoltural equipment, training, audit,                                                                                                 /_ Non compris sant6, equipement agricole, formation,
feasibility study (Arnex 9, table 1); year-end 1977 prices.                                                                                                atude de factibilite, (Annexe 9, tableau 1); prix fin-1977.
/7  At CFAF 200/day. (123,900 man-days).                                                                                                                    /7 A FCFA 200 par jour (123.900 hoase-jours).
/g  At CFAF 155/day (316.300 man-days).                                                                                                                     /F A FCFA 155 par jour (316.300 homme-jours).
/9  V.lule of paddy st CFAF 285 vs 245.                                                                                                                    T/  Valeur du paddy entim6e a FCFA 285 au  lieu de 245.
,'Th 71X of project costs and operating and maintenance; 8c6 of                                                                                                           u
agricultural equipmert, seasonal inputs.                                                                                                                   806 di l'equipement agricole et intrants saisonniers.



NIGER
IRRIGATION PROJECT/PROJET D'IRRIGATION
PROJECT COSTS/COUTS DU PROJET
Implementation Schedule - Bchima de r6alization
1978          1979         1980         1981
3 6 9 12 3 6 9 2 3 669 396 9 12
Negotiations                                                                  .egociations
Organization                                                                                                                   OrRanisation
1.  Creation of the "Office"                                                                                                   1.  Creation de l'Office des Am6nagements
2.  Selection of consultants                             T.                 _                                                  2.  Selection des ingenieurs conseils
Construction bv Force A,soL"t                             T A       D                                                          Construction "en Regie`
3.  Procurement of Equipment                                                                                                   3.  Achat du materiel
4.  Access Roads, buildings, stores,                             -                                                             4.  Acces, batiments. installations
installations                                                    7                                                             de chantier
5.  Construction of dike                                                                                                       5.  Construction de la digue
6.  Irrigation and Drainage Systems                                                                                            6.  Re.eaux d'irrigation et de drainage
- Upstream District (800 ha)                                   -                                                       6         Secteur amont (800 ha)
- Downstream District (750 ha)                                                                                                 - Secteur aval (750 ha)
7.  On-farm works                                                                   O                                          7.  Amenagements "a la parcelle"
0t 
- Upstream district                                                          i -   t   ffi                                     - Secteur Amont
- Downstream district                                                                                                          - Secteur Aval
Contracted Works                                                                                                               Travaux "a I'Entreprise"
8.  Pumping Stations                                                                                                           S.  Stations de pompage
- Civil Engineering                                       j--A .I                                                              - Gdnie civil
- Equipment                                              IT IA                                                                 - Materiel
2  
9.  h.T. Line Tillabery Nasarigoungou                          A                                                               9.  Ligne H.T. Tillabery Namarigoungou
i T- Tender/Appel d'offres
A- Award/Selection
1= Implementation/Execution
D= Delivery/Livraison
:- Operation/Mise en exploitation



L     I      B     Y    A
REPUBLC Of NIGER
NIGER IRRIGATION PROJECT                                                                            I : 
AGRICULTURAL PRODLCTfON                                  ;-ado
. -- Trvck wtbo reguo* mt~me                          *                    ;                                 *i ?s  A>v\ Do),P8-
4~~~~~~~~~4
kLt* -NOWc 4W;-                                                At z f
~~MALI
:   -we-  L Lm --=7t'  .                                                                                7fF,'  '<-)(  :.  .1
.. - - < ,E,, 'A ;i A................ kor                                                 -- 4'
i~-                            ,  ,-                    tD 
; --------- "AboNG L   '-4-'
-  Tessooua  ZI DER  '~Ž ~          N21%.  I
UPPE   ''"; 2''    >'-@                                                              - s ''',''^,'_"''',,,'
800;    17<                                         G            E         .R-          -I -A-
(B     EN  IN               - \KILOMIatERS                                .                                      L *"    aj |Si°i           - 
R'I






I B R D 12836
MAY  1977
g                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~N  I G  E R
*AFIRGOUN
AFRGOUN                                                                                          PROJECT WATER WORKS
IN THE NIGER RIVER VALLEY
AYOROU                                                                                    PROJECT AREA
KANDADJI
ADJ
Proposed S,Ie                                                                   SCHEMES                            CUVETTES   TERRACES
'Cz,x                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   ~     ~~COMPLETED AND IN SERiVICE  A  
PROJECTED 1976-1980                 I
'K                                                                                AFTER  1990                          A
.M    ABOU-BONFEBA 
GAROU-RONFESA                                                              NOT EXISTING BUT NSIDE PROJECT AREA  A
NAMARIGOUNGOU              ARRONDISSEMENT                             DISTRICT BOUNDARIES NARRONDISSEMENT)
SUGAR ESTATE
S,SAKOIRA  TILLAB EBy         {_,:  Tl I I A D CDVROADS
_T I LLA KE I NA      DE                                  D/ ERBSRY
LLABERY ~~~~~~~~~~~RIVERS
ULAERY                                           INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
YELEWANI^   4:IKEINA
DAIBERY 
ILE MA Lo"MR CLLOSS                                   /               0    10   20   30   40    RD
rTO  TERA                   KOURANI  ARIA          LOSSA                                                        KILOMETERS
~~>                 GOT~~~~~HEYE  fit,
ARRONDISSEMENT
DE NIAMEY
ARRON DISSEMENT                                           OUTO
DE TERA                       ATA                 GARUGOURA
*iv   NAMARDE-At  ^GO     ODEL
"N<                                            GOUNGOU      r            SNIAMEY
A  ROKARAIGOROU                                                     D SE       N
\   <) 7                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~LAMO'RD_ 
K( KIR,KISSOYEttD DASSO
r SJ ................................... /SAADIA-4
!~~~                    ~~                              ~~ ~                       ~~~~~~~ ¾ J)i
/W _                                                                         \ SAYtZ ~~~SA
+'  \   )        /                                     -a                      ~~~~~~~~~ARRONDISSEMENT
AGEIA                     l                                         \UNAUANATACI I
]                                                                            DEGAYADE DOSSO
MALI ~  ~    ~     ~    LIY
7CRAD~~~~~~
VOpLEA Ieoset     NIEI  CAREROGmc    Thm         ~ 9/\                                           
A L               G E R I A       t\                                                                                                             K
-20°  '>   /-                 /2~~~~0°1                                                             ARRONDISSEMENT                   GATAWANI-DOLE
~~D E GAYA
M A L I            N I G  
UPPEN2g               C~~~~~~AMIER  1 
I N                                                                                                                                       _p 






I B R D   12837
'MAY  1977
I                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~N   I  G.  L  RIX
NAMARIGOUNGOU IRRIGATION SCHEME
General Plan of the Proposed Project in the Feasibility Report, Sogrech 1974
I'<                              0  RT' e 
<  OU T H 
BSRANCH OF THE 
-" -N'GER CUT OFF BY
PROJECT
-- Diambal
Th h-d,- ::- dn, -- oW  -r
MAIN PUMPING STATIONS                                                  Wol ok ,d         L ,fIoo
....  - ..  . PRIMARY AND SECONDARY IRRIGATION CANALS                    ALGR
DRAINAGE CANALS
PERIMETER AND SECTOR BOUNDARIES                                                                /2
M ALI I
LATERITE ROADS
P2VI LLAGES                                                               NI GE R
0              2                3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
I               I          UPPER3.
KILOMETERS                              VOLTA             N I G L  R   I A / E   -
BE/    N R                  IVA



