CONFORMED COPY
Cofinancing Agreement
(Irrigation Project - Republic of Niger)
between
KREDITANSTALT FUR WIEDERAUFBAU
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated July 24, 1979


﻿COFINANCING AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 24, 1979, between KREDITANSTALT FUR
WIEDERAUF8AU (hereinafter called Kreditanstalt) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association):
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement (hereinafter
called the Development Credit Agreement) dated February 15,
1979, between the Republic of Niger (hereinafter called the
Borrower) and the Association, the Association agreed to make
available to the Borrower a development credit (hereinafter called
the Development Credit) in various currencies equivalent to
fifteen million United States dollars (US$15,000,000) to assist in
the financing of an irrigation project (hereinafter called the
Project) as more fully described in the Description of the Project
set out in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement;
(B) by a Financing Agreement dated June 20, 1979, between
the Borrower and Kreditanstalt (hereinafter called the Kre-
ditanstalt Agreement), Kreditanstalt agreed to make a contribution
to the Borrower in an amount not exceeding twelve million five
hundred thousand Deutsche Mark (DM12,500,000) (hereinafter called
the Kreditanstait Contribution) to assist in financing the Project
on terms and conditions set forth in the Kreditanstalt Agreement;
(C) the proceeds of the Kreditanstalt Contribution are to be
used to finance, jointly and pari passu with the proceeds of the
Development Credit, all parts of the Project except for the costs
of the Financial Coordinator; and
WHEREAS Kreditanstalt and the Association consider it neces-
sary to coordinate the administration of the Kreditanstalt Contri-
bution and the Development Credit and to maintain effeotive
cooperation between themselves on the basis of full partnership as
hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Coordination; Exchange of Information;
Consultation
'-etion 1.01. (a) Each party hereto, without assuming any
liability for the due carrying out of the Project shall: (i) keep


﻿-2-
the other party currently informed of the progress of the Project;
(ii) exchange views with the other party from time to time with
respect to the progress of the Project; and (iii) provide the
other party with any information thereon that may appear useful.
(b) Each party shall inform the other party of any proposed
supervision mission in ample time to afford the other party the
opportunity to participate therein, and shall exchange views on
the results of each such mission.
(c) Each party shall inform the other party of any event
likely to interfere with the carrying out of the Project, or
hinder or seriously impair its operation or financing.
(d) Each party shall inform the other party of any notice by
the Borrower to cancel or to prepay the whole or any part of the
Kreditanstalt Contribution or the Development Credit, as the case
may be, and of any amount cancelled or prepaid.
Section 1.02. Each party shall inform, and to the extent
possible, consult, the other party prior to:
(a) (i) suspending in whole or in part the right of
the Borrower to make withdrawals under the
Kreditanstalt Contribution or the Development
Credit, respectively;
(ii) cancelling any amount of the Kreditanstalt Contri-
bution or of the Development Credit; or
(iii) demanding repayment or accelerating the maturity
of the Kreditanstalt Contribution or of the
Development Credit.
(b) taking any action which would or might result in the
termination of the Kreditanstalt Agreement or the Development
Credit;
(c) making any substantial amendment to the Kreditanstalt
Agreement or to the Development Credit Agreement or waiving
any provision set forth in any such agreement if such waiver
may substantially effect the carrying out of the Project; or
(d) agreeing to any important changes:


﻿-3-
(i) in the specifications, cost or nature of the works
included in the Project; or
(ii) in the work schedules for the Project as compared
with the prior forecasts.
Section 1.03. In addition, each party may at any time consult
the other party on any matter of common interest.
ARTICLE 2
Procurement and Disbursement
Section 2.01. Bidding procedures for the procurement of the
goods and services to be financed jointly by the Kreditanstalt
and the Association will be as set forth in the Kreditanstalt
Agreement and the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.02. In addition to the provisions contained in the
Kreditanstalt Agreement and the Development Credit Agreement,
the following rules will also apply to joint financing of goods
and services by the Kreditanstalt and the Association:
(a) All contracts for procurement of goods and services will
be subject to approval by the Kreditanstalt and the Association
before making any disbursements therefor.
(b) The Borrower will forward simultaneously to the
Kreditanstalt and the Association separate applications for
reimbursement in amounts bearing the proportion of 30 to 70 for
the Kreditanstalt and the Association, respectively, except for
applications for reimbursement for payment of services of the
Financial Coordinator and for refunding of the advance for Project
preparation, in which cases the Association will receive appli-
cations for reimbursement for 100% of such expenditures.
(c) Upon being satisfied that an application conforms
with the provisions of its respective Agreement, the Kreditanstalt
and the Association will, in accordance with such provisions
reimburse the Borrower for such amounts as the Borrower shall
be entitled to receive thereunder.
Section 2.03. In such cases as the Kreditanstalt and the
Association shall agree, Kreditanstalt and the Association will
honor the Borrower's request to make payments directly to a


﻿-4-
supplier in amounts in the proportion specified in Section 2.02
(b) of this Agreement. If the supplier requests the opening of a
commercial letter of credit, the Kreditanstalt and the Association
will, if they agree to do so, issue agreements to reimburse
thereunder in the same proportion. Any amendment to any such
letter of credit is subject to prior approval thereof by the
Kreditanstalt and the Association.
Section 2.04. If at any time the amount of the Kreditanstalt
Contribution or the Development Credit shall be fully withdrawn,
applications by the Borrower for further withdrawals shall be
deemed to be requests for withdrawal of the full amount from the
Kreditanstalt Contribution or the Development Credit, as the case
may be.
Section 2.05. The Kreditanstalt and the Association will
furnish each other detailed information at least every six months,
or at any time on request, on all disbursements made under the
Kreditanstalt Contribution and the Development Credit, res-
pectively.
ARTICLE III
Exchange of Consents
Section 3.01. Each party shall reach an agreement with the
other party before giving its agreement to any request of the
Borrower for a modification of Schedule 2 to the Development
Credit Agreement or of Article 1.2 of the Kreditanstalt Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Effectiveness
Section 4.01. This Agreement, which shall take effect upon
its signature by both parties, shall remain in force and effect
between Kreditanstalt and the Association until the termination
of the Kreditanstalt Agreement or of the Development Credit
Agreement, whichever is earlier.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous
Section 5.01. Any notice required under this Agreement and
any agreement contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.


﻿-5-
Such notice shall be deemed to have been duly given when it shall
be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable or radiogram to
the party to which it is required to be given at such party's
address specified below, or at such other address as such party
shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice.
For Kreditanstalt:
Kreditanstalt fUr Wiederaufbau
Palmengartenstrasse 5-9
6000 Frankfurt/Main
Federal Republic of Germany
Cable address:                       Telex:
KREDITANSTALT                       411352
Frankfurtmain
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-6-
Done in two copies in the English Language each which shall
constitute an original and shall be equally authentic.
KREDITANSTALT FUR WIEDERAUFBAU
By /s/ Gurlitt
Authorized Representative
By Is! v. Laue
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ R. Chaufournier
Regional Vice President
Western Africa


