                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 25112




                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                               (IDA-25790)

                                                  ON A

                                                 CREDIT

           IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 7.1 MILLION (US$9.67 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                                 TO THE

                              LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC

                                                 FOR A

                     LUANG NAMTHA PROVINCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT




                                              June 26, 2003




Transport Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                 CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

          (Exchange Rate Effective December 31, 2002)

                   Currency Unit = Kip Nationale (KN)
                             Kip 1 = US$ 0.0001
                            US$ 1 = Kip 10,770

                          FISCAL YEAR
                    October 1    September 30

            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


ADB      ­  Asian Development Bank
CAS      ­  Country Assistance Strategy
CIU      ­  Component Implementation Unit
CPC      ­  Committee for Planning and Cooperation
CTPC     ­  District Level of MCTPC
DCTPC    ­  Department of Communication, Transport, Post and Construction
DWU      ­  District Working Unit
EC       ­  The European Community
ESCML    ­  Enterprise for Survey and Construction Materials Laboratory
GPDP     ­  Gross Provincial Domestic Product
GTZ      ­  Deutsche Gesellschaft Fur Technische Zusammenarbeit
IDA      ­  International Development Association
JICA     ­  Japanese International Cooperation Agency
Lao PDR  ­  Lao People's Democratic Republic
LCB      ­  Local Competitive Bidding
LNPDP    ­  Luang Namtha Provincial Development Project
LNT      ­  Luang Namtha
MCTPC    ­  Ministry of Communication, Transport, Post and Construction
MoF      ­  Ministry of Finance
MoH      ­  Ministry of Health
NGO      ­  Non-Government Organization
Nampapa  ­  Nampapa Lao, National Water Supply Enterprise
Nam Saat ­  National Centre for Environmental Health and Water Supply
PCMU     ­  Planning, Coordination and Monitoring Unit
PHRD     ­  Policy and Human Resources Development
PIP      ­  Public Investment Program
RMP      ­  Road Maintenance Project
RWSS     ­  Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
UNDP     ­  United Nations Development Program
UNV      ­  United Nations Volunteer
UWSS     ­  Urban Water Supply and Sanitation
WSP EAP  ­  World Bank Water and Sanitation Program East Asia and Pacific Region



                 Vice President:      Jemal-ud-din Kassum
              Country Director:       Ian C. Porter
                Sector Director:      Jitendra N. Bajpai
            Task Team Leader:         Maria Margarita Nuñez

                       LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
             LUANG NAMTHA PROVINCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            10
6. Sustainability                                                                12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 14
8. Lessons Learned                                                               16
9. Partner Comments                                                              17
10. Additional Information                                                       29
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             30
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             33
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             35
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             40
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             43
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                44
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            45
Annex 8. Maps: IBRD 32478, IBRD 32479                                            46

Project ID: P004207                                                      Project Name: LA-Luang Namtha
Team Leader: Maria Margarita Nunez                                       TL Unit: EASTR
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                       Report Date: June 26, 2003


1. Project Data

                   Name: LA-Luang Namtha                                          L/C/TF Number: IDA-25790
   Country/Department: LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC                                    Region: East Asia and Pacific
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Roads and highways (67%); Water supply (28%); Sub-national
                            government administration (4%); Tertiary education (1%)
                  Theme: Rural services and infrastructure (P); Rural policies and institutions
                            (S); Rural non-farm income generation (S); Water resource
                            management (S)

KEY DATES
                                                                               Original               Revised/Actual
         PCD:    05/10/1991                                        Effective: 04/01/1994              11/01/1994
   Appraisal:    06/02/1993                                            MTR: 05/01/1997                12/11/1997
    Approval:    03/15/1994                                         Closing: 12/31/2001               12/31/2002

    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVT OF LAO PDR/LUANG NAMTHA PROV GO
                      Other Partners:      European Community

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Jemal-ud-din Kassum                            Gautam S. Kaji
Country Director:               Ian C. Porter                                  Callisto E. Madavo
Sector Director:                Jitendra N. Bajpai                             Jeffrey Gutman
Team Leader at ICR:             Maria Margarita Nuñez                          Supee Teravaninthorn
ICR Primary Author:             Maria Margarita Nuñez
                                Alberto Nogales

2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                          Outcome:S

                     Sustainability:L

Institutional Development Impact:SU

               Bank Performance:S

           Borrower Performance:S


                                                      QAG (if available)              ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                   S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

         The government's of Lao PDR Development Program for the Luang Namtha Province aimed at
improving the standard of living and raising the income potential of significant numbers of the rural poor of
the province. The government sought the support of donors to implement the program. The International
Development Association (IDA) and the European Community (EC) projects represented a slice of this
program.

         The objectives of the IDA Luang Namtha Provincial Development Project (LNPDP) (SDR 7.1
million) were to: (i) better integrate the local population into the market economy, and provide access to
social services; (ii) reduce time people spent seeking water, and provide them with adequate supplies of
water to meet their basic hygiene and health needs; and (iii) strengthen the planning, management and
technical capabilities of implementing agencies at the ministerial and provincial levels. The objective of the
EC's parallel Luang Namtha Area Development Project (LNADP) (ECU 8 million, US$9.6 million
equivalent) was to enhance local income generating activities. It was directed to finance the community
development of small scale enterprises, primarily within the geographical area of the IDA financed roads.

         The objectives of both projects were in line with the IDA Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for
Lao PDR of October 1992. The CAS highlighted the need to support sustainable growth and poverty
alleviation, and raised the importance of addressing the needs of the rural people including rural
infrastructure. The LNPDP was the first experience in Lao that directly targeted poverty alleviation by
emphasizing sustainable development of basic rural infrastructure with parallel investment in resources to
enhance income generating opportunities. The project was designed as a demonstration project that would
provide lessons for other national initiatives for provincial development.

3.2 Revised Objective:

         The original development objectives of the project did not change during implementation.

3.3 Original Components:

         The project components were: rural road rehabilitation and construction, water supply and
sanitation systems development, and institutional strengthening.

         The rural road rehabilitation and construction component included:

         (a)   improvement of the Sing to Xiengkok via Long (75 km) and Namtha to Ban Namngen
               (77 km) roads, with emphasis on labor-intensive construction methods;

         (b)   survey and design of the New Namtha to Nalae road;

         (c)   technical assistance and training for the development of the provincial Department of
               Communication, Transport, Post and Construction (DCTPC). Provision of an office
               building for DCTPC, equipment for surveying and testing materials, and vehicles for design,
               construction supervision and maintenance management activities;

         (d)   training to contractors for the development of the local construction industry to progressively
               introduce them to Local Competitive Bidding (LCB); and




                                                       - 2 -

        (e)    in collaboration with UNDP, strengthen the MCTPC and provincial capacity for road
               maintenance and improvement.

        The water supply and sanitation systems development component included:

        (a)    rehabilitation and expansion of the water supply network of the new district town New
               Namtha through the provision of equipment and civil works;

        (b)    basic water service through standpipes and washing facilities in the old towns of Old Namtha
               and Sing;

        (c)    rural water supply in the districts of Viengphoukha and Long, following the criteria and
               guidelines established under UNICEF/AICF project for the districts of Old Namtha and
               Sing;

        (d)    individual water­sealed latrines in household compounds in the three urban districts of Old
               and New Namtha and Sing; and

        (e)    office building for Nampapa Lao at Luang Namtha Provincial (Nampapa Namtha) office,
               and technical assistance and training needed to develop, supervise and operate the water and
               sanitation systems implemented under the project.

        The institutional strengthening component included:

        (a)    setting up a Planning, Coordination and Monitoring Unit (PCMU) under the provincial
               governor's office to advise and train provincial counterparts in planning, budgeting and
               management as well as to coordinate the Technical Assistance program;

        (b)    introduce monitoring and evaluation mechanisms in order to develop relevant data collection,
               data analysis and management information systems, and to integrate relevant project
               procedures into regular provincial administrative activities and operations;

        (c)    short­term seminars, training and domestic and regional study tours for provincial staff.
               Planning and finance officers in other provinces and central agencies could also be included
               in the training where appropriate;

        (d)    provide as many as three Bachelor's Degree scholarships in universities in neighboring
               countries with a condition that the recipients return and work in Luang Namtha for an
               agreed-upon minimum period. This was part of the longer­term human resource
               development and institutional strengthening of the provincial government; and

        (e)    provide a building to house the PCMU in the same compound as the provincial
               administrative office, including other necessary office equipment and transport.

3.4 Revised Components:

        During the implementation period the following changes were approved by IDA: one amendment
to the Credit Agreement, three reallocation of proceeds, and one extension of the closing date. The
Development Credit Agreement was amended in March 1998 to replace the Namtha--Viengphoukha--
Ban Namngen road (77 km) with Namtha--Nalae road (72 km), and to eliminate the requirement of a
minimum counterpart contribution of at least Kip 100,000 from each participating village community for
rural water. In 1999, the rural water supply and sanitation (RWSS) component was revised and the scope
and implementation arrangements updated to respond to the actual sectorial conditions.



                                                      - 3 -

        During the mid term review (MTR) conducted in December 1997, IDA's mission supported the
Government's request to cancel the Namtha--Viengphoukha road from the Credit and to reallocate funds to
finance the construction of bridges and drainage structures on the Namtha--Nalae road, for the following
reasons:

        (a)    Political/legal. The central government had agreed to give concessional rights to a private
               company to build the Namtha--Viengphoukha--Huay Sai road, cancellation of such an
               agreement would have taken a long period of time. The agreement was eventually cancelled.

        (b)    Financial. About US$5.5 million --including contingencies-- were allocated under the
               project for road rehabilitation. The reconstruction work of the Muang Sing­Xiengkok road
               was estimated to cost US$3.2 million, and the remaining US$2.3 million would not have
               been sufficient for the Namtha--Viengphoukha road reconstruction, estimated at US$3.5
               million (at a similar standard as the Muang Sing­Xiengkok road).

        (c)    Time constraint. Only four years remained for project implementation after the MTR.
               Reconstruction of the Namtha--Viengphoukha road would exceed four years, as the detailed
               design had not yet been prepared.

        The Kip 100,000 (equivalent to $140) minimum contribution requirement for rural water was
eliminated. After performing drillings tests in the project area, spring-fed gravity and shallow dug wells
were introduced as alternatives to deep drilling wells for ground water. The up­front capital requirement
to purchase the deep drilling equipment was no longer applicable, and therefore, the contribution of Kip
100,000 for each well was no longer necessary. Instead, a contribution in kind was required during the
construction phase.

        Progress of the RWSS component was not satisfactory from 1994 to 1998. The National Centre
for Environmental Health and Water Supply (Nam Saat) with support from IDA and the World Bank
Water and Sanitation Program for the East Asia and the Pacific Region (WSP EAP), assisted the
Provincial Nam Saat to address the weaknesses and revise the component. New goals were set and the
organizational structure was modified. Additionally, the scope was updated to apply the principles of the
Lao National Strategy for Rural Water Supply and Sanitation and to avoid overlapping with the on­going
RWSS project funded by the Japanese International Cooperation Agency (JICA). The original
development objectives remained unchanged. It was agreed between the province and IDA that the RWSS
component would focus on Nalae, Long, and Namtha districts.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

        Quality at entry is rated satisfactory. The project was not reviewed by the Bank Quality
Assurance Group at time of the appraisal. The assessment is based on: (i) project objectives were
consistent with the CAS and with the governments' development program for the province; (ii) at the time
of project preparation there was a good coordination with the EC to support the program; (iii) the project
preparation team complied with the requirements of the Bank's safeguard policies; and (iv) project
preparation was well advanced, and engineering and feasibility surveys of roads as well as final designs and
bid documents for the water distribution system for New Namtha were completed at the time of appraisal.
A Policy and Human Resources Development (PHRD) trust fund was approved to provide assistance to the
Government in project preparation.




                                                     - 4 -

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

         The project objectives were substantially met and it has achieved satisfactory development results.
The project outcomes were satisfactory considering the following: the cross sectorial nature of the
operation, which was the first intervention at the provincial level in Lao PDR, and the first experience for
the provincial authorities and implementing agencies with a multilateral agency.

         Better integrate the local population into the market economy and provide access to social
services. The project provided the local population with improved access to social services and local
markets for their products, through the rehabilitation and construction of two roads. These roads provide
year­round access to transport services, hospitals, markets, social services and schools. It is estimated that
on average the travel time for Muang Sing to Xiengkok was reduced from 18 hours to 1.5 hours; and from
Namtha to Nalae from 19 hours to 2.5 hours. However, the project was revised, without significant
changes in objectives when: (i) the location of project activities were changed from the Namtha--
Viengphoukha road (77 km) to the Namtha--Nalae road (67 km) because of political, financial and time
constraints, and (ii) labor intensive construction method was not used because the dispersed population
along the roads, the long walking distance and the low availability of local labor during the rice cultivation
period. The economic rate of return (ERR) at appraisal was 12% and the actual is 27% for the Muang
Sing--Xiengkok road. The ERR is 32% for the Namtha--Nalae road. The Net Present Values (NPV) are
positive when flows are discounted at 10%, for both roads.

         Reduce time people spend seeking water, and provide them with adequate supplies of water
to meet their basic hygiene and health needs. Water supply services were rehabilitated and expanded to
provide clean water year­round to 14,296 persons, in three urban centers (small towns). It is estimated
that on average, each household is saving 45 minutes to fetch 20 liters of water per capita per day. The
ERR for each town is 12% for New Namtha, 11% for Old Namtha, 15% for Muang Sing I and 55% for
Muang Sing II. Sanitary facilities were built for user groups of two small towns --Old Namtha and Sing
-- which included 13 units of toilet, wash room and laundry. These sanitary units constitute a shortcoming
of the project, because the design was not appropriate to the Lao context and the units fell rapidly into
misuse. Individual household facilities should have been provided instead.

         The project achieved a coverage on rural clean water supply of 6% and on sanitation of 8.8%. It
serves 50 villages, 11 schools and 7 clinics for a total of 30,075 persons in three districts -- Namtha, Long
and Nalae. Before the construction of the water supply systems the villagers spent between 15 minutes to
two hours to obtain water, now they require from two to five minutes. The RWSS component achieved its
targets, once it had been revised and updated in 1998 because of slow implementation progress. The target
districts were changed to avoid overlapping with the ongoing RWSS North­West Region Project, funded
by JICA.

         Strengthen the planning, management and technical capabilities of implementing agencies at
the ministerial and provincial levels. The province undertook the overall supervision of the project and
has shown improvement in its capabilities for planning, management of roads, and water and sanitation
systems. Quality training was provided to the provincial staff, and office buildings and equipment were
provided to DCTPC, Nam Papa Luang Namtha, the provincial Nam Saat, and the district Nam Saat of
Namtha, Long and Nalae. The central government ministries have decentralized responsibilities to manage




                                                      - 5 -

the transport and water systems to the provincial level while providing support and advice to the provincial
staff. However, substantial improvements in the decentralization of the financial resources and functional
management decision making are still required.

         Enhance local income generating activities. The EC's parallel LNADP was to be implemented
along the road between Namtha and Viengphoukha. The LNADP was affected by the cancellation of
IDA's funding for the improvement of this road; furthermore by failing to upgrade the road, the access to
Viengphoukha was limited to dry season. The project duration was six years (1995­2000). During this
period 27 villages, 3,500 households, 14,000 persons experienced positive results. After a very slow start
and a re-orientation in 1997, the time available for implementation of most of the productive activities was
too short to achieve the objective of this component in a sustained manner. However, the LNADP was
successful in implementing the irrigation system, roads, water and sanitation, and social infrastructure in
this area.

4.2 Outputs by components:

Rural road rehabilitation and construction component

         Muang Sing--Xiengkok Road No. 17B (72 km). The improvement of this road section was
completed in June 2000. The civil works included: (i) regravelling of the wearing course in a 6 m wide
formation and upgrading to a class IV road standard (The province had agreed to complete the upgrading
of the road to Class IV standard (two lane, engineering formation, gravel surface, with the function of
connecting districts to the province's capital) once the main drainage structures financed by IDA were in
place.); (ii) stabilizing three locations prone to landslides; (iii) erection of four steel bailey bridges (total
length of 152.5 m), and construction of 18 box culverts (total length of 148 m) and pipe drainage (total
length of 1,512 m). The civil works were carried out under eight contracts awarded through local
competitive bidding. An additional contract for regravelling road sections affected by the frequent rains
and heavy traffic, was also financed under the project.

         Namtha--Nalae Road No. 3A (67 km). The construction of steel panel bailey bridges and
drainage structures took place from 1998 to 2000. The civil works included spot improvement, drainage
structures and formation of a gravel surface, on the first 20 km; and spot improvement on the next 35 km.
The improvement and repairs of problem spots, land slides and settlement of the surface (which were
damaged during implementation by the torrential rains) were completed in 2002. A total of eleven bailey
bridges were erected (total length of 505 m), and 34 box culverts (total length of 302.5 m) and 120 pipe
culverts (total length of 1,082 m) were built. The survey and design was carried out by two consulting
firms and the works contracts were awarded, using local competitive bidding, to two construction
companies. However, as the province failed to provide the counterpart funds to complete the road to the
agreed standard. The last 25 km of the road --close to Nalae-- remains at a lower than agreed standard.

Water supply and sanitation systems development component

         In 1999 this component was divided into the UWSS and the RWSS to account for the different
approaches and implementation arrangements required for each sub­sector.

         Urban Water Supply and Sanitation (UWSS). The first phase of the UWSS component was
completed in 1998 and the second phase, which included the extension of the distribution system of
Nampapa Namtha, was completed in 2001.



                                                       - 6 -

          New Namtha Water Supply System. The new water supply system constitutes a modification of
the old system with Pang Fat as the main source of water. The new system provides a year-round water
supply to New Namtha town by abstracting water from the Namtha river, via an infiltration gallery, sump
and supplementary pumping station. With the new system, the old intake was reinstated and its level raised
by 20 cm, a new transmission main, a new reticulation network to serve about 420 households and a new
water treatment plant were built. The new water treatment plant, of 1,000 m3/day production capacity,
constructed in a hillock in New Namtha town, includes a break pressure tank, sedimentation and
flocculation basin, rapid sand filters, two rooms for chemicals and pumps, and a room for a laboratory.
The management, operation and planning performance of the Nampapa Namtha improved significantly.
The record keeping, customer services and the extension of the distribution network are also noteworthy.

          Old Namtha Water Supply System. The new system is comprised of a solar pumping system
capable of delivering about 100 m3/day of water, an elevated reservoir of a 50 m3 capacity, an aerator and
rapid sand filter installed on top of the elevated reservoir, a new reticulation system with 23 stand pipes,
and four buildings with communal washing facilities. The system now provides year­round water supply
to Old Namtha.

          Muang Sing I Water Supply System. A new water supply system using the river Nam Ya as the
source was constructed by the project. It is comprised of an infiltration gallery, a collection chamber, a
storage reservoir of capacity 50 m3, a transmission main of 5.1 km, a reticulation system, 32 stand­pipes,
and nine buildings with communal washing facilities.

          Muang Sing II Water Supply System. Muang Sing II consists of a cluster of five villages located
near Muang Sing town. The old gravity fed water supply system, which provided water to Muang Sing I,
was plugged near Ban Keo Luang to supply water only to Muang Sing II. The old intake was reinstated so
that there will be settlement of particles to improve the water quality during the rainy season. The defective
portions of the old transmission main were replaced and the entire main re­laid to an adequate depth. A
new reticulation system and 19 stand-pipes were built.

          The rehabilitation and expansion of the water supply systems in Old Namtha and Muang Sing were
completed as planned but are reaching full capacity, because of the fast growing rate of the towns. The
Nampapa Old Namtha and Sing management require further strengthening of their capacity and to
substantially improve their operation and maintenance activities in order to reduce losses and increase
revenues. In the near future these two town centers will require individual house connections for the
consumers.

          The 13 latrine blocks and washing facilities in Old Namtha and Muang Sing failed to provide the
expected service. In general, they were kept in a deplorable physical condition, completely dirty and in
non-working order. The province decided to transfer four of these facilities to the respective community,
school, hospital authorities, and markets for future operation and maintenance. The rest --using the
existing nonfunctional structure-- are being transformed into community centers and offices to support
storage, recreational and community activities.

          Rural Water Supply and Sanitation (RWSS). Progress on this component was very slow during
the first four years of project implementation. The component was redesigned in 1998 which led to
successful completion by the end of December 2002. The specific outcomes of this component are: water
supply services provided to 5,662 persons in 17 villages, sanitation services to 5,689 persons in 33 villages;



                                                      - 7 -

water and sanitation services to 11 schools and seven clinics covering 19,359 persons reaching a total
population of 30,075. The capacity building provided by the RWSS component, mainly from learning by
doing, was evident when the provincial Nam Saat prepared and presented its own Final Project
Implementation Report. The component provides the first experience on the implementation of a provincial
RWSS in Lao.

Institutional Strengthening Component

         New office buildings and equipment. A new office and a laboratory for testing materials for the
DCTPC were built and properly equipped to allow DCTPC staff to perform the design and supervision of
construction and maintenance of roads in the province; a new provincial office building for the Nampapa
Namtha was built and equipped including vehicles; and four offices for the provincial and district Nam
Saat in Namtha, and the district Nam Saat offices in Long and Nalae were built and properly equipped with
vehicles and motorcycles.

         Training. The overseas and domestic training events were completed satisfactorily. The training
program covered a wide range of subjects related to planning, financial management, supervision
management of roads, urban and rural water and sanitation sectors as follows: (i) 35 staff members of the
construction industry were trained locally in project management, cost estimation and procurement; (ii) 29
DCTPC and 28 Nampapa Namtha staff participated in four in­house training events and several study
tours on water supply management, financial management and accounting; (iii) 300 Nam Saat staff of
local partners in three districts were trained in 16 topics, such as environmental health issues, hygiene
education and proper use of latrines, management, operation and maintenance of water and sanitation
facilities; and (iv) a set of short­term training, study abroad, and scholarships to strengthen the human
resources capacity of the provincial government was supported by the project. These included: (a) six long
­term Bachelor's degree scholarships: three in Business Administration Management, one International
Economic Relations, one in Economic and Planning, and one in Marketing and Administration; (b) eight
Bachelor's degrees in the National University: two in Road Engineering, two in Irrigation Engineering, two
in English Language, and two in Business Administration Management; (c) four Diploma degree
scholarships in Pakpasack Technical School in Business Administration Management; (d) two short­term
training on Project Management, Analysis and Planning; (e) 13 English language training to provincial
staff; and (f) three overseas study tours.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

         An economic evaluation of the roads rehabilitation and construction component and the urban
water supply and sanitation systems development was performed for this ICR. The Staff Appraisal Report
(SAR) included economic analysis for the road component only; therefore, economic rate of return (ERR)
and net present value (NPV) data are not available for the UWSS. The economic cost and benefits analysis
are presented in Annex 3.

         The current estimates for the ERR for the roads component used similar approaches as in the SAR.
The roads' ERR and NPV re­estimates were based on the benefits from transport cost savings and value
added from incremental agricultural production "with" and "without" the project. The value added in
production depends on the cost of production and market value of the product. The cost of production
depends on the fertility of the land, availability of land, the technology used and type of crop being
harvested, while the market price of the crop depends on the demand for the crop. The discount rate used is
10%.



                                                        - 8 -

         The SAR estimate of the ERR of the Muang Sing--Xiengkok road is 12% and the ERR and NPV
re-estimates are 27% and Kip 36,568 million. The later estimate is more robust than the original estimate
and this is explained by the growth of marketable surplus production due to improved transport service in
the region. The ERR and NPV re­estimates for Namtha--Nalae are 32%, and Kip 78,695 million, and the
ADT is about 34 vehicles per day. The results, at the time of ICR preparation, are summarized in the
following table.

                                      ERR (%) and NPV (10%, Kip million)

               Road                               ERR                               NPV
     Muang Sing--Xiengkok                          27                              36,568
     Namtha--Nalae                                 32                              78,695


         The benefits of the urban water component resulted from time savings from fetching water,
reduction of water born diseases, and loss of workdays due to sickness. The ERR and NPV for New
Namtha, Old Namtha, Muang Sing I and Muang Sing II are summarized in the following table.

                                         ERR (%) and NPV (10%, US$)

       Urban Supply System                        ERR                               NPV
    New Namtha                                     12                             179,433
    Old Namtha                                     11                              11,100
    Muang Sing I                                   15                             151,059
    Muang Sing II                                  55                             140,311



4.4 Financial rate of return:

         None of the water supply systems at the current levels of tariff charged are financially viable. In
fact, revenues from sales of water do not cover the operation and maintenance expenses in each case.
During the life of the project, the inflation has been high. The consumer price index increased eight fold
(consumer price index in 1995 = 100 and 2001 = 847.8) while water tariffs for household consumption has
remained stagnant at about US$0.03 per liter. On the other hand, costs of production of water range
between US$0.13 per liter and US$0.31 per liter (Annex 3, Table 2). The government recognized this issue
but in light of the adverse impact of the financial crisis on people it has not been successful in increasing
the tariff. An analysis of the tariff has been completed, and submitted to the provincial authority for
approval. The proposed average increment of the tariff for a domestic consumer is of Kip 600 /m3 (86%
increase). The new tariffs would cover O&M and depreciation costs. At the present tariff level
sustainability of the water supply entities will continue to require government subsidy.


4.5 Institutional development impact:

         The overall institutional development impact was positive. The province has substantially
developed its institutional capacity in the roads and water and sanitation sectors. The project effectively
supported the central government's commitment to further decentralize its responsibilities at the provincial
level. The provincial government has improved its management, cost accounting, bidding and financial
practices, and now it is able to carry out national bidding processes for medium-size construction works.
Moreover, the staff in Luang Namtha has now capacity and skills to work with the donor community and
mobilize additional funds.



                                                       - 9 -

        This project provided the basis for replicating the design and concept under other World Bank
projects in the country. For instance, the Provincial Infrastructure Project (PIP) (Credit 3131­LA; US$52
million) is an enhanced version of the LNPDP. The PIP targets its interventions in defined geographical
areas and sectors. It concentrates its resources in Oudomxay and Phongsaly provinces, located in the
northern part of the country; where ethnic, social and physical conditions are similar to those in Luang
Namtha. The combined impact of these provincial development projects are contributing to an accelerated
development of the northern Lao region.

        Recently, the Asian Development Bank (ADB) has also requested Nam Saat Central and Luang
Namtha Provincial Nam Saat to prepare a similar rural water and sanitation component for the North East
Corridor Project (NECP), to scale up the existing activities in Luang Namtha and Bokeo. The proposal
has been prepared and submitted to MCTCP and ADB for potential funding of US$1.5 million. Moreover,
lessons learned from the LNPDP have been integrated in the on-going RWSS interventions in other
provinces.

        The health of local construction industry has improved. At the beginning of the project, three
companies registered in the province were performing road construction contracts. But now, 14
construction companies are active in road works in the province, and in the northern region of the country.


5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

        Impact of the East Asian crisis. Even though the impact in Laos was less dramatic compared
with other countries in the region, the East Asian financial crisis worsened the social conditions and
standard of living of the entire population, particularly the poor. The economic situation in January 1999,
when the value of the Kip was less than 30% of its value in July 1997, and the annual inflation rate was
over 150%, resulted in substantial price increases of basic commodities and reduced real income and
purchasing power of the people. This left some households unable to meet their minimum food
requirements. These factors, combined with rising unemployment rates, negatively affected the
implementation of the urban water supply sub-projects. The ability of the users to pay long term
incremental costs for the water service was diminished.

        Labor­intensive contracts. The project originally supported the approach to use intensive labor­
intensive contracts as the preferred method of construction. Training on the subject was provided by
MCTPC. However, the conditions in the province were not condusive to this approach. The scope of the
contracts was beyond the capability of the local communities. The population living along the road section
was sparse and the availability of local labor was extremely seasonal -- generally there is an acute
shortage of local labor during the rice cultivation period. With this view the approach was changed to
equipment-based contracting to local construction companies. It is worth mentioning that labor­intensive
works were successfully carried out by local communities in the construction of rural access roads.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

        Financial resources and civil services constraints. Limited central government resource transfers
and low mobilization of local revenues coupled with a deficient civil service system, result in inefficient
allocation of resources for the provincial road and water and sanitation sectors. This is a generalized
problem in the country. The issue of resource allocation needs to be carefully evaluated and addressed by



                                                     - 10 -

the government. Heavy dependence on the central government agencies remains a major constraint to the
sustainability of development at the provincial level. Additionally, the existing legislation does not provide
any incentive to the provinces for collecting or generating revenues to finance their own investments. Lao
PDR has been able to successfully decentralize the responsibility for implementation of transport and water
and sanitation services at the provincial level, however, there is still room to improve the management of
financial and human resources use. While the provinces provide inputs to planning decisions, the final
decision still resides with the central government.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

         Project organization and management. The central and provincial governments were not
satisfied with the implementation arrangements of the project, particularly on the relevance on the planning,
coordination and monitoring unit (PCMU), the component implementation units (CIU), and the technical
assistance provided by the foreign consultants. The government proposed and IDA agreed, that the line
units of the provincial office would carry out the implementation activities of the project, for example, the
road component was assigned to the DCTPC. Similarly, when the RWSS component was revised, the
organizational structure and personnel assignment were modified to facilitate implementation. These
organizational adjustments improved management, coordination among sectors, and removed several
bottlenecks. Ultimately these adjustments enhanced capacity and project ownership at the provincial level.

         Completion of the Road Namtha­Nalae to Category IV. The province had agreed to complete
the upgrading of the road to Class IV standard (two lane, engineering formation, gravel surface, with the
function of connecting districts to the province's capital) once the main drainage structures financed by IDA
were in place. However, as the province failed to provide the counterpart funds to complete the road to the
agreed standard. The last 25 km of the road --close to Nalae-- remains at a lower than agreed standard.

5.4 Costs and financing:

         At appraisal, the total cost of the project was estimated at US$10,180 million including
contingencies of US$1,791 million, of which IDA credit was US$9,670 million. The total actual cost of
the project is US$10.050 million. The actual IDA contribution to the project (US$9.75 million) is slightly
higher (101%) than originally estimated, due to the exchange rate variations between the Special Drawing
Rights (SDRs) and the US$. The civil works for the two roads were estimated at appraisal of about
US$5.59 million, whereas the actual cost including regravelling and spots improvement is US$6.97 million,
an increase of 24.7%. The percentage of appraisal for water supply and sanitation and the institutional
strengthening are 100% and 118 % respectively. The detailed project costs and financing are presented in
Annex 2.

         To illustrate the frequently changing environment faced by the project, a cost analysis for the
Muang Sing--Xiengkok road section, which is the largest sub­project, is presented below. The civil
works included: regravelling of 72 km in a 6 m wide formation; erection of four bailey bridges with a total
length of 152.5 m; and construction of 148 m of box culverts, and 1,512 m of pipe drainage. The
construction was divided into nine contract packages carried out from 1996 to 2000. During this period,
the exchange rate between the local currency and the US$ fluctuated from Kip 920 to Kip 7,600 per US$,
which gives as a result a wide range of unit costs in US$/km, as presented in the table below. The actual
average unit cost is estimated at US$31,200 per km without contingencies, and an actual final cost of about
US$33,100 per km.




                                                      - 11 -

          Muang Sing--Xiengkok Civil Works: Summary of Original and Revised Contracts

  #       Contract I.D. and               Contract       Contract    Exchange        US       Lengh    Unit Cost
          Number (Location)             Amount (Kip)        Date        Rate       Dollars     Km        US$/km
  1    Contract 3/96   (km 0-10)          357,332,057      Oct 96         920       388,404     10       38,840
  2    Contract 4/97   (km 10-20)         463,561,206      Sept 97      1,300       356,586     10       35,659
  3    Contract 5/97   (km 20-30)         489,718,670      Sept 97      1,300       376,707     10       37,671
  4    Contract 6/98   (km 30-40)         531,223,800      Nov 98       3,730       142,419     10       14,242
  5    Contract 7/98   (km 40-50)       1,170,023,586      Nov 98       3,730       313,679     11       28,516
  6    Contract 8/98   (km 50-60)       1,519,222,048      Dec 98       4,213       360,603     10       36,060
  7    Contract 9/98   (km 60-70)         948,081,500      Dec 98       4,213       225,037     10       22,504
  8    Contract 10/99 (km 70-72)          275,414,090      Nov 99       7,600        36,239      2       18,119
  9    Contract 11/99 (km 0-10)           344,770,500      Nov 99       7,600        45,365
                                        6,099,347,457          Contract Cost      2,245,039     72       31,181

                                             Variation Orders All Contracts         137,421

                                                           Actual Final Cost      2,382,460


         As can be seen in the table below, the civil works costs in the Muang Sing--Xiengkok road section
was close to the base cost estimate (101%), the total amount of variation orders was less than a third of the
total estimated for price and physical contingencies, and the final actual cost was about 88% of the total
cost estimate in the SAR.

                             Muang Sing--Xiengkok Road Civil Works Costs

         SAR Cost Estimates (US$ 1994)                        ICR Final Costs (US$ 2003)             % of SAR
  Base cost estimate                 2,233,200      Contract price                      2,245,039      101%
  Physical & price contingencies       477,003      Variation orders                      137,421       29%
          Total cost estimate        2,710,203                   Final actual cost      2,382,460      88%
  Contingencies % base cost               21%       Variation order % contract cost           6%



6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

         The project is likely to be sustainable. The support that the Ministries of Communications,
Transport, Post and Construction (MCTPC), Health (MoH) and Finance (MoF) have provided to the
project have improved the institutional, technical and financial capacities of the province. At the time of
appraisal, the issue of sustainability was identified as a risk and has been handled properly. The project
put emphasis on and was successful in strengthening the capacity of the provincial DCTPC, Nampapa and
Nam Saat. The sustainability prospects are reinforced by the continued support from the Central
Government to the provinces, and commitment to further decentralize the responsibilities, particularly in
the road and water and sanitation sectors. It is, however, necessary to further clarify and establish a
financial mechanism by which the central government can transfer resources to the provinces adequately
and in timely fashion with a view to steadily strengthen their financial autonomy.




                                                      - 12 -

         As part of the LNPDP and the Third Highway Improvement Project, a Road Maintenance Division
was established in the DCTPC with the mandate to improve and maintain the road network within the
province, which included the road sections financed by the project. The Road Maintenance Fund created in
year 2001 under the IDA Credit 3481­LA provides about 20% of the need for the road maintenance of the
existing network in Luang Namtha. Currently the province is implementing three projects on road
maintenance that are financed by the road fund.

         The financial sustainability of the urban water projects is likely to be maintained based on the
government subsidies. However, the tariff for the water service should be gradually increased to maintain
the level of service and the water quality. The provincial government is aware of this issue and the final
decision is under consideration by the provincial authorities based on a tariff study.

         The rural water and sanitation interventions are likely to be sustained due to functioning of the well
developed community organizations, strong local ownership and the local awareness raised about health
impacts. The communities have contributed to the project materials and financial resources. A family of
four members have contributed in a range of US$1.5 to US$10 per family for water supply. The average
investment for community water supply is estimated at US$30.3 per family. Moreover, to sustain the
O&M the communities have agreed to collect a monthly fee of about US$0.15 per family.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

         As described in the previous section, there is a framework in place that will help to ensure that the
road infrastructure financed under the project will be maintained given the improved capacity developed in
the DCTPC on road maintenance, and the existing financial resources of the Road Maintenance Fund.
Additionally, a set of measures and regulations on weight control, to reduce the damage caused by
overweighed vehicles, is under implementation. MCTPC is committed to provide continued support to
DCTPCs for management of the road network within provinces.

         In November 1997, upon completion of the construction, installation works, and initial
commissioning, the New Namtha water supply system was officially handed over by the Luang Namtha
Provincial Authority to the Nampapa Namtha. The system is in operation. The rehabilitation and
expansion of the water supply systems in Old Namtha and Muang Sing were completed as planned but are
reaching full capacity, because of the fast growth of the towns. The provincial authority has set up
administrative procedures to improve management of these two systems. It is supported by the Nampapa
Namtha.

         The implementation of the RWSS facilities was conducted under the responsibility of the Water
and Sanitation (WATSAN) committees in every village, school and clinic. The selection of technologies
was made to fit the local conditions. The WATSAN committees include members of the divisions of
planning and cooperation, finances, and education of the Governor's office, provincial Lao Women Union,
Lao Youth Union, National Construction Front, and rural development committee. These committees have
the mandate to supervise operation and maintenance, after the construction of the water and sanitation
facilities in communities, schools and clinics. Women are participating in the WATSAN committees,
training, and as village volunteers. Women are involved in almost 30% of WSS management activities.




                                                     - 13 -

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

         IDA's performance in the preparation stage of the project was satisfactory.

         The project was well conceived as it focused on a single province and had three components only.
The multisectoral approach involving key sectors like roads, water and sanitation and training,
complemented by the EU's intervention on employment generation along the areas of intervention proved to
be effective. The project preparation team complied with all relevant safeguard policies, and the project
reached an advanced stage of preparation as a result of the PHRD trust fund grant. The implementation of
the PHRD by MCTPC, served to transfer technical knowledge to the counterparts.

         The main risks were identified at the time of appraisal: delays in project implementation and
sustainability after project completion. To address these risks for roads and urban water, the following
activities were substantially completed at the time of appraisal: (i) engineering reconnaissance along the
whole length of the two proposed provincial road sections; (ii) a feasibility survey of a labor­intensive
construction approach for Luang Namtha; (iii) drilling of production wells to determine the location for a
water plant in New Namtha; (iv) the detailed design and bid documents for the water distribution system in
New Namtha; (v) economic research to survey the economic base of the province; (vi) a feasibility study to
design the income-generation component; and (vii) environmental research to prepare the environmental
guidelines for road rehabilitation in Lao, in general, and environmental controls for the Namtha--Nalae
road. Nonetheless, the project preparation team did not take into account the local conditions and
participation of the beneficiaries in the design of the sanitary facilities for Old Namtha and Sing, nor did
foresee that the intensive labor­based method for road improvement was not applicable to the labor market
characteristics of the Luang Namtha Province. Gaps remained for the RWSS that required prior
consideration, for example, the roles, responsibilities and assignment of functions were not clear, and the
specific objectives, institutional mechanisms, as well as the products from the technical assistance
(provincial advisers) were not properly defined at appraisal.

7.2 Supervision:

         The performance of IDA's staff during project supervision is rated satisfactory. From 1994 to
1997, the project benefited from the supervision being carried out primarily by the same team that prepared
the project. However, after the mid­term review that took place in 1997, on average, every task team
leader supervised the project less than two years each.

         The internal Bank reorganizations, during the rather extended project implementation period
necessitated coordination between urban and transport units which at times were difficult in terms of
mission planning and maintaining dialogue on multi sector dimensions of the project. The Bank's
decentralization efforts to the region (Vietnam and Thailand) including the availability of water and
sanitation expertise in the Bank's Vientiane office (WSP EAP) helped to reconstitute the supervision team
with improved coordination and management of the project.

         The WSP EAP played a catalytic role in helping the Nam Saat Central and the Luang Namtha
Province with the redesign of the rural water and sanitation component.



                                                      - 14 -

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

         The overall IDA performance is rated satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

         The performance of the Borrower during preparation is rated satisfactory. The project received a
PHRD trust fund which was properly managed and utilized by the Government. The preparation was led
by MCTPC in close coordination with the Luang Namtha authorities. The government team properly
identified the areas in which technical assistance and training were required at the time of project appraisal.
A very committed and qualified local counterpart team was designated to prepare the project, which
included engineers, technicians and planning officers in MCTPC and at the provincial level. However, the
design of the sanitary facilities would have benefited from proactive participation and knowledge sharing
from the government team.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

         The Government's performance was satisfactory. The central government and the Luang Namtha
Provincial Government showed strong commitment to the project throughout the implementation process.
Overall support was provided by MCTPC, MoH and MoF. They provided guidance at the central level
and maintained a positive attitude towards further decentralization of responsibilities, and provision of
financial resources at the provincial level.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

         Overall project management was satisfactory. The provincial and the central government agencies
proposed sound changes according to the prevailing circumstances. The Government's initiative to transfer
the project management responsibilities from project implementation units, to the existing structures at the
provincial or local levels, caused delays at the beginning, but proved to be very effective. The project would
have benefited from the additional allocation of the counterpart funds needed to complete the road Namtha
--Nalae to the agreed standard.

         One of the noteworthy achievements of this project is the successful implementation of the RWSS.
The key for success was the collaboration of the concerned agencies, the participatory approach used and
the efforts on capacity building. Timely measures were taken to address the institutional and managerial
problems, for example: unclear roles and responsibilities and poor inter­agency coordination. Finally, the
provincial Nam Saat, helped by the provincial advisor, prepared the component's final completion report.
This is perhaps the first time in Lao that a province has prepared its own final report.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

         The overall performance of the central government agencies, the Luang Namtha provincial
government, and implementing agencies is rated satisfactory.




                                                     - 15 -

8. Lessons Learned

         Overall development impact is attained by a sustained support. The LNPDP project was one of
the initial IDA interventions to address poverty through the targeted provision of infrastructure. The
decision to allocate the financial resources in two main sectors of a province for a rather long period of time
(eight years of implementation), benefited all five districts of the provinces, and helped to strengthen the
institutional capacity at the central and provincial government levels. Moreover, the Bank's sustained
involvement and support to the province contributed to developing a strong working relationship with the
local authorities at the same time attracted other donors to the province.

         Integrated provincial development projects are effective means to strengthen decentralization.
The LNPDP promoted decentralization of management responsibilities in the delivery of transport, water
and sanitation services at the province level. However, insufficient transfer of resources from central
government, limited mobilization of local revenues and deficient civil service system, result in inefficient
allocation of resources across and within the road, water and sanitation sectors. Currently, local
contribution comes from two toll stations, urban water services fees and cash contribution for investment
and O&M of the RWSS schemes. Due to the heavy dependence on the central government for resources,
provinces are constrained from developing any project. Moreover, existing legislation does not provide
incentives to the provinces, for collecting or generating new sources of revenues for investments. This
could undermine future efforts to strengthen local capacity and ensure overall effectiveness of
decentralization. Concrete steps need to be taken to increase the transparency of the funds being
transferred to provinces from the central level, improve reliability of transfers in terms of timing and
amount, and to enhance planning and decision making capacity at the provincial level.

         Implementation arrangements should be responsive to the sectors characteristics and needs.
The two main sectors of intervention, transport and water and sanitation, required different approaches and
institutional arrangements than originally envisaged. The original project concept did not fully account for
the differences in institutional and management requirements, coordination needs between agencies, and
capacity of human resources available in each sector particularly, in the rural water supply and sanitation
sectors. The central and provincial governments were not satisfied with the implementation arrangements of
the project. They did not see the relevance on the PCMU, the CIUs, and the technical assistance provided
by foreign consultants. The government proposed and IDA agreed, that the line units of the provincial
office would carry out all implementation activities. For example, the road component was the
responsibility of the DCTPC. Similarly, when the RWSS component was revised, the organizational
structure and personnel assignment were modified to facilitate implementation. These institutional
adjustments improved management, and inter sector coordination.

         Coordination among donor agencies is key to attaining full impact. The high level of
coordination achieved during project design and approval between the World Bank/IDA and the EC was
not sustained during the implementation phase. This was exacerbated by the switch of IDA funds from the
road section of the EC's project (Namtha--Viengphoukha) to the Namtha--Nalae road. The synergy
between the roads and water and sanitation components of the LNPDP project, and the employment
generation component of the EC project were not fully realized. The planned impact of the multi-donor and
multi-sector approach was substantially reduced.




                                                      - 16 -

         Local partnership and participation leads to improved delivery of a project. Better
understanding and inclusion of the local factors such as culture, ethnicity, and climate, enhance the success
potential of a project. This is best achieved by working with rural communities and native people. A
participatory approach should be incorporated throughout the project cycle to fully appreciate the local
conditions and needs, and to build ownership by the project beneficiaries.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

                            Lao Luang Namtha Provincial Development Project

                                 Implementation Completion Report (ICR)

              Contribution from the Luang Namtha Provincial Government, February 2003

1. Project Background

         Luang Namtha Provincial Development Project (LNPDP) was formulated as part of the Country
Assistance Strategy for the Lao PDR by the International Development Association (IDA), a subsidiary of
the World Bank Group. It was intended to support sustainable growth, to alleviate poverty in Luang
Namtha Province and to partly minimize regional disparities prevalent in the country. LNPDP is financed
under a credit of over US$10,000,000 provided to the Luang Namtha Provincial Authority by the IDA,
under the Credit Agreement No. 2579­LA which was signed between the Government of Lao PDR and the
World Bank on May 18, 1994. LNPDP comprises of three components namely: 1) provincial planning &
institutional strengthening; 2) roads; and 3) water supply and sanitation.

         IDA's credit for LNPDP became effective on November 1, 1994. A Project Coordinating and
Monitoring Unit (PCMU) was set up in the office of Luang Namtha Governor in November 1994, in order
to manage the entire project. Under the PCMU, the three Component Implementation Units (CIUs) were set
up in order to implement the activities of the three proposed components. This organizational structure of
LNPDP was effective from November 7, 1994 till August 6, 1997. In July 1997, a decision had been
issued by the Governor of Luang Namtha aiming at abolishing the PCMU and ClUs and placing all the
project components under the respective line departments in the province.

         Due to the fact that approved project budget had a balance of US$673,659.08 towards the end of
its duration, according to the request of the Government, IDA agreed to extend the project closing date
from December 31, 2001 to December 31, 2002 and to reallocate the proceeds between project
components.

2. Assessment of Project Objectives

         The Government had agreed to the following main objectives for the components:

2.1 Road Component:

         (a)    Improve access to rural communities by linking them to the national network;

         (b)    Develop local capacity in order to improve low-volume roads and to maintain them on a
                sustainable basis; and

         (c)    Encourage the development of private contractors.



                                                     - 17 -

        The specific features included in the project for achievement of these objectives are:

        (a)   Improve two roads to low­volume standards: Sing to Xiengkok via Long (72 km), and
              Namtha to Ban Namngen (77 km).

        (b)   Survey and design a road from Namtha to Nalae with appropriate standards;

        (c)   Develop the Provincial Department of Communication, Transport, Post and Construction
              (DCTPC) through technical assistance and training in construction supervision, and road
              maintenance and management. The project will also provide an office building for DCTPC,
              equipment for survey and testing materials and vehicles for design, construction supervision
              and maintenance management activities;

        (d)   Develop the local construction industry by providing training to contractors in project
              management, cost accounting, bidding, etc., using modified procurement procedures to
              introduce the contractors to Local Competitive Bidding (LCB) in a progressive way;

      During mid­term review mission in December 1997, according to the request of the Government,
IDA agreed to abandon the financing of the rehabilitation of Namtha--Viengphoukha Road for the
following reasons:

              Political/legal: the Government has an agreement with the Economic Quadrangle
              Development Corporation to build the Viengphoukha Road. Cancellation of the agreement
              will be complicated and will take an indefinite period of time.

              Financial: about $5.2 million was provided under the project for road rehabilitation. As
              Muang Sing--Xiengkok will probably cost about $3.2 million, only $2.0 million remains
              which is insufficient for rehabilitation of the Namtha--Viengphoukha Road, estimated at
              $3.5 million (at a similar standard as the Muang Sing--Xiengkok Road).

              Time constraints: by that time only four years remain for project implementation.
              Rehabilitation of the Viengphoukha Road would take longer time, considering that the
              detailed design has not yet been prepared.

        It was agreed to use the credit proceeds available under the road component to finance the
construction of bridges and drainage structure on Namtha--Nalae Road (73 m).

2.2 Water Supply Component:

        (a)   Improve the water supply systems in three provincial townships to provide year­round
              access to clean water.

        (b)   Strengthen the institutions for the operation and management of water supply systems at both
              the central and provincial levels.

        After a start­up workshop for RWSS component conducted in May 1999, the water supply
component had been divided to two components: urban water supply component, and rural water supply
and sanitation component.




                                                     - 18 -

2.2.1 Urban Water Supply Component:

        (a)   Rehabilitate and expand the water supply network of the new district town of Namtha (New
              Namtha) through the provision of equipment and civil works;

        (b)   Provide basic water service through stand­pipes and washing facilities in the old towns of
              Namtha (Old Namtha) and Sing;

        (c)   Provide office building for NPN and technical assistance and training needed to develop,
              supervise and operate water and sanitation systems implemented under the project.

        (d)   The capacity building program was aimed at enhancing Nampapa Luang Namtha and the
              technical capacity to provide the efficient delivery of water supply services to its customers
              and at strengthening the institutional base needed for sustainable development of such
              services.

2.2.2 The Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Component:

        (a)   Provide rural water supply (through 150 boreholes with US$140 contribution from
              community for each borehole) in the districts of Viengphoukha and Long;

        (b)   Provide individual water­sealed latrines in households compounds in three urban districts of
              Old and New Namtha and Sing; and

        (c)   Provide office building for Provincial Nam Saat and technical assistance and training needed
              to develop, supervise and operate water and sanitation systems implemented under the
              Project.

        The project objectives and outcomes had been revised in line with the Lao PDR RWSS Sector
Strategy. The target districts were changed to avoid overlapping with then ongoing RWSS Project funded
by JICA. It was agreed between the Province and the World Bank that the RWSS component henceforth
will focus in Nalae, Long and Namtha districts.

        The start­up workshop for RWSS in May 1999 had set up new objectives as follows:

              Introduce processes to achieve and demonstrate measurable hygiene behavior changes and
              sustainable sanitation and water supply interventions.

              Build and strengthen the capacity of provincial and district personnel and institutions
              responsible for hygiene promotion and service delivery and support in clean water supply
              and sanitation, especially in remote areas;

              Establish a learning-based pilot that can act as a vehicle for the application, review, analysis,
              and improvement of the principles of the Lao National Strategy for Rural Water Supply and
              Sanitation, and acts as a model for adaptive learning and wider scale application.

        The RWSS Component should provide rural water and sanitation services:

              In 22 villages (5,300 population)
              10 schools (1,190 students) and
              7 clinics (not mentioned)




                                                    - 19 -

2.3 Institutional Strengthening:

         (a)   Set up a Planning, Coordination and Monitoring Unit (PCMU) under the Provincial
               Governor's Office in order to advise and train provincial counterparts in planning, budgeting
               and management as well as to coordinate the Technical Assistance Program;

         (b)   Introduce monitoring and evaluation mechanisms in order to develop relevant data collection,
               data analysis and management information systems, and to integrate relevant project
               procedures into regular provincial administrative activities and operations;

         (c)   Arrange for short­term seminars, training and domestic and regional study tours for
               provincial staff. Planning and finance officers in other provinces and central agencies could
               also be included in the training where appropriate;

         (d)   Provide as many as three Bachelor's Degree scholarships to neighboring countries with a
               condition that the recipients return and work in Luang Namtha for an agreed minimum
               period of time. This will be part of the longer­term human resource development and
               institutional strengthening of the Provincial Government; and

         (e)   Provide a building to house the PCMU in the same compound as the Provincial
               Administrative Office. Other necessary office equipment and transport will also be provided.

3. Project Implementation by Components and Output

         All the project objectives were appropriate and consistent with the Government's policy. The
project achieved the majority of its objectives.

         The quality of civil works, in general, was satisfactory.

         Given the satisfactory outcomes of the civil works and institutional development program, the
overall assessment of the project outcome is rated satisfactory.

3.1 Road Component

         Apart from significantly reduced transportation costs on Sing--Xiengkok and Namtha--Nalae
Roads, the project greatly contributed to good riding quality and reduced travel time. Besides, the
rehabilitation works implemented under the project also provide more regular and safety communication
between communities, access to market and social services. At the same time, the better roads promote the
integration of the local population into the market economy, increase their income, in particular the living
standards of people living in two remote districts namely: Long, Nalae; thus contributing to poverty
reduction.

3.1.1 Road Rehabilitation:

         (a)   Improvement of NR 17 from Sing to Xiengkok via Long was achieved, which included:

                     72 km 6-m wide formation with gravel surface to meet standard for road category IV.

                     4 Bailey bridges with total length of 152.5 m, 18 box culvert with total length of 148 m,
                     pipe drainage with total length of 1,512 m.

                     The civil works were carried out under 18 contracts through LCB.




                                                     - 20 -

                      Additional works: in March 2002, an additional contract for regraveling was
                      implemented in order to maintain the road due to heavy raining and heavy traffic.

         (b)   Namtha--Nalae Road

                      Originally it was planned to purchase 11 bridge structures of steel panel bridges Bailey
                      type under international shopping procedures. After re­survey and re­design, 11 Bailey
                      bridges had been erected on this road, and 1 Bailey bridge had been erected on Muang
                      Sing--Xiengkok road.

                      Survey and design for road from Namtha to Nalae was completed for 73 km road and
                      11 Bailey bridges. The works was carried out under four contracts by two consulting
                      firms.

                      During mid­term review mission in December 1997, a decision had been taken to
                      reallocate funds for the rehabilitation of Namtha--Ban Namngeun Road to finance
                      construction of bridges and drainage structure on Namtha--Nalae Road.

                      As a result of the works, 11 Bailey type bridges had been erected with total length of
                      505 m, 34 box culverts with total length of 302.5 m and 120 pipe culverts with total
                      length of 1,082 m were implemented under two contracts through LCB.

                      Additional Works: two contracts for spot improvement had been implemented in 2001
                      and 2002 respectively, which aimed at providing side ditches on road and repair the
                      most damaged sections by filling with good Namtha laterite and reshaping on the first
                      20 km, spot improvement had been implemented on the next 35 km section of road.

3.1.2 Capacity Building / Institutional Strengthening:

               Technical assistance for the component ( 3 consultants)
               Two international consultants and a local one had provided satisfactory service.

               Short­term training, study tours
               In total, five workshops had been implemented in Luang Namtha, five short­term training
               courses had been implemented in Vientiane, along with three overseas study tours.

               A new DCTPC office had been built, which was equipped with necessary office, survey and
               testing equipment along with vehicles, capable to ensure design, construction supervision and
               maintenance management activities of DCTPC.

               The civil works were carried out under one contract through LCB.

3.1.3 Development of Local Construction Industry

         Local construction industry had been developed significantly on quality and quantity. Before the
start of the project, only three road construction companies were registered in the Province. At the start of
the project, only one 10­km section can be rehabilitated under one contract for 1997, in 1998 two 10­km
sections can be rehabilitated under two contracts, at the end of the project in 1999 four sections of 40 km
can be rehabilitated under four contracts by four contractors. Now they can participate in the LCB and ICB
for projects throughout the country.




                                                       - 21 -

3.2 Urban Water Supply Component

        The Component had achieved the majority of its objectives. Other than providing clean water year­
round to 1,607 households, for 9,606 persons, comprised 93% of population in New Namtha at the end of
2002 against 100 households and 600 persons in 1995, and significant portion of population in other Old
Namtha and Sing town had been served with clean water, the rehabilitation and construction works
implemented under the project also contributed to strengthen Nampapa Namtha. At the same time, the
better supply of water improved living conditions and reduced water­borne disease incurred by consuming
unclean water.

3.2.1 Rehabilitation and Expansion of Urban Water Supply Network:

        (a)   The rehabilitation and expanding the water supply network of the New Namtha was
              achieved, which included:

                   A sump and supplementary pumping station for collecting water from the Namtha
                   River via the infiltration gallery.

                   An intake was reinstated and its level raised by 20 cm.

                   New water treatment plant, which will deliver 1,000 m3/day water and will be
                   sufficient for about 7,200 persons up to year 2010.

                   New transmission main, new reticulation networks for about 1,607 households of 9,606
                   persons.

                   Necessary equipment and material had been purchased.

        (b)   Construction of water supply system in Old Namtha was achieved, which included:

                   A solar pumping system capable of delivering water of about 100 M3/day.

                   An elevated reservoir of 50 m3 capacity.

                   New reticulation system with 23 stand­pipes.

                   Four buildings with communal washing facilities.

                   This water supply system together with a production borewell previously drilled, with
                   financial assistance received from UNDP/WB Project LAO/881021 "Strengthening the
                   Technical & Managerial Capabilities of Nampapa Lao", as the source of water was
                   designed to cope up to the year 2010 and about 4,200 persons were expected to benefit
                   from it.

        (c)   Rehabilitation of Muang Sing I water supply system and construction of Muang Sing II
              water supply system was achieved, which included:
              Muang Sing I water supply system:

                   An infiltration gallery.
                   Storage reservoir of 50 m3 capacity.
                   Transmission main of 5.1 km with a reticulation system, 32 stand­pipes.
                   Nine buildings with communal washing facilities.




                                                    - 22 -

               Muang Sing II water supply system:

                    The old intake was reinstated in order to improve the water quality.

                    The defective portion of the old transmission main was replaced and entire main was
                    re­laid.

                    New reticulation system with 19 stand­pipes.

        (d)    The packaging of supplies and works were done as follows:

                    ICB: a) procurement of all pipe materials for New Namtha, Old Namtha and Muang
                    Sing I & 11; b) procurement of well pumps and other mechanical and electrical
                    equipments and their installation in New Namtha; and c) procurement of solar
                    equipment and their installation in Old Namtha.

                    International Shopping: a) procurement of vehicles; and b) procurement of major
                    equipment.

                    LCB: a) all civil works and pipe laying works in New Namtha, Old Namtha and
                    Muang Sing I & 11; and b) construction of office building for Nampapa Luang
                    Namtha.

3.2.2 Capacity Building/Institutional Strengthening:

               Technical assistance for the component: One international consultant had provided
               satisfactory service.

               Short­term training, study tours: Total four in-house training: one 2­month training in
               Nampapa Lao, two foreign training, one local study tour, one foreign study tour on
               management of water supply system, financial management, accounting and others were held
               for the staff of NPN.

               Reorganization of Nampapa Namtha, which is now filled with trained qualified staff,
               capable to operate, maintain, and expand water supply system. Further training is required.

               A new office building for NPN was constructed, which was equipped with necessary office
               and testing equipment along with vehicles.
               The civil works were carried out under one contract through LCB.

3.2.3 Water Tariff and Financial Sustainability

        Water tariff had been simplified and consists of five user categories. However present tariff is low
in content of self­recoupment. In 2002, NPN had lost Kip 230,530,533 when O&M costs and depreciation
along with loan service had been included in the expenses, and had a profit of Kip 37,094,213 when only
O&M costs had been included in the expenses.

        For FY2003 the NPN will have a projected loss of Kip 187,639,252 using existed water tariff and
when O&M costs and depreciation along with loan service will be included in the expenses.

        In order to improve the situation the NPN had prepared a proposal of new water tariff, which had
been submitted to DCTPC and Luang Namtha Provincial Government for consideration. The proposed new
water tariff would increase the water tariff by 87.8% in average and would generate profit of Kip



                                                    - 23 -

52,871,921 when O&M costs and depreciation along with loan service had been included in the expenses.

3.2.4 Water Quality Assessment

        All New Namtha, Old Namtha and Sing UWSS had provided water of accepted quality.

3.3 Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Component

3.3.1 Providing of RWSS:

                The RWSS Component was initially designed for the construction of boreholes primarily,
                and focused on hardware investments. From the period 1994­1998, a number of constraints
                were faced by the project and little progress was made. As a result, a few badly constructed
                RWSS facilities did not meet communities' expectations and rapidly fell into disuse.

                In total, 14 gravity­fed schemes with 60 tapstands, 12 hand­dug wells with hand pump, a
                rain water tank, 1,909 pour flush latrines had been constructed.

3.3.2 Technical Assistance

                Two UNV International Advisers (Technical Specialist and Community Development
                Specialist) were hired to support the Provincial Nam Saat to prepare the work plan and
                assist them in implementation;

                A long­term Resident RWSS Adviser had been hired for the period from August 1999 to
                December 2002.

                Nam Saat Central had provided backstopping and guidance.

3.3.3 Capacity Building/Institutional Strengthening

                An intensive training process on management, planning, technical RWSS skills, hygiene
                promotion and community development had been implemented, which included: 18 training,
                seven workshops, three local meetings, one local study tour and three overseas study tours
                and meeting.

                Establishment of management policies and regulations, including Community Selection
                Criteria and Investment Subsidy Policy which are in line with the National Sector Strategy;
                defined all roles and responsibilities of each institution involved, and assigned personnel
                immediately.

                The Provincial Working Unit (PWU), Secretariat of PWU and Managing Secretariat of
                District Working Unit (DWU) had been set up in order to coordinate and implement
                activities of RWSS.

                Offices for Provincial Nam Saat, and for Namtha, Long and Nalae Districts had been
                constructed, which were equipped with necessary office equipment along with vehicles,
                motorcycles.

3.3.4 Community Dialogue Activities

        In order to reach the objectives for the operation and maintenance of the new RWSS facilities with
sustainability, and to ensure effectiveness is gained for the construction, therefore, the community dialogue



                                                       - 24 -

activities and informed choice of WSS techniques for participatory hygiene assessment and the assessment
of demand for water supply and sanitation services had been conducted. The process of community
dialogue has been implemented in 32 villages, 11 schools and 8 clinics in three different targeted districts

3.3.5 Hygiene Promotion Activities and Changes on Hygiene Behavior

         In order to couple with the RWSS construction, community hygiene promotion was included in the
main activities for implementation in project targeted communities, which included: a) hygiene education
activities; and b) participatory hygiene promotion at community level.

3.3.6 Water Quality Assessment

         Nam Saat provincial in collaboration with Nam Saat central had conducted water quality testing to
all water supply schemes, results were satisfactory.

3.4 Institutional Strengthening

         Capacity/institutional strengthening program had contributed to improve planning, project
monitoring and management mechanisms in the Province and had provided qualified training to staff.

3.4.1 Technical Assistance for the PCMU

        An international Team Leader had been provided for the PCMU.

         The PCMU was set up in order to coordinate and plan activities for components and Technical
Assistance Program. A simple project financial and monitoring system was set up. Authorities were handed
over to the provincial cabinet on September 6, 1997.

3.4.2 Short­term Training, Study Tour Abroad, Scholarships:

                Training activities designed to alleviate the critical shortage of trained staff in all areas were
                agreed upon during negotiations.

                Long­term bachelor's degree courses abroad for six staff members (3 in Business
                Administration Management, 1 in International Economic Relations, 1 in Economic and
                Planning and 1 in Marketing and Administration). The students began their studies in
                Thailand immediately and are scheduled to complete their degrees in 2003 and 2004. IDA
                and the Government agreed to finance the portion of the fellowship program executed after
                the project's closing date with RMP3 funds.

                Long­term bachelor's degree courses for six staff members in National University (2 in road
                engineering, 2 in irrigation engineering, 2 in English language) and for 2 staff members in
                University of ComCenter in Business Administration Management. They are scheduled to
                complete their degrees in 2003 and 2004.

                Diploma degree scholarships for four staff members in Pakpasack Technical School in
                Business Administration Management who had finished their study in 2001.

                All agreed by contracts to exclusivity of their services to respective provincial departments at
                the end of their studies.

                Two short­term training on project management, analysis and planing had been completed
                for the staff of PCMU.



                                                      - 25 -

                Three overseas study tours had been completed.

3.4.3 Building and Equipment:

                An office for PCMU was built. The civil works were carried out under one contract through
                LCB.

                Vehicles, office furniture, computers and electric equipment had been provided.

3.5 The Luang Namtha Integrated Rural Development Project (LNTIRDP), Financed by EC

         The LNTIRDP was started in 1995 and completed in February 2001. The Project was composed
of the following components: irrigation, community development, technical training, business and credit,
institutional strengthening. There are 27 target villages in the two districts, namely Namtha and
Viengphoukha.

         The main objectives of the Project were:

                Integrated rural development.
                Improvement of living conditions of population in the target villages.
                Encourage the group of poor people in the target villages.
                Reduce negative impact to environment.
                Encourage the shift to market economy.
                Sustainable local development.

4. Project Sustainability

         The institutional development and training had provided the basis for a reasonable level of
sustainability in road, UWSS and RWSS maintenance management. Under the DCTPC Luang Namtha, a
Road Maintenance Division had been set up, which is in charge of maintaining road network within the
Province, including road rehabilitated under the project.

         Since 2000 the Road Maintenance Fund had been set up which is in charge of raising necessary
resources for road maintenance. A checkpoint on Muang Sing--Xiengkok Road had been set up in order to
collect road maintenance fee. The Department of Transport had issued a regulation on vehicles weight
aiming at avoiding possible damages to the roads caused by overweighed vehicles.

         Community­based contracts on road maintenance have been implemented annually since 2000.

         Project survey, design, supervision mechanism which had been set up and equipped adequately
under the Project, together with experienced contractors ensure implementation of maintenance works and
future Projects.

         Reorganized UWS structure at both provincial and district levels along with timely adjusted water
tariff and improved water fee collection had provided sustainability for the component.

         After the completion of RWSS schemes at communities, the PWU and DWU and local partners
have established the WATSAN committee at village, school and clinic level in order to operate and
maintain the facilities.



                                                     - 26 -

5. Main Factors Affecting the Project

            At the start of the Project PCMU was equipped with staff from various departments
            inexperienced of project management, and with insufficient English command. Besides, there
            was too frequent replacement of staff. The said issues had been one of the causes for late
            start of the Project, especially for the period from 1994­1997 along with the project filing
            system not being kept accordingly.

            After the survey and design of rehabilitation works, the upgrading of project target roads and
            the construction of culverts and Bailey bridges turned out to be works of significant quantity,
            and for which respective technical specifications had been defined. Only qualified
            construction companies, equipped with experienced staff and adequate equipment can
            undertake the said constructions. In this case, labor­based construction method was
            considered inappropriate. At the same time, contractors had widely employed local
            population for implementation of concrete, masonry works along with on-site training of
            operators and drivers from local recruits. It had contributed to opening employment
            opportunities to local population, increasing their income, besides that stemming from
            agricultural activities, shifting them to new profession.

            The labor­based construction method is being used for routine maintenance of road networks
            such as: bush clearing, side ditches clearing, and filling of potholes by manpower.

            The economic crisis since 1997 in the region had caused severe devaluation of LAK, which
            had increased nominal contribution of the Government in the Project. On the other hand, the
            costs of works had been reduced due to the fact that LCB contracts had been executed in
            LAK, and only 40% of the due payment had been adjusted to the devaluation of LAK for
            earth works and 60% for concrete works. In total, the road component had cost savings. The
            Government had requested to utilize the proceeds for additional works and for the extension
            of the Project.

            At the time of SAR, NPN was a branch of NPL. NPN had become an independent entity in
            1997 and was in charge of management of the UWSS of New Namtha, the Women Union of
            Sing, and Namtha Districts were in charge of the operation and maintenance of newly
            constructed and rehabilitated Sing and Old Namtha UWSS. The lack of trained staff and
            poor management had caused poor functioning of the UWSS and collection of water fees in
            the last two Districts. In order to improve the UWSS, the Old Namtha UWSS had been
            transferred under the rules of NPN in July 2001 and Sing UWSS had been transferred under
            the rules of Division of CPC of Sing District in March 2002.

            One of the difficulties faced by RWSS was the Investment Policy, including Subsidy Policy,
            government and community contribution. The percentage of community contribution seems
            rather high for 65% of total costs of the whole project. This fact was considered as one of the
            causes for delay of the RWSS at the beginning. The percentage of community contribution
            should be reduced to 30% for the remote areas.

            Another constraint faced by RWSS was the specific geological conditions of the project
            target areas, where six out of nine boreholes built could not be used due to bad quality of
            water (high iron and bad smell).




                                                   - 27 -

6. Key Lessons Learned

       (a)  The coordination with line departments should have been improved.

       (b)  Feasibility and detailed design studies for the Project should have been completed at the
            stage of project identification and preparation in order to increase project efficiency. IDA's
            credit for LNPDP became effective on November 1, 1994, but the first contract for civil
            works on Muang Sing--Xiengkok Road was executed on November 11, 1996, which should
            be shortened for the future projects.

       (c)  Too many foreign consultants had been employed for the starting period of the project.
            Experience of the road component had proved that carefully chosen qualified local
            consultants could fulfill their duty with satisfactory outcome and significant cost savings.

       (d)  Careful attention should be paid to project design and management in order to reduce shares
            of managerial, consultant services in order to increase the project efficiency. The RWSS
            component had spent 28.5% of its budget for office buildings, vehicles, office supply and
            equipment (10.1% for office buildings and 18.4% for vehicles, office supply and equipment),
            36.5% for consultant services, 9.6% for training and merely 25.4% for civil works (from
            which contributions of communities, Government and IDA were 14.1%, 1.7% and 9.6%
            respectively).

       (e)  Careful attention must be paid to project survey and design in order to meet local needs and
            to provide full construction drawing to the contractors. Otherwise some works will not be
            operated efficiently:

                 Due attention had not been paid to the control of vehicle operating weight and
                 appropriate measuring tools had not been included in the supply list, as a result,
                 overweighed vehicles had caused early damages to the rehabilitated roads in rainy
                 season from high traffic volume.

                 Projected implementation of stand­pipes and buildings with communal washing
                 facilities of UWSS in Old Namtha and Muang Sing were considered inappropriate for
                 these towns due to relatively high density of population. In the future, the design of
                 water supply should be connected to individual household. The communal sanitation
                 facilities built in the two Districts had been fully in use since they do not meet local
                 conditions and need of population, for whom they had been assigned.

                 Technician decision to use a solar pumping system was considered inappropriate since
                 the generated power was not sufficient to pump water from the well.

                 The consulting firm should provide a full set of construction drawings, including
                 detailed designs, compiled in a form of comprehensive report prior to commencement of
                 the construction works, otherwise the works can be delayed. (Urban Water Supply
                 Component).

                 Population projections for a rapidly expanding city like Luang Namtha should have
                 been more than what was assumed in the design, otherwise the actual span to which the
                 system could accommodate would be much less than that of the design, as was the case
                 in other provinces. (Urban Water Supply Component).




                                                   - 28 -

                     More detailed geological investigation of the construction sites for all major structures
                     and especially the intake should be undertaken in order to minimize the construction
                     time and costs. (Urban Water Supply Component).

7. Borrower's Performance

        The Borrower has not identified themselves with any significant defects, obstacles or lack of
performance during the Project, as being formulated in the Development Credit Agreement or in its
Amendment.

        In general, the project objectives, outputs and activities have been formulated well in balance of the
Borrower's, stakeholders' and lender's views during the preparation. This is attributed to the positive
general outcome of the project.

8. Bank Performance

        The Bank responded promptly and adequately to the needs of the Borrower, concerning the
reallocation of the funds from Namtha--Ban Namngeun Road to Namtha--Nalae Road and for additional
works and extension of the Project.

        The Bank has undertaken several supervision missions. Those missions have been well scheduled
and adequately staffed for the supervision of the project.

        In the whole, the Bank's performance can be rated as highly satisfactory.

9. Final Conclusions

        The Project has been carried out according to the schedule and within the budget. The Project has
achieved most of its major relevant objectives and may be expected to achieve its satisfactory development
results with only a few shortcomings. Therefore, the overall performance can be rated as satisfactory.

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information




                                                     - 29 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                               1
              Indicator/Matrix                         Projected in last PSR                      Actual/Latest Estimate
1. Travel time savings.                     Travel time:                               Travel time
                                            Sing--Xiengkok:       18.0 hours           Sing­Xiengkok:       1.5 hours
                                            Namtha--Nalae:        19.0 hours           Namtha­Nalae:        2.5 hours

                                            Road inaccessible in rainy seasons.        Road accessible in both dry and rainy
                                                                                       seasons.

2. Annual rate of increase in the           First 2 years of project period not less   First 2 years of project period (95­96)
    production of food grains and livestock than 4% per annum:                         4.23% per annum:
    from villages along the two road        ­ By 1997 about 6% per annum.              ­ By 1997 about 6.60 per annum.
    sections (under normal weather          ­ By 2000 about 8% per annum.              ­ By 2000 about 8.45 per annum.
    conditions).

3. Percent of the increased marketable      By 1997 at least 50%.                      By 1997 53 %.
    production.

4. Increased in shares of household         Share of household income from non-        Share of household income from non-
    income from off-farm activities.        agricultural activities, as a percentage   agricultural activities, as a percentage
                                            of total income: 3.8% .                    of total income: 14%.

5. Increased household income growth        About 10% to 15% for the period 1994       19.7% for the period 1994­97.
    (due to increased marketable            ­1997.
    production).

6. Increase in number of rural              No. of villages, accessible by motor       No. of villages, accessible by motor
    communities which are now accessible    vehicle all year: 0                        vehicle all year: 58.
    by motor vehicles during the wet
    seasons.

7. Increased rate of secondary school       At least 10% for the 1994­2001 period.     30% for the 1994­2001 period.
    enrollment (due to more convenient
    access to district schools).

8. Improved access of the province to       Number of bilateral and multilateral       Number of bilateral and multilateral
    the international donor cooperation.    agencies active in the province: 3.        agencies active in the province: 7.

9. Improve hygiene and reduce water­        Number of visits to clinics related to     Number of visits to clinics related to
    borne disease incurred by consuming     water­borne diseases: 213/year.            water­borne diseases: 32/year.
    unclean water.

10. Strengthening and further               Number of road construction companies      Number of road construction companies
    development of the local construction   registered in the province: 3.             registered in the province: 14.
    industry.
                                            Number of road construction companies      Number of road construction companies
                                            performing contracts in the province: 5.   performing contracts in the province: 16.

11. Gradual increase in the institutional   Total number of staff in the province in   Total number of staff in the provincial
    strength of provincial entities         1994: 566.                                 Government in 2002: 2,679.
    demonstrated through the lesser         ­ Percentage of provincial staff: 41% of   ­ Percentage of professional staff:
    degree of dependence of the provincial     the total number.                          78.4% of total number.
    authorities to the Central Government   ­ Number of professional staff hired       ­ number of professional staff hired
    in terms of their requirements for         during the 1990­1995 period: 334.          during the 1996­2001 period: 1,766.
    technical and financial support.




                                                               - 30 -

12. Improved planning, budgeting and            Total length of provincial road network    Total length of provincial road network
     monitoring mechanism for capital           808 km; of which: 17.7% paved; 9.4%        1,227 km; of which: 11.7% paved; 20.3%
     investment and maintenance funding         gravel; 74.9% earth:                       gravel; 65.3% earth:
     at provincial level.                       ­ % of the total length of roads in        ­ % of the total length of roads in
                                                  province receiving routine                 province receiving routine
                                                  maintenance:             8.2%              maintenance:             40.5%
                                                ­ % of provincial budget for               ­ % of provincial budget for
                                                  infrastructure:         85.3%              infrastructure:           82.3%
                                                ­ % of infrastructure expenditure used for ­ % of infrastructure expenditure used for
                                                  road:                  49.4%               road:                    16.0%
                                                ­ % of road expenditure used for           ­ % of road expenditure used for
                                                  investment 46.5%;                          investment               33.5%
                                                ­ % of total road expenditure used for     ­ % of total road expenditure used for
                                                  road maintenance:      15.6%               road maintenance:        66.4%


Indicators as presented in the Staff Appraisal Report, 1994.



Output Indicators:
                                                                                  1
               Indicator/Matrix                           Projected in last PSR                      Actual/Latest Estimate
1. Provincial roads to be upgraded.             142 km                                     Muang Sing-Xiengkok road (72 km),
                                                                                           6 m wide including 4 bailey bridges,
                                                                                           18 box culverts, and 230 pipe culverts.


                                                                                           Namtha-Nalae road (67 km) including:
                                                                                           ­ rehabilitation on 20 km;
                                                                                           ­ spot improvements on 35 km section;
                                                                                           ­ 11 bailey bridges; 34 box culvert, and
                                                                                             120 pipe culverts distributed along the
                                                                                             67 km.


2. Construction of offices.                     ­ DCTPC office                             ­ DCTPC office, including a laboratory;
                                                ­ Provincial Nampapa Office                ­ Provincial Nampapa Office;
                                                ­ Provincial Namsaat Office                ­ Provincial Namsaat Office and three
                                                                                             district Offices.


3. Rehabilitation and expansion of the          1,555 households served                    New Namtha: 1,607 households served.
   water supply and household                                                              The works included a new water
   connections of water supply in New                                                      treatment plant, new transmission main,
   Namtha, Old Namtha and Muang                                                            and a pumping station.
   Sing.
                                                Old Namtha                                 ­ Old Namtha: 1 solar pumping system
                                                                                             installed; elevated reservoir with 50 m3
                                                                                             capacity constructed; a reticulation
                                                                                             system with 23 stand­pipes completed.


                                                Muang Sing                                 ­ Sing: 1 storage with 50 m3 capacity;
                                                                                             5.1 km transmission main; and a
                                                                                             reticulation system with 41 stand­pipes
                                                                                             and 9 communal washing facilities
                                                                                             completed.




                                                                  - 31 -

4. Provision of rural water supply and       Provide water and sanitation services to   ­ Rural water supply services provided
   sanitation services in selected areas of  25,000 people in about 14 villages served    to a total number of 5,662 people in
   the province.                             with 150 wells, and with individual water    17 villages. 21 wells with hand pumps,
                                             sealed latrines.                             14 gravity-fed systems with 60
                                                                                          tapstands, and one rainwater tank;
                                                                                        ­ Rural sanitation services provided to
                                                                                          about 5,689 in 33 villages, with 1,909
                                                                                          water sealed latrines;
                                                                                        ­ Rural water supply and sanitation
                                                                                          services provided to: 3,165 students in
                                                                                          11 schools, and 7 clinics covering
                                                                                          16,194 people;
                                                                                        ­ Total population covered: 30,075.


5. Institutional strengthening: number of    Training for DCTPC staff in project        ­ 6 scholarships for bachelor degree in
   staff trained.                            planning, administration, management,        overseas universities, and 8 in Lao
                                             and supervision.                             universities;
                                                                                        ­ 4 for diploma in Lao colleges;
                                                                                        ­ 13 staff in English language training;
                                                                                        ­ 3 overseas study tours.


                                             Training for construction industry         ­ 35 personnel and staff of the
                                             personnel and staff of local contractors.    construction industry trained locally in
                                                                                          construction project management, cost
                                                                                          accounting and procurement.


                                             Training for staff in water supply and     ­ 29 DCTPC staff and 28 Nampapa
                                             sanitation.                                  Lao staff in management and
                                                                                          maintenance of the provincial water
                                                                                          supply and sanitation infrastructure;
                                                                                        ­ Training provided to more than 300
                                                                                          staff in 16 topics related to rural water
                                                                                          supply and sanitation.


 Data source: MCTPC, DCTPC and MoH.

1End of project




                                                                - 32 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal    Actual/Latest   Percentage of
                                                          Estimate      Estimate        Appraisal
                        Component                         US$ million   US$ million
Road Rehabilitation and Construction Component
   Namtha­Viengphoukha­Namngen                               2.03            0.00               0
   Sing­Long­Xiengkok                                        2.23            2.38             107
   Namtha­Nalae                                              0.00            2.21
   Office, transport and others                              0.30            0.54             180
   Survey and design costs                                   0.09            0.27             286
   Seminars and training                                     0.13            0.05              39
   Consulting services                                       0.82            1.52             187
   Water Supply and Sanitation Component                     2.31            2.50             108
   Institutional Strengthening Component                     0.49            0.58             119

Total Baseline Cost                                          8.40          10.05
 Physical Contingencies                                      0.84
 Price Contingencies                                         0.95
                          Total Project Costs               10.19          10.05
                    Total Financing Required                10.19          10.05

Rounding of figures made slight change from SAR figure.




Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category            ICB            NCB                2       N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                            0.00            4.94         1.79         0.00          6.73
                                   (0.00)          (4.70)      (1.70)         (0.00)       (6.40)
2. Goods                            0.00            0.00         0.99         0.00          0.99
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.96)         (0.00)       (0.96)
3. Services                         0.00            0.00         2.46         0.00          2.46
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (2.32)         (0.00)       (2.32)
   Total                            0.00            4.94         5.24         0.00         10.18
                                   (0.00)          (4.70)      (4.98)         (0.00)       (9.68)




                                                - 33 -

  Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                   1
                                                         Procurement Method
       Expenditure Category                ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                               Other
  1. Works                                 0.00               6.34              0.00             0.00              6.34
                                          (0.00)             (6.08)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (6.08)
  2. Goods                                 0.00               1.34              0.00             0.00              1.34
                                          (0.00)             (1.31)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (1.31)
  3. Services                              0.00               0.00              2.35             0.00              2.35
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (2.35)            (0.00)           (2.35)
      Total                                0.00               7.68              2.35             0.00             10.03
                                          (0.00)             (7.39)            (2.35)            (0.00)           (9.74)

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.




Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               IDA         Govt.        CoF.         IDA          Govt.      CoF.       IDA      Govt.     CoF.
Road Rehabilitation and        5.40         0.19         0.00        6.78         0.19       0.00       125.6    100.0      0.0
Construction Component

Water Supply and               2.44         0.07         0.00        2.40         0.08       0.02       98.4     114.3      0.0
Sanitation Component

Institutional                  0.46         0.03         0.00        0.57         0.01       0.00       123.9     33.3      0.0
Strengthening
Component

Contingencies                  1.57         0.22         0.00        0.00         0.00       0.00        0.0      0.0       0.0

      Project Total            9.67         0.51         0.00        9.75         0.27       0.02       100.8     52.9      0.0




                                                          - 34 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits


         This post-completion economic evaluation of the Luang Namtha Province Development Project
covers the following components completed under the project: (a) Muang Sing--Xiengkok Road No. 17B
(72 km); (b) Namtha--Nalae Road (67 km); (c) Namtha Urban Water Supply System; (d) Old Namtha
Urban Water Supply system; and (e) Muang Sing Water Supply System.

Cost Benefit of Road Component

         The road component accounts for about 67% of the investment under the project. The approach
used in economic re­evaluation of the road component is similar to the one used in the SAR. It is based on
transport cost savings and value added to production due to more economical means of transport following
project completion. The assumed project life of the roads is 15 years.

Capital Cost

         The adjusted economic cost of Muang Sing--Xiengkok Road No. 17B (72 km) in Kip (2000
prices); (b) Namtha--Nalae Road (67 km) in Kip (2001 prices) were Kip 27,000 million and Kip 30,800
million respectively.

Other Costs

         The roads require routine maintenance every year and periodic maintenance every ten years. The
routine maintenance cost is estimated at completion to be Kip 1.0 million to Kip 1.4 million per km and
periodic maintenance Kip 26.0 to Kip 36.0 million per km at completion.

Benefits

         The project roads have two quantifiable benefits:

         (a)   transport cost savings for the commodities which are and would continue to be transported
               with a much higher vehicle operating costs on the existing road condition or by other non­
               motorized transport means without the project; and

         (b)   value added to production which is generated by more economical means of transport after
               the project is completed.

         Transport Cost Saving Benefit. At appraisal, the most commonly used vehicle on the primitive
dirt road was a four­wheel two­ton Russian truck. At completion, the most common vehicle is a 2 to 3­ton
truck. The vehicle operating cost was then equivalent to US$0.48 per ton­ km, while with improved access
and changes in type of vehicle used, the operating cost has been reduced and is estimated at about US$0.15
per ton­km. Without the project, the tonnage that is transported would continue to grow at an average 4%
as assumed.




                                                   - 35 -

         Value­Added Benefit. The value­added benefit is due to the additional production within the road
influence area. It is in addition to what would occur without the project and is counted as benefit
contributed by the project. The value­added in ton generated by the project is the difference between the
marketable "with" and "without" the project. The value­added benefit is calculated as the market value of
the generated production less its production and transportation cost.

Economic Rate of Return

         The streams of costs and benefits calculated as explained above: Muang Sing--Xiengkok Road
No. 17B (72 km) started in 1997 and completed in 2000 while Namtha--Nalae Road (67 km) in Kip
started in 1998 and completed in 2001. The value-added benefit is the main benefit. The economic rate of
return (ERR) is 27% and 32% for Muang Sing--Xiengkok Road and Namtha--Nalae respectively. The
net present value for both roads are positive and are Kip 21,053 million and Kip 78,695 million
respectively.

Sensitivity and Risk Analysis

         The main risk of the investment is a lower growth in value­added benefit. The sensitivity of the
economic rate of return to the changes in this factor has been tested with the following results:

                                        Table 1: Sensitivity Analysis


                          Muang Sing--Xiengkok Road                   Namtha--Nalae Road

                          Appraisal             Actual             Appraisal             Actual
Best estimate                12%                 27%                  N/A                 32%
Growth of
value-added
benefit
Reduced by 10%               10%                 25%                  N/A                 29%


         As noted above, the growth by 10% and 15 % is sensitive to the change in the growth rate of the
value-added benefits.

Cost Benefit of Urban Water Supply Component

         The water component represented 28% of the investment cost of the project.

Methodology

         At appraisal no economic or financial rates of return estimates were carried out for both the urban
and rural water sub­components. The approach used in the post implementation evaluation is based on
benefits `with' and `without' project situation.




                                                    - 36 -

Beneficiaries of the Project

         The urban water sub­component provided for the first time a year-round water supply to
households and other facilities in the town of New Namtha, Old Namtha and Muang Sing I and II. The
main impacts of the investments would be safer and more reliable water supply services to about 20,000
persons living in the towns and nearby villages. Specifically, among the main quantifiable benefits for the
households are: cost savings of not having to spend time fetching water; savings in medical expense and
loss of income due to water-borne diseases because of poor quality of water and benefits from
non­household use of water.

         The investments undertaken included: a) rehabilitation and expansion of the water supply system in
new Namtha town through the provision of the equipment and civil works; b) provision of basic water
service through standpipes and washing facilities in Old Namtha town, Muang Sing I (town) and Muang
Sing (five villages adjoining Muang Sing town). Besides providing additional water supply to domestic
household, water is also provided to government, industry and business, commercial and others.

         Least­cost solution. The technology selected overall is considered to be the most economical
alternative to improve the overall provision of safe water to the three townships. Each water supply system
is managed by the respective township and there is no economic scale from a possible consolidated
management.

         Economic costs. The economic costs are those investment outlays and operation and maintenance
expenditures conducted using the corresponding exchange rates between Kip and US$.

         Economic benefit. The tariffs in the three towns and five villages (ranging from Kip 200 to Kip
700 per m3 for household consumption with exchange rate at Kip 10,770 to US$1; equivalent from
US$0.02 to US$.083 per m3) do not fully reflect the economic benefits due to improved quality and
availability of water to the people in these towns and villages. In fact, the current tariff is far below the
production cost. For example, in New Namtha, the production cost of water per m3 is Kip 2,001 while the
revenue from water sale is Kip 890 kip/m3. Between 1995 and 2001 the consumer price index has
increased 8 fold. During the same period, however, increase in water tariff has remained relatively
stagnant.

         To capture the true benefit of the investment in the water sector, the cost benefit estimate of the
investment is based on quantifying the benefits: cost savings of not having to spend time fetching water;
savings in medical expense and loss of income due to water­borne diseases on account of the poor quality
of water. In the case of New Namtha, benefit from non­household use is included.

         The benefit assessment is based on benefits "with" and "without" the project. The cost savings due
to availability of potable water are the saving in medical expense and loss of income due to water-borne
diseases attributable to poor quality of water. It is estimated that on the average each household suffer
loss of equivalent to 2 workdays a year from water-borne disease; and spent an additional 2% of per
capita income for medical expenses. Without the project, it is estimated that on the average each
household spends 45 minutes to fetch 20 liters per capita per day. In New Namtha, the non­domestic
revenue is added to the benefit On these bases, the economic rate of return for each of the towns is shown
below.




                                                      - 37 -

                              Table 2: Status of Water Supply Coverage (2002)


         Type of Service            New Namtha         Old Namtha          Muang Sing I       Muang Sing II

Population Served                       9,606               1,660               2,030             1,000
Public standpipes                                            23                  32                19
No. of connections                     10,463               141                 117
Capacity                            1,333 m3/day        100 m3/day
Designed to serve                   9,606 people        4,200 people        3,200 people       2,000 people
Capacity to be fully utilized by:       2000                1997                2005              2010
Revenue (Kip/m3)                         890                720                 302                239
Production cost (Kip/m3)               (2,001)             (3,297)             (3,342)           (1,494)
Gain /(Loss) (Kip/m3)                  (1,111)
Quality of water                  WHO's standards    WHO's standards WHO's standards WHO's standards
Old system                         170 consumers;    Bore hole; no       Nam Ya river; un No water supply
                                   not clean water   pipeline            reliable all year  system;
                                                                         round; inadequate

Availability of water service       24 hours/day         10 hrs/day          3 hours/day       3 hours/day
System loss (%)                         25%                 10%                 28%               43%



                              Table 3: Economic Rate of Return and Sensitivity


                              New Namtha         Old Namtha           Muang Sing I          Muang Sing II
                                 Town

Best estimate                    12%                 11%                   15%                   55%

15% Reduction in                 12%                 11%                   15%                   55%
O&M



         The major factor affecting the rate of return is the investment layout and the number of
beneficiaries.



Financial Analysis

         None of the water supply systems at the current levels of tariff charged are financially viable. In
fact revenues from sales of water do not cover the O&M expenses in each of the water supply entities (see
Table below). During the life of the project the inflation has been high. Consumer price index increased 8
fold while water tariff for household consumption has not doubled. The government recognizes the issue
but has not been successful so far to significantly increase the tariff. Sustainability of the water supply
entities will require subsidy.




                                                     - 38 -

       INCOME AND EXPENDITURE STATEMENT FOR NAMPAPA LUANG NAMTHA

 item                 Description        Unit    Actual 2001    Actual 2002    Plan FY 2003       Plan FY 2003

                                                                               Existing Tariff  Propos.New Tariff

   1                       2             3           4              5                6                 7

     1 Water production                  m3            330,594        385,895          447,000             447,000
     2  Water sales                      m3            231,416        287,600          339,712             339,712

     3  Water loss                       m3              99,178        98,295          107,288             107,288
     4 Water loss (%)                    %                   30             25               24                 24
     5 No. of connections                No.             1,329          1,607            1,700               1,700
     6 No. of new connections            No.               459            280                99                 99
     7  Connection fee                   kip           343,830        337,944          320,000             320,000

II     OPERATING REVENUE
     1 Water sales                       Kip        196,228,050   255,994,050     297,878,475          571,005,870
     2 Meter rental income               Kip          6,047,500      9,006,500       9,991,000           9,991,000
     3 New connection                    Kip        157,817,818    94,624,374       31,680,000          31,680,000

     4 Other income                      Kip         28,046,803    44,052,854       39,647,569          39,647,569

       Gross Operating Revenue           Kip       388,140,171    403,677,778     379,197,044          652,324,439

III    OPERATING COST ( Expenses)
     1 Personnel                         Kip         51,457,080   114,145,540     124,828,236          124,828,236
     2 Electricity                       Kip          5,626,600      6,228,087       7,356,592           7,356,592
     3 Chemical                          Kip         21,988,800    59,500,305       70,281,528          70,281,528
     4 Fuel                              Kip         25,753,450    85,517,003     101,012,351          101,012,351

     5 Other Materials                   Kip        102,638,784    44,162,634       14,803,738          14,803,738
     6 Miscellaneous & Administration    Kip         56,183,367    47,755,680       50,408,810          50,408,810
     7 Turnover Tax                      Kip         13,045,800      9,274,316       4,188,000           4,188,000
     8 Bad Deft                          Kip
                   Total O & M Cost                276,693,881    366,583,565     372,879,255          372,879,255

IV     Depreciation                      Kip        231,086,338   209,146,596     144,455,864          144,455,864

       Total Expenditure                 Kip       507,780,219    575,730,161     517,335,119          517,335,119

       Net Operating Income                       -119,640,048   -172,052,383    -138,138,075          134,989,320
V      Non-Operating Expenses            Kip                       58,478,150       49,501,177          49,501,177

     1  Principal                        Kip

     2  Interest charge                  Kip                       58,478,150       49,501,177          49,501,177
VI     Net Income before Tax             Kip      -119,640,048   -230,530,533    -187,639,252           85,488,143

       Income Tax                        Kip                                                         32,616,221.95

VII    Net Profit/Loss                   Kip                                                            52,871,921
VIII   Service Ratio                                      0.76           0.70             0.73                1.26




                                               - 39 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty               Performance Rating
                                      (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)       Implementation Development
                   Month/Year   Count           Specialty                      Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation

              August 1991                7    Task Manager/Economist (1);
              (Identification)                Highway Engineer (1); Water
                                              Supply Engineer (1); Regional
                                              Planner (1); Consultants (2);
                                              Cottage Industry & Credit
                                              Specialist (1).

              February 1992              3    Task Manager/Economist (1);
              (Preparation)                   Highway Engineer (1); Water
                                              Supply Engineer.

              October 1992               4    Task Manager/Economist (1);
              (Preparation)                   Highway Engineer (1); Sanitary
                                              Engineer (1); Community
                                              Development Specialist (1).

 Appraisal/Negotiation

              June 1993                  6    Task Manager/Economist
              (Appraisal)                     (1); Highway Engineers (2),
                                              Sanitary Engineers (2), WID
                                              Specialist (1).

              January 1994               6    Task Manager/Economist (1);
              (Negotiations)                  Highway Engineer (1); Sanitary
                                              Engineer (1); Counsel (1);
                                              Disbursment Analyst (1);
                                              Operations Analyst (1).

 Supervision

              03/28/1994                 1    Highway Engineer (1).               HS             HS

              06/28/1994                 3    Sanitary Engineer (1); Highway      HS             HS
                                              Engineer (1); Economist (1).
              11/21/1994                 2    Highway Engineer (1);               HS             HS
                                              Economist (1).

              8/30/1995                  3    Water Supply Engineer (1);          HS             HS
                                              Sanitary Engineer (1); Highway
                                              Engineer (1).

              05/16/1996                 3    Highway Engineer (1);               S               S
                                              Operations Officer (1); Task
                                              Manager/Economist (1).



                                               - 40 -

      10/24/1996    3 Operations Officer (1); Task        S    S
                      Manager/Economist (1);
                      Highway Engineer (1).

      06/12/1997    3 Operations Officer (1); Task        S    S
                      Manager/Economist (1);
                      Highway Engineer (1).

      12/19/1997    4 Sr. Economist (1); Sr. Operations   S    S
                      Officer (1); Highway Engineer
                      (1); Program Assistant (1).

      06/09/1998    2 Highway Engineer (1);               S    S
                      Sr. Operations Officer (1).

      10/27/1998    1 Urban Specialist (1)                S    S

      02/20/1999    3 Task Team Leader, Highway           S    S
                      Engineer (1); Water Supply
                      Engineer (1); Economist, Rural
                      Development (1).

      12/14/1999    2 Task Team Leader (1); Financial     S    S
                      Management Specialist (1).

      11/09/2000    3 Task Team Leader (1); Water         S    S
                      Supply Engineer (1); Financial
                      Management Specialist (1).

      04/28/2001    3 Task Team Leader (1); Highway       S    S
                      Engineer (2).

      12/21/2001    3 Urban Coordinator (1); Country      S    S
                      Team Leader (1); Sr. Operations
                      Officer (1).

      10/17/2002    4 Task Team Leader (1); Lead          S    S
                      Highway Engineer (1); Sr.
                      Operations Officer(1); Sr. Water
                      Supply & Sanitation Specialist
                      (1).

ICR
      1/30/2003     3 Task Team Leader,                   S    S
                      Transport Specialist (1);
                      Consultants (2).




                      - 41 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation            90.1                         293.3
  Appraisal/Negotiation                 38.8                         144.3
  Supervision                          220.3                         785.4
  ICR                                     9.0                          27.2
  Total                                358.2                       1,250.2




                                            - 42 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                                    Rating
   Macro policies                                      H      SU    M  N  NA
   Sector Policies                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Physical                                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Financial                                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Institutional Development                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Environmental                                       H      SU    M  N  NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction                          H      SU    M  N  NA
            Gender                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
            Other (Please specify)                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Private sector development                          H      SU    M  N  NA
   Public sector management                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Other (Please specify)                              H      SU    M  N  NA




                                                    - 43 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)

6.1 Bank performance                                        Rating

   Lending                                                    HS     S       U      HU
   Supervision                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU

6.2 Borrower performance                                    Rating

   Preparation                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Government implementation performance                      HS     S       U      HU
   Implementation agency performance                          HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU




                                                    - 44 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


1. Staff Appraisal Report. Luang Namtha Provincial Development Project. World Bank Report No.
  12364­LA. February 1994.

2. Completion Report. Luang Namtha Provincial Development Project. Urban Water Supply Component.
   October 1997.

3. Country Assistance Strategy for the Lao People's Democratic Republic. World Bank Report No.
   19098­LA. March 1999.

4. Final Evaluation Mission ALA/LAO/93/34. Integrated Rural Development Project Luang Namtha
   Province. European Commission. EURATA. November 2000.

5. Lao PDR Country Procurement Assessment. The World Bank. Report No. 25334­LA. January 2002.

6. Lao PDR Public Expenditure Review. Country Financial Accountability Assessment. Joint Report
   World Bank, International Monetary Fund, and Asian Development Bank. Report No. 24443­LA.
   June 2002.

7. Implementation Completion Report. Luang Namtha Provincial Development Project. Luang Namtha
   Province. Road and Institutional Strengthening Components. February 2003.

8. Final Implementation Completion Report. Luang Namtha Provincial Development Project. Urban
   Water Supply Component. Nampapa Luang Namtha, Department of Communication, Transport, Post
   and Communication. March 2003.

9. Completion Report. Luang Namtha Provincial Development Project. Rural Water Supply and
   Sanitation Component. Provincial Managing Secretariat Unit, District Working Unit of Namtha, Long
   and Nalae. March 2003.




                                                 - 45 -

Additional Annex 8. Maps




                 Map IBRD 32478          LAO32478 Color.pdf




                 Map IBRD 32479          LAO32479 B&W.pdf




                                   - 46 -

- 47 -

