Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C/2> ~2J57  -A/7
Report No. 12364-LA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
LUANG NAMTHA PROVINCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FEBRUARY 18, 1994
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No:         12364 LA
Type: SAR
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department I
East Asia & Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restldcte distribution and msy be used by recipients only in the perfornance of
their official duties. Its contents may no otherwise be discdosed without Wodd Bank aothodzation.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of February 1994)
Currency Unit              Kip Nationale (KN)
US$1         =      Kip 720
Kip I               US$ 0.0014
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB          - Asian Development Bank
AICF         - Association Internationale Contre la Faim
CAS          - Country Assistance Strategy
CDRI         - Communication Design and Research Institute
CIU          - Component Implzmentation Unit
CPC          - Committee for Planning and Cooperation
DCTPC        - Department of Communication, Transport, Post and Construction
EC           - The European Comm.unity
ESCML        - Enterprise for Survey apd Construction Materials Laboratory
GPDP         - Gross Provincial Domestic Product
GTZ          - Deutsche Gesellschaft Fur Technische Zusammenarbeit
ICW          - Institute of Clean Water
IDA          - International Developinent Association
ILO          - International Lator Organization
Lao PDR      - Lao People's Democratic Republic
MCTPC        - Ministry of Communication, Transport, Post and Construction
MOF          - Ministry of Finance
NEM          - New Economic Mechanism
NGO          - Non-government Organization
NPL          - Nampapa Lao, National Water Supply Enterprise
NPN          - Nampapa Lao at Namtha Provincial Office
PCMU         - Planning, Coordination and Monitoring Unit
PHRD         - Policy and Human Resources Development
PIP          - Public Investment Program
RPA          - Resident Planning Advisor
UADP         - Upland Agriculture Development Project
UNESCO       - United Nations Edcational, Scientific and Cultural Organization
UNDCP        - United Nations Drug Control Program
UNDP         - United Nations Development Program
UNICEF       - United Nations Children's Fund
UNV          - United Nations Volunteer
FISCAL YEAR
October I - September 30



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
LUANG NAMTIHA PROVINCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Credit and Project Suimmary
Borrower:                   Lao People's Democratic Republic (Lao PDR)
Beneficiary:               The Province of Luang Namtha
SDR 7.1 million (US$9.67 million equivalent)
T,ennm_s: -Standard IDA, with 40 years maturity
Wnlending terms:           About US$490,000 will be onlent to Nampapa Lao (NPL), under a
fiauicing agreement, for a 25 year term (including five years of grace)
at an interest rate of 6% per annum. NPL will bear the foreign
exchange risk.
Proiect Desntin            The proposed IDA project is part of the Government's development
program for Luang Namtha province. IDA funds will be invested in
rural infrastructure-roads and water supply-and will support the
institutional strengthening of provincial planning and management.
Parallel to IDA's pro,ect, the EC's Luang Narmtha Area Development
Project will finance community development/income generating
activities, concentrating on the geographical areas along the IDA
financed roads. The road corngnont would: (a) improve two roads
totalling about 150 km to low-volume standards; (b) survey and design
the Namtha-Nalae road; (c) develop the provincial Department of
Communication, Transport, Post and Construction (DCTPC); and (d)
develop the local construction industry. The water component would:
(a) rehabilitate and expand the water supply network, standpipes and
sanitation program in the towns of Namtha and Singh; (b) provide rural
water scheme in the districts of Viengpuka and Long; and (c) provide
technical assistance and trainig to develop, supervise and operate water
and sanitation systems. The institutional strengthening cOmponent
would: (a) set up a Planning, Coordination and Monitoring Unit
(PCMU) under the provincial governor's office to advise and train
provincial counterparts in planning, budgeting and management as well
as coordinating the technical assistance program; (b) introduce
monitoring and evaluation mechanisms, and integrate relevant project
procedures into regular provincial administrative activities; and (c)
arrange for scholarships, short-term seminars, and domestic and
regional training programs for provincial staff. To ensure sustainability
after the project is completed, the technology chosen for operation and
maintenance will be low-cost and unsophisticated.
The major benefit of the project would be to raise the very low standard
of living in Luang Namtha, which is one of the poorest provinces in the
country. About 50,000 poor are expectd to benefit from improved
access to markets and schools, as well as from better quality water and
sanitation services which would significantly improve their health and
life expectancy. About I million work days, representing over US$2.3
million in wage income, would be generated from civil work activities.
Technical assistance and training would provide important intangible
social benefits such as creating an organizational base for the poor and
upgrading their skill level, improving the social status of women as
more "economically productive" opportnities are opened to them.
This document has a restricted distribudon and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Risks:                         Since this is tite first IDA operation of its kind in Lao and is loawd in
a remote area, there are institutional and technical risks: For example,
project implementation could be delayed due to a lack of coordination
between the service ministries and the provincial authorities and due to
the latter's limited implementation capacity. This also raises concerns
about sustainability after project completion. To address these risks, a
substanial number of start-up activiies have already been launched.
Also, to secure local commitment and a sense of ownership, the
preparation involved extensive input from provimcial staff. The local
staff needed for project implementation will be provided by the
Government; technical assistance (within the project) will focus on their
training to ensure sustainability.
E-timated Costs:
Local        Foeign         Total
Items                                                      (US$'000)
Rural access roads cmonepont                            1,912.7       3,678.5       5,591.2
Water supply component                                    300.8       2,012.2       2,313.0
Instutional sngthening componn                            44.2         440.8          485.0
Toad Base cos                                           1            6131.5 B30j2
Physical contingencies (10%)                            225.8        613.2          838.9
Price contingencies                                     278.1        674.9          953.0
Total Project Cost                                      L761.6       7.41.6        10.181.1
Phundug Pkm-
Local        Foreign       Total
(US$ million)
Governmnm                                              0.51           0.0           0.51
IDA                                                    2.25           7.42          9.67
IRdb                                                   2.76           7242         IO=1
Esimated MDA ODsbursemnams:
IDA fisl year *       1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002
' -%S$ millon
Annual                 0.60    0.40    0.95     1.80     2.25    1.15     1.10     1.00    0.42
Cumulative             0.60    1.00    1.95     3.75     6.00    7.15     8.25     9.25    9.67
E_onomc Rate
of Return:            12%
Poverq Categorv:       Program of Targeted Interventions. The project will benefit one of the poorest
province with per capita income one-hird of the country's average. Investmen
in the least cost rural in   c     is most needed and has high impact on
regional market iegration and poverty reduction.
mm:                    IBRD No. 24542: The Province of Luang Namtha
IBRD NO.25115: The Project Areas



LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
LUANG NAMTHA PROVINCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Contents
PEeNo.
1.    BACKGROUND .............................. , .                           . .1
A. Regional Disparities .1
B. Government Strategy and Policy.                                            2
C. Rationale for IDA Involvement.                                             2
D. Past IDA Experience in the Sector.                                         2
H. THE PROVINCE OF LUANG NAMTHA.                                                     4
A. Overview.                                                                  4
B. Economic Activities and Development Potendal.                              4
C. Existing Provincial Infrastructure.                                        6
D. Provincial Adminitrative Structure and
Relationship wth Central G overnment.                                  8
E. Availability of Extemal Funds.                                             9
III. THE PROJECT .10
A. Objectives                                                                10
B. Project Formulation and Description                                       10
C. Cost Estimates .14
D. Financing.                                                                17
E. Status of Project Preparation .17
IV.  PROJECT ORGANIZATION, MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION .18
A. Organization and Management .18
B. Implementation Schedule .20
C. Procurement .20
D. Disbursement .22
E. Accounts and Audits .23
F. Monitoring, Reporting and Superision .23
The report is based on the findings of a June 1993 appraisal mission to Lao People's Democratic Republic
comprising Ms. Supee Teravaninthorn (economist, mission leader), Messrs. Peter Long (highway
engineer), Edouard Motte (sanitary engineer). This report was reviewed by peer reviewers, Ms.
Bromhead (ECIAG) and Mr. Reitveld (LC3IN). Mmes. Myung Ja Oh (operations analyst) and Barbara
Koeppel (consultant) provided assistance in editing and Martha Ochieng (staff assistant) in document
production. This report was cleared by Jeffrey Gutman (Chief, EA1IN) and Callisto E. Madavo
(Director, EA1).



- ii -
V.    BENEFIT, JUSTIFICATION, AND RISK  .             ........................... 24
A. Benefits                                      .....................  24
B. Economic Justification                                                       24
C. Environmental Impact                                                         25
D. Program Objective Categories .25
E. Project Risks .25
VI.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  .......                       ........... 26
A. Agreements ............................................. 26
B. Recommendation ........................................   27
ANNEXES
1. Water Supply Sector in Lao and the National Water Supply Enterprise
2. The Organizational Structure of Luang Namtha Provincial Govermment
3. Provincial Revenues and Expenditures (1986-1993)
4. Summary of the EC's Community Developmentllncome Generation Component
5. Detailed Cost Estimates
6. Organizational Responsibility of PCMU and ClUs
7. Staffing Requirement for PCMU and CIUs
8. Outline Terms of Reference for Resident Planning Advisor
9. Outline Terms of Reference for Road Component Team Leader
10. Outline Terms of Reference for Water Component Team Leader
11. Implementation Schedule
12. Schedule of Estimated Disbursement
13. Project monitoring Indicators
14. Supervision Plan
15. Economic Analysis of Road Component
16. Selected Documents Available in Project File
MAPS
1. The Province of Luang Namtba (IBRD No. 24542)
2. The Project Areas (IBkD No. 25115)



LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
LUANG NAMTHA PROVINCIAL DEVELOPMEN PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
1.1        Lao People's Democratic Republic (Lao PDR), with only four million inhabitants thinly
spread over an area of 236,800 square kilometers ':! e size of the United Kingdom) is one of the world's
poorest countries: Per capita income is about US$230. Eighty percent of its land surface is mountainous,
while the remaining 20% is comprised of the flood-prone lowland plains and the adjacent flat-to-gently
undulatng uplands. In the mountains of the north and east, the only areas suitable for intensive
agriculture are in narrow river valleys and the Plaw- of Jars; the areas most extensively cultivated and
populat"d--the riverine plains--are primarily in the central and southl.ii parts of the country. Such
conditions partly explain why the northern region is relatively poorer than other regions. The population
is unevenly distributed: About 60% live on the plains of the Mekong and its tributaries, while the
remaining 40%, mostly with different ethnic backgrounds, are confined to the mountains. About 8.5%
live in about 11,000 villages, most of which do not have year-round access to major urban areas.
A. Regional Disparities
1.2        Despite favorable economic growth in recent years, large numbers of the rural population
are poor: Over half of all rural households are in absolute poverty (with annual per capita income of no
more than US$75). The poorest region is in the north where the primary source of family income is low-
yielding rice that grows under rainfed conditions. Here, where physical infrastructure is the least
adequate, agricultural and social support services tend to be the weakest, and opportunities for nonfarm
employment are the least promising.
1.3        Regional disparities are severe. For example, of the country's 17 provinces, only four-
Vientiane, Luang Prabang, Savannakhet, and Chanipasak-have basic infrastructure. The capital cities
of the four are also the country's main administrative and political centers. These four, which hold 40%
of the population, have received 90% of all foreign assistance. The northern region, where the lack of
basic infrastructure is compounded by the mountainous topography, has been particularly disadvantaged.
Thus, the persistent poverty is generating political tension and outmigration into the larger cities,
especially Vientiane.
1.4        Lao also faces a unique gender situation in that a high proportion of women are in the active
work force (age group 15-54). The situation is particularly pronounced in rural areas, where it can reach
about 60%. Also, a large number are heads of households. These women, usually very poor, often must
take on arduous agricultural tasks usually done by men. Moreover, in the rural areas, the women have
minimal education, no health care, give birth frequently and have numerous tasks to produce food and
mantain their families such as sowing, weeding and harvesting. If the harvest fails, women play a major
role in finding other means to live, such as producing and selling handicrafts or collecting and selling
non-wood products. Counter to the traditional practice, where women engage only in the so-called
"economically unproductive" or "informal" activities, since the war, women have had to participate
directly in the economy. This is especially the case in the rural areas.



B. Government Strategy and Policy
1.5       In 1986, the Government introduced economic reforms under the New Economic Mechanism
(NEM), which were designed to give a greater role to market forces to allocate resources and to the
private sector to further economic development. Id agriculture and rural development, the NEM firther
relaxed controls in do-mestic trade (particularly in rice) and narrowed the gap between official and parallel
market prices; however, the major reforms came in 1988 when the Government and the Party resolved
to completely shift from a socialist path to a market-oriented agricultural and rural development strategy.
This allowed farmers the right to use, transfer and inherit land and be eligible for land titles, although
the state retained ownership. This resolution was codified in a Land Decree in December 1992. Also,
the 1991-95 Public Investmeit Program (PIP), whose thrust is to develop competitive factor and product
markets as part of the transition from a centratly-planned to a market economy, redirected public
investment to strengthen agriculture support services; at the same time, it reduced investment in large
scale irrigation and the protection given to large state-owned farms (which was the development thrust
in the 1970s and early 1980s). To this end, the Government is currently collaborating with IDA to
undertake a major review of the agriculture sector.
1.6       In addition, Government increasingly stresses the need to reduce regional disparities and
ensure that all socioeconomic groups benefit from the growth process. It realizes how difficult it is to
achieve balanced development when it has traditionally concentraed public investment on four relatively
more developed provinces. Thus, it must now help the 13 othrs contribute to national economic growth.
However, because resources are scarce and institutions weak, authorities will need to first concentrate
on the provinces with the greatest potential. A significant element in this strategy is to develop basic
infrastructure in parallel with income generating programs. Based on this strategy, Luang Namtha
Province was considered for the project.
C. Rationale for IDA Involvement
1.7        Tihe IDA Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Lao PDR presented to the Board in October
1992 highlighted the need to support sustainable growth and alleviate poverty. It raised the importance
of addressing the needs of the poor rural population and moving beyond the focus on national roads to
include rural infrastrucre. The proposed project is designed to provide basic infrastructure to the
Province of Luang Namtha, and thus help the poor population in remote areas realize their economic
potential, raise their incomes and becomu integrated in the national economy. The availability of rural
infrastructure would in turn facilitate investments by other donors in additional resource development and
social sector activities. The proposed project is designed to be a demonstration that would provide
lessons for other provincial and national initiatives for rural development.
D. Past IDA Experience in the Sector
1.8        Although the project is IDA's first experience in Lao that directly addresses poverty
alleviation by emphasizing sustainable development of basic rural infrastructure with parallel investment
in resources to enhance income-generating opportunities, experiences in somewhat similar projects were
ectensively studied and lessons were incorporated. These include various aspects of two transport
projects and the Upland Ariauure Development Project (UADP). In the transport projects, technical
assistance components including engineering design, construction supervision, and setting up of the



Transport Planning Unit and the Maintenance Units in the Ministry of Communication, Transport, Post
and Construction (MCTPC) were successful in helping to strengthen weak institutions. This has had a
significant impact on project implementation. However, in the UADP, there have been long delays in
implementation due to: (a) frequent change in Government policy, and continued reorganization of the
Ministry of Agricultr-e and Forestry; (b) inadequate market access for crops as a result of the closing
of state enterprises; and (c) over ambitious and over complex project designs that we too many
components that involve too many agencies and make overall coordination and management difficult,
particularly in the face of the weak human resources (in addition to the usual lack of counterpart funds).
The first two reasons were external factors unrelated to ptoject design. The third reason for the delays
was directly related to project design and can be avoided. For this reason, the project: (a) has
deLiberately been kept simpie with selective geographical and sectoral coverage; and (b) has paid special
attention to institutional strengthening, and emphasized the transfer of expertise and development of
various training programs for local counterparts. Further, many experiences from other donors were
extensively studied and introduced. For example, the project has incorporated the labor-based technology
used to construct roads in a successful ILO/GTZ pilot project in two other provinces. In addition, the
project incorporated the lessons learned by UNICEF with regard to rural water supply strategies.



-4 -
II. THE PROVINCE OF LUANG NAMTHA
A. Overview
2.1        Luang Namtha is very mountainous: Of the 9,325 km'. 7,260 km2 are covered with forests.
Two large upland plateaus contain irrigated rice fields: One is in Muang Namtha, the capital district, and
the other is in Muang Singh, a district to the northwest. The total provincial population estimated by the
Provincial Statistical Office was 122,000 as of December 1992. It is composed of about 30 ethnic groups
within the three major groupings of Lao Lum, Lao Theung and Lao Soung. Ratios of female to male
population vary among districts at around 52% to 60%, with the higher ratio in the outlying districts.
The capital district, Muang Natnha, and its commercial district, Muang Singh, on the Chinese border,
have a combined population of about 56,500 and provide a 'growth pole' for development.
2.2        There are compelling reasons to select Luang Namtha as the site of a provincial development
pioject. For example, it is typical of poor, isolated northern provinces that have little or no basic
infrastructure. Most of its population, made up primarily of ethnic minorities, practice the slash and burn
method of cultivation. Due to the lack of basic ififrastructure, men and womer spend ex_essive time
simply commuting between their villages and fields, forest areas, other villages and markets. The
movement of goods and services is difficult and, in about 65% of the villages, impossible during the wet
season except on foot. This partly explains why viUlage labor :s locked into s-ubsistence levels of
production. In addition, basic social services and market outlets are extremely limaited. The province,
however, has a locational advantage in that it borders China and Myanmar, and connects with Thailand
via Bokeo Province. Thus, it could become a center for trading activities behveen some of the interior
provinces and neighboring countries.
B. Economic Activities and Development Potential
2.3        Economic Base. Gross provincial domestic product (GPDP) was estimated at US$8.6
million or about US$75 per capita i 1991, with the monetized portion estimated at US$2.6 million or
about 30% of total.' The monetized sector is the one targeted to generate income and employment.
2.4        The province is largely self-sufficient in food (principally rice), and in good years it exports
about 10% of its total production to the neighboring provinces. However, localized food deficits of
varying severity occur occasionally due to very poor or non-existing irrigation. Apart from food grains,
livestock is the main source of cash income for most of the population. But productivity is low, for
example, it takes four to five years to raise cattle for sale at about 200 kg live-weight, primarily due to
the weight lost every dry season when protein deficits in the available forage are thought to limit their
growth-despite a plentiful supply of roughage.
2.5        Other cash crops and home-based income-generating activities include sugar cane, cotton,
fruits, sesame seeds and legumes, sericulture, forestry products such as cardamon, rattan and palm seed,
which have markets either in Thailand or China. However, transport to Thailand is tenuous and trade
I US$1.2 million total government expenditures plus US$1.4 million of private sector
money sales based on tax receipts. Amounts exclude unreported earnings.



-5- 
is therefore limited to high value easily transported goods and livestock that can be walked. Because
transport to China is physically easier year-round, border trade is currently the province's most important
commercial activities.
2.6        Trade. 'The general economy, especially in the Namtha and Singh districts, improved
substantially after 1987, when relations between Lao and China normalized and border trade formally
opened. A sizeable exchange center was built in China about 10 km from the town of Boten, which is
on the Lao side of the border. Also, a new market was completed in early 1992 in New Namtha, the
municipal capital of the province, which has become a center of trade between the Namtha merchants and
the interior provinces. The current trade pattern shows that cattle, buffalo, lumber, silk yarn and garlic
are exported to Thailand (via Bokeo province). Forestry products, herbal medicine, sesame seed, sugar
cane and cardamon are exported to China. Motorcycles, audio and video equipment, generators and small
machinery, cloth and medicines are imported from Thailand; bicycles, consumer products, cement,
reinforcing steel, machinery, beer and medicines are imported from China, and cotton is imported from
Viet Nam. New vehicles also cross Lao from Thailand en route to China.
2.7        Although the total value of external trade (including re-export between Thailand and China)
amounted to Kip 2.6 billion (US$3.8 million equivalent) in 1992, the actual volume is difficult to
estimate. Unknown quantities of goods are smuggled between China and Lao because official trade with
China is limited by quarantine requirements for livestock and the preference of the Chinese official
trading agencies to barter due to a shortage of hard currency. The potential to boost exports through
more value added in livestock, silk yarn and rattan is clear. Trade with Myanmar is currently very
limited.
2.8        Development Potential. After the New Economic Mechanism (NEM) was introduced in
1986, the Government increasingly stressed the importance of a more balanced regional development
policy; and the attempt to develop Luang Namtha province is part of this effort. The province's
development potential includes:
(a)   About 6,000-7,000 ha of unused fertile land for any new type of agricultural developrrent;
(b)  The existing traditional knowledge and skill base for cottage industries that produce silk,
textiles (weaving), rattan, iron and silver. The potential to improve and develop these
traditional activities into income-generating opportunities seems enormous;
(c)   The apparent comparative advantage for the production of cattle and buffalo;
(d)  Abundant forest products: Rattan, palm seed, cardamon, a range of herbs and spices and
non-wood products can be grown; and
(e)   Other natural resources remain to be explored, including a variety of minerals such as gem
stone, salt, coal and antimony.
2.9        However, better quality transport at a reasonable price is one of the factors that is critical
if the province is to realize its income-earning potential by producing food grains, livestock, rattan and
minerals- all of which generate high-volume bulk traffic. At present, these items are moved by pack
horses and porters for at least six months of a year, which is impractical, involves hard labor and could
be more expensive than using motorized transport in terms of its cost per ton-km. In fact, the



-6-
impracticality and high transport cost are among the most important reasons why commercialization of
these products is uneconomic. Thus, the proposed project directly addresses this problem.
C. Existing Provincial Infrastructure
2.10       Tanot The town of Namtha lies about 600 km north of Vientiane and is about one and
a half hours away by plane. It is also accessible by road and river, and trips take about six days in the
dry season; in the wet season, river transport can be dangerous. In contrast, connection with China is
much easier: Two nearly all-weather roads enter China from the Namtha and Singh districts. However,
both roads, built by the Chinese in the early 1970s, have received virtually no maintenance since they
were constructed. Thus, due to the heavy traffic of the past few years, they now need major
rehabilitation.2 Links with Thailand (which is about 190 km from New Namtha) via Bokeo province,
and with Myanmar (about 80 km from Singh district) are only possible in the dry season through very
low quality dirt roads, and across the Mekong river with ferries.
2.11       The road network within the province is very rudimentary. Most of the province and over
half the population can only be reached on foot. The 306 km of national and provincial roads give a low
33 km per 1000 kn2, of which only 138 km are passable with other than four-wheel drive trucks, and
even then, with difficulty. National road No. 3 runs from the Chinese border, via Singh to Namtha (Map
EBRD 24542). This route continues as national road No. I to Oudomsai, and contains a spur to a second
border crossing to China at Boten. The other two major provincial roads stetch towards the southwest:
One is from Singh to Long and the Mekong river crossing to Myanmar at the sub-district, Xiangkok; the
second is from Namtha to Viengpuka and across to Bokeo province (Map IBRD 25115). However, both
were never more than earthen tracks and are now difficult to pass even in the dry season: For example,
it takes seven or eight hours to drive the full length of either road (both extend only about 80 kIn) in a
4-wheel drive truck in the dry season. In the Nalae distict, which is accessible only on foot or by river,
the trip (if walked) takes seven days or more. By river, it can be one or two days in the dry season but
less in the wet season. Of the 519 villages in the province, only 150-200 are within three hours from
the district center. At present, only Singh can be considered practically accessible from Namtha.
2.12       Until recently, national roads were the responsibility of the Ministry of Communication,
Transport, Post and Constuction (MCTPC), and provincial roads of the provincial Department of
Communication, Transport, Post and Construction (DCTPC). Under the new recentralization policy,
responsibility for provincial roads has been reallocated to MCTPC, which will assume more control over
the capital investment planning of provincial infrastructre and ensure it is well integrated in the national
plan. Thus, it will need to budget for the construcdon and maintenance of the provincial road network.
However, for routine and periodic maintenance, it will probably have to rely on the DCTPC. Under the
new organization, MCTPC will closely supervise DCTPC, as well as provide technical assistance and
budget allocations. Districts and rural roads still are the responsibility of the DCPTCs.
2.13       Urban Water Supply. I New mha, where most of the provincial administration is
located, the water supply network is rudimentary. The town was built on a terrace that borders the
Namtha River. It has a well developed urban plan, a small scale hydropower system that distributes
about 60 kw power for some three hczrs in evenings, a limited water distribution network serving half
2 The rehabilitation of the two roads to the border are included in the ADB Fourth and Fifth Highway
projects.



the town, and a limited drainage network along some of the main arteries. Its water source is a spring
located about 5 km away and is fed direuly, without prior treatment, to the township by gravity; the
network is about 10 years old and was constructed with pipes and materials of diverse origin. The
spring's yield is insufficient during the three or four dry months and the population needs to revert to
hand-dug wells or river water distributed by water vendors.
2.14       In Q  Namilh, which is about 6 km south of the new town, no water supply network exists.
The town is located along a tributary of the Namtha river. As there is no organized distribution scheme,
many households without dug wells draw their water supply (for drinking, washing and bathing) from
the river, bring it home with pails or consiwme it on the spot. Only a few administrative houses and the
temple have wells that provide year-round water of reasonable quality. Women in this town spend an
hour or more every day just fetching water.
2.15       In Muang Sin,eh township, the existing water supply is fed by a spring intake and
transmission located 10 km from the town center. It serves about seven villages along the way (through
standpipes) and part of the Singh agglomeration. The system was installed by UNICEF in 1991 and
turned over to the district health unit, which currently collects mainteance fees. However, because it
does not have the capacity to perform proper maintenance, the system -less than two years old- already
needs major repairs.
2.16       The decentralization in 1975 delegated responsibility for urban water to provincial water
enterprises, which reported to the provincial DCPITC. However, they relied on technical support from
the central water supply enterprise in Vientiane, Nampapa Lao (NPL). Moreover, the Luang Namtha
water enterprise, as it was never strong nor capable, only operated in the New Namtha township. Under
the recentralization of 1992, NPL is supposed to assume the management of provincial systems and
introduce operational and tariff policies to recover at least operating and maintnance costs. Discussions
are now underway between Luang Namtha province and NPL to initiate appropriate actions and establish
a timetable for a takeover of the New Namtha system as well as for a maintenance contact on the new
standpipe system in Old Namtha. A description of the water supply sector ih  ao and the Nampapa
agency is provided in Annex 1.
2.17       Rural Water Suoply. In the rural areas, water and health conditions are precarious: Only
five gravity-fed spring systems distribute water (through standpipes) to clusters of houses within district
towns. With NGO assistance, a few wells were recently dug in some of the districts that are accessible
by roads. But for the most part, the rural population is served by traditional sources like shallow dug
wells, springs and streams !ocated far from where they hve. As there is a lack of qualified staff and
drilling/digging equipment and inadequate financial support from central Government agencies, such
problems have dampened donor efforts to develop adequate water sources in the provinces. A small
number of rural development programs are attempting to provide adequate wells, but these efforts are
minimal and reach very few. Based on primary statistics, about 400 wells or 3prings to provide
commercial water sources are needed in Luang Namtha. UNICEF and an NGO -Association
Internationale Contre la Faim (AICF)- have just delivered drilling material and equipment to the
province. Their target is to locate 100 water points in the two most accessible districts over a two-year
period. Moreover, provincial services need to be strengthened significantly so they can better plan and
maintain the water points in rural areas. To this end, UNICEF is closely supporting AICF's field
operation in its training of provincial staff and monitoring of implementation and strengthening activities.



- 8 -
2.18       Responsibilities for rural water and sanitation are under the Ministry of Health's Department
of Preventive Health and the Institute of Clean Water (ICW), created in 1981. Until now, efforts and
policies have been very ad-hoc; and, UNICEF recently reviewed its past investments and technical
support and suggested that sector policies be revised. A sub-sector strategy emphasized greater field
responsibilities and more allocation of resources to the provincial schemes.
D. Provincial Administrative Structure and Relationship with Central Government
2.19       Lao provinces (kwaeng) are divided into districts (muang), and in Luang Namtha, there are
five: Namtha, Singh, Long, Viengpuka and Nalae, with a total of 39 sub-districts (ta-saeng) and 519
villages (ban). The provincial capital, Nantha, is subdivided into the municipality, New Namtha
(established after 1975), and the settlement that existed before the liberation war, Ctld Namtha.
2.20       The provincial Executive Committee, whose offices are located in New Namtha, is
composed of the governor, two vice governors, ten department directors, and the provincial chairman
of the party organization (Annex 2). This administrative structure is duplicated at the district level. The
recent recentralization policy and civil service reform in the central Government affect provincial level
organization. For example, the governor is now appointed by the prime minister and reports back to
him, directly. One of the two vice governors heads the provincial finance department and reports to the
Ministry of Finance (MOF), and the other vice governor is in charge of the provincial planning and
cooperation department and reports to the Committee for Planning and Cooperation (CPC). Further, each
director of each sector department (for example, transport, health, etc.) will be appointed by the central
sector ministries. On technical matters, these provincial departments will have to answer to the sector
ministries in Vientiane; on day-to-day administrative matters, they will report to the governor.
2.21       Fiscal Administration and Planning. Fiscal recentralization, which was introduced in
FYI1992, ' reduced the provincial governors' role from having full authority over provincial budgets and
expenditures to merely becoming the administrative head of the province. Also, the provincial finance
departments must now submit all revenues to the MOF; and, all provincial service departments must
submit their investment plans to the respective ministries which then prioritize and submit all 17 to the
Department of Public Investment Programme of the CPC for capital investment approval and to the
Budget Department of the MOF for recurrent expenditure budgeting. Further, although governors still
retain authority to guide the preparation of the provincial plans before these are submitted to Vientiane,
they are scrutinized a second time, re-prioritized, approved or rejected by the ministries in Vientiane.
If the governors and ministries disagree, the Office of the Prime Minister makes the final decision.
2.22       Due to a lack of qualifed planning personnel and limited resources in the provinces, the
fiscal decentralization and planning practice did not succeed. Thus, the newly introduced recentalization
is a fresh attempt to ensure that provincial investment plans are well coordinated with the national plan.
Until now, the provinces never prepared long-term investment or budget plans and their investment plans
were based on anmnal provincial revenue projections (rather than on their development needs). Because
most provinces, except the four major ones, took in very limited revenues, they had very little for major
3 Before 1992, the fiscal year coincided with the calendar year. In 1992, the new fiscal cycle, which
starts on the first of October of the previous year and ends on the last day of September of the current
year, was introduce. However, FY92 was exceptional in that the fiscal year started on the first of
January 1992 and ended on the last day of September 1992.



-9-
capital construction. Also, capital construction projects that spanned more than one or two-year
investment periods were generally not given priority, since authorities feared unpredictable shortfalls in
revenue. Unfortunately, such practices lacked vision and continuity.
2.23       Provincial Revenues and Expenditures. The structure of the provincial economy improved
substantially since the introduction of the NEM policy in 1986 (see Annex 3). After this time, the private
sector grew steadily, while the state enteprise sector diminished, especially after 1991, when privatization
in the provinces was well underway. Also, since the opening of border trade with China in 1988, the
major source of grovincial revenue has been from taxes and customs levied on extenal trade (about 40%
of total provincial revenues in 1992). The province did not receive any financial subsidies from the
central Government until after 1989, when the latter began to reevaluate the decentralation policy;
during this time, the central Government also received more external funding for budget support and
could therefore provide more subsidies to less developed provinces. The central Government currently
subsidizes about 30% of the provincial budgets per year, and this level of subsidy will have to continue
for a while before it gradually decreases (as provincial revenues increase).
2.24       The structure of expndiur  is also being improved. Capital investment now receives
greater attention and has been substantally increased since 1990. Following the investment strategy
recommended in the five-year Public Investment Program (PIP), the .epartment of Public Investment
Programme is maintaining the level of capital investment at about 13% of GDP and intends to continue
this until the end of the decade. Of the total, transport and energy receive the largest share. As a result,
capital investment in Luang Namtha has risen to about 30% of total expenditures. This level differs
markedly from the period of fiscal decentralization, when less than 10% of total expenditure was allocated
for capital investment while over 70% was spent on salaries, services and administrative expenmses, and
another 10% on maintenance expenditures.
E. Availability of Exenal Funds
2.25       Prior to 1990, the only external assistance to Luang Namtha was from China and this was
during the Vietnam war. However, the province has recently attracted more donor attention. First,
UNESCO launched a small project (US$250,000 over three years) in 1990 to create training centers for
weaving and sewing. Next, in 1992, UNDP funded a small-scale irrigation project south of Namtha
district (Nam Hoi Scheme), as a spillover from its major program in Oudomsai. Also, UNICEF is about
to approve an informal education project (to begin in 1993/94) that will target the minority hill
population, which constitutes the bulk of provincial inhabitants. Total funding from other UN agencies
and NGOs in the next five years is estimated to be about US$3 million, the focus of which will be
agriculture and the social service sectors.
2.26       However, without ready access to the rural areas, basic public utilities, and comprehensive
development planning, these small-scale programs cannot expand so as to reap the maximum benefit
intended. Thus, IDA investment in basic rural infrastructure is very timely and will enhance the other
donors' assistance programs.



- 10-
m. T3E PROJECT
A. Objectives
3.1        The Government, with assistance from IDA, has prepared a development program for the
Province of Luang Namtha which will be supported through financing from IDA and the European
Community (EC). The thrust of the program is to improve the standard of living and raise the income
potential of significant numbers of the rural poor. Specifically, the program has four main objectives:
(a) To enhance local income generating activities;
(b)  To better integrate the local population into the market economy, and provide access to
social services;
(c)   To reduce the time people spend seeking water and provide them with an amount and
quality of water that will meet their basic health and hygiene needs; and
(d) To strengthen the planning, management and technical capabilities of implementing agencies
at the ministerial and provincial levels.
3.2        The EC's Luang Namtha Area Development Project (ECU 8 million or US$9.6 million
equivalent) is directed at the first objective and will finance community development/income generating
activities (detailed in Annex 4) concentrating on the geographical areas along the IDA financed roads and
is designed to:
(a)   Support activities including demonstrating techniques in farming, sericulture, animal
husbandry and rattan product manufacturing, as well as conducting workshops and
vocational training so as to diversify the communities' marketable outputs. Also, these
activities are intended to be sustainable, financially affordable and economically viable. All
activities will be designed according to the communities' natural and social endowment and
the focus will be grass-roots development; and
(b) Provide technical and conceptual training to provincial staff both formally and on-the-job,
together with training and extension support for villagers, as well as create village revolving
funds for starting home-based income earning activities.
3.3        The IDA project is directed at the other three objectives through investment in rural
infrastructure -roads and water supply- and technical assistance for institutional strengthening of the
provincial government.
B. Project Formulation and Description
3.4        Due to a lack of resources and weak provincial institutions, the IDA project design has been
kept relatively simple with selective geographical and sectoral coverage. It would include the following
main components: (a) labor-intensive rural road development; (b) urban water supply and sanitation, and
rural water scheme; and (c) institutional strengthening and training. Throughout the project, community
participation at the village level will be introduced as much as is practical for each components.



- 11 -
3.5        Labor-based rural road development: The objectives of the component are to:
(a)  Improve access to rural communities by linking them to the national network;
(b) Develop local capacity to improve low-volume roads and to maintain them on a sustainable
basis; and
(c)   Encourage the development of private contractors.
3.6        The specffic features included in the project to achieve these objectives are:
(a) Improving two roads to low-volume standards (Map IBRI) No. 25115): Singh to Xiangkok
via Long (75 kIn) and Namtha to Ban Namngen (77 km). Labor-based construction
methods would be emphasized, in collaboration with ILO/GTZ (paras 3.8 and 4.8);
(b)  Surveying and designing a road from Namtha to Nalae with appropriate standards;
(c)   Developing the provincial Department of Communication, Transport, Post and Construction
(DCTPC) through technical assistane and training in construction supervision, and road
maintenance and management. The project will also provide an office building for DCTPC,
equipment for survvying and testing materials, and vehicles for design, constuction
supervision and maintenance management activities;
(d) Developing the local construction industry by providing training to contractors in project
management, cost accounting, bidding, etc, using modified procurement procedures to
introduce the contractors progressively to Local Competitive Bidding (LCB); and
(e) Collaborating with UNDP to strengthen the MCTPC and provincial capacity for road
maintenance and improvement (paras 3'8 and 4.8).
3.7        The construction and maintenance of roads that carry low volume traffic must be low cost
and accomplished with an appropriate mix of equipment and labor. Where necessary, such as for work
in mountainous areas, heavy equipment will be employed. In keeping with the national policy, which
is to fund this effort from the national budget and execute it with local capability, the project roads would
be built by small local contraors who would receive training under the project. Supervisors from the
provincial DCTPC, as well as the workers recruited from villages along the route, would also acquire
some training in rural road construction and maintenance. As a result, mainnance will be more
susainable at the provincial and district levels than in the past, when outside contractors relied on
imported labor.
3.8        If labor-based methods are to succeed, they must be institutionalizd. The component
proposed in the project is parallel with two other projects that share similar objective to improve the
constuction/mainance processes. These include the proposed GTZIILO Labor-Based Rural Roads
Contuction and Maitnance Project in Oudomsai and Savannakhet provinces, and the proposed UNDP
Stregthening of Provincial Capacity for Road Maintenance and Improvement Project. The road
component of the proposed IDA project would share some project management resources with the other
two.



- 12 -
3.9        Normally, construction begins at one end of a project road and progresses towards the other
end. However, given the almost impassable state of the existing tracks, and the need to improve the level
of service both incrementally and as soon as possible-to give access to markets-the first stage will
involve making spot improvements on the two existing tracks. Works would concentrate on the particular
sections that are presently impassable except to four-wheel drive trucks. These relatively small efforts,
which can be done by small contractors, we-uld immediately make district centers and villages along the
roads more accessible because the roads would be passable to four-wheel drive jeeps during the wet
season, and progressively to two-wheel drive pickups during the dry season. Once this stage is attained,
the remainder of the road will then be progressively improved in a manner consistent with the modest
overall objectives. Engineering surveys for the initial program of spot improvements will be completed
by April 1994 so construction can begin once the credit is effective.
3.10       In order to strengthen DCTPC, it was agreed that an international road engineer should be
appointed under the project to reside in Luang Namtha along with two UN volunteers (UNV). At
negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government that: (a) MCTPC will appoint, by June 1,
1994. one resident engineer to work as the counterpart project manager in Luang Namtha, (b) MCTPC
will provide a materials technician (from either of its affiliated ESML or CDRI units) who will initially
carry out necessary tests on construction materials and also train a technician from DCTPC in performing
quality control techniques; and agreement was also reached with the Province of Luang Namtha that (c)
DCTPC will nominate, by June 1, 1994, two technicians and two supervisors to the project team.
3.11       The two proposed road sections involve upgrading existing tracks and will not create
significant environmental risk to justify preparation of a detailed environmental assessment. However,
an Environmental Guideline for Road Rehabilitation in Lao PDR is currently being finalized which will
also benefit the implementation of the component.
3.12       Water SpLV. The obiectives of the component are to:
(a)  Improve the water supply systems in three provincial townships to provide year-round
access to clean water; and to improve the quality of water sources in rural communities;
(b) Improve the health and sanitation conditions for the population of the towns by promoting
a pilot sanitation program of private latrines; and
(c)   Strengthen the institutions for the operat.on and management of water supply systems at
both the central and provincial levels.
3.13       The proposed component would consist of:
(a)   Rehabilitating and expanding the water supply network of the new district town of Namtha
(New Namtha) through the provision of equipment and civil works;
(b)   Providing basic water service through standpipes and washing facilities in the old towns of
Namtha (Old Namtha) and Singh;
(c)   Providing rural water supply in the districts of Viengpuka and Long, following the criteria
and guidelines established under a UNICEF/AICF project recently initiated for the districts
of Old Namtha and Singh (it is estimated the project will construct about 150 wells in three



- 13 -
years);
(d)   Providing individual water-sealed latrines in household compounds in the three urban
districts of Old and New Namtha and Singh; and
(e)   Providing office building for NPN, and technical assistance and training needed to develop,
supervise and operate water and sanitation systems implemented under the project.
3.14       It would provide, for the first time, a year-ro'and water supply to households in the three
townships. The project would also support safe and reliable water sources from wells and equip them
with pumps using solar energy; NPL would continue to manage the system and improve its maintenance
capacity after providing its provincial staff with training in the early part of the project. In the larger
center, New Namtha, the public distribution system would be expanded, while in Old Namtha and Singh
a public system serving water through standpipes would be constructed. For the construction of
individual latrines under the project, urban dwellers will be required to construct the pit, slab and
superstructure, while being given one bag of concrete, reinforcing mesh and the toilet bowl, all free of
charge. Assistance to this work will be provided by community organizers (para. 4.9).
3.15       The takeover of management by NPL is critical for the New Namtha water scheme;
however, its financial and technical operations are not conducive for this, and NPL does not have the
finances needed to assume responsibility for systems heavily in debt. In order to redress the imbalance
between comparatively minimal revenues and high expenses (for salaries and maintenance), the
Government agreed to introduce individual metering, replacing the lump-sum fee approach, and to set
a tariff initially at about 70 kip/m3 consumed in New Namtha. This tariff will be adjusted regularly to
reflect cost. At negotiations the Province of Luang Namtha confirmed that: (a) the transfer agreement
of the New Namtha water supply facility from the province to NPL has already been signed and
endorsed, effective on June 1, 1994; (b) installation of water meters has began and will be completed for
the currently existing household connections by December 30, 1994; and (c) the new water tariff structure
of 70 Kip/m3 consumed will become effective no later than June 1, 1994. For the districts of Old
Namtha and Singh, the Province of Luang Namtha confirmed that water supply and sanitation household
charges sufficient to cover the reasonable cost of managing and maintaining the water supply and
sanitation services shall be established no later than January 1, 1995.
3.16       For both Old Namtha and Singh, where standpipe systems will be introduced, it was agreed
that NPL will be contracted by the province to maintain and operate the system and collect appropriate
fees to cover its operation and maintenance costs, while the province remains the owner of the asset. At
negotiations agreement was reached with the Province of Luang Namtha that a contract between NPL and
the Province for the management of the standpipe systems in Old Namtha and Singh, satisfactory to IDA,
shall have become effective by August 1, 1994.
3.17       In rural areas, the project will develop a low-cost water supply scheme from wells or spring
water where sources are available. It would set up a team of drillers with appropriate drilling and
construction equipment and with the initial support of a master driller and hydro-geologist technician.
The technology would be manual or light motorized. While the drilling team would initially be supported
by the project flund, its operation cost would be recovered from end-users' contributions. According to
IDA estimate, a contribution of about Kip 100,000 (US$140 equivalent) for a construction of a well is
considered affordable and minimal. At negotiations, agreement was reached with the Province of Luang
Namtha that a minimum contribution from end-users at about Kip 100,000 equivalent for construction



- 14 -
of a rural well will be enforced as a disbursement condition for the rural water component.
3.18      Institutional Strengthening: Efforts to carry out proincial planning and development are at
a very early stage because most provincial authorities possess neither the educational and professional
background needed nor the exposure to development elsewhere, even within the country. Thus, the
okjneiiy of the component is to strengthen the planning, managerial and operational capacities of the
provincial and central governments.
3.19       The component would include:
(a)   Setting up a Planning, Coordination and Monitoring Unit (PCMU) under the provincial
governor's office to advise and train provincial counterparts in planning, budgeting and
management as well as to coordinate the Technical Assistance program;
(b) Introducing monitoring and evaluation mechanisms in order to develop relevant data
collection, data analysis and management information systems, and to integrate relevant
project procedures into regular provincial administrative activities and operations;
(c) Arranging for short-term seminars, training and domestic and regional study tours for
provmcial staff. Planning and finance officers in other provinces and central agencies could
also be included in the training where appropriate;
(d)  Providing as many as three Bachelor's Degree scholaships to neighboring countries with
a condition that the recipients return and work in Luang Namtha for an agreed-upon
minimum period. This will be part of the longer-term human resource development and
institutional strengthening of the provincial government; and
(e)   Providing a building to house the PCMU in the same compound as the provincial
administrative office. Other necessary office equipment and transport will also be provided.
3.20       Because the major objective of technical assistance is the transfer of expertise, it is therefore
proposed that the first task in the terms of reference for all consultants would be the training of local
counterparts. Tlhese TORs would also explicitly provide for periodic evaluation of the consultants'
performance by the Government and IDA.
3.21       The local counterpart staff of the PCMU is expected to take over the work of the resident
advisor as soon as possible. It is, therefore, proposed that though the expert adviser to the PCMU would
be budgeted for five-years, the need for such an adviser would be evaluated towards the end of the third
year; if full-time assistance is decided to be unnecessary, the remaining budget would be allocated to
other project requirements.
C. Cost Estimates
3.22       The total IDA project cost is estimated to be about Kip 7,990 million, or US$10.18 million
equivalent, including physical and price contingencies. This includes a foreign exchange component of
US$7.42 million, or about 73% of the total cost. A summary of costs by project component is given in
Table 3.1. Cost breakdowns by component and project year are provided in Annex 5.



- 15 -
3.23       The cost of civil works and construction material is based on recent tender prices,
e-ilience with the ILO pilot project, and estimates by consulting engineers. Those of vehicles and
equpment, the scholarship program, local and regional seminars and training, are based on recent
MCTPC purchases and training activities financed under the ongoing Highway Improvement Project, as
well as on itms purchased under project preparation, which was funded by the Japan Policy and Human
Resources Development Fund (Japan PHRD Fund). All-inclusive costs per staff-month for foreign
specialist services are estimated based on cost of regional consultants and UNV personnel. Costs for
local specialist services are esfimated and based on local experience. A total of about 600 staff-months
of local and foreign specialist services would be required.
3.24       All base costs are estimated in January 1994 prices. Physical contingencies of 10% of base
cost estimates have been applied to all comporePts. Price contingencies have been calculated for foreign
and local costs. When expressed in US dollars, the escalation for foreign and local costs is based on
expected international annual price increases of 2.8% from 1994 to 2001. When expressed in Kip, the
increase is based on expected domestic price increases of 6% in 1994 and 5% thereafter. Project cost
estimates include construction-related duties and taxes calculated as followed: 10% on work by
construction enterprises and 5% on locally-procured construction materials. All materials and equipment
imported under the project would be exempt from taxes and duties.



- 16-
Table 3.1: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COST ESTIMATES
(January 1994 prices)
item                       Local      Fopn                    Loca      Fore4i         Total       % Forign     % of total
Total                                          to total cost   project cost
-___________________                           (MD mi---on)                         (USS000)
RtRAL ACCESS ROADS
Namtha-Viengphuks-NamNgen                      583         875      i,458      810.0     1,215.0        2,025.0        60.00         10.89
Siogh-LongWXiangkoJ                            643         965       1,608     893.3     1,339.9        2,233.2        60.00         21.93
Oflke, utnsportandothen                         75         139        215      104.3      193.7          298.0         65.00          2.93
Surveyanddealpgcost                             60          7          67       83.7        9.3           93.0         10.00          0.91
Semiwand traling                                15          75         91       21.4      104.6           126.0        83.00          1.24
Consullg services                                0         588        588        0.0      816.0          816.0        100.00          8.01
Subtotal                                1.377      26         1026    L912.?       3,678.5        S.591.2        65.79         54.92
WATER SUPPLY SYSIYM
Network and officem New Nainha                  92         615        707      127.7      854.3          982.0         87.00          9.65
NetworkinoldNamcha                               9          85         94       13.1      117.9          131.0         90.00          1.29
Network m Mung Sigh                              7          65         72       10.0       90.0           100.0        90.00          0.98
Rual watae supply                               50         202        252       70.0      280.0           350.0        80.00          3.44
Santationprogram                                43          29         72       60.0       40.0           100.0        40.00          0.98
Traiong                                         14         '30        144       20.0      180.0          200.0         90.00          1.96
Couuling serices                                 0         324        324        0.0      450.0          450.0        100.00          4.42
Subtotal                                 217                    .5       300.8     2.012.2        2.313.0        87.00         22.72
INS'ITIONAL SIREN{TG IING
Office, vehicles & adm  comt                    24         69          94       33.8       96.2          130.0         74.00          1.28
Seminn  t ahlng                                  4          25         29        5.2       34.8           40.0         87.00          0.39
Scholbip progam                                  4         43          47        5.2       59.8           65.0         92.00          0.64
Consulting servics                               0         ISO        180        0.0      250.0          250.0        100.00          2.46
Sutal                                     32        317         349       44.2      440.8          485.0         90.S9          4.76
TotalBase Cot                           1.6        4.415      6.040    2257        6.131.S        8,389.2        73.09         82.40
Physiad conigescies (10%)                      163         441        604      225.8      613.2          838.9         73.09          8.24
Prke contirgecies                              393         953       1,346     278.1      674.9          953.0         70.82          9.36
TotalProjectCost                       2.181       5.810      7.99     2,761.6     7.419.6       10,181.1        72.88        100.00



- 17 -
D. Financing
3.25       The IDA credit of US$9.67 million would finance about 50% of the comprehensive
development program costs (including the EC funded portion), or about 95% of the cost of the activities
other than those associated with income-generation activities. The remaining US$0.51 million, or 5%
of the IDA project costs, would be financed by the Government in local currency Kips. Part of the
proceeds of the credit will be passed on to the Province of Luang Namtha as budget contribution from
the central Government for the purpose of carrying out the project. In addition, US$490,000 equivalent
in local currency Kips or about 40% of the cost for the distribution network in New Namtha, inclusive
of contingencies, would be on-lent to Nampapa Lao under a financing agreement for a term of 25 years
(including five years of grace on repayment of principal) at an interest rate of 6.0% per annum. NPL
will bear the foreign exchange risk for the amount it borrows. The remaining 60% of the cost of
distribution network in New Namtha (US$730,000) will be equity contribution of the Government to
NPL. The financing for individual components of the project is summarized in the following table:
Table 3.2: PROJECT FINANCING PLAN
(US$ '00G)
Governm    IDA      Total    Estimated
ent                      share of IDA
financing
()
Road                             191    5,400.0   5,591       96
Water supply                      73    2,240.0   2,313       96
Institutional strengthening       25      460.0     485       90
Contingencies                    220    1,570.0   1,791       88
Project Total                    510      9,670   10,180      95
E. Status of Project Preparation
3.26       Project preparation is at an advanced stage as a result of support from the Japan PHRD
FRd. The following activities are substantially complete: (a) engineering reconnaissance along the
whole length of the three proposed provincial road sections; (b) a feasibility survey of a labor-intensive
construction approach for Luang Namtha; (c) drilling of production wells to determine the location for
a water plant in New Namtha; (d) production of detailed design and bid documents for the water
distribution system in New Namtha; (e) the drilling investigation of boreholes for the standpipes in Old
Namtha; (f) economic investigations to survey the economic base of the province; (g) preparation of a
feasibility study to design the income-generation component; (h) a study tour to Thailand for the
provincial staff and Lao Women's Union of Luang Namtha to expose them to community development
processes elsewhere; and (i) an environmental investigation to prepare environmental guidelines for road
rehabilitation in Lao, in general, and environmental controls that would be required during the
construction of a road to Nalae, specificaly. Preparation of the first year implmentation program for the
spot improvements on the roads is ongoing. In addition, the Government and IDA together identified
areas in which technical assistance and training are necessary and TORs for those assignments were
prepared and agreed during negotiations. Engineers, technicians, and plamning officers in MCTPC and
the provincial services critical for the starting up of the project implementation have been identified and
will shortly be appointed to the project team.



- 18-
IV. PROJECT ORGANIZATION, MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. Organization and Management
4.1        The provincial government will be respon-ble for executing the project. However, the
provincial government, which is relatively weak, will be assisted by the central Government: MOF and
CPC will coordinate the aid, and MCTPC will oaer overall technical support.
4.2        The provincial executing agencies need to be strengthened both for project implementation
and future development purposes. At present, they lack the capacity or exposure needed to manage large,
complex undertakings. This need will be addressed by: (a) creating permanent organizations that will
be responsible for particular functions; (b) transferring qualified staff from the national mninistries; and
(c) providing support and training from expert consultants. In this regard, it is thought that the project
could utilize the skills of consultants from some of the neighboring countries, who have already acquired
experience in running small, low-cost, labor-based community participation approach projects.
4.3        Under the rjrovincial government, a Planning, Coordination and Monitoring Unit (PCMU)
would be set up to supervise and coordinate all aspects of the program (para.3. 19 (a)); under the PCMU,
two sub-units, Component Implementation Unit (CIUs) will be responsible for supervising and
implementing the road and water supply components (NPL will be directly responsible for the
implementation of township water supply component). The respective roles and responsibilities of each
of the units are as follows:
(a)   The PCMU's responsibilities will include overall development planning, support to
Provincial Government in investment strategy and project managenent. Also, it will
monitor project progress and coordinate with IDA, which will involve processing the credit
withdrawal applications as well as managing and monitoring project finances; and
(b)   The CIUs will be primarily responsible for reviewing procurement procedure and
implementing road and water supply components.
The prnoosed organization and staffing of each of these units is provided in Annex 6 and 7. During
negc tons, agreement was reached with the Province of Luang Namtha that the staff of the CIUs will
be assigned according to the timetable in Annex 7; and that as a condition of credit effectiveness, the
PCMU will be established and fully staffed.
4.4        PM . It is essential that there be provincial-wide planning across all service departments
(which have the necessary planning capacity), so the project serves and is consistent with national policy.
The PCMU will operate directly under the Provincial Executive Office, and will be chaired by one of
the deputy governors. It will contain one internationally recruited resident planning advisor, two
counterpart staff seconded from provincial planning and fimance departments, one project accountant and
a secretary and other support staff. In addition to the general responsibilities described above (para. 4.3),
the planing advisor will be responsible for arranging and initiating activities described in para. 3.19 (b)
and (c). Outline Terms of Reference for the resident planning advisor are in Annex 8.
4.5        In order that the activities developed under the project be sustained, the PCMU must
ultimately be integrated-permanently-into the provincial Government. In additon, it is important that
the provincial governor's office assume the day-to-day operations of the PCMU after the third year of
the project (para.3.21) with help from short-term consultants, as needed.



- 19 -
4.6        CIUs. For the road component, the CIU will consist of an international-level highway
engineer as team leader, a counterpart engineer seconded from MCTPC as project manager, two UN
volunteers (one for each road section), two senior technicians from the provincial DCTPC, two
engineering aides (also from DCTPC), a secretary, drivers and other normal support staff (see Annex 9
for outline Terms of Reference for the team leader). A materials technician will be supplied by ESCML
(part-time); also, a senior technician, who is following a course at the MCTPC Road Training School,
will spend a training period in the ESCML laboratory, and then return to Luang Namtha for on-the-job
training by the ESCML technician. This technician will then assume responsibility for materials testing
on the project, guided by the team leader and project manager. The other technician will concentrate on
topographic surveys, which are covered in the training course in which he is enrolled at the Road
Training School. Each technician will be assisted by one of the aides.
4.7        In order to strengthen- capacity at the provincial level, it is thought that the MCTPC engineer
should continue to work in the province after the project is completed. In this way, the MCTPC could
effectively delegate responsibility for national road maintenance to the DCTPC, which would serve as
an agency for MCTPC. However, this long-term arrangement is tentative because much will depend on
the evolution of refoonsibilities for road maintenance over the next few years, and the particular engineer
assigned to the post. In addition, the experience gained by the project manager, the two DCTPC
technicians and aides with materials testing, surveying and supervising construction should provide the
province with a solid base of road expertise.
4.8        The CIU will also benefit from the GTZ/ILO and UNDP projects; specifically, from courses
on labor-based techniques which are proposed to be held in Udomsai, and courses for contractors,
planned for Vientiane. The UNDP engineer, who will help develop provincial road capabilities in
MCTPC at Vientiane, would provide the key contact between MCTPC and CIU in Luang Namtha.
4.9        For the watercmponn, the CIU will consist of an internationally recruited resident
supervision engineer as team leader, a counterpart engineer seconded from NPL as project manager, one
engineer for short term specialized assistance, two technicians assigned by the province, one rural
waterworks expert/hydrogeologist, and two community organization officers. The resident engineer will
have overall responsibility for the restructuring and setting up of operations of NPL's provincial office
in Luang Namtha (NPN) and for providing the training needed by the local counterpart team (see Annex
10 for outline Terms of Reference for the water component team leader). This position will be assisted
by the NPL engineer on construction matters. A rural waterworks expert/hydrogeologist will be recruited
for supervising implementation, accounting, and training for the well drillers, masons' surveyors,
accounting technicians and community organization officers. Community organizers will also educate
the community and individual households about ways to construct concrete pits and the slabs needed for
latrines. At negotiations, NPL confirmed that the team leader and his counterpart engineer will be
appointed by June 1, 1994.
4.10       The CIU will coordinate all training focussing on the training of managers and financial and
accounting staff. An amount of US$ 200,000 has been earmarked for this training program to benefit
NPL and NPN staff. In accounting and commercial practices, NPL staff are in urgent need to learn to
implement the new accounting system and its application to setting up an internal control system. There
is a reasonable possibility that French bilateral assistance would be secured to support this establishment
of the utility accounting (a follow up of the recent efforts to train MOF officials in the overall
development and application of accounting systems in government departments, quasi statal and private
entities). If the French assistance materializes, it would be tailored to complement the input of the
training under this component for commercial and financial practices.
4.11       In order to achieve greater overall coordination, the technical staff, which would be formally



- 20 -
placed under the DCTPC and NPN, would routinely report on their progress to the PCMU, which would
then coordinate with MOF, MCTPC and IDA.
B. Implementation Schedule
4.12       Preparation for implementation, which includes engineering design, is underway and being
supported by the Japan PHRD Fund. This assistance will continue through the project start-up in early
1994. The road program, which will involve unit price construction contracts, is being prepared and will
be completed befote April 1994; detailed design and bid documents for the New Namtha water
distribution system are being prepared; and, the survey of water sources in Old Namtha and an
assessment of their quality are nearly completed. Thus, implementation can begin as soon as the credit
is effeciive. Preparations for staffing the PCMU are also progressing.
4.13       Due to the nature of the project, more time will be needed than for more conventional
projects. For example, developing real community participation is always a lengthy process. Also,
labor-based approaches to construction progress more slowly than those that rely on state-of-the art and
equipment intensive methods. Further, the fact that labor is only available in certain seasons, creates
some delays. Thus, implementation is planned over a seven-year period from effectiveness, which is
expected in April 1994, and the project should be completed by April 30, 2001. Credit closing is slated
for December 31, 2001.
4.14       An implementation schedule of the proposed project (Annex 11) was agreed upon with the
Government and the Province of Luang Namtha during negotiations.
C. Procurement
4.15       The IDA-financed road and water supply components consist of small a d remote works,
which would not be attractive ')r international contractors. They would be carried out under LCB and
direct contracting. Luang Namtha is a remote province with rudimentary construction industry facilities,
and lacks the experience and staff to prepare, review and evaluate procurement documents. One of the
major objectives of this project is to develop and train two mechanized contracting firms in Luang
tUamtha which have recently been privatized, and several other small labor-based contractors, in project
management, cost accounting, bidding, and procurement. Technical assistance will be provided to them
by the international road engineer.
4.16       Direct contracting would be used in the first year program for packages of up to $30,000
for simple office buildings and labor-based contractors and up to $150,000 for the mechanized contractors
while undergoing training. For the second year, the works requiring mechanized contractors would be
packaged in contracts estimated not to exceed $400,000, and procured under LCB procedures acceptable
to IDA. Foreign contractors would be eligible to bid under LCB. Also for the second year, the size and
complexity of the labor-based works would be increased to lot sizes of about $40,000 to $80,000 and with
firther training for the contractors direct contracting would continue to be applied. In the third year,
LCB procedures would be used for the labor-based works and the maximum size of contract would be
increased to $100,000. The total value of procurement under direct contracting would not exceed $1.7
million and the balance of about $4.0 million for roads and $0.9 million for water supply would be
procured under LCB. In view of the small scale requirement, equipment and vehicles would be packaged
into lots of less than $100,000 and procured by shopping with an aggregate value not exceeding $1
million. Consultants will be recruited following IDA guidelines anl the IDA Standard Contract for
Consultants' Services will be used. Topographic surveys and designs for the Namtha-Nalae road, and
the bid documents for the proposed roads will be produced under contract with ESCML or CDRI, with
the assistance from project personnel assigned at DCTIPC. A summary of procurement arrangements is



- 21 -
shown in Table 4.1 below.
Table 4.1: Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
(US$ '000)
Procurment Methods
LCB     Othersa       Total
ROAD COMPONENT                                           6.780
-  Civil works                  4,060     1,110       5,170
(3,860)   (1,050)     (4,910)
-  Vehicle & office                 -      360          360
equipments                             (350)        (350)
-  Consultant services and                 1,250      1,250
training                             b (1,190)    (1,190)
WATER SUPPLY                                           2I800
COMPONENT
Civil work                    880      590         1,470
(840)    (560)      (1,400)
-  Equipments                       -      550          550
(530)       (530)
-  Consultant services and          -      780 b        780
training                               (720)        (720)
INSTITUTIONAL                                             600
STRENGTHENING
-  Building construction            -       90           90
(85)         (85)
-  Vehicle & office                 -       80           80
equipments                              (75)         (75)
-  Consultat services and           -      430 b        430
training                               (410)        (410)
PROJECT TOTAL                   4.9       5240       10.180
(4,700)   (4,970)     (9,670)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by the
IDA
credit.
a: Other procurement methods include direct contracting and
shopping.
b: Consultant Services to be procured in accordance with IDA
Guidelines: Use of Consultants by IDA Borrowers (Washington
D.C. August 1981)



- 22 -
4.17       During project implementation, Standard Bidding Documents (SBD), based on IDA's SBD
for Small Works would be prepared for both roads and water supply components. The documents would
be subject to IDA's prior review procedures. The bidding process would be closely monitored during
supervision, and the first three proposed LCB awards, and all proposed awards for shopping and direct
contracting would also be subject to prior review by IDA.
D. Disbursement
4.18       Disbursement of the proposed credit will be made on the following basis:
(a)   95% of the total cost of civil works;
(b)   100% of foreign expenditures and 100% of local expenditures (ex-factory cost) for
equipment, materials and vehicles; 90% of local expenditures for other locally-procured
items;
(c)   100% of total expenditures for technical assistance, training and consultants' services; and
(d)   100% of training expenditures.
4.19       In order to facilitate disbursement, a special account would be opened with an initial deposit
of US$0.6 million, which would cover the estimated average expenditures for a four-month period. The
account would be opened in US dollars in a bank acceptable to IDA. Applications for replenishing the
special account would be submitted regularly or whenever it is drawn down to 30% of its initial deposit,
whichever comes first. A schedule of estimated disbursements is presented in Annex 12, which also
shows the project disbursement profile for Lao PDR. The rate of disbursements substantially follows the
rate shown in the profile even though the project is .n the advanced stage of preparation and is expected
to start soon after the credit is effective.
4.20       Disbursements for all contracts with a value of at least US$50,000 equivalent must be
supported by full documentation. Disbursements for contracts that are less than US$50,000 or for
management and operations would be supported by Statements of Expenditures (SOEs). Disbursements
for local training expenses would also be made against SOEs, subject to prior review by IDA of training
agendas and budgets. Supporting documentation for all disbursements against SOEs would be held by
the PCMU and made available upon request for examination by IDA review missions. To the extent
possible, withdrawal applications would be aggregated in amounts of at least US$100,000 before being
submitted to IDA.
4.21       To ensure the flow of funds for project activities, a provincial working account would be
established at the Lane Xang Bank of Luang Namtha to be managed by PCMU. The Government would
initially deposit at least US$200,000 into this account which would be used to reimburse eligible
expenditures connected to the project. As expenses are incurred and after the line agencies receive
satisfactory documentation, replenishment would be made from the US$0.6 million Special Account (para.
4.18). Once the project is complete, the provincial working account would be closed and any remaining
funds would be reimbursed to the Government.
4.22       The Government would also establish a project counterpart fund account denominated in Kip
to cover the Government's share of project expenditures so as to facilitate the implementation on an
agreed-upon scheduled. The Government will provide local counterpart funds amounting to at least
US$75,000 equivalent per year which will be transferred to a project counterpart fumd account no later
than October 1, in each year of the project.



- 23 -
E. Accounts and Audits
4.23       Separate accounts covering all financial transactions for project activities would be
maintained by the Province of Luang Namtha and MOF. These accounts would be audited annually by
MOF's Accounting Enterprises Department according to IDA's Guidelines for Financial Reporting and
Auditing of Projects Financed by the World Bank (The World Bank, March 1982). These audits will
cover (i) project accounts, (ii) the Special Account, and (iii) Statements of Expenditure (SOE). SOE
audits will contain a separate opinion as to whether the disb-asements made under the SOEs were used
for the purpose for which they were intended under the project. At negotiations, agreement was reached
with the Government and the Province of Luang Namtha that IDA will be provided with the audited
financial statement, together with the auditor's comments, no later than January 31 of each year starting
in 1995.
F. Monitoring, Reporting and Supervision
4.24       1 echnical assistance in the form of training on disbursement procedures will be provided
to the province by the IDA's resident mission in Bangkok. Through the provincial executive office, the
PCMU will submit quarterly progress reports on project implementation, according to the schedule, to
MOF, MCTPC and IDA. It will also submit part two of a Project Completion Report to IDA within six
months of the credit closing date.
4.25       Project supervision by IDA will be coordinated through a supervision plan, which would
be agreed upon during the project launching mission scheduled immediately following Board approval
of the credit. IDA field supervision will require a total of about 70 staff weeks during the life of the
project, with more frequent supervision during the early years of implementation. Supervision would be
carried out mainly by road and water supply engineers, assisted on occasion by a training specialist,
public administration planner and an economist. Details of project monitoring indicators and supervision
plan are in Annexes 13 and 14.



- 24 -
V. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A. Benefits
5.1        The major benefit of the project would be to raise the very low standard of living in Luang
Namtha, which is one of the poorest provinces in the country. For example, its per capita income, which
is about US$75, is only 35% of the national average; its life expectancy of 45 years, is 5 years less than
the norm; and only about 1% of its population has completed high school, as compared to 4% in Lao and
9% in Vientiane.
5.2        At least 50% of the populatik. .n four of the province's five districts (totalling about 50,000)
are expected to directly benefit from greater access to markets and schools, as well as from better quality
water and sanitation services which would significantly improve their health and life expectancy. Because
labor costs constitute about 32% of the total cost of civil works for roads and water supply, about I
million work days, which represent over US$2.3 million in wage income, would be generated in addition
to building economically viable infrastructure.
5.3        Technical assistance and training would provide important intangible social benefits such
as creating an organizational base for the poor and upgrading their skill level, and in improving the social
status of women as more "economically productive" opportnities are opened to them.
B. Economic Justification
5.4        The project would improve infrastructure and environmental conditions in the Luang Namtha
province for the total population of 122,000. The main benefits included in the economic analysis are
summarized in the following paragraphs.
5.5        With regard to the low-volume farm-to-market access roads, the two to be censtructed are
critical: They wiU connect four of the province's five district capitals, where 95,000 people (or roughly
80% of the population) live. At present, about half the people have no access to the commercial activities
and health services in Namtha and Singh for four to six months a year. Also, since the two already have
existing alignments (although of very poor quality), construction costs can be lowered (about TJS$3,400
per km) and therefore economically justified for such low levels of traffic. The proposed road would
redress the critical transport deficiencies by providing reliable and less costly transport services, allow
for more efficient distribution of consumer goods, agricultural inputs and produce, improve the
population's access to social and health services, and improve the local economy.
5.6        The quantifiable benefits from the two roads would be in the savings realized for transport
costs. At present, the dirt roads are extremely difficult to use in the dry season and almost impassable
in the wet season. Where motorized traffic cannot pass, the only means of transport are pack horses and
porters. According to the statistics compiled by the National Transport Study, operating costs on very
primitive dirt roads for a four-wheel drive two-ton capacity Russian truck (the one most commonly used
in rural Lao), are Kip 350 per ton-km. However, as a result of the project, vehicle operating costs will
be cut by half to Kip 195 per ton-km-which is the cost for the same type of truck on fair condition gravel
roads.
5.7        The greatest benefit would be in terms of value added through new production stimulated
by reduced transport costs. Also, as a result of the road improvements, the area can be opened up to coal
mining as well as the production of construction materials, rattan, bamboo, livestock and food grains.
Additional benefits could be realized as outlying small communities, particularly indigenous ones with
limited production potential, become better integrated with the main road network and receive better
access to social services (for example, education and health), as well as to job opportunities in other more
relatively well-off areas. These benefits are more difficult to quantify and are not included in the benefit
calculation. The economic rates of return for the two roads are calculated at 12% and 13%. The detailed
analysis is given in Annex 15.



- 25 -
5.8        With regard to water supply, the project would provide access to safe and reliable water to
township populations that total about 14,000 and to rural populations of about 20,000. The benefits from
such access would accrue from the time and effort saved that now are devoted to hauling water over long
distances. Other benefits include a reduction in water-borne diseases and, therefore, an increase in the
productive life of the population. These benefits have not been quantified but are judged to justify the
small annual per capita investment of US$9 for township water supply and US$2.5 for rural water supply,
assuming a 15- year economic life for the former, and a 10-year life for the latter.
C. Environmental Impact
5.9         The project is expected to have a substantial net positive environmental impact. The water
supply components are designed to improve environmental conditions, especially by improving water
quality and reducing water-borne disease. The institutional and community development activities will
benefit the socio-economic environment. The two proposed road sections involve upgrading existing
tracks for which no major negative environmental impacts are foreseen. Detailed environmental
guidelines for road rehabilitation in Lao PDR is being finalized which will also benefit the implementation
of the proposed road component. No persons will be either resettled or displaced involuntarily under the
Project.
D. Program Objective Categories
5.10       The project will benefit one of the poorest provinces with a per capita income one-third of
the country's average. Investment in the least cost rural infrastructure is, indisputably, most needed and
has high impact on regional market integration and poverty reduction. In addition to the poverty focus,
easier access to clean water and markets will greatly benefit women, as it is they who provide the main
labor for agricultural activities and household tasks. Women and girls have traditionally been obliged
to obtain water for household consumption and, in the more remote areas, they spend an average of two-
to-three hours a day collecting, transporting and storing it. Thus, the time saved from these chores can
be shifted to productive or leisure activities; also, the availability of clean water simplifies the task of
preparing meals and helps improve the level of health. Thus, the Lao Women's Union in Luang Namtha
has shown particular enthusiasm for this component and has actively participated in discussions about the
placement of the latrines. As the main users of water facilities, women will receive necessary training
and support so they can perform the critical daily maintenance of rural wells and township standpipes.
In addition, improved access to towns, due to the new roads, will benefit women's commercial activities
substantially (they are actively involved in small-scale trading in local markets and can be seen
transporting products on foot and selling them along the road or in town).
E. Project Risks
5.11       Although the project differs significantly from normal infrastructure projects, (i.e it is
smaller but more comprehensive, and requires substantial coordination and institutional building), it
follows the same functional responsibility lines as do more routine projects and expands on existing skills.
However, since this operation is the first of its kind in Lao and is located in a remote area, there could
be institutional and technical risks. For example, project implementation could be delayed due to a lack
of coordination between the service ministries and the provincial authorities and due to the latter's limited
implementation capacity. This also raises concerns about sustainability after project completion. To
address these risks, a substantial number of start-up activities have already been launched (para. 3.27).
Also, to secure local commitment and a sense of ownership, the preparation involved extensive input from
provincial staff. In addition, during preparation, IDA together with the authorities analyzed the
institutional development needs and the training requirement of provincial staff. As a result, the local
staff needed for project implementation will be supplemented by the Government, and technical assistance
(under the project) wil focus on their training to ensure sustainability.



- 26 -
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMIENDATION
A. Agreements
6.1        During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government and the Province of
Luang Namtha on the following:
Conditions of Effectiveness
(a)   As a condition of effectiveness, tI. PCMU will be established in the Provincial
Administration and be fully staffed.
Conditions of Disbursement
(b)  As a disbursement condition for the rural water component, an agreement was
reached with the Province of Luang Namtha that a minimum contribution from end-
users of about Kip 100,000 equivalent for construction of a rural well will be
enforced in the province (para. 3.17).
Agreements with the Government
(c) Part of the proceeds of the proposed credit will be passed on to the Province of
Luang Namtha as budget contribution from the central Government for the purpose
of carrying out the project (para. 3.25);
(d)  About US$490,000 equivalent in local currency Kips (or 40% of the cost for the
distribution network in New Namtha) will be on-lent to NPL for a term of 25 years
(including five years of grace on repayment of principal) at an intrest rate of 6% per
annum. NPL will bear the foreign exchange risk for the amount it borrows. The
remaining 60% of the cost of distribution network in New Namtha (approximately
US$730,000) will be equity contribution of the Government to NPL (para. 3.25);
(e) IDA will be provided with audited financial statements, together with the auditor's
comments, no later than January 31 each year starting from January 31, 1995; (para.
4.23);
(t)   MCTPC will appoint, and cause NPL to appoint by June 1, 1994, one resident
engineer to work as the counterpart project manager in Luang Namtha (para. 3.10);
(g) MCTPC will arrange with its consulting unit (ESCML or CDRI) to provide a
materials technician who will carry out the necessary tess on construction materials
and train a technician from DCTPC in quality control techniques (para. 3.10); and
(h)  MCTPC will cause NPL to appoint, by June 1, 1994, one team leader and his
counterpart resident engineer in Luang Namtha. (para. 4.9).
Agreements with the Province of Ljiag Namtha
(i) The project will be carried out according to an implementation schedule satisfactory
to IDA as provided in Annex 11 (para. 4.14);
(j) The staff of the CIUs and their team leaders will be assigned and recruited according
to the timetable shown in Annex 7 (paras 3.10 and 4.3);
(k)  Installation of water meters in New Namtha will be completed for the  urrenty
existing household connections by December 30, 1994 (para. 3.15);



- 27 -
(1)   The new water tariff structure of 70 Kip/m3 consumed for the system in New
Namtha will be effective no later than June 1, 1994 (para. 3.15);
(in) Water supply and sanitation household charges sufficient to cover the reasonable cost
of managing and maintaining the water supply and sanitation services will be
established in the district of Old Namtha and Singh no later than January 1, 1995
(para. 3.15);
(n)  A contract for the management of the standpipe system in Old Namtha and Singh,
satisfactory to IDA, shall have been effective by August 1, 1994 between NPL and
the Province (para. 3.t,); and
(o) IDA will be provided with audited financial statements, together with the auditor's
comments, no later than January 31 each year starting from January 31, 1995 (para.
4.23).
B. Recommendation
6.2        Subject to the above agreements and conditions, the proposed prcject would constitute a
suitable basis for an IDA credit of SDR 7.1 million (US$9.67 million equivalent), on standard terms with
a maturity of 40 years. The borrower will be the Lao People's Democratic Republic.



-  28  -
ANNEX 1
Page I of 5
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
LUAING NAINITHA PROVINCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Water Supply Sector in Lao PDR and
The National Water Supply Enterprise (Nampapa Lao)
A. Water Supply Sector in Lao PDR
1.         Water supply and sanitation facilities have received little investmem in the seventies and
eighties mainly because of resource constraints. The sector suffers from insufficient investment as well
as a lack of trained manpower and coordinated planning.
2.         Piped water supply is currently available in Vientiane and seven of the country's 17
provincial capitals, but these svstems are generally old, in poor condition and unable to provide for
existing, let alone growing, demand. Assistance is proposed or currently being given in some of these
towns to upgrade and expand the town water systems. In most provincial capitals. power supply has only
been provided recently for a few hours, and water systems have had to rely on spring fed gravity
systems. sometimes at long distances from the demand area.
3.         The country's groundwater resources are estimated to be extensive. Near river and lakes
and along floors of mountain valleys, groundwater call be found at a relatively shallow depth. So far
investigations have not been carried out comprehensively to envisage groundwater as a viable alternative
to surface water for large town water supply systems. Because of the high precipitations throughout the
country surface water resources are abundant. All rivers are very turbid during the wet season, and their
flow patterns vary greatly during the year.
4.         Water supply in rural areas is largely based on traditional sources including rivers, streams,
springs, dug wels, and rainwater collection. Improved systems consist of tube wells, shallow weUs, and
gravity fed -ipeIine systerns. A recent UNICEF report points at a service level of 10-15% with per capita
consump-don  t 25-75 Ipcd. But the larger portion of the rural populaton depends on unhygienic and
untreated water from traditional sources. UNICEF has resumed its program of assistance since 1991,
suggesting approaches where project sustainability and community involvement are the main criteria in
evaluation of projects within the national rural water and sanitation program.
B. Ongoing Development In the Urban Water Sector
5.         The urban water sector has received increasing attention from bilateral and multilateral
donors over the past three years. In late 1989 after a sector study was developed by the WB/UNDP
Project 89/160. a small UNDP grant followed to strengthen the management of the water utility, develop
appropriate billing systems in Vientiane and reduce leakage on the existing distribution system. The
National Water Enterprise (NPL) has subsequently received two technical assistance grants from ADB
for the preparation of investment studies in four southern town-, for the  -.4men: and institianaiu



- 29  -
ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
development including training, master plan. organization and tariff studies; and for the feasibility study
Of water supply systems in six northern capital cities. It has also received two loans from ADB and IICA
for the rehabilitation and development of the Vientiane Water Supply (US$ 9 and 12 million respectively),
as well as a loan from ADB for the four provincial capitals in the southern part of the country k Attapeu.
Salavane. Pakse and Sekoney.  Projects are also under preparation for the strengthening of the
Savannakhet and Luang Prabang water systems under EC and German funding respectively. The
Ministry of Finance decided that a portion of external investments and national counterpart funds for
urban water supply are on-lent on to NPL at a rate of 6% p.a. for 25 years: the rest is transferred as
Govemrnent equity to NPL.
6.         One issue of the rapid development of the sector is the insufficiency of qualified staff to
manage water operations and supervise project construction, and, on the tinancial side. the inadequacy
of counterpart funds to match loan funds. An ADB study which attempts to address these problems is
ongoing under its TA project. This includes a tariff study to review possible means to increase revenue
through appropriate tariff levels to be imposed first in Vientiane and later in the provincial capitals. The
Bank has so far been associated to the review of these studies.
C. Ongoing Development in the rural water sector
7.         The Institute of Clean Water (ICW) was created in 1981 at the beginning of the water
decade. in the Ministry of Health with responsibility for planning, coordinating and implementing the
Government's policies in the rural sector: it is also responsible for the training and dissemination of
technology. Since 1991, and with increased support from UNICEF, ICW has started drafting regional
plans and initiating actions aiming at the training of staff in the provinces while obtaining support from
UNICEF for equipment and materials. A number of NGO's have associated themselves with the UNICEF
efforts, and are presently active in supporting construction of water points (gravity fed systems, dug or
drilled wells) in provinces. The Bank has also included funds under the Upland Agricultural Development
Project for rural water supply in four provinces (Vientiane, Champasak, Salavane and Luang Prabang),
and has sought to develop the Ministry of Agriculture's capability for drilling wells.
8.         In 1991, UNICEF as one of the major contributors to the rural water sector prepared a
report --A framework for a New Decade- which reviewed its past investment performance in the sector.
The report concluded that Government initiatives reached very few people: as one in 10 persons in rural
areas has access to improved water supplies, and one rural family in 50 has improved sanitation facilities.
The improvement wanted by the Government for a sustainable progress assumes that populations should
participate in the development of new facilities and be capable to operate and maintain them at the village
level.
9.         Provincial programs are being established progressively and first focus on the training of
the relevant provincial staff and procurement of machines and equipment; their supervision is ensured by
reinforced manpower at ICW's headquarters and in the provinces, and expertise at the UNICEF country
delegation. Villages are being approached by the provincial delegations of the Preventive Health
Services, and proposed an arrangement whereby their implementation role and contribution are defined;
for construction of a well a contribution of about Kip 100,000 in kind or in cash (US$140 equivalent) is
considered affordable and minimal. Constraints to smooth development and implementation of plans
remain the training of local staff as drillers, community workers, and technical specialists.



-  30  -
ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5
D. The National Water Supply Enterprise
10.        Responsibility. The National Water Supply Enterprise (Nampapa Lao) is responsible for
all development and operations of urban supply is the country. Nampapa's statute has been that of a
national public company with independent accounting but it reports directly to the Ministry of
Communications. Transport. Post and Construction (MCTPC). In 1975 when the country was advocating
a decentralized system. Nampapa was regionalized and the Vientiane chapter was made responsible for
the capital city's operations while the provincial operations were under separate and financially
autonomous provincial water supply companies. Their mandate covers towns serving people through
private connections. However. the provincial companies had to rely heavily on the technical assistance
and advice from the Vientiane chapter. After 1992, the country reverted to a recentralized system and
Nampapa operation has been included. Concurrently, it has been increasingly difficult for the provincial
Nampapas to handle their operational and development requirements in each province due to their
instituEional and technical weaknesses. The national Nampapa. Nampapa Lao (NPL), therefore, is
progressively taking over the provincial water supply operation. So far six provincial Nampapa have
been fully taken over by NPL.
11.        Regulatorv framework and Internal Organization. ADB is currently funding a study to
review the existing organizational structure of NPL. The study aims to recommend a more appropriate
organizational structure so as to provide additional autonomy and responsibility to NPL under its newly
assigned role and larger responsibilities. It will also help NPL to eventually prepare for a progressive
privatization of some of its functions. As a start, the State Council and MCTPC have agreed in June
1993 to establish a board of 7 directors, representing different ministries and authorities. This
arrangement will gradually develop over five years into a board composed of private and public
appointees. These measures are still under discussion. Likewise, the internal organization of NPL is
under re-structuring to effectively take charge of its increasing responsibilities over its provincial
branches. Under the new organization. there will be three deputy managers working under the general
manager.
12.        Accountn. Under the French technical assistance. the country has adopted the French
formatted accounting system. Subsequently, Nampapa should have started, with the support from the
Ministry of Finance, to convert its system to the new format since 1991. However, with inadequate
technical assistance this work has been delayed. The French have recently agreed to further their
collaboration with the Ministry of Finance by assisting one or two national companies to restructure their
financial opertions. Discussions are under way to explore how this assistance could be integrated with
the strengthening and training of managerial and financial finctions at NPL.
13.        Water Tiffs.  Following a study funded by UNDP and executed by the Bank
(LAO/88/02 1). the water tariff in Vientiane was adjusted in 1990. The Government has approved a four
category tariff structure differentiating between domestic, industry and trade, embassies, and
administrative consumners. The price of water was then set to signal to domestic consumers that the more
one consumes the larger the unit price. The average domestic price was at about Kip 58, with an initial
social tranche at Kip 25 for the first 5 m3. The ongoing ADB funded tariff study reaches a preliminary
conclusion that in order to meet the significant investment demand for the sector, and to face a cumulative
inflation of 40% encountered since 1990, prices need to be increased by 100%. However, the
conclusions of the study for provincial capitals are not very clear at this moment but it is safe to assume



-  31  -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
that long term incremental cost of water should rise to Kip 250 kip on average. The study has also
suggested that water tariff be uniform throughout the country. These conclusions have now been
approved at the MCTPC level and will be presented shortly to the State Council for endorsement.
14.        Funding Receuirement. With the increase in water tariff. the Government now expects NPL
to become financiallv autonomous and stop receiving subsidies from its parent ministry almost
immediately. This is nc: possible considering its initial stage of system development and its currently
small number of end-users. Actually. more funding and more subsidies would be required if the country
is truly committed to implement its plan for expanding the urban water supply system throughout the
country. In an immediate term. NPL is required to meet counterpart costs of approximately US$1.5
million over tive years from 1994 to 1998 on the ADB's Southern Town Project and on the JICA/ADB
jointly funded Vientiane System Expansion Project. Both projects have been approved and are now being
bided. While one alternative could be the borrowing from local or government banks, the Government
prefers that NPL undertakes a tariff study to review its tariff levels both in Vientiane and in provincial
centers. The tariff would be set to first allow NPL to recover its operating costs, and shortly thereafter
to allow some profit retained for project counterpart funds and repay the debt service of foreign loans
on-lent by the Government.
15.        A Government's sector policy for external financing has been recently established by the
Ministry of Finance's Division of Industrial Investments. The policy requires that foreign loans be on-
lent to NPL at a rate of 6.0% per annum over a period of 25 years. However. part of the foreign
contribution can be passed on as an equity contribution from the Government. In the case of the Southern
Town Water Supply Project. because the operation is taking place in the country's richest region, the
equity contribution was determined to be 40%. For the Bank's proposed Luang Namtha Project. the
MOF has informed the appraisal mission that the equity contribution could be increased to 60% because
the activities will take place in the country's poorest region. The above conditions appear to be
satisfactory as a way of endorsing financial discipline in the sector.
16.        NPL's Commercial Practices. The above mentioned UNDP/WB project assisted Nampapa
in improving substantially its rate of water tariff collection in Vietiane through a simple computerized
bilLing and collection system. Until a few months ago Nampapa's financial performance was reaching
an acceptable rate of arrears of four months' billing. This has recently increasAed but remains under
control. Nampapa's senior management is also committed to conrolling its levei of arrears and to
enforce stronger disconnections policies for non payees. The situation is POt nearly as optimistic in the
provincial capitals where manual billing is still in effect and registration of consumers is far from being
complete. As it is Nampapa's policy to avoid. as much as possible, a cross subsidization between
Vientiane and the outer stations, it becomes imperative to strengthen the commercial procedures in all
outer stations as they become integrated into the NPL system. The proposed project will address the
present inefficiencies and strengthen its commercial practices so as to enable a full level of metering and
recovery of bills in Luang Namtha1. A commercial expert would be recruited for two years to train the
local Nampapa's staff to install and monitor metering, improve billing and collection.
I Other northern towns are also targeted for operations improvement through an upcoming ADB loan
covering operation in six other norhern provinces.



-  32  -
ANNEXl
Page 5 of S
17.        Training Requirements. A human resources master plan is now being prepared under ADB
financing. This master plan addresses the human resource requirements and their corresponding training
needs tor the overall Nampapa organization. As the agency grows to take over all outstations and to cater
to their developmental needs at Headquarters the number of staff to be trained, retrained or recruited is
quite signiticant and a major training exercise will be required over the next years. A few training
initiatives have been carried out in the past making use of external training facilities or programs in
neighboring countries as Lao did not have the training units or capabilities to go beyond academical
sessions. The tirst proposals of the consultants tocus on establishing a focal point at the NPL in
Vientiane with a training coordinator and the establishment of a formal training activity inside the
institution. There is however recognidor. that all training needs cannot be satisfied internally and that the
training of trainers must be carried out outside. In addition the Senior management wishes to i) Umit
Nampapa's own training organization efforts to the technical and technician. and manual labor and
continue relying on external training institutes to deliver the specifics of each profession's requirements;
and ii) attempt to have bilateral and multilateral inputs to go beyond simple geographical areas for
supporting training actions. as such it appears more justified to have one external training action focus
on one staff category.
18.        The present project would follow this line of training development by focussing on the
training of managers and financial and accounting staff; an amount of USS 200,000 has been earnarked
for this training program; the consultant's report is awaited to define more precisely the proposed training
emphasis in management. In accounting and financial sectors Nampapa's present staff are in urgent need
to learn implementing the new accounting system and apply its principles to setting up an internal control
system. There is a reasonable possibility that French bilateral assistance would be secured to support this
establishment of the utility accounting; it follows directly from recent efforts to train Ministry of Finance
officials in the overall development and application of accouning systems in government departments,
quasi statal and private entities. The French input would be tailored to complement the input of the
training under this component for commercial and financial practices.



LAO PEOPLE'S DENOCRATIC REPRELIC
LUA  uwMT  PfWIUCIAL OEWLWPERT PROJECT
Orgmizatiaml Structure of Lig _ ad2tha Prvincial Gvernaent
|Prime Minister|
Ptaming and                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~of
Centrat Government                  Cooperation                                                                        finance
Sector Rinistries                      i
......  .............. . .~..............      ........................... ......... ................... .. .. ,............... ... ...  . ....... ........... 
Provinvial Goverrfent
|   Provincial i a
Governor                                                                  w
Deputy                                                                           Deputy
Governor                                                                         G overnor
(in charge of general admin.,                                                     (in charge of finance)
planning and cooperation)
Provincial Executive
| Colmittee Office 
l   l   l   l   I    .      l            l             l            l           I        1ifil        _
lialtional                        Party      Pubtlic    Planning,      Agric. &      Public      Education              Industry
Defense    Police      Ju2tice   organi-   Relation   Cooperation    Ecrestry        Health      and Sport    OCTPC  | & Trade  Jj Finance
zation     a Cultureo     unity
UcZen's         L  abor   |             outh         N  ational 
Union             Union                   t Ogaiatin 1 an Unity 



LAO t)rE:OrIC'S fW*IkWtATIC  I0tE1111.It'
PROVINCIAL lU 'VENtU  ANID EXIND'I)llRF
(Ui: .5.. KIp)
_ _ _  _    _ _    _  _    _  _      _       _   _    _ _               :  ,  __  .IH -      
llem                      1986        1967        I9l18 9989               1990         19991      lZYV2 La     191 V93
~~~~~~~~~~~___ _ _ _ __ . . _ __ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ __ _ _ _  __ _ _ _ _ _  __ _ __ _ _ _  7 _____ _ _ _ _( 1' t                  t i . Y
TOWLzIte                                  121.00     1       445 .4 to..A 756(6                        930 18        877 78       ____      54
MOM9   dassikado.)
of whiWb:
-  Satee terpqisc                        83.33        74.00       65.07     44.21       257.64/b     113 97 /b      37.89
| -   tivate sectr                       23.17        42.60       62.99     50.32        79.82        100.19       585.27
-  Seraves                                13.50       15.85       16.54     12.58        40.80        44.72
.  otes                                    3.0                     2.13     46.55        76.77        76.00 0
-  Cal bdg subsidy                           -                        -     S2.50       401 13 /V    S95.30j4 254262 
-Pst 32 dasdheagh.)
of whicb:
*  1So001 ax                                                                                                       257.78        350      335810
-  Expoo  tax                                                                                                       66.06   _____
-  Surchag & odher taxes                           ,_-_.._                                                         213.01        121)     189 68
-  Agiultwue tax                                                                _             _                     4842         71         915
-  Sdling of sutc catr                                                                     ,        -               37 89   - 107          -
-  Centra bUdgt sbsidy                                                                                             254.62       367       262 tXi
TO"l &=dk                                 I4.03   149.03           312.06      202 73    88.138          926.37      572 80     313):)         738
-  Salary, services & carnunriions       96.82      132.64       156.85      164.55    469.26         447.25       (04 35
-  Debt payment                          10.00        2.79       149.96       25.42     169.63         172.09      106.91
-  Capit lcoostnction                    34.21       13.94         5.25       12.77     179.30         306.83      161.54     33# 8ix
(as % ofltotal expenditures)         (24.26)     (9.33)       (1.68)       (6.30)    (21 91.       (33 13)     (18 51)   (33 30)
/a   Before 1992. fiscal year was the same as calendar year, (She new fiscal year (Oct So Sept) was intro(u:Jed in 1992. Iletwcvcr, FY92 sawted witli A %fion listal ycjr
of Ian 1992 to SWp 1992.
lb   Revemue from puvauization of stale  nteise.
Ic   Indude tatnsfer for building provhnial aitpolt.
-~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t



AN-EX _
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC                          ?aze . of 1^
LCVAINC NAXTHA PROVICINCIAL DEVELOPMENT RROJEC7
Sumnary of the EC'S Luang Namtha Area Development Project
~            eAIISS;;:N CF -r4E E'_CpEAN C3Vt&t4IT;ES
O fWT;AT-GENERAL
EX1TE4i  CCONIC RELATICN
Brussels. ' AUgUSt '993
ET/so/3343
vI lI/1012/93
ProDosep CoQW#ssion Oee0sJ gn
1.  PROJECT 'OENTI'v
Project N'                              ALAI93/34
Recistent                               LAOS
Title                                   Luang Nantha Area
O.v.looment Project
Total Cost                              ECU 8 Million
EC Contribution                         ECU 8 Mi4lion
Type of Finance                         Grant
2.  SUMMARY
The oroject nas the oojective  to  imorove  living stancaras  for teo
sussistence copuiation anS ditsvantageo grouos residing in the
Northern province of Luang Namtna. The coggonents of the project would
incluce initiatives in agriculture and irrigation. village develoment
(including heaitn ano educatsonal activities). credit system, training
ana institutionat aevelooment.
The project will oe smolemented in a microbroject style and would have
a Pi iot nature. The necessary nighly focused an* concentrateo aporoacti
leacs to tne cnoice of a limsted project impact area i.e. within a
racius of 25 km to tne Nortfeast ana Southwest of the c;ty of Luang
Namtna.
Direct   beneticiaries   from   tne   project   will  Oe   24  villages
(aflro:stmativety 7.000 ceople) both in uolana ano lowland areas.
irrigation systems ano training envisaged under th'e  roject will also
involve adittional oeooe outsice of the dire:t target grouo.
3. DECISION
THE COMMISSION OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES.
H4aving regarC to Council Regulation (EEC) N-443/92 of 25 FebruarY 1992
on financtai ano tecnnical ano economic coooeration for ,Me Asia ano
Latin  America  countries  (PVO/ALA) hereinafter  reterred  to as  " 'e
Reguiation' ana in particulter articles 14 ana 15 thereof:
whereas the crtteria nnttuaea in tne Regulation and tte aid conditions
are fulftiled.
whereas tne Committee set uo uncer Articte 15 has given a favouraole
ocinion.
HAS DECIDED



?aa* -e 2
Pa2e'    ,
- 36 -
Art i5te I  The Project MJ  ALA/93/34    Luang Namtna Area Oeveiooment
Project Oogramme  S nereoY anoroved.
irticie 2   7ne amount of atc sna i ce frtea at 8 militon EC'.
'rttc-e     - 'e memoer c' tne ConlrSIon with soectal  resoomsIo,  'rI
'or Nor!lv S_utri Retattons anc Mediterranean Policy. c 
t*e event of hts oetng areventeo from attending nis outies.
anotner Member of the Commission. shall be resoenstcte for
conciuoing tre Financing Agreements for the Comiission on
betaif of tne Community with tme ReCtorent of the aid.
Article 4   The MembOer of the Commission mentioned in Arttcle 3 shall
atso be resoonseble for tating any ceeston concerning
amenaments to the oroject that Droves to De necessary, for
ensuring its prooer imolementateon. croviced that suen a
decision does not imoly any suostantial cnfange in the
orojeCt nor anY additional commitment beyond 20 X of the
amount mentioned in ArtiCle 2.



ANEX *
Page 3 o.
-  3. - 
DETAILS OF THE PROJECT
1. REEERENES
Beneficiarv              Laos
Tide:                    Luang Namtha.krea
Development Project
Project Number:          ALA/93/34
Total cost:              8 million ECU
EC Contribution:         8 Million ECU
Tyvpe of Financing:      Grant
2. SUMMARY AND PURPOSE OF THE PROJIECT
The project has the objective to improve living standards for the subsistence
population and disadvantaged groups residing in the northern province of Luang
Naamtha. The components of the project would include initiatives in agriculture and
irrigation, village development (including health and educational activities) credit
system. training and institutional development
The project will be implemented in a micro-project style and would have a pilot
nature. The necessary highly focused and concentrated approach leads to the choice of
a limited project impact area i.e. within a radius of 25 kms to the northeast and
southwest the city of Luang Namtha.
Direct beneficiaries from the project will be 24 villages (approximately 7,000 people)
both in uplands and lowlands areas. Irrigation systems and training envisaged under
the project will also involve numerous additional people outside of the direct target
group.
The project has been factored into a logical framework (see Annex 1).
3. BACKGROTUND
The Lao PDR is one of the world's poorest countries with a per capita income of about
$200. Of the countys 17 provinces only four - Vientiane, Luang Prabang,
Savannakct and Champasak - have basic infrastructure. The capital cities of the four
provimces awe also the county's main adiniustratve and political centres. This
background explains why 90%/o of foreign aided projects and foreign assistance have
been concentrated in these four regions which gather only 409%e of the country
population.
Unsurprisingly this has created severe problems of provincial and regional disparity.
In this framework the northem region. the poorest in the country, has been so
disadvantaged that it has now been designated by the Lao govemment as a priority
zone for foreign aid donors.
Against this background. the Luang Nam Tha province (932.500 ha out of which 3/4
are covered with forest; 114,000 inhabitants) represents in many respects a typical
norther province with an extreme level of poverty, a dramatic lack of basis
infrastructure and a high ratio of women within its population.



.ANN'EX _
-  38  -                                     Page 4 of
The province borders China and Mvanunar and is connected with Thailand via the
neighbouring province of Bokeo. This outlines the economic potential of the province
for border trade and related activities. The province has a viable economic base which
lies in the following factors: existing economic activities (agriculture and forestrY),
transport link with potential market. trade with provinces and neighbouring countnres.
commitment of the actual govermment to its development. coordinated efforts of
external donors.
The World Bank has recently identified the province as an area of intervention. and
has appraised a project which will promote provincial development through
investment in rural infrastructure (road rehabilitation and water supply). The World
Bank has expressed its willingness to operate in conjunction with other donors for
community development activities. The EC has agreed to examine the possibilitv to
undertake Communitv development activities in parallel of the World Bank
infrastructure oriented project.
4. PROJECI DESCRIPTION
4.1 Location and duration
The project impact area will be set in Luang Namtha Province within a radius of
25kms to the northeast and southwest of the provincial capital, along National Route
1. The Project impact area encompasses one of the two areas targeted for road
rehabilitation by the World Bank initiative (see annex 2, road B) aA. includes lowland
and upland agncultural zones which are relatively near to each other and within
reasonable distance of a maket
The project interventions will last for six years including one year of incepton for
detailed planning and undertaking of baseline surveys.
4.2 Wider Objective
The project has the objective to improve living standards for the subsistence
population and disadvantaged groups residing within the selected impact area. More
specifically. through the mobilisation and allocation of human ressources and material
inputs, the project will:
a) increase the productivity of the available resource base;
b) promote market integation of a significant number of people;
c) reduce environmental degrdation through the introduction of sustainable
agricultural systems.
Additionally, by developing appropriate skills and implementing capacity at the
provincial govenmment and village levels the project will ensure that the developmenit
process becomes self-sustaining.



-  -                             ?a~~e 5  
39  _aR
4-3 Immediate objectives and strategy
The project immediate objectives are two fold and entail:
a) increasing productivitv of human and physical ressources in the lowlands and the
uplands:
Lowland areas: increasing of vields through small irrigation. improved water
management and new technology.
Upland areas: introducing sustainable agricultural systems based upon crop
diversification. livestock and new technologies.
Target beneficiary groups: improvement of living stardards (health, education.
sanition, hygiene)
b) assisting in the reallocation of labour. on- and off-farm so as to shift people awav
from unproductive cultivation of rice in the uplands into endeavours which are
sustainable and generate cash.
Reallocation on-farm through training, credit. village development where target
grups will be encouraged to move into the production of livestock, cash crops,
forest products. cottage crafts.
Reallocation off-farm through training and credit where target groups will be
encouraged to seek off farm employmnemt and expand or develop small
enterprises.
4.A Project targets
a) &uaflciairie
1. Lowland areas: 10 villages (3,500 people) wilt be targeted for village
development work; additionally, irrigation schemes will involve people from
villages outside of and in addition to the target group.
2. Upland areas: 14 villages (3,500 people) will be targeted for village
development work and limited irrigation improvements.
3. An additional 150-200 people will benefit from course offerings at the skill
training centre.
4. People outside of the dirct target groups will benefit from the irrigation systems
and truinig activities.
b) A Uic,Ap
1. 1,000 ha of land will benefit from improved irgation and water management,
rehabilitation and extension to existing systems: additionally an estimated 300
ha of lowland in the mountain reas w.ll be targeted for irrigation
improvements.
2. Witin irgated areas. rice production should increase by I ton per ha:
Additionally irrigation improvements will also permit earlier planting and allow
for second cropping on an estimated 30% of the cultivated land area.



ANNE X 
Page 6 of 10
4.5 Project interventions
Project activity components will include the following:
a) Srey andE .udies : carried out mainlv during the inception period in the
followinz subjects: hydrology. topoeraphy. land use and assessment. credit.
technical trarunng needs assessment. WID. mark-et study and aquaculture. They
will be undertaken during the first of six vear long project.
b) Aiculture and smaI-scale irrigauaon: this component will pursue a strategy
which includes:
1. providing an altemative to shifting cultivation through the development of
sustainable upland agricultural svstems.
. improving/rehabilitating irrigation infrastructure and water management
systems in the lowland rice growing areas.
3. introducing and promoting improved animal husbandrv techniques and
implenentatine vaccinations programmes.
4. introducing planning and implementation techniques at village level
(including the controlled use of forest).
A network of 5 ressource centres will be established to serve as the focal points
for the various schemes and programmes (.raining, demonstrations activities...)
c) UVllge develonmen will have two fundamental objectives:
!. to realise improvements in the basic socio-economic conditions of target
viilage populaions
2. to support the integration of these same beneficiary groups into a maket
economy.
Specific interventions will involve agriculture. health, education, basic and small
infasrcture improvements (water supply for instance).
Through the village development component the project would deliver traing
and education:
1. in support of formal education at primary school level;
2. in support of non formal education through practical skill trining md
fucional literacy progrnames for adults.
Thzouhg the village development component the project will develop health
actiuVties; the focus will be on the preventive measues (primary health care and
health education). It is expected that the project will liaise with NGOs specalised
in health and education programmnes and operating in the Lao PDR.
Finally the project will develop micro-infirscture at village level such as small
water supply scheme.
d) Trainin : In Luang Nantha town the project will establish a Skill Training Centre
and Workshop complex for the purpose of stimulating small busine
development and providing trained labour for local workshops and business
already in opeation.
e) Cd: the project will be dealing with credit issues at two levels:



.A-N E  _
-         -?age
1. within Luang Namtha township a "credit union" service will be established
with mobile banking facilities to service isolated rural villages.
2. at the village level the project will establish the first principle of credit in
accordance with the prevailing degree of monetisation.
3. JUSTIFICATION
5.1 Socio-economic justification
The socio-economic indicators for the rural population in Luang Namtha (see annex 3
p.1) indicates level of extreme poverty.
Moreover the population in Luang Nam Tha Province will rapidlv increase (rate of
growth: 6.7%. high bv anv standard) adding more pressure on the provincial resource
basis. In relation to this issue, it is worthwhile noting that the province has been
affected by a severe drought early 1993 which necessitate a WFP emergencv
intervention. The intervention was partly supported by the EC.
The project's response to the current socio-economic siuaion is to propose a "social
services" approach, with a strong focus on agriculture and irription. which would
encompass a range of initiatives designed to improve the quality of life for the target
beneficiary groups. The assption is tat within a well defined localised area the
application of a critcal mass of project resources will have a positive impact on socio-
economic indicators.
The basic investment in irrigation and improved water management should result in
achieving food security for target beneficiaries in the lowland aeas (at the time being
in a rice deficit position), with the surplus available for sale. The table (see Annex 3
.2) only reflects suggested improvements dirctly relating to improved rice yields.
The "With Project" scenario may be even greater for those inividual farmers who
decided to move into diversified cropping.
5.2 Environmental justification
Environmental impact of the project has been classified as type II.
Appropriate project implementation should lead to (i) a reduction  in the
indiscrminate use of land and natural resources, -d) the preservation of biodiversity in
the forests and (iii) the definiton and introduction of environmentally sound,
sustainable faming systems.



-402  -                               PANNEX a 
6. COSIS
The estimated total project cost is 8.000.000 Ecus to be financed bv the European
Community. To this cost will be added the contribution of the Lao Govemment which
includes the salaries of the staff attached to the protect and the value of the land and
infrastructure (existing irrigation schemes) required by the project.
Budget Item                         cost inECl
t. Small scale irrigation and agriculture           1,225.000
2. Village development                              2,450,000
3. Skill and training centre and workshop             150,000
4. Business Development/Credit                        140,000
S. Institutional strenghtening and                    750,000
Project Managemernt Unit
(including cost for surveys and studies)
6. Extemal Technical assistance                     2,935,000
7. External Evaluation                                   oo,ooo
8. Contingencies                                      250,000
TOTAL                                               8,000,000
7. P                                   =
7.1 Time schedule
The project will be implemented during a six-year period. Ihe first year of the project
will be an in'epion piod necessay for the underaking of detailed planning and
baseline surveys and te building of dt logistical basis of the project.
7.2 Projet management and imstitutiomal arrangements
A Project Manageme Unit (PMU) will be established to serve as the organisational
framework for the project. The PMU will function as an integral part of the provincial
adminstrative appa   (in orda to maximse the instituonal benefits to be gained
from counterpart involvement with the planning and development of programme
processes and techniques). The project will be managed jointly by a national project
diector appointed by the provincial authorities and an EC co-director. Linkage with
the World Bank project and any other donors will be informal and on an as-needed
basis.
As part of its objectives, the project will develop the skills and management capacity
of local Govenment counterpats. To structure this effort, the provincial Govemment
will establish a Planning and Coordinaton Unit, to be tasked with carrying out
regional and area planning as well as the coordination of all extemal assistance
programmes. The project will assist in the fomaultaion of appropriate procedures. and



ANN EX-
-3-                                   Page   o: D -
will deliver on-the-job training so that the Unit becomes the focal point for future
programnming and administration of development resources.
Organisational structure will be rounded out with the establishment of a National
Steering Committee at the central Government level. The EC and possibly World
Bank projects directors would be represented in the forum.
7.3 Procurement modalities
Technical assistance to the Project Management Unit. will be undertaken bv a suitable
European Community firm. Its recruitement will be undertaken directlv by the EC
following restricted tendering procedures.
Construction and civil works and equipment related to projects works will be
undertaken through local tendering bv a Lao, Thai or European Community firm
registered and active in Lao PDR.
Procurement of equipment and works for the PMU (vehicles, computers offices) will
be undertaken directly by the PMU on the basis of prudent shopping procedures:
Recruitenent of services for consultancy services for project evaluation purpose will
be undertaken by the EC through a private treaty contract.
7.4 Technical assistance
The proposed level of effort assumes that the long tenn core team (205 man-month)
will execute most of the field work and take the lead in on-the-job training. In
addition to a co-director team leader (60 man/months) assisting the Lao director of the
PMU, the team would consist of an irrigation engineer (25 man/months), an
agriculturalist (45 man/months), a buiness development specialist (25 man/months) a
technical twaining specialist (30 man/months) and short term expertise (20 man-
month).
8. M(MMTORING AND LUAIUAIN
8.1 Monitoring
Monitoring (supervision) of the various activities in the course of implementation of
the project is essenial to ensure that the development process becomes self-
sustaing. It will be ensured throigh the PMU by appropriate expertise recruited on a
task basis with technical responsability in accordance with international standards.
8.2 Evaluation
Two sets of evaluations are scheduled. A mid-term evaluation will be undertaken at
the end of the fourth year of implementation and a final evaluation of the project will
be possible during the year after completion of the project. Criteria for evaluation are
attached in Annex 3 p.3.
9. BICKs
The risk analysis has been assessed on four different levels:
- Absorption capacpit. there is little experience to date to confrm that villages can
utilise the ressources at the proposed levels and within the proposed timefmme;



?age 1) ot-
- Behavioural change: there is not a full guarantee that the required changes in
behaviour, particulary in respect of developing a "market mentalitv". can be
obtained within a i year period.
- Ethnic minoriuies: the difficulties involved in working with the minontv tribes
mav be important;
- Government policy: the operating environment in respect of policv and
regulations mav change abruptly.
The proposed approach to work, depending as it does on comprehensive planning and
caretul preparation. is the best and only means to minimise the potential for risk.
10. SPECIAL CONDITIONS
The provincial Govermnent active involvement is crucial for a successful
implementation of the project and the following conditions will be agreed to prior to
implementation:
a) The provincial Govemrnment must meet its commitments in respect of its agreed-
upon contribution of land, labour and materials.
b) The provincial Government will respect agree-upon criteria for project staff
recruitment and will permit the project to hire staff as needed from the private
sector.
c) The provincial Government will second a minimum of eight officers to the project
to work full time for the duration of the projecL
d) The provincial Govemnment shall take the lead in establishing a Planning and
Coordination Unit to be tasked with the management and supervision of extemal
assistance resources.
e) The provincial Govenmment must adhere to agreed-upon selection criteria and
selection procedures in respect of target villages. It must respect critenra in respect
of the number of households which a project target village may contain.
f) Once construction or expansion of primay schools has been agreed and included
in a village development plan the provincial Govemment must hire and post the
necessary teachers at no additional cost to the project.



LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRAT=c REIPUBLIC
W-ANG NAMTM IPROVINCA DEVELOPMENT PRWB7Cr
Project cost BetcAnte.
(January 2994 price.)
------1994 ------        -----1995 ------               -----1 .16-1 ---------- ---------- 199------------
Items                                 Local   Foreign   Total    Local   Foreign   Total    Loocal   Foreign   Total    Local   Poreign   Total    Local   Foreign   Total
---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- -    - - (Kip    000)  - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - _ - - - - -
Rurakl Access Road.
a. Wamtha-Viengphuka-NAm t4gen    17.60    26.24    43.74    07.48   131.22   215.70   116.64   174.96   291.60   116.64   174.96   291.60   116.64   174.96   291.60
b. Singh-Long-Xiangkcok             19.30    25.94    45.24    96.47   144.71   241.19   125.63   192.96   321.65   128.63   192.95   321.55   1225.63   192.95   321.55
c. Office transport and others   22.53    41.64    64.37    22.53    41.54    64.37              7.51    13.95    21.46        7.51    13.95    21.46       3.75      6.97    10.73
d. Survey and deaign cost           30.13      3.35    33.48    30.13        3.35    33.45       0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00
5. Semsinar and training             3.05    15.06    15.14        6.17    30.12    36.29        6.37    30.32    36.29        0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00
. Expatriate salary                 0.00   105.75   105.75        0.00   146.55   246.55        0.00   146.58   146.85        0.00   146.85   146.58       0.00    41.13    41.13
subtotal                 92.64   221.19   313.73   242.78   495.12   740.90   255.95   555.55   817.80   2S2.75   528.73   751.52   249.03   416.01   66S.04
Water Supply
a. Networ)  in New Namktha           4.60    30.76    36.35    27.S1   154.S4   212.1)2   32.17   21S.29   247.46    18.38   123.02   141.41                4.60    30.76   'I5.363
b. Stand ripe in old Wamtha          1.89    16.98    25.56        3.30    29.71    33.01        2.53    25.47    25.30        0.94      8.49      9.43     0.47      4.24      4.72
c. Standpipe in Nuang Singh          0.36      3.24      3.60      1.05      9.72    10.50       2.16    19.44    21.60        2.52    22.66    2s.a0       0.72      6.40      7.20
d. Rural water oupply                2 62    10.08    12.60        7.56    30.24    37.60    16.12    60.45    75.60    17.64    70.56    65.20             5.04    20.16    25.20
a. Sanitation program                2.16      1.44      3.60      6.45      4.32    10.50    17.25    11.52    25.50    17.25    11.52    25.80            0.00      0.00      0.00
f. training                          2.55    25.92    28.0         5.76    51.54    57.60        6.76    51.84    57.60        0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00      0.100     0.00    I
g. Expatriate salary                 0.00    55.32    55.32        0.00    81.00    51.00        0.00    51.00    81.00        0.00    51.00    51.00       0.00    22.65    22.68
I Subtotal                 14.40   146.73   261.14    51.76   391.37   443.12    75.32   465.04   540.36    56.77   317.27   374.04    10.53    84.32    95.15S                 .
Institutional Strenkgthening
a. office, vehicles & Adami.         6.05    17.32    33.40        7.30    20.78    28.08        4.87    13.85    15.72        2.43      6.93     9.36      1.22      3.46      4.65 
b. Seminar and training              0.75      5.01      S.76      1.50    10.02    11.52        1.22      7.52      5.64      0.37      2.61     2.08      0.00      0.00      0.00
c. scholarship program               0.00      0.00      0.00      0.37      4.31      4.65      0.56      6.46      7.02      0.75      8.61     9.36      0.94    10.76    11.70
d. Expatriate salary                 0.00    32.40    32.40        0.00    45.00    45.00        0.00    45.00    45.00        0.00    36.00    36.00       0.00      9.00      9.00
Subtotal                  6.53    54.73    61.56        9.17    80.11    59.20        6.55    72.53    79.35        3.56    54.04    57.60       2.15    23.23    25.38
Total baee cost          1~~~13.77   422.6    -36.4-    03-.71  9.698.59;  1273.31   340.21096.72  1437.54   313.10   900.05  1213.16   262' 01   623.S6   7805.56
Physical contingencieo (10%)          11.38    42.26    53.64    30.37    96.96   127.33    34.05   109 67   143.75    31.31    90.01   121.32    26.20    52.36    78.56
Total                             125 15   464 91   590.06   334.05  1066.55  1400.64   374.90  1206 39  1551.29   344.41   990.06  1334.45   258 21   575 92   864.12
Price contingencies
Annual (4)                    6.00     6.00                 5.00     5.00                5.00      5.00                5.00      5.00               5 00      6.100
Compounded (4)               6.00      6.00               11.30    11.30                16.87    16.57                22.71    22.71               28.84    20.84
Amsount                       7 51    27 589    35.40    37.75   120.62   155.27    63.25   203 .52   266.17    75.22   224.54   303.06    53 12   166.09   249.21
Project Total                     132.66   492 50   625.46   371.53  1187.07  1S55.91   438.15  1409.81  1848.06   422.63  1214.90  1637 54   371 31   742.01  1113131
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
0%



LUNO NAW*MT4 PROVINCIAL W VBLOPWBST PROJSCT
Project Coet Sot huat.
(January 194 pricoal
|S9---------2000-9 ----- --20---   ....-200.....          .....20  ..----STXAl,
Iteme                      Local   Poreign   Total    Local   Poreign   Total    Local   Foreign   Total    Local   Poreign    T...tAl
-_-____--___----------------------------------   (Kip oo001        *-------- --------------------------      *  -
Rural Acc-e. Road. 
a. temtha-Viengphuke-   87.46   131.22   218.70    29.16    43.74    72.90    11.66    17.50    29.16   Sol 20    074.00   1486 o0
b. Singh-Long-Xi-ngko   96.47   144.71   241.19    32.16    40.24    00.40    12.06    19.29    32.16   643.36    964 74   1607.90
c. Office tranaport a    3.75       6.97    10.7t      3.7s      6.97    10.73      3.75      6.97    10.73    75.10    139.46    214 S6
d. Survey and design      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00    60.26       6.70      66.96
e. Seminar and traini    0.00       0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00    15.42       75.10     90.72
f. Expetriate salary      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0 00      0.00      0.00 07 52    se0.72
107.71   202.90   470.61    65.07    90.9S   164.02    20.20    43.76    72.04  1177.14   2640.52   402s.66
,- --    -- --   _ .__.   ......  . . -- --  -- --  -- --  -- --   -- --      -- -    .-.--.-....---  .....   .....  ..,,. ,
Water Supply
a. Network in Now tarn    4.60    30.76    35.35       0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00    91 9    61l  12    7U7.04
b. Stand pipe in old      0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      a 00     0.00      9.43     04.69      s4 32
c. Standpipe in Huang    0.36       3.24     3.60      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      7.20     64 00      72 00                  1
d. Rural water supply    2.52    10.08    12.60        0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00    80.40    201 60    82 00
e. Sanitation program    0.00       0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00     o.oo    43.20      20.00      72 00
f. training               0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00    14.40    129 60    144.00                   0
g. Oxpatriate salary      0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00    324 00    324 00
7.40    44.00    S1.5S      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00   216.5S   1440 B1   1665.36
Institutional Strengthening
a. Office, vehicles &    1.22       3.46     4.60      0.73      2.06     2.61      0.49      2.39     1.07    4.34      69 26    'A 60
b. Seminar and traini    0.00       0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      3.74     25 06      20 s0
c. Scholarehip progra    0.37       4.31     4.68      0.37      4.31     4.60      0.37     4.31      4 60      3 74     43.06      46 00
d. Bxpatriate salary      0.00      9.00      9.00     0.00      3.60     3.60      0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00    10.100    1o0 00
1.59    16.77    18.36      1.10      9.90    11.09      0.06      5.69     6.55    31.02    317 36    349 20
Total bone cost        196.78   343.75   540.53    66.16   101.93   175.11    29.14    49.45    70.60  1625.52   4414 71   6040 22
- -    - -   - - - -   - - - -   - - - -   - - -   -   - - - -   - -    . . ..  . . . . . .. ........ . ......  .........
Physicel contingenci-e    19.60    34.37    54.05        6.62    10.69    17.51       2.91     4.9S      7.06   162 Ss    441.47    604 02
_ _--    .. ..   __..  .....  ..  ........  -- --  .... .. . . - - - -    I- - - -   ..... .     .   .....  .....
Total                  216.46   378.22   594.S5    72.80   119.62   192.62    32.05    S4 40    66.46  176B 07   4056.10   6644 24
Price contingencies
5.00     5.00               5.00      5.00               5.00     5.00
35.26    35.26              42.05    42.0S               49.1S    49.15
76.37   133.40   209.77    30.61    S0.39    81.00    15.75    26.74    42.49   392.60    953.19   1345 97
----  _.............   .- ....... .... .  ------
Project Total          292.83   511.52   004.35   103.41   170.21   273.62    47.60    BJ 14   120.9S  2160.65   8809 57   7990.21
.a..   a......  ......   ......   ......  ......   ......   ass... ..... ......   ...                 .5
0



U0MW HAMMT6  PROVINCIAL OSM1VWSOUW  09025
Project cost est imates
WanMuary 1994 prives)
-..... 1*94-19.... ......91-......2----- 996 .....                                  ....997  ---1990*
Itema                                Local   Foreign   Total    Local   Foireign   Total    Local   Faoeigna  Totdl    Locail  Foreign   ?.tAa    Lc.~..1   Forittgn   Tt..A
ualAccauss  Roado"_                                                                                                      __  _  _ _-                      __ _ _ _  
.  mstha-Vieugpbuka-Nin Ne"n    24.20    36.41    6071   121.10   102.21   303.7S   162.00   243.00   401.00   162.00   2042.0   401 Vo   962 00   343.00)  401 1Mb
b. Singh-Long-Xiangkok             26.60    40.30    67.00   2333.99   200.09   334.90   170.66   267.98   446.64   170.66   267.968  446 64   170 64   267 90   446 64
c. Otfice transport and othaer   31.29    16.11    891.40    31.29    10.1          69.40    10.41    19.)7    29.80    10.43    i9 37    29 so         1 22    'A 69    14 910
d. Ourvey and design coot          41.01      4.6S    46.10    41.01       4.61    46.10       0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00      0 00      a Oa     0 00      0 ou
a. Seminar enil training            4.20    20.92    21.20       8.S7    41.03    S0. 40       0.17    41.03    10.40       0.00     0.00      0 00      a au     0.00      a 00o
f. Uxpatxiate salary                0.00   146.08   146.00       0.00   204.00   204.00       0.00   204.00   204.00        0.00   204 oc   204 Du      0 04)   17.12    V37 12
Subtotal                120.S2   307.21   431.73   337.20   691.03 1.029S.0)   3119.61   776.10 1.13S.04   311.09   7)4 $21 .091 44   341 07   177.79  1-2 $64
water supply
a. Nletwork In New Moanths          6.30    42.72    49.10    30.30   216.30   294.60    44.60   299.02   43.70    21.14            t 30 1I  ',6 40   6 to    42 72'   4v Su
b. Stand pipe in old Mauth.i         2.62    23.10    26.20      4.19    41.27    41.01        3.93    31.37    29.30       2.31    Al179    3 10       0466     1.90      6 ->%
C. standpipe in, Nuang Sisagh       0.50      4.10      1.00     1.10    13.10    11.00        3.00    27.00    30.00       3.10    31.10    31 00       I 00     9,.00    10 00
8. Rural water oupply               3.10    14.00    17.10    10.10    42.00    12.10    21.00    04.00   101.00    24.150    00.00   122 SO             7.00    20.00    1 00
.. Sanitation program               3.00      2.00      1.00     9.00      6.00    11.00    24.00    16.00    40.00    24.00    16.00    40 0Du         0 0o      0 00      0 00
C. training                         4.00    36.00    40.00       0.00    72.00    60.00       0.00    72.00    000.00  600           0 00      0 00     0.00      iloc      0 oo
g. Expatriate salary                0.00    01.00    01.00        0.00   112.10   112.10       0.00   122.10   112.S0       0.00   112.10   22 10       0 00    31.10     it 10
Subtotal                 20.00   203.00   223.00    71.00   543.57   611.41   104.61   $641.9   710.10    70.44   440.64   619 10    1.04   117.11   32 IS    4
Institution Strengthening
a. office, vehicles 6 Admin.        0.41    24.01    32.10    10.14    281.016    39.00       6.76    19.24    26.00        3.38     9.62    11.00       1 69     4.01      6 1
b. Seminar and training             1.04      6.90      0.00     2.00    13.92    16.00        1.16    10.44    12.00       0.12     3.40      4.00     0.00      0.00      0 400
c. Scholarship program              0.00      0.00      0.00     0,12      1.90      6.10     0.74      0.97      9.71      1.04    11.96    13.00      1.30    14.91    14 21
d. expatriate salary                0.00    41.00    41.00       0.00    62.10    62.50       0.00    62.10    62.10       0.00    10.00    10.00       0.00    22.10    12 s0
Subtotal                 9.4$    76.01    01.10    12.74   111.26   124.00          9.10   101.11   110.21       4.94    7S.06    00.00       2.99    32.26    3S 21
Total bass coot                  110.02   187.01   741.03   421.02 1.346-66 1,768.40   473.37 1,S13.2) 1,996.19   434.87 1.2S0,O7 1.684 94   3*3.s0   721 16 2.0',) 06
Physical contingencies (20,)          110       07        41        2.14   34.67   176.01    473        1.2 296             34       2.1 209             3 9    72.12   103 II
Total                   ~~~~~~~~173.02   641.71   --9.13  4.64.00 1.40233 1.9413    120.71 1,671.11 2,196.21   470.36  1.71.00 1.06S3 44   400a 29   799 So 1.200 j7
ftrce contingencies
Annual it)                   2.40     2.80                2.80     2.00                2.410    2.80                2.80     2 00                2 au     2.80
Compounded (f4)              2.00      2.00               1.60    S1.40                0.64     0.64               1.69    1 40               44 02    4 02
AMOunt                       4.87    Is.00    22.9S    26.36    84.14   110.10    44.990  144.77   1851.76    11.07   260.41  2916 45    69 28   110 46   III '4
?rojact Total                    178,69   661.79   842.40   490.36 1,14S.47 2,011.93   16S.10 1.026 32 2,381t.01   %124.2$ 1.11  4 .0659$1   414v %7   90 S4 I,4, il  a
......    . .....   ....~ a.    .....   aa*.* .  a......   ....S    ... .    ......aS  *....a  .. ....      ....
Notes: A. 1994 exchang  tate: (1541.00 *  Kip 720
h. Al1 figure. are rounded.
023
t.4



LUANG NANTHA PROVINCIAL DBVBLOPNSNT PROJB(S.
Project Cost Battimatee
(January 1994 priceo)
-----     19       .       -       -2000------ ----   ---------- 200-1 ----------    ....  .
Itemo                      Local   Foreign   Total    Local   Poreign   Total    Local   Foreign   Total    Local   foreign    To6t1
*--- --               ----------------    (Us$ 000)    -              -----  - -    -      ------- --     .
Rural Accees Roado
a. Namths-Vienspbuka-Mam fgen   12.50   102.25   303.7S    40.50    60.75   101.25    16.20    24.30    40.S0   0lo 00  121S5.u00  A.ojs 00
b. Singh-Lang-Xiangkok           133.99   200.09   334.98    44.66    67.00   111.66    17.86    26.80    44.66   893.28  1.139,92  2.233 20
c. Oftice transport and othero    S.22      9.69    14.90      5.22      9.69    14.90     5.22      9.69    14.90   104.30    193.70    29B 00
d. Survey and design cost          0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00    83 70       9.30     93 00
a. Seminar and training            0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00    21.42    104.s4    126 00
f. Hxpatriate salary               0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00    614.00    836.00
Subtotal              260.71   302.92   653.63    90.36   137.43   227.81    39.28    60.783  100.06 1.912.70  3.6713S0  ,5 91.20
Water Supply
a. Network in Neo  Heatha          6.38    42.72    49.10      0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00   127.66    8S4 34    7e2.00
b. Stand pipe in old Ntatha        0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00    11.10    117 90    131.00
c. Standpipe in huang Singh        O.SO     4.50      5.00     0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00    10.00      90 00    100.00
d. Rur-a  Water eUpply             3.50    14.00    17.50      0.00      0.00     0.00      0 00     0.00     0 00    70.00    280 00    3So 00
a. Sanitation program              0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00      0 00     0.00    60.00      40 00    1oo 00
t. training                        0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00    20.00    180 00 o   200 00
9. Expatriate ealary               0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00 4o0 00 4o0 00                           4
Subtotal                10.38    61.22    11.60      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00   300 76  2.012 24  2.311 00
---- ..           -   -     -  -                       .......*
Institution Strengthening                                                                                                                                             O
a. office. vehiclee 6 Adein.       1.69     4.51      6.50     1.01     2.89      3.90     0.6e      1.92     2.60    33  0o    36.20    1A3  ou
b. Seminar and training            0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      5.20     34 8o     40 00
c. Scholarship program             0.52     5.98      4.50     0.52      S.98     6.50     0.52      s.98     6.50     5.20      59.80     65 00
d. Kxpatriate ealary               0.00    12.60    12.50      0.00     S.00      S.00     0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00    250 00    250 00
Subtotal                 2.21    23.29    2S.S0      1.53    13.87    15.40      1.20     7.90      9.10    44 20    440.80    48S.00
_77,.                                                       0.1      6...  .l   . .. . ..    
Total base  cost                273.30   477.43   750.73   S91.9    151.30   243.21    40.48    68.69   109.16 2,257.66  S.131 S4   . 183.20
Physical contingencies (lOS)        27.33    47.74    7S.07      9.19    15.13    24.32      4.05      6.87    10.92   225.77    613.1S    8)0.92
-- --    -- --    -- --     -- --    -- - -   -  - -  .  - - -   - - -      - - -   - - -    ...  ..  ...-
Total                           300.63   525.17   825.80   l01.10   166.43   267.53    44.53    78.56   120.08 2.4a3.41  8,744 69  9.228 12
-- -    -- --    -- -- -   ....... .......  -- --   -- -- -  -- --  ---   ..   .........   ......    ...   ......... ...
Price contingenciec
Annual (t)                  2.80     2.00               2.80     2.60               2.80     2.80
Compounded (4)             16.02    18.02              21.33    21.33              24.72    24.72
Amount                     54.17    94.64   148.81    21.57    35.50    57.07    11.01    18.68    29.69   278 12    674 88    9S1.00
- ---   --  --    -- --    . ...   ..... ..  -- --   -----..-- - -.                . ... ................ ... .......... .. ..
Project Total                   354.80   619.81   974.61   122.67   201.93   324.60    ss 54    94.24   149.77 2,761 5.  t.4116 st 10.181 1.
*---*-.- 0. S  ....   ......   ......   .....   ......   .. ....   ......  , ... .. . ,.. =., ^x=,,,
Al V.
V W4
,.
0



LUANG NANTHA PROVINCIAL DRVSLoOHSiT PROJS6T
Pro)ect Coot setamaten
(Jatiucry 1194 prices)
S Foreign   * of
ltem.                               -  (Kip million)   -        -- (0US$  000  ---- --  Coot to  total ProU34t
Local   Foreign  Total    Local   Foreign   Total   total    coot
Rural Access Roade
a. N athb-Viengphuka-Nae Ngen      503      875     1458    010.0   1215.0  2025.0   60.00    19.89
b. Singb-Long-Siangkok             643      965     1600    *93.3  1339.9  2233.2   60.00    21.93
c. Office transport and others      75      139      215    104.3   193.7   298.0   65.00         2.93
d. Survey and design cost           60        7       67     83.7       9.3     93.0   10.00      0.91
. Seminar and training              1S       75       91     21.4   104.6   126.0    03.00        1.24
E. expatriate salary                 0      s58      580      0.0    816.0    016.0  100.00       0.01
Subtotal                1377     2649     4026   1912.7  3678.5  5591.2   65.79    54.92
_____._.   ............    ._.___......   ._._... .   _.____.__._...  --- --  --- --  ------
Water Supply
n. Network in New Naetha            92      615      707    127.7   854.)   902.0   07.00         9.65
b. Stand pipe in old Ewatha          9       as       94     13.1   117.9    131.0   90.00        1.29
C. StandpipO in Nuang Singh          7       65       72     10.0    90.0   100.0   90.00         0.98
d. Rural water supply               50      202      252     70.0   200.0   350.0    80.00        3.44
a. Sanitation program               43       29       72     60.0    40.0   100.0   40.00         0.98
C. training                         14      130      144     20.0   180.0    200.0   90.00        1.96
S. Expatriato salary                 0      324      324      0.0   450.0   450.0  100.00         4.42                                                             4>
Subtotal                 217     1449     1665    300.0  2012.2  2313.0    87.00    22.72                                                               '.
___--   .........___ ........  -----   -------   -- -- -   -- -- -  -------.- _ ___________ ____
Inatitution Strengthening
a. Office. vehicles,  Admin.        24       69       94     33.0     96.2    130.0   74.00       1.28
b. 8minar and training              4       25       29      5.2      34.6    40.0   07.00       0.39
c. Scholarship program               4       43       47      5.2     59.6    65.0   92.00        0.64
d. Bxpatriate salary                 0      18O      180      0.0   250.0    250.0  100.00        2.46
Subtotal                  32      317      349     44.2   440.8   485.0   90.89        4.76
__.__._. .  ...... _    ------  _ _____  ------  ......  -- --
Total base cost                  1626     441S     6040   2257.7  6131.5  8389.2   73.09    82.40
Pbysical contingencies (108)         163      441      604    225.8   613.2   *30,9   73.09         8.24
Ptice contingencieo                  393      953     1346    278.1   674.9   953.0   70.82         9.36
Total Project Coat               a181     5810     7990   2761.6  7419.6  10181.1   72.80   100.00
... .. .- ... ...   ......*  ... .". .* ......   ... *.....   ..... .   . ......
NMt: a. 994 oxchange rate: US$1.00 * Kip 720
b. All figures are rounded.
".,
t? 
tV >



LOa PEOPLE'S OENWATIC ifigi&C
LUA6 UMON  PWOIUCIL UEWIAN'EBI PROJECT
Organlzatiaml Respornibility of PShU and Cilis
Governor
| Deputy Governor |                       |             z         ---          - [DeputY Governor
Planning Coordination and Monitoring Unit
(POW)                                                Provincial Executive                                                                  U
_             x~~~ Comittee Officeo
CIU for                        CIU for Inca
Water          CIU for          Generation
Supply           Roads           Activitles
I XTPC        - Finance                Cooperation             LLJ1    .--
& Tourism
Other Sector Departments
(Refer to Annex 2)
g Road Construction
|   Nalpa pa
Namtha                                                                                            O



LAO PEOPLE ' S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
LUANG NANTHA PROVINCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT STAIPING REOUIM
T"M~~ IAW                                                       ..I4                                         1,,[I       
Tam kwd" 11s                                     e                    ama,) 
.T_ Iadw tl)I                                                 4
. ttVmno"n0
* W1' _gZW (IA
-*. -.i _
* ft.w. -gfttb. (2
. .III        
- AMff  Amb. 0)  & 
*1 not A t  *da _ _
.  gm.   nu mm.vwmsw
reTm. $a c &a* 
- Nl mgmtAJ   "l
-  -zett
- PtutuWm. 0}4                                                 -                       
*   t'6  1pm. 43
- UMYv ,,dua Z.510
15ff  (). .
Pe.  gaffptn .  0
. h*a w.itu 41
,  S  Ertl)sl



-  52  -
ANNEX 8
Page I of 2
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
LUANG NAMTHA PROVINCIAL DEVELOPMNT PROJECT
Outline Terms of Reference for Resident Planning Advisor
Background and Objectives
I.         'he Government of Lao PDR is implementing a comprehensive program  for the
development of the Province of Luang Namtha. One of its component is the institutional strengthening.
The objectives of the component are to strengthen the planning, managerial and operational capacities of
the provincial and central governments. Especially at the provincial level, the long-term objective is to
upgrade planning and management capacities to a level that can contribute positively to a national
development program. A Planning Advisory and Implementation Unit will be set up to coordinate and
implement this component. For this purpose. a resident planning advisor (RPA) will be recruited.
Sope of Work
2.         The scope of work includes:
(a) Setting up a Planning, Coordination and Monitoring Unit (PCMU) under the provincial
governor's office to advise and train provincial counterparts in planning, budgeting and
management as well as to coordinate the T/A and implementation of the other activities
planned under the comprehensive development program;
(b)  Involving in overall planning, policy decisions. strategic management and future provincial
development.
(c)  Introducing monitoring and evaluation mechanisms in order to develop relevant data
collection. data analysis and management information systems, and to integrate relevant
project procedures into regular provincial administrative activities and operations;
{d) Arranging for short-term seminars. training and domestic and regional study tours for
provincial staff. Planning and finance officers in other provinces and central agencies could
also be included in the training where appropriate,
(e)   Coordinatig and helping to arrange for the placement of scholarship program provided
under the project;
(f)   Monitoring project progress and coordinate with IDA, which will involve processing the
credit withdrawal applications as well as managing and monitoring project finances;
3.         It is essential that there be provincial-wide planning across all service departnents (which
have the necessary planning capacity), so the project serves and is consistent with national policy. The
RPA will manage the PMCU, which will be placed under the Provincial Governor's Office, and will be
chaired by one of the deputy governors. Staff working with RPA will include two counterpart staff



- 53 -
ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 2
seconded from provincial planning and finance departments. one project accountant and a secretary and
other support staff.
4.         Because the major objective of technical assistance is the transfer of expertise. the first task
O)t the RPA would be the training of local counterparts so that local counterpart statf of the PMCU can
take over the work of the RPA as soon as possible. Services ot RPA is expected to be required tor about
three years. The need for an extension beyond three vears will be evaluated towards the end of the third
year (around May l997). In the interim the Government and the Bank may periodically evaluate RPA
performance and adjust the program accordingly.
Profile of Candidate and Period of Assignment
5.         The candidate for RPA will have a solid experience in public administration. management.
and planning in developing country, with some knowledge of public finance, as well as a good skill in
leading a small provincial planning unit. and coordinate various seminar and training activities. Some
knowledge of Lao/Thai language will be a contributing factor in the overall evaluation of the candidate.
The Assignment period of two years. starting March 1994 with a one year extension possibility.



-  54  -
ANNEX 9
Page I of 3
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPLrBLIC
LUANG NAMITHA PROVINCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Outline Terms Of Reference: Road Engineer
Background
1.           The Government of the Lao PDR is implementing a comprehensive program for the
development of the Province of Luang Namtha. One component of this project is the improvement of
roads.
Objectives
2.           The objectives of the road component are to:
(a)   improve access to rural communities by linking them to the national network;
(b)    develop a local capacity to improve low volume roads and to be able to subsequently
maintain them on a sustainable basis;
(c)   encourage the development of private contractors: and
(d)   institutionalize the development of a sustainable national program  of rural road
construction. rehabilitation, and maintenance.
Scope of Road Component
3.           Specific components included in the project are:
(a)   improvement of two roads to low volume standards: Singh to Xiangkok via Long (75
km); and Namtha to Viengpuka (55 kmi) with a possible extension of an additional 22 km
to Ban Nam-Ngen. Labor-based construction methods would be emphasized using an
appropriate mix of labor and equipment;
(b)   survey and design of a road from Namtha to Nalae to appropriate low-volume standards;
(c)    development of the capacity of the provincial Department of Communication, Transport,
Post and Construction (DCTPC) by the provision of technical assistance, and training.
The project will also provide an office building for DCTPC. survey and materials testing
equipment. and vehicles for design, constucton supervision and maintenance
management activities;
(d)    development of the local construction industry by providing training to contractors in
project management. cost accouMing, bidding, etc. using modified procurement



-  55  -
ANNEX 9
Page 2 of 3
procedures to introduce the contractors progressively to Local Competitive Bidding
(LCB) procedures: and
(e)    collaboration with UNDP to strengthen the MICTPC and provincial capacity for road
maintenance and improvement.
4.           In keeping with the recently adopted national policy to develop a national program for
low volume road construction and maintenance which can be timded from the national budget and
executed with local capability. low volume roads need to be low cost and constructed with an appropriate
mix of equipment and labor. Where necessary, such as for work in mountainous areas, it will be
necessary to employ heavy equipment. The project roads would be constructed by small local contractors
who would receive training under the project. Supervisors from the provincial DCTPC would be trained.
and the labor recruited from villages along the route would also acquire some training in rural road
construction and maintenance. As a result. road maintenance would be more sustainable at the provincial
and district levels than in the past, when outside contractors used imported labor.
5.           To be successful, the techniques and operations of using labor-based methods for low
volume roads need to be institutionalized. The road component is one of a package of three integrated
projects working towards this objective. The second is the proposed GTZ/ILO Labor-based Rural Roads
Construction and Maintenance Project in Oudomxai and Savannakhet provinces. The third is the
proposed UNDP Strengthening of Provincial Capacity for Road Maintenance and Improvement Project.
The road component of the proposed IDA project would share some project management resources with
the other two projects.
6.           Given the almost impassable state of the existing tracks, it is of great interest for the
province to improve access to markets. This will be accomplished by raising the level of service
incrementally. The first stage of the project wil consist of a program of spot improvements on the two
existing tracks. Works would be concentrated on the particular sections that are presently impassable
except to the 4-wheel drive trucks. These relatively small works, which can be undertaken by small
contractors, would give an immediate boost to the accessibility of villages along the roads and to the
district centers by making the roads passable to 4-wheel drive jeeps during the wet season. and
progressively to 2-wheel drive pickups during the dry season. Once this stage is attained, the remainder
of the road will then be progressively improved, commensurate with the modest overall objectives for
the project. Engineering surveys for the initial program of spot improvements are in progress to enable
construction to begin upon project approval.
Services Required and Project Tasks
7.           The Road Engineer (RE) will head the roads team, which is expected to consist of a
counterpart highway engineer seconded from MCTPC, two UN volunteers, two senior technicians from
the PDCTPC, two aides from PDCTPC, a materials tehnician from one of the MCTPC enterprises, and
support staff including secreary, drivers etc.
8.           The RE and the rest of the team will be based in Luang Namtha.
9.           The RE will liaise with the Director and Deputy Director of the PDCTPC. and will be
a member of the project Planning Coordination and Monitoring Unit (PMCU) at provincial headquarters.



- 56 -
ANNSEL 9
Page 3 of 3
In addition the RE will cooperate with two other projects which are expected to be implemented in
parallel with the Luang Namtha project: namely the GTZ/ILO Labor Based Roads Project in Udomsai
and Savannakhet provinces. and the UNDP Provincial Roads Project. It is expected that there will be
linkages between all three projects. particularly regarding training of contractors and technicians in labor-
based techniques. and the institutional development of a unit within MCTPC to fualfill MCTPC
responsibilities for Provincial roads.
10.          The RE will have overall responsibilitv for:
(a)    Planning, executing .and supervising road construction works:
(b)    Management and supervision of the roads teamn:
(c)    Coordination of the roads component;
(d)    Advising the PMCU on management and technical road matters:
(e)    Liaising with the GTZIILO and UNDP projects:
(f)    Organizing training for contractors and PDCTPC staff in labor-based construction
methods, and for PDCTPC staff in construction supervision. in cooperation with
GTZIILO and UNDP;
(g)    Establishing project reporting, monitoring and accounting systems;
Qualifications
i1.          Civil Engineer with broad experience in low volume roads in developing countries,
leading teams for the implementation of labor-based road construciion, and contract management.



-  37  -                          ANNEX tO
Page I of 2
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUTBLIC
LUANG NANMTHA PROVINCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Outline Terms of Reference for Water Supply Component Team Leader
Background
I     The Luang Namtha Provincial Development Project includes a water supply component that
covers township water supply development activities in the district towns of Namtha and Singh. and
rural activities in other districts. The urban water supply component will be implemented iry the
National Water Supply Enterprise. Nampapa. It (NPL) consists of works for strengthening the present
water system in New Namtha and developing a piped system in the centers of Old Namtha and Singh.
While NPL will delegate a middle experienced engineer to supervise the operations of the Nampapa
system in New Namtha and in supervising the implementation ot works for the three townships, it
needs an experienced expatriate engineer in water systems construction and in contract supervision to
ensure that the implementation under local contractors with little experience does not go awry.
Outline Terms of Reference for a Supervising Engineer are detmed below.
Scope of Works
2.    The Engineer will be responsible for:
(a)    Reviewing detailed designs produced by outside consultants and topographical surveys
carried out by NPL staff;
(b)    Reviewing final bid documents prepared by external consultants prior to their
submission to the World Bank;
(c)    Preparing all necessary documentation to be submitted for the evaluation of bids and
the final contracts;
(d)    Conducting all necessary field inspection at various sites;
(e)    Preparing the necessary monthly payment situations and any variations orders and
contract revisions during implementation of the component;
(t)   Issuing the payment requests to Nawmpapa and Ministry of Finance for the Financing
agencies;
(g)    Preparing the quarterly disbursements tables and reports for progress reports;
(h)    Obtaining the necessary counterpart payments from the local Nampapa;
(i)    Reviewing the proposals for procurement of equipment under the rural water supply
component, and evaluating the bids; and



-  583  -                         ANN-E   IQ
Page 2 of 2
(i)    Assisting the local Nampapa engineer/manager in carrying out its duties in the
operations of the system and in training his local staff.
Profile of candidate and Period of Assignment
3.    The expatriate engineer will have a solid experience of water construction systems in small
centers, a good knowledge of contract management. and a good record of public relationships with
Government otficials. A minimal knowledge of Lao/Thai language will be a contributing factor in the
tverall evaluation of the candidate. The assignment is for a period of two years. starting December
1. 1993 with a possibility of extension for another six months.



-  59  -                                                             ANNEX U
Page t of 3
iT
4
4
4
4
4
3                                                                                      *
*
*
4
4
4
I'
4
*              4
*              4
*              4
3                                                                                      4
*              4
*              4
*              4
*              *
*              *
*              *
*              *
4
I-                -                                                                                   *
0'                                                                                44
*
4                *           4
-                                                                        4                *
4                *           *
4                *           *
*                4           4
*                *       4
-                                                     *                4        *
0'                                                    4                4        4                          -
*                *       *
*                4       *
4                *       4
-                  -                          4                          4                 *       *
0                          4                4       *
-                                     4                          *                4       4
*                          *                *       4
0                                       *           *
"-I                                           *                                        *    4
4                                       *           *
*                                       *           *
*                                       *           *
U                                    *       *                  *             *       4
*      *                   4            *        *
.      *                   4            4        0
4      *                   *            *        4
*      4                  *             *        4
*      *                   *       4             *
*      0                   4       *             4
43                                    4 4                        4  *    *
*      4                  *        4             4
*      4                   *       0             *
*      4                   4       4             *
-                          *       *                  4        *            *
0                          4       9                  0        *            *
*      4                   4       *             4
*      *                   *       *             0
4                      *        *
- *                                                                        0       *
4                      *       *
4                      *        *
*                      4        *
4      *        4      4        *
4      *        *      0        *
0'                         0       *       *      4        4
*      *        *      4
*      *        4      4
*      *    *  4
*      *    *  4
3                       :          *    *  *
*           *  4
44              4 *
*  *               4
*             *4                 *
*  *               *
*             4                  4
*             4                  4
*
4    40
04
4.
*
*  0*
"     *      0  4
0' 4 * 4 4
* 404
*4
3 4.
IiIu
IIi!i



linslaneutatlm &hedt
(WOW Supply Compaati
1994              8995               1996              4997              1991               am
Naew           Q4 Q     Q2  Q3 S44Ql |Q2  Q3  Q4  QS  Q2 Q3  Q4  Ql Q2  03  Q4 Q                  Q2  Q3 |Q 4 4.    Q2  Q    Q4
New Natba
Svey and d_avA
Tanderbiag/vaualo
Tl'pm *t fitting
npIF  & IlUiU                         ***
M&E equipment                           9
Veblks & olber
CMI Work.
1Ipdlanr& Intake
Treatmzt plotw
OMd Natbha &ia
cosbudinsto of netwok
aadSindjipes
mea. of solar pumps                              9*t*..
Rura Wate Suidy
We prea                                          *****$$**eee*e*****o*e*9e*ge*9*$e.* *a .*.
T/A & uabiug                  9**e    ,*.***.**           .9*9*$ *.....      .* .**.*o           ***s.*.**       *9*e**esa9
GQIK
K                                                     S S~~~~~~
xi
0-



tnrln6ea.tsdh Sbedue
(lanutioutl Straq;Obaa   Component)
1994                 1 9m                 19 i                                       998                 1
Nae                       QEQ2 Q3JQ4 Qi Q2 Q3IQ4 QlIQ2Q1 q4 QIQ2QQ4 QQIQsJaQa4 qQQ4
!,stiit liii s.fP11('t
Recruit trtdnat
planning odvim.r
shoertl6t comdsut                        *
sdrcij.n & nrs.liaIith.n
Planning a4visor stat1..ned in LNl**                          *                  ** t*** **  **** *** *
PMitl faUy ,tAaffed                                  ******* **       *        **** * **  ***. **** **** sn. *SS* *tb *S* 5*5* ............. t***   *. *04*  *** * 5*5** 4*t4
Tfaiiahlt St .Saninat
Pronial Admin. &           vv5                                                                                  va
Manaemeti Pln
lical & PuhU                                              '*5*
Invatmai Plann
Projet Preparatim                                               **5
& Appraia
Activity Monitoring                                                                  *5*  **
& F:taludallo
l)ata C ledlun,                                                                 5*4*
Analydis I
Management
*sbolribld Presrai                                **0** *     **         *** *******  .........   .......*41 4004k .So*$         .....            .... ....*.*  as.4 .04
.                 ..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I.
C)
(D ><
>_



-  61
ANNEX 12
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
LUANG NAMXTA PROVINCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
:DA fiscal year and   Zisburse-          Cumulative         :.sbursement Pr_oiles
semester ending        ment in
semester
USS         usS$       k        Reaional        LAO PDR
rnillizn    ml.ll-or.             transpcrt   All sectors
June 30. :394                  v.60       0.60        .2                          0 
December 31,  .994            n0.05       ^ .6 5    6.7            7              3
June 30,  3995                 3.35       l.S      :3.3           20             10
December 3 1, 1 99 5           0 . 3 5    1.35     14.0           38             14
June 30, 1996                  0.60       :.95     20.1           56             22
December 31, :396              0.80       2.75     28.4           67             26
june 3 3, ,997                 ;.00       3.75     39.0           77             42
:ecemner 31, :997              1.10       4.85     50.0           87              0
June 33, :998                 1'.15       6.00     62.            95             58
..ezenner 31, 1998             0.60       6.60     68.2          :00             66
;-..e 30, ;999                 0.55       7.15     74.0                          74
.ecemter 3:, 1999              0.60       7.75     8 0 . 3                       78
_.ne _.  S200                 0.50      8.25      35.3                          82
:eceT.er 31, 2000              0.50       3.75     90.3                           90
en.e  30, 2O01                 0.53      9.25      35.6                          94
:ecemxer   r4 200              3.42       9.67    i^0.-                           98
n  V.  --,I                                                                    100
-redit ::cs;..   ezerr.er 3:, 4f:C
-:AS-ELS A:3 wE 39  em



3
ANNEX 13
Page I of 2
LAO PEOPLE'S DENIOCRATIC REPUBLIC
LUANG N0N1THA PROV'IiCIAL DEVELOPMIENT PROJECT
Project Mlonitoring Indicators
I.         Monitoring of the project progress will be the responsibility of all units concerned with the
execution of the project. Monitoinng will be synthesized and coordinated by the Planning, Coordination
and Monitoring Unit (PCMU). under the Provincial Governor's Office. The PCMU will institute a
project moniEoring system. and will review monthly with responsible implementation personnels in each
ClUs. This will be strengthened by the svstem of project plaaning, programming, cost control and
budget forecasting to be introduced in the PCMU by the resident planning advisor (Annex 8).
2.         The outputs of all project components will be monitored, in particular. the following items
will be included:
Overall Proiect Implementation
(a)  Implementation, progress of procurement and execution of civil works as scheduled in
Annex 11;
The InstitutionaLS[engfthnin Comonet
(C!   Completion. by December 1997, of the task of PCMU's resident planning advisor outlined
in Annex 8. and completion of seminar and training program outlined in Annex I I page 3;
The Road Component
Service quality of the two road would be substantially improved such that:
(d)   by June 1996, they would be passable by four-wheel drive jeeps during the wet season;
(e)   by December 1997, they would be passable bv two-wheel drive pickup in the dry season;
(t)   by December 1999, they would be passable year-round by two wheel drive pickup;
(g)   by the project completion. it would take no more than three hours to travel the entire 80 km
of road by two-wheel drive pickup in the wet season; and



ANNEX 13
Page 2 of 2
The Water Supplv Component
i1)  installation ot water meters to the currently existing household clnnelctions he completed
by December 1994.
4j)   by December 1996. the stafting of NPN be maintained at the overall employment ratio ot
15 employees per 1000 connections.
(k)   operation of standpipes in Old Namtha would start no later than January 1996. and the
system in Singh would start one year later;
(1)  the work on rural water component should start no later than June 1, 1995.
Development lmpact
(m)  under a normal weather condition. production of food grains and livestocks from villages
along the two road sections will be increased no less than 4% per annum in the first twp
years of project period; and this rate of growth wiU be increased to about 6% and 8% per
annum by 1997 and 2000 respectively;
(n)   by 1997, at least 50% of the increased production will be marketable generating about 10-
15% growth in household income. and
(o)  rate of secondary school enrollment improved by at least 10% due to more convenient
access to district school.



ANNEX 14
Page I of '
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPU-BLIC
LUAlNG NA.I1THA PROVINCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supervision Plan
IDA Supervision Input
I .          The staff input indicated in the table below is in addition to regular supervision needs for
the review of progress reports. procurement actions. supervision report preparation and correspondence
(estimated for this project to require ten staff-weeks per year during the first and second project years
and about eight staff-weeks per year thereafter).
Fields Supervision Plan
Approximate                                                 Staff Input
Dates                    Activitv                         (staff-weeks)
05/94         Initial project start-up mission                6
11/94         Semi-annual review mission                      4
05/95         Semi-annual review mission                      5
11/95         Semi-annual review mission                      S
05/96         Mid-term review                                 7
11/96         Semi-annual review mission                      4
05/97         Semi-annual review mission                      4
11/97         Semi-annual review mission                      3
05/98         Semi-annual review mission                      4
11/98         Semi-annual review mission                      4
05199         Semi-annual review mission                      4
11/99         Semi-annual review mission                      3
05/00         Semi-annual review mission                      3
11/00         Semi-annual review mission                      3
05/01         Semi-annual review mission                      3
11/0}         Final supervision/PCR mission                   8
Total Supervision Input                        70



-   _                .ANNEX  !.4
Page ' of 2
ta)    Semi-annual reviews ot project pertormance would he held arou1 May an- November
of each year. starting in 1994. to assess progress in project implementation.  The
supern ision missions scheduled for May each year would also speciticalkI review  ii the
proposed annual work programs and timetables: and (ii the propoised budgetary
allocations to the infrastructure sector for the following fiscal vear.
lb)    A comprehensive mid-term review would be held in May 1997 to determine the need for
moditications  t) the design and implementation targets ot all project components.
including the need to retain the resident planning advtsor ot PMCU.
(C)    Each IDA supervision mission would: (i} require at least two weeks in the filed. tii)
require the services of road and water supply speciaLists. and (iii) review progress ot
procurement and civil works. tinancial statements and disbursements. credit covenants.
and the implementation of technical assistance and training programs components.
Specialized skill requirements would be added to the missions according to needs
identified by previous supervision missions.
Borrower's Supervision Input
2.            During implementation. PMCU and CIUs will provide the Bank with the followipg
information. periodically at agreed dates.
(a)    Progress report on development and implementation of each project component including
the items listed in the implementation schedule in Annex 13;
(b)    Quanerly reports of the resident planning advisor and the two ClUs team leaders,
including progress on the tasks listed in the TOR (Annexes 10-12);
(c)    Progress repon on the development and implementation of the human resources training
program for each component;
(d)    Progress report on the implementaion of the Environmental Guideline for road project
(Annex 6);
(e)    Progress report on implementation of civil works components, including planning,
programming, cost control and estimated costs up to completion. by contract. as well as
physical accomplishment and data on payment of contractors; and
(t)    Annual budget requests and allocations for investment and recurrent budgets.
3.           Coordination for supervision missions will be provided by the External Finance
Department of MOF, who would assemble the data in para. 2 above, and organize field trips.
4.         On arrival at project site, a mission briefing will be chaired by the Deputy Governor who
chairs PMCU. Mission wrap-up meeting will normally be chaired by the Deputy Governor, with the
participation of representatives from PMCU. CIUs. DCTPC and NPN.



- 67 -
ANNEX 15
Page I of 7
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
LU'ANG NAMTHA PROVLNCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economnic Evaluation of Road Component
A. Background
I.        The area served by the two proposed road sections (totalling 156 km) includes four of the
five districts in Luang Namutha Province:
(a)   Namtha district with 104 villages of 32.000 population;
(b) Singh district with 105 villages ot 24.500 population.
(c)   Long district with 132 villages of 20.500 population;
(d)   Viengpuka district with 71 villages of 18,550 population
The area has abundant natural resources: coal, gem stone, forestry, rattan, and bamboo. It also has vast
grassland suitable for cattle raising, and a good potential for extending an additional 2.000 ha of its
irrigated paddy field.
2.         The major bulk traffic that will benefit substantially from convenient transport are food
grains. and livestocks. especially cattle. According to the provincial statistics, Namtha and Singh have
about 4.900 ha of irrigated and 14,400 ha of non-irrigated puddy field, whereas Viengpuka and Long
have over 3,900 ha and 3,500 ha of non-irrigated paddy field respectively. On average, the irrigated field
yields about 3 tons of paddy per ha and the non-irrigated field yields about 1.5 ton of paddy per ha. In
normal vears. about 10% of food grains produced in the province are surplus for market in the
neighboring provinces of Pongsali. Huapan and Xiangkhoang. The production target for the 1993 was
estimated at 42.000 tons of which about 4,000 tons can be marketed. Singh district have more grassland
suitable for cattle raising and, currently produce about 30-35% of the province's 18.500 cattles and
16,600 buffalos. On average about 20% of its total production are surplus for markets. Small livestock
is raising are very common for every household; about 30-40% of pig, and 10-20% of poultry are usually
surplus for markets.
3.        In 1992. a surplus of some 1000 tons of the estimated 8.000 tons of various commodities
produced in the intluence area of each road was marketed. Without improvement of the road, production
would continue to grow slowly at about 4% p.a. and the market tonnage would not be doubled until the
next 18 vears. With the road. however. production of large livestock and food grain will increase greatly
as the reduced transport cost will make production economically justified and attractive. With a better
and cheaper access to fertilizer and other raw material inputs and technical assistance provided under the
EC component. the yield/ha is also expected to increase.



- 68 -
ANNEX 15
Page 2 otk 7
B. Economic Cost and Benefit
Capital Cost
4.         The adjusted economic cost ot Namtha-Viengpuka-Ban Namngen. and Singh-Long-Xiangkok
are Kip 1,955 million and Kip 1,772.7 million respectively (or equivalent to about US$3,400 per km).
The derivation of economic costs starting trom financial costs and applying either CIF prices of traded
goods or conversion tactors for non-traded goods as shown in Table l.
Other Costs
5.         The roads require routine maintenance every year and periodic maintenance every ten vears.
The routine maintenance cost is estimated at Kip 150.000 per km for gravel road. Periodic maintenance
is 10% of the construction cost.
Benefits
6.         The project road has two main quantifiable benefits:
(a) transport cost savings for the commodities which are and would continue to be transported
with a much higher vehicle operating cost on the existing road condition or by other non-
motorized transport means without the project; and
(b)   value added to the production which is generated by the more economical means of
transport after the project is completed.
7.         Transport Cost Savings Benefit. Currently, vehicle operating cost on a very primitive dirt
road for a four-wheel drive two-ton capacity Russian truck (the most commonly used truck in rural Lao)
is Kip 350 per ton-km. With the road. the operating cost is expected to fall to Kip 195 per ton-km which
is the VOC for the same type of truck on fair condition gravel roads. It has been assumed that the
tonnage that would be transport without the project would continue growing at an average 4% p.a
(estimated production and its surplus for market by commodity are given in Columns (IA) to (5A), and
the estimated total benefits for 1997 and 2006 are in Columns (7A) and (9A) in Table 2).
8.         Value-added Benefit. All production in addition to what would occur without the project
is counted as bene.fit contributed by the project. For example, in 1997 the additional tonnage of
production generated by the project (Column 6B) is estimated as a difference between the marketable
surplus in the cases "with" and "without" project (Columns 2B and 4A). The value-added benefit
(generated by the project, Column 7B) calculated as the market value of the generated production
(Column 6B) minus its production and transport cost.
The Economic Rate of Return
9.         Table 3 shows the streams of costs and benefits calculated as explained above. Though the
entire contruction period is pl;r,ned for about 5 years to be ended in 1988. the benefit of the project could
he materialized earlier becausr' the road conditons will be progressively improved as the construction
progress in steps. It is planned that by the end of 1996 the road will be passable by four-wheel drive



-  69  -
ANNEX IF
Page 3 ot 7
jeeps during wet season. Therefore, half of the estimated benefits were attributed to 1997 with the full
benefit starting in 1998. The transport cost benefits account for 12 %c of total benetits in the opening year.
decreasing to to 4% by 2007. The value-added benefit wil be the principal benefit constirutes about 88%c
and 96%  ftf total benefits in 1998 and 2007 respectiveiv, the resulting ERR are I '12% and 13 v for Singh-
Long-Xiangkok. and Namtha-Viengpuka-Ban Naamngen respectively.
Sensitivitv and Risk Analysis
1O.        The main risks of the proposed investment are: (a) a lower growth of value-added benefit.
(b) construction cost overrun. and (cX a delav in benefits. The sensitivity of the Economic Rate of Return
(ERR) to the change in these tactors has been tested with the following results:
Sineh-Xiangkok      Namtha-Ban Namngen
Best estimate                 12%                 13%
Growth of value-added benefit
reduced by 15%               9%                 9%
reducedby 10%               10%                 11%
Cost overrun
increase by 20%             10%                 11%
Benerit
delayed for one year        12%                 13%
The project ERR is most sensitive to the rates of production growth assumed to be generated by the new
road. and is least sensitive to the delayed of benefit.



-  70  -
ANNEX 15
Page 4 of 7
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
LUJNG  WNAMSA PROVINCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 1: Economic Cost Conversion Factors, 1993
Road Constru- :cn Czst         Financi al ^s5    - s:nversion   Ezorom z
0.ompcsiticn a.  factors b.       ^:s 
Labor                                         32.04                      42.57
'tnskilled                                13.84          0.8         .5.87
Ski'led                                    3.90         2.           :9.80
Local superviscry                          2.30          3.0          6.90  .
Tools and Eauioment                           41.33                      41.30
Tools & minor equipments                   5.86          1.0          5.86
Major equipments                          35.30          1.0         35.30
Materials                                     ;.21.33                    21.33
Culverts                                  16.00          1.0         16.00
^thers                                     5.33          l.0          5.33
Site ^:yerheads                                  5333
:30.00                 _ 10.53
"ote:  a. Calculation based on the assumption that :wo-thtrds of work done
by .abor-based ccnstructir. Trethcd, and =ne-third by equipment-
based construction methcd.
b. ^wn estimates.



7 ,                                                    A _nex 
'age 5 ;' 7
aote 2(A): Economic Anatysis of %amtna-v engpuxa-8an Navrgen R^ao
Sasic Information:
......... .........eh .d            7
Road length (old)                    77   (km)
Road length (new)                   77   (km)
Transport Cost (oLd)            385.00   (Kp/t-Km) = -CO
Transport Cost (rew)            195.00   (p/t-1km) - rcN
Transport Cost Saved            190.00   (KW/t-km) -  CS
Senefit from rransoort Cost Saving
('A)       (2A)        (3A)       (4A)        (SA)       (6A)        (7A)       (8A)        (9A)
Prooa93    markc93    AssGrow      eaf,97    "raf'06 : jTCS197        CS'97     UTCS'06      CS106
Items                (ton)      (ton)        (%)       (ton)       (ton)  : (vp/ton)   (I000 Kp): (Kp/ton)   (:000 KZ)
Food Grain          6750.0       675.0        0.04        790        1124       7315        5776       7315        8222
Swine                548.0       219.2        0.04        256         365       7315        1876       7315        2670
PouLtry                28.0        5.6        0.04          7           9       7315          48        7315         68
Cattte                877.5      175.5        0.04        205         29Z       7315        1502        7315       2138
Rattan                113.7       34.1        0.04         40          57       7315         292        7315        415
Other forest prod.   102.0        40.8        0.04         48          68        7315        349        7315        497
In-coming Traffic    300.0       300.0        0.04        351         500       7315        2567       7315        3654
Total TCS 8enefit                                                                          12410                  17664
= .......................... . ------- -                                                                       ................
VaLue Added Benefit
(1S)       (28)        (38)       (48)        (5B)       (68)        (78)        (89)       (99)        (108)
Prod'97    Mark'97    Mark'06    M.Price   ProdCost       VA'97       VA197  :  VA106        VA106 ': AnnGrowth
Items               (ton)       (ton)       (ton)    (Kp/ton)   (Kp/ton) :   (ton)    ('000 Kp):   (ton)    ('000 Kp):    (X)
Food Grain          9882.7      1482.4      3495.4     100000       80000        693        8787        2371      30082        0.15
Swine                 802.3      361.0       851.3     800000      450000         105      35850         486     166663        0.19
Poultry                41.0        10.2       24.2    1500000      850000           4       2376          15       9538        0.17
Cattle               1284.7      321.2       757.3     800000      450000         116      39709         465     159390        0.17
Rattan                166.5       58.3       137.4      200000     100000          18       1702          81       7469        0.18
Other forest Prod.   149.3        67.2       158.5      80000       45000          19        539          91       2506        0.19
Total VA Benefit                                                                           88963                 375650       0.174
...................................                                                     ---------              ............ .... ..............
Table 3(A): Economic Rate of Return of Namtha-Viengpuka-Ban Namngen Road
ConsCost   Maint.Cost  TCSSen.    VA Sen.   NetC.FLou
(00OKp)  (t00OKp)   ('0OOp)   (00OKp)   ('0OOKp)
1994          53180 /1                                      -53180
1995         354536                                        -354536
1996         531804                                        -531804
1997         531804                    6205      44482    -481117
1998         301356                   12410      88963    -199982
1999                      11550 /2   13031      104405      105885
2000                      11550       13682     122526      124658
2001                      11550       14366     143792      146609
2002                      11550       15085     168750      172285
2003                      11550       15839     198039      202328
2o04                      11550       16631     232413      237493
2005                      11550       17462     272752      278664
2006                      11550       17664     375650      381764
2007                      11550       18547     440850      447847
2008                     177268       19474     517368      359574
2009                      11550       20448     607166      616063
2010                      11550       21470     712550      722470
2011                      11550       22544     836225      847219
2012                      11550       23671     981366      993487
2013                      11550       24854    1151699    1165003
Total Cost     1772680
1RR           13 X
Note: /1   Construction cost include physicat contingencies of 10S
/2   routine maintenance cost at Kip 150,000 per km; and periodic maintenance cost 10X of the construction Cest.



1 nreA ' 5
'age 6 9f 
Table 2(B): Economic Anatys's 9' SLngtg-O9EXangkoK Road
....................................  ................................................... ... ...... ..... ..... 
Basic Information:
.. ..............e
Road length (oica)                 79   (km)
Road Length (new)                  79  (km)
Transport Cost (okd)           385.00   (Kp/t-km) - TCo
Transport Cost (new)           195.00   (Kp/t-km) = TCN
TransDort Cost Saved           190.00   (Kp/t-Km) - 'CS
Benefit from Transoort Cost Saving
----------------------------------
L1A)       (2A)       (3A)       (4A)       (5A)       (6A)        (7A)       (8A)       (9A)
P9o-93    Mark'93    AssGrow    Traf'97    'raf'06 : uTCS'9?    TCS'97        UTCS'06    'CS'06
Items               (ton)      (ton)       (h)        (ton)      (ton)  : (KP/ton)   ('000 Kp): (Kp/ton)   ('000 Kp)
....................  --------.................... . 
Food Grain          6450.0      645.0        0.04        755       1074       7505       5663        7505       8060
Swine                322.4       32.2        0.04         38         54       7505        283        7505        403
PouLtry               22.5        6.8        0.04          8         11       7505         59        7505         84
Cattle              1053.0      210.6        0.04        246        351       7505        1849       7505       2632
Rattan                56.9       22.7        0.04         27         38       7505         200       7505        284
Other forest prod.    68.0       34.0        0.04         40         57       7505         299       7505        425
in-coming Traffic    200.0      200.0       0.04         234        333       7505       1756        7505       2499
Total TCS Benefit                                                                        10108                 14387
.......... ...........                                                               ................      ....... .
Value Added Benefit
(18)       (29)       (38)       (48)       (59)        (68)       (78)       (88)       (98)  *    (108)
Prod'97    Mark'97    Mark,06    R.Price   ProdCost      VA'97      VA'97      VA'06      VA'06    AnnGrowth
Items               (ton)      (ton)       (ton)    (KpIton)   (Kp/ton)     (ton)    ('000 Kp):   (ton)    ('000 Kp):   (X)
Food Grain          8613.8     1292.1      2477.2     100000      80000        538       6716        1403      17533       0.11
Swine                430.6       172.2      330.2     800000     450000        135       46068        277      94703       0.08
Poultry               30.0        10.5       20.2    1500000     850000          3        1684          9       5734       0.15
Cattle              1406.2      492.2       943.6     800000     450000        246       84190        593     203091       0.10
Rattan                75.9       34.2        65.5     200000     100000          8         699         28       2556       a.15
Other forest Prod.    90.8       49.9        95.8      80000      45000          10        280         39       1076       0.16
Total VA Benefit                                                                        139637                324694      0.098
................... .. ......                                                         .........             .. .......... ..... ......... .
Table 3(8): Economic Rate of Return of Singh-Long-Xiangkok Road
ConsCost   Maint.Cost  TCS3en.    VA Ben.   NetC.Ftow
('OOOKp)   ('OOOKp)   (000kp)   (0OOOKp)   (OOOKp)
1994          58648 /1                                    -5
1995         390989                                      -390989
1996         586483                                      -511611
1997         s86483                  5054      69818    -436738
1998         332340                 10108      139637    -168364
1999                     11850 /2   10614      153362     167732
2000                     11850       11145     168437     154846
2001                     11850       11702     184994     203615
2002                     11850       12287     203178     224201
2003                     11850       12901     223150     246781
2004                     11850       13546     245085     271549
2005                     11850       14224     269175     327231
2006                     11850       14387     324694     327231
2007                     11850      15107      356610     359867
2008                    195494       15862     391663     212031
2009                     11850       16655     430162     434967
2010                     11850       17488     472445     478083
2011                     11850       18S62     518885     525397
2012                     11850       19281     569889     577319
2013                     11850       20245     625907     634301
Total Cost     1954944
IRR=        12 %
Notes: /1 Construction cost inctude physical contingencies of 10X
/2 Routine maintenance cost at Kip15O,000 per km; and periodic maintenance cost 10X of the construction cost.



A-rex  5
:age 7 ^' 7
CaLculation Method:
. ...... . . .  ..
Columns(1A)-(9A)are for transport cost saving bene#'t assuming a naturak
growth of traffic without additionat traffic generated by project -oad:
(lA) 1993 Production                  = Observed
(ZA) 1993 Marketeo product               Observed
(3A) Assumed growth rate              = Assumed
(4A) 1997 Marketed product            =  Forecasted  =  (2A)*(3A)'4
(SA) 2006  Marketed product           =  Forecasted      (2A)*(3A) 9
(6A) Unit TC Saving (UTCS)               Observed    =  (TCO-TCN)'km/2
(7A) 1997 Trancport Cost Saving       =  Forecastea  =  (4A)*(6A)
(8A) Unit TC Saving 'UTCS)            = Observea d       (TCO.TCN)*km/2
(9A) 2006 Transport Cost Saving       =  Forecasted  (=A) (SA)
CoLumns (19) to (106) are for vaLue-added benefit from tme project
road generated traffic
(18) 1997 Production (with project):Forecasted
(28) 1997 Marketed (with project)  :Forecasted
(38) 2006 Marketed (with project)  =Forecasted
(48) Price of marketed products    =Observea
(59) Production cost                 zObserved
(68) 1997 Vatue-added in ton         =Forecasted =  (28)-(4A)
(79) 1997 value-added in Kip         =Forecasted =((48)-(56)-(TCN*km/2))*(68)
(85) 2006 value-added in ton         =Forecasted =(38)-(5A)
(95) 2006 value-added in Kip         :Forecasted =((46)-(58)-(TCN*km/2))*(8B)
(109)Annuat growth of vaLue-added ,1997-2006   =  (98)/(B)'(1/9)



-  74  -
ANNEX 16
LAO PEOPLE'S DENIOCRATIC REPUBLIC
LUANG NAMTHA PROVINCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Selected Documents Available in Project Files
1. Vidya report on Labor-based Road Construction in Louang Nantha Province
2. GTZ-ILO report on Labour-based Road Construction
3. UNDP Project Document on Road Maintenance
4. Background report on provincial economic base and feasibility for
developing a community development component.
5. EC's Luang Namtha Area Development Project
6. Environmental Assessment for Namtha-Nalae Road



MAP SECTION



IBRD 24542
'00S W  to*-                     fX\jNAC. NA
Tos n,qp ),os bees  oePO'eCe
CHINA                           \yr   Wc:d ,,s                                      '          M ANM A8 c   ' e
22                                                                           0> r. X oresd s  ord~  s 4  d   2'  - 7e
rnIro ,se of le W.VO 8-,;
Gnoo ..T. d -   .-                                                         C .
-,d  'A#  b-d.'dO'g  3'O-
ZZ".. a!lla,~
f) Jf 5 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t ff;o"Qoy '"7 p'y o'                                                                                   S4wraB-a- FT....     
MYANMAAR                                      PlION3 SAL!'                    ooseIc_a  6' 0.0e;.
NM4J'HA                                  ~~~~VIET NAM 
SOKEO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OC
| h'             Lf  y                     tf         X                           tfC<                       >       a8                     CoaO
SEA
1 8                                                 fIrz jf;-.
I~pQ{W so>
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBUC2
16'           LUANGe NAMTHAl   PROlICIALTen
DEVELOPM EN T9   JECT                                                                                                                 (
>7  \  e Hongt                  /           CAMBODA.n                     \5\ .*
Proled Po~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ncedPEoGF'9
Rods ,,Y                                                                                          - R Xt
UnpA      e PE PLE'S  NEMOCRATI  RPBCapitals
Ntnaiel PRoadN.me%    Pnce             Bouda,e
Pr ow,once Pood Numbers    -   Pemovonce   Boundo,res|                                                      
KILOMtETEkS          So        Igo        1;i0 _  01                                                        j*           -8r
MILES 0               S50             1 l                                        E0_     
-14 2 C~~~~~~~~A.MBODIA %'
02                                            0 4%3                                                                           _
SEPTEm9ER '993



IBRD 25115
00'                                                 10oI-                                                 1 2
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBUC
LUANG NAMTHA PROVINCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROPOSED PROJECT           El
ROAD IMPROVEMENTS               ROADS
D       WATER SUPPLY                    TRACKS
UtNDCP.PR(IFECTS            N    RIVERS
22-                    ROAD CONSTRUCTION               PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                     i2
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENTb   -  -  INTERNATIONAL BOUNbDARIES
EC PROECT                                                     D          20       Ad
COMMUNIrY DEVELOPMENTS
KItGIAETEPS
>                           ,    's   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C H I N A 
M Y A N M A R   wS                               anS   5                   /     BMAnMA                          -
/'6uong Ay
-215     fi*;    ang  [ong \                   tx      m    g ~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~Nomthom24    a  Luong  To V.eAlNo
Tho k ,oop I,oo se.,, p/L  U                                         U    D    O   M
by Th World Rod,,' w,H   A,,am
OhSodsnond,do,I!.Muong
jI 8on Nomngen                                                                                           T -  V.e No
AJ~~  B    K E O 0/, 
\oIb%o       : ,            "        ,_'                       -., 
El  / Maisof   ~  * * ~ *         bcJ                  "     /                502
1 ~                                             101'ChiongKorg                                 ,   f        CHINA
\0   sX _  1OMYANMAR         1993
T H A I L A N D  SR U                                             Ai,                                 Py.s   
i                      /                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~20'- .    THAIllAND  > 1'
~~71*was2.5EAr    '                                .~~~~     ~     ~~~~~ekong   AJrnt O 
cb^so rh. -    *                                                                    Sel     ,,
GIDIP Th.1g5f &-.-                                                                                .,       SolhClm
on.dtpJ1 Owl bo -'\.-d   _s_. 
-y~~~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 1-?-    kg.                       '         .>MAbAYSIA 
100 ow                                            10-''                                              4S WR 
100                                                    L                                                          ..oIDONESIA'
OCrOBER 1993



