CREDIT NUMBER 2579 LA
Project Agreement
(Luang Namtha Provincial Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
PROVINCE OF LUANG NAMTHA
Dated H          8     1994


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2579 LA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                            , 1994, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the "Association") and
PROVINCE OF LUANG NAMTHA ("PLN").
WHEREAS: (A) By the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between Lao People's Democratic Republic (the "Borrower")
and the Association, the Association has agreed to make available to
the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to seven
million one hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 7,100,000),
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit
Agreement, but only on condition that PLN agree to undertake such
obligations toward the Association as are set forth in this
Agreement; and
WHEREAS: (B) PLN, in consideration of the Association's
entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower,
has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement.
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows.
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement, the
Preamble to this Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) PLN declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the
Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the
Project, except Part B(1) thereof, with due diligence and efficiency
and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial,
economic, engineering and sound environmental practices, and shall
provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.


﻿-2-
(b) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section and except as the Association and PLN shall otherwise
agree, PLN shall: (i) carry out the Project, except Part B(1)
thereof, in accordance with an implementation program satisfactory
to the Association; and (ii) not later than June 30 in each Fiscal
Year, beginning with the Fiscal Year ending September 30, 1995,
review with the Borrower and the Association the progress achieved
in carrying out the Project and update the said implementation
program accordingly.
Section 2.02. PLN shall establish and thereafter maintain
within its Provincial Governor's Office a Project Coordination and
Monitoring Unit (the "PCMU") headed by an experienced and qualified
Project director, and vest it with such responsibilities, funds,
staff and other requisite resources as shall be required to enable
the PCMU to undertake the overall supervision and coordination of
the Project. For such purposes, PLN shall: (a) not later than June
1, 1994, cause DCTPC to employ and thereafter assign to the PCMU a
road management and maintenance technician, a water supply and
sanitation technician and two (2) construction supervisors, each
with functions and qualifications and terms of employment
satisfactory to the Association; and (b) pursuant to a time-table
satisfactory to the Association, establish and thereafter maintain
under the PCMU a Component Implementation Unit (the "CIU") for
supervising the day-to-day implementation of each of Parts A and B
of the Project, respectively, and ensure that each CIU is vested
with the necessary funds, staff and other resources as shall be
required to enable it to implement its respective Part of the
Project, including, inter alia, the procurement of goods and
services required therefor.
Section 2.03. PLN shall, not later than August 1, 1994, enter
into a management agreement, with terms and conditions acceptable to
the Association, with Nampapa Lao for the management and maintenance
of the water supply standpipe systems to be installed in PLN's
districts of Old Namtha and Singh under Part B(2) of the Project.
Section 2.04. PLN shall, not later than December 30, 1994 and
in accordance with a plan of action acceptable to the Association,
complete the installation of an individual water supply meter in
each existing household connected to the water supply system of its
district of New Namtha.
Section 2.05. (a) PLN shall apply and effectively collect: (i)
not later than June 1, 1994, throughout the Borrower's district of


﻿- 3 -
New Namtha, a water supply and sanitation services tariff equal to
at least seventy Kips per cubic meter consumed (70Kip/m3 consumed);
and (ii) not later than January 1, 1995, throughout the Borrower's
districts of Old Namtha and Singh, water supply and sanitation
household charges sufficient to cover the reasonable cost of
managing and maintaining the water supply and sanitation services
sub-contracted to Nampapa Lao by PLN.
(b) Thereafter PLN shall review annually with the
Association and the Borrower whether the -said tariff and charges
adequately reflect the reasonable cost of water supply        and
sanitation services throughout PLN's provincial districts and,
taking into account the Association's recommendations, PLN shall
promptly take all necessary measures to adjust said tariff and
charges as needed to reflect such cost.
Section 2.06. PLN shall carry out the obligations set forth in
Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans
and  schedules,   records  and  reports,  maintenance  and   land
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project.
Section  2.07.  (a) PLN   shall, at   the  request of   the
Association, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under
this Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of the
Credit.
(b) PLN shall promptly inform the Association of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the
Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the
performance by PLN of its obligations under this Agreement.
Section 2.08. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the.goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project, and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit, shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) PLN shall maintain, or cause to be
maintained, records and separate accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources
and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of PLN responsible for carrying out the Project, except
Part B(1) thereof.
(b) PLN shall:
(i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section for each Fiscal
Year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent   auditors   acceptable   to   the
Association.
(ii)  furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than four (4) months
after the end of each such year, the report of
such audit by said auditors, of such scope and
in such detail as the Association shall have
reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish   to   the   Association   such   other
information concerning said records and accounts
and the audit thereof as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.


﻿Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of PLN thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of
the following two (2) dates:
(i)    the  date  on  which  the  Development  Credit
Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its
terms; or
(ii)   the date twenty (20) years after the date of
this Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)
(ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify PLN of
this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the
parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made
when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable,
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or
at such other address as such party shall have designated by notice
to the party giving such notice or making such request. The
addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿-6-
Cable address:                 Telex:
INDEVAS                 248423 (RCA),
Washington, D.C.         82987 (FTCC),
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
For PLN:
Governor of the Province of Luang Namtha
Province of Luang Namtha
c/o Ministry of Finance
Vientiane
Lao People's Democratic Republic
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of PLN, or by PLN on behalf of the Borrower
under the Development Credit Agreement, may be taken or executed by
the Governor of PLN, or such other person or persons as said
Governor shall designate in writing, and PLN shall furnish to the
Association   sufficient  evidence  of   the  authority   and  the
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.


﻿-7-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
PROVINCE OF LUANG NAMTHA
By
Authorized Representative


﻿- 8 -
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I: Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A: Procurement Procedures
1.    Contracts  for mechanized works   estimated   to  cost  the
equivalent of four hundred thousand dollars ($400,000) or less per
contract, and contracts for labor-based works estimated to cost the
equivalent of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000) or less per
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of
five million dollars ($5,000,000), may be awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.    Contracts for goods, including vehicles, estimated to cost the
equivalent of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000) or less per
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of
one million dollars ($1,000,000), may be awarded on the basis of
comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three
suppliers from countries eligible under the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1992 (the "Guidelines"), in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Association.
3.    Contracts for works to be executed by mechanized contractors
estimated to cost the equivalent of one hundred and fifty thousand
dollars ($150,000) or less per contract, and contracts for labor-
based works estimated to cost the equivalent of eighty thousand
dollars ($80,000) or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount
not to exceed the equivalent of one million seven hundred thousand
dollars ($1,700,000), may be awarded after direct negotiations with
contractors, subject to the prior approval of the Association all in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part B: Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a) With respect to (i) the first three (3) contracts for
works awarded pursuant to the provisions of Part A (1) hereof, (ii)
all contracts for goods awarded pursuant to the provisions of Part


﻿- 9 -
A (2) hereof and (iii) all contracts for goods or works awarded
pursuant to the provisions of Part A (3) hereof, the procedures set
forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that
the two (2) conformed copies of the contract required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall
be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two (2) conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit
Agreement.
2.    The figure of fifteen percent (15%) is hereby specified for
purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1.    In order to assist PLN in carrying out the Project, PLN shall
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and
by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in
August 1981 (the "Consultant Guidelines").
2.    For complex, time-based assignments, PLN shall employ such
consultants under contracts using the standard form of contract for
consultants' services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as
shall have been agreed by the Association. Where no relevant
standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, PLN shall
use other standard forms agreed with the Association.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy of
the original in the archives of the International
Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the
International Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


