CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 653 UV
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
(Third Highway Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF UPPER VOLTA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated July 15, 1976


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 15, 1976, between REPUBLIC OF UPPER
VOLTA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOP-
MENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the- respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "MPWT" means the Borrower's "Ministry of Public Works,
Transport, Urban Development and Architecture" functioning pur-
suant to Decree No. 76-036/PRES of Borrower dated February 18,
1976;
(b) "DOT" means "Directorate of Transport (Direction des
Transports)", a directorate established and operating within
MPWT;
(c) "DPW" means Directorate of Public Works (Direction des
Travaux Publics, a directorate established and operating within
MPWT; and
(d) "OPEV" means "Office de Promotion de l'Entreprise
Voltaique".


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to twenty million dollars ($20,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association, for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agree-
ment and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works to be fi-
nanced out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1980 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.


﻿14
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually
on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each April 15
and October 15 comencing October 15, 1986, and ending April 15,
2026, each installment to and including the installment payable
on April 15, 1996 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the Republic of France is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.


﻿*                             -5-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall cause the Project to be car-
ried out with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial and engineering practices,
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, ser-
vices and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. (a) In order to assist the Borrower in the
supervision of the works under Part A of the Project and in the
carrying out of Parts C and D of the Project, the Borrower shall
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association.
(b) Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, consultants
under Part C of the Project shall be appointed not later than
June 30, 1977, and consultants under Part D of the Project shall
be appointed not later than March 31, 1977.
(c) The Borrower shall assign a local counterpart to the
consultant required in the carrying out of Part D (1) of the
Project, with such qualifications as shall be required.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards in-
cident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to


﻿the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any in-
demnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Bor-
rower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.0. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Asso-
ciation, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifica-
tions, reports, contract documents and work and procurement sched-
ules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof or
additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall rea-
sonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to
record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof)
and to identify the goods and services financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof in the
Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's accredited repre-
sentatives to visit the facilities and construction sites in-
cluded in the Project and to examine the goods financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant records and docu-
ments; and (iii) shall   rnish.to the-Association all such in-
formation as the Association shall reasonably request concern-
ing the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit
and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.


﻿Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed
all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be required
for carrying out the Project.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall cause DOT inter alia: (i) to
carry out an economic and technical evaluation of proposed investments
in the transport sector in order to assist the Borrower in deter-
mining its transport investment programs; and (ii) to carry out
a survey of the structure, efficiency and level of road user taxes,
including import duties on vehicles, make recommendations in view
of improving the efficiency, determining the appropriate level and
ensuring an appropriate distribution of the burden, of such taxes
and consult with the Association on such recommendations and on
their implementation not later *Chan June 30, 1978 or such other
date as the Borrower and the Association shall agree.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall provide staff in such number
as shall be required to be trained for the operation of the vehicle
weight control equipment referred to under Part B of the Project.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with consis-
tently maintained appropriate accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the de-
partments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall take all actions as may be
required to adequately maintain its road network, to make promptly
all necessary repairs thereof in accordance with sound engineering
practices, and to maintain and renew, as and when needed, the roads
network maintenance equipment required for the purpose and shall
make adequate arrangements for the timely provision of funds, facil-
ities, services and other resources required for that purpose.
Promptly upon the completion of the study referred to in Part C
(1) of the Project, the Borrower shall, in consultation with the
Association, take into account the recommendations of the said
study in carrying out the said maintenance, repairs and renewals.
(b) Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of
paragraph (a) of this Section and except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall make: (i) an allocation in its
national budget for financial year 1977 of not less than CFAF
900 million to meet the maintenance requirements of its national
roads network; and (ii) thereafter for each of the financial years
1978 and 1979 an allocation in its budget to meet the maintenance


﻿-9-
requirements of its national roads network the amount of which
shall be increased as compared to the amount so allocated in the
preceding year to take into account cost increases during such
preceding year, such amount to be determined in consultation with
the Association. The Borrower shall furnish to the Association
the draft highway maintenance budget for each of the years 1977,
1978 and 1979 not later than July 31 in the preceding year for
its review and comments prior to its approval by the Government.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall collect and record in ac-
cordance with appropriate statistical methods and procedures such
data as are required to assess the technical, economic and finan-
cial aspects of the Borrower's road network for the proper plan-
ning of maintenance, improvements and extensions.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall take all necessary steps to
ensure that the dimensions and ax1eloads of vehicles using the
Borrower's road system are consistent with the structural and
geometric design standards of the roads used.


﻿-10-
ARTICLE V
Effectiveness; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified. as an additional
condition to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agree-
ment within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Con-
ditions, namely, that the consultants to be employed by the
Borrower to assist the Borrower in the supervision of the works
under Part A of the Project shall have been employed in accordance
with the provisions of Section 3.02 (a).
Section 5.02. The date October 15, 1976 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Article
IV of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on
which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a
date twenty years after the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.


﻿- 11 -
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for
finances is designated as representative of the Borrover for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministhre des Finances
Ouagadougou,
Upper Volta
Cable address:
MINIFINANCE
Ouagadougou
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.


﻿- 12 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
REPUBLIC OF UPPER VOLTA
By /s/ Telesphore Yaguibou
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Roger Chaufournier
Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿-13-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of
the amount of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated         % of
(Expressed in     Expenditures
Cateogry                 Dollar Equivalent) to be Financed
(1) Civil works                   13,950,000     67%
(2) Consultants' and                2,200,000    100% of foreign
experts' services                            expenditures or
and vehicles                                80%
(3) Equipment                        250,000     100% of foreign
expenditures
(4) Unallocated                     3,600,000
TOTAL          20,000,000


﻿-14-
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign expen-
ditures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other
than the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than the Borrower; provided, how-
ever, that if the currency of the Borrower is also that of another
country from the territory of which goods or services are supplied,
expenditures in such currency for such goods or services shall be
deemed to be "foreign expenditures".
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes lev-
ied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in re-
spect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Cred-
it decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that
the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be


﻿- 15 -
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Association are not needed to meet other expenditurea; and (ii)
if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such ex-
penditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category
may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been
made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
.the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed oout of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way re-
stricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice
to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the
Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such
expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financ-
ing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿-16-
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following:
Part A:   The reconstruction of the Banfora-Bobo Dioulasso-Hounde
road (about 183 km) to two-lane paved standard.
Part B:   The procurement and utilization of equipment by MPWT for
vehicle weight control and traffic counting and the
provision of buildings for vehicle weight control.
Part C:   (1) A study of road maintenance operation.
(2) Preinvestment studies of about 150 km of roads to
be selected in agreement with the Association.
Part D:   (1) Assistance to DOT by the provision of experts'
services.
(2) Assistance to the domestic civil works industry
by the provision of experts' services to OPEV.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1979.


﻿-17-
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   General Procedures
1.   Except as provided in paragraph 2 hereunder, contracts for
the purchase of goods or for civil works shall be procured in
accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in
Part A of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans
and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in August 1975 (hereinafter
called the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive
bidding.
-2.  Notvithstanding the provisions ofparagraph I above, the
Borrower may procure: (a) vehicles for consultants and experts
required for the Project on the basis of quotations obtained in
accordance with local procedures acceptable to the Association;
and (b) civil works for the buildings to be provided under Part B
of the Project on the basis of local competitive bidding advertised
locally and in accordance with local procedures acceptable to the
Association.
B.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods
For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods; (ii)
customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales


﻿-18-
and similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded;
and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other ex-
penditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of their
use or installation shall be included.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of prequalification. If prequalification is required,
the Borrower shall, before qualification is invited, inform the
Association in detail of the procedure to be followed, and shall
introduce such modifications in said procedure as the Association
shall reasonably request. The list of prequalified bidders, to-
gether with a statement of their qualifications and of the reasons
for the exclusion of any applicant for prequalification shall be
furnished by the Borrower to the Association for- its coments be-
fore the applicants are notified of the Borrower's decision, and
the Borrower shall make such additions to, deletions from, or mo-
difications in, the said list as the Association shall reasonably
request.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated. to cost the equiva-
lent of $50,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together


﻿-19-
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably re-
quest. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in suf-
ficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation
and comparison of the bids received, and such other information as
the Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall,
if it determines that the intended award would be inconsistent
with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, with-
out the Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such contract.


﻿- 20-
3.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly after its
execution and prior to the submission to the Association of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of the respective bids, recommendations
for award and such other information as the Association shall rea-
sonably request. The Association shall, if it determines that the
award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.


